<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Sets Bond Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government said it would auction on
Tuesday 850 million Canadian dollars (US$736.1 million) of
five-year 10 3/4% bonds maturing Dec. 15, 1995. Proceeds will
be used for general purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Berisford International PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.BRF
</CO>
<LP>
   BERISFORD INTERNATIONAL PLC (London) -- Murray Stuart was
named chief financial officer of this U.K. commodities,
financial services and property concern. Mr. Stuart, 57 years
old, was the chairman of MB Group, a packaging and central
heating equipment manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Mad Dogs and Frenchmen: `Chunnel' Politics
   ----
   By Isabel Fonseca
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Folkestone, England -- "We've been fighting the bastards
since 1066" was the taxi driver's response to my
faint-hearted suggestion that the Channel tunnel, one end of
which we were making our way toward, signaled a new epoch in
Anglo-French relations. Had he read my mind, or just the same
edition of the Sun, which that morning had offered the Black
Death, Paris streets "ankle deep in dog mess," and a
comparatively high suicide rate (in France "suicide relieves
the daily grind") among its 10 reasons to hate the French?
   "Froggy bashing" is nothing new here, though it does seem
to have gained momentum. But the English objection to the
tunnel is not a simple xenophobic reflex. Nationwide opinion
polls about this, the biggest civil-engineering project in
Europe this century, show convincingly that the English don't
want a fixed link; that they like ferries and their island
story; that they are worried about the costs to the
environment and to themselves; that they are afraid of long,
dark tunnels underwater; and of rabies, rats and terrorists
crawling through, not to mention other undesirables, say,
Europeans in general. The chalk marl under the Channel may be
perfectly pliable; the spirit of gloom and resentment about
the tunnel (though the disgruntled always are noisier than
the positive or the indifferent) may prove more intractable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, after at least 20 false starts since 1802,
the project to join England to "Europe" is irreversibly under
way. This attempt, which began life on Feb. 12, 1986, at
Canterbury with the signing of the Tunnel Treaty by Margaret
Thatcher and Francois Mitterrand (whose Rolls-Royce
reportedly was met with flying eggs and chants of "Froggy,
Froggy, Froggy, Out, Out, Out"), promises to be completed and
open for business by June 1993.
   The British terminal may be seen, or at least imagined,
below a ledge of dewy grass near Dover, dotted with poppies
and daisies, with church spires in one direction and the
white cliffs in another. Slow tractors are piling up walls of
earth, cranes and pulleys hoist slabs of cast concrete
through a jungle of rusting iron armatures. It looks like
child's play, until you spot the men in hard hats: tiny
beside their mechanical dinosaurs, they are the toys in the
sandbox.
   Later, I get close to the toy chest, the construction camp
in the shadow of Shakespeare Cliff, where nearly 1,000 of
them live. "Farthingloe Village -- a new concept in community
living" -- consists of 42 featureless blocks, spike-topped
fencing, floodlights, security guards and warnings that "All
personnel may be searched on leaving the premises"; residents
pay #45, or $80, a week. But the men staying here -- most of
them migrant laborers from Ireland and northern England --
are rumored to earn as much as $1,750 a week.
   Inside the tunnel it is cold and wet and dark, but mainly
it's big. We few journalists, looking weedy as hell clutching
our notebooks, trudge along in borrowed boots on a guided
tour past some very large men (inwardly I take back all I
thought, from the safety of the dewy green, poppy-sprayed
ledge, about "toys"). The site manager gives us the big
figures. The total length of each tunnel will be 32 miles, 25
of which will be under the sea. Seven thousand British and
4,000 French workers, on eight- to 12-hour shifts, have
completed more than half of the job. Of the three tunnels --
two big ones for trains and another for service -- the
smallest is the most advanced: They've bored more than 27
miles. The breakthrough is expected by November.
   The boring machines are fantastic: guided by satellite,
gyroscope, computer and laser, these monsters, equipped with
Cuisinart-style blades more than 16 feet wide, can chop and
shred chalk at about 15 feet an hour, or 650-1,000 feet a
week. We only hear of other machines, such as a giant pump in
a 230-foot shaft that sucks the spoil slurry out of the
tunnel, but we get some more big figures for the notebooks:
Two thousand tons of spoil come out every hour; 500 tons of
material go in; money, the press here reports, is being spent
at a rate of $4.4 million a day.
   The 1986 treaty, which contains a clause prohibiting
government subsidies for the tunnel, gave a 55-year
concession to Eurotunnel, an Anglo-French partnership that
commissioned Trans Manche Link, a consortium of five English
contractors (Costain, Wimpey, Taylor Woodrow, Balfour Beatty
and Tarmac) and five French (Boygues, Dumez, Societe Generale
d'Entreprise, Societe Auxiliaire d'Entreprises, Spie
Batignolles) to design and build the tunnel. The original
forecast for the whole project was $8.5 billion; to the
chagrin of the 206 banks involved, it now has reached $13.3
billion and many people estimate tunnel costs of $17.5
billion before we see the light at the end.
   All this for mad dogs and Frenchmen in 1993? Not quite.
Nineteen ninety-two may mean an end to duty-free goods, but
the tunnel will be more than a symbol of European unity; it
will, transport analysts say, reinforce historically dominant
trading links in the London-Frankfurt-Milan so-called "Golden
Triangle," bolstering northern Europe as an economic entity
at a time when its pre-eminence is being challenged by a
strengthened Mediterranean "sunbelt," stretching from
Barcelona to Trieste, and by new opportunities to the east.
And for the rest of us, it will mean that you can climb
aboard and whiz from London to Paris in three hours. There
also is, however, a missing link.
   All leaders like to leave their monuments. For Mr.
Mitterrand, with his pyramid and his own triumphal arch, the
Chunnel is a new shape for the collection. For Mrs. Thatcher,
in her way a choreographer or a sculptor, the monument may be
seen in terms of negative space: The tunnel is perhaps her
final proof that Britain's Victorian glory can be recaptured
without spending a penny of public money. In the same week
that the French government revealed its plans to spend 190
billion francs ($34 billion) on expanding its high-speed rail
network, the prime minister announced that there will be no
government subsidy for a fast train between London and the
tunnel, in effect shelving plans for a much discussed new
70-mile link between London and Folkestone.
   Many observers believe that, by doing nothing to improve
the nation's creaking rail system, Britain will lose out on
the full benefits of the Chunnel. ("Britain is about to enter
the 21st-century with the worst transport infrastructure in
northern Europe," John Banham, the director general of the
Confederation of British Industry, said recently. "We will
become the butt of French jokes and be economically
marginalized in Europe.") And travelers from France will have
to adjust, perhaps by chewing gum rapidly, when they switch
from the "grande vitesse" of the Chemins de Fer Francais to
the homely milk route of British Rail, and sit out an extra
half-hour until arrival at Waterloo. This, though, is not a
matter of time or money, it's "an attitude problem." While
the number of French shareholders in the project has risen
from 210,000 to 436,000, the number of British investors has
remained at 100,000; and while 15,000 Kent residents marched
on Westminster in protest against the desecration of their
villages, there was keen competition among French towns to
have the new fast train service run through their region.
Despite the gift packs of French and English wine (more
unfavorable comparisons) on sale just beneath the "I dig the
tunnel" stickers at the Eurotunnel Exhibition Centre, most
Britons seem to share, or will have to learn to live in
regretful memory of, Gladstone's view that England should be
"happy that the wise dispensation of Providence has cut her
off by that streak of silver sea . . . partly from dangers,
absolutely from the temptations which attend upon the local
neighbourhood of the Continental nations."
   ---
   Ms. Fonseca is a writer based in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manor Care Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MNR
</CO>
<LP>
   MANOR CARE Inc. (Silver Spring, Md.) -- Frederic V. Malek
was named a director of this nursing home and hotel operator,
filling a vacancy. Mr. Malek is vice chairman of NWA Inc. and
co-chairman of Caldwell Banker Commercial Group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Anti-Rail Argument Jumps the Track
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tim W. Ferguson, in vainly attempting to persuade
Californians to vote against their rail-bond issues ("The
Golden State Assays the Golden Spike," Business World, June
5), supports "buses, jitneys and high-speed lanes for group
vehicles" as alternatives to rail systems.
   Jitneys and group vehicles, however, cannot handle a big
part of urban-transportation demand without bogging down in
their own gridlock. The Asian cities known for jitneys now
have rail systems, too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And many potential rail commuters won't ride a bus. The
fare box covers only 30% of the operating costs of the
much-touted Shirley Highway buses vs. Washington Metro's 75%,
Philadelphia-Lindenwold's 85% and San Diego Trolley's 95%.
   Mr. Ferguson's column included a Department of
Transportation table comparing projected and actual ridership
on new rail systems. The table misses the point. Rail systems
are built for the long term. Who cares now how many rode
Boston's first subway when it was two years old?
   Moreover, ridership on most of the cited systems has risen
since the Department of Transportation went to press.
Sacramento is up 53%, Washington 27% (from 411,600 to
524,000]), Pittsburgh 15%, Miami 13%. Pittsburgh system
managers say they lack the capacity to handle the 90,500
riders the Department of Transportation claims were projected
for their light rail system.
   The suggestion that "development sprawl and the
flexibility of the personal car allow individuals and
employers to find their way around (traffic) jams" is hardly
a basis on which to build public policy. It ignores the needs
of people without cars, the environmental costs of auto
dependence and the oil-import crisis toward which we are
"driving."
   Ross Capon
   Executive Director
   National Association of Railroad Passengers
   Washington
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson offered fear of and loathing for California's
recent vote for higher gasoline taxes for rail transit. He
cites "horrendous cost overruns" of new systems as evidence
that the case for rail transit is overstated.
   His thesis is off the track. The "evidence" of projected
vs. actual ridership and costs in the accompanying table is
deceptive, and he misses entirely the salient point of rail
transit's importance to our economy and an urban area's
quality of life.
   The numbers, circulated by the Department of
Transportation in its tiresome campaign to discredit rail
transit, are mostly outdated projections made during the very
early planning stages of these projects. Also, only a select
few projects were cited in the table, ones that conveniently
fit the anti-rail argument. Where are the numbers for San
Francisco's popular BART, the successful Boston and Chicago
extensions or the respected San Diego Trolley that recovers
90% of its operating costs from paying passengers?
   If rail transit has been the bust Mr. Ferguson seems to
think it is, then why are so many communities eager to pay
more taxes to strengthen their rail systems with extensions?
I think it is because they recognize rail transit's multiple,
attractive qualities and overall investment worthiness.
Cities decide to build rail systems for many reasons, not
just cost and ridership. Some, like Buffalo and Miami, use
rail to spur private development; others want its clean-air
benefits; some seek to speed travel time for commuters
without adding to roadway congestion. All understand that the
operating costs of rail transit -- per passenger mile -- are
significantly lower than those of buses.
   David Alan Aschauer, while with the Federal Reserve Bank
of Chicago, first drew attention to the strong link between
America's sinking level of public works and transportation
investment and our laggard productivity, especially in
contrast to our transit-wise trading partners.
   Certainly it is in the federal interest to see that the
traveling public and the private sector get the modern
transportation infrastructure essential to prosperity at home
and the improvement of our position internationally.
   Instead of bashing rail transit with phony numbers, Mr.
Ferguson and the Journal should acknowledge that the
California ballot victories are solid evidence of a growing
public recognition of mass transit's key role in our future
mobility and our economic and environmental progress.
   Jack R. Gilstrap
   Executive Vice President
   American Public Transit Association
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Shares Slide Early on Earnings News,
   Then Rebound to End Slightly Down
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks slid in early trading
Tuesday amid several disappointing earnings projections but
recovered later to close only slightly lower.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index eased 0.28 to 461.76, a 0.06%
loss, after being off 0.86 early in the day. Advancing shares
came out ahead of decliners, 926-901, as volume rose to 131
million shares from 114.2 million Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Technology issues were hit particularly hard in the first
hour of trading after Mentor Graphics, Alliant Computer
Systems and Interleaf all cautioned investors about
disappointing quarterly results before the market opened.
Mentor, the day's most active stock, plunged 4 3/8 to 17 5/8
on 5.7 million shares, Alliant tumbled 1 1/16 to 6 7/16, and
Interleaf dropped 1 to 6 3/4.
   Also after the first hour, the Nasdaq Industrial Index was
off 1.31 at 497.66 and the Nasdaq 100 Index of larger issues,
which includes many technology stocks, was down 1.82 to
475.02. However, both indexes recovered to finish with much
narrower declines: The Nasdaq Industrials closed at 498.62,
down 0.35, and the Nasdaq 100 index fell 0.85 to end the day
at 475.99.
   Investors largely chose not to paint the entire market
with the negative-earnings-surprise brush, said William
Rothe, head of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.,
Baltimore. "I'm still seeing some people who don't want to be
left out of this market," he said, adding that institutional
investors continued to hunt for bargains across all industry
groups.
   At Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York, trading of
technology stocks accounted for much of Tuesday's activity,
according to Robert O'Toole Sr., manager of institutional OTC
trading. The technology issues "were swinging all over the
lot," he said. However, Mr. O'Toole said he was encouraged by
the market's recovery, particularly before yesterday's
Independence Day closing.
   "Usually before a holiday they try to flatten them out or
take them down," he said, explaining that many investors
traditionally choose to sell stocks before a holiday in case
unexpected news breaks while the market is closed.
   Mentor Graphics tumbled after the Beaverton, Ore., maker
of computer-aided engineering systems said it expects to
report earnings for the second quarter of five to 10 cents a
share, down from 29 cents a share a year earlier. The company
said it expects "similar" results for the third quarter.
   Alliant Computer, a Littleton, Mass., maker of computer
systems, said it expects to report a second-quarter loss of
eight to 12 cents a share. A year earlier, it had net income
of three cents a share. Second-quarter revenue is expected to
be about $3 million less than analysts' estimates, Alliant
said, citing difficulties in transition to a new product.
   Similarly, Interleaf, a Cambridge, Mass., maker of
computer aids for publishing, said it expects to report a
loss for its first quarter, ended June 30, of about 25 cents
a share. It had net income of one cent a share a year
earlier. Interleaf said it might not break even for six
months.
   Piedmont Federal slid 3/4 to 5 3/4 after the Manassas,
Va., financial institution said it expects to report
"substantial" losses for the second quarter and full year,
citing a soft real estate market and increases in
non-performing assets and loan charge-offs. Piedmont Federal
reported net of $1.21 a share for the second quarter of 1989
and $1.26 a share for the full year.
   Among other financial stocks, Talman Home Federal Savings
&amp; Loan dropped 2 7/8 to 4 3/4 after the Chicago-based thrift
said an investor group led by Harrison I. Steans terminated a
preliminary agreement to buy it, primarily because of the
company's revised earnings outlook. Talman Home Federal said
it expects to report in about 10 days that second-quarter
profit fell below the first-quarter level of 47 cents a
share, primarily because of a higher cost of funds and
expenses related to the terminated buy-out.
   Foremost plunged 4 1/2 to 25 5/8 after the Grand Rapids,
Mich., insurer said it ended a five-month search for a buyer.
The Nasdaq Insurance Index fell 2.81 to 501.47.
   Among the day's gainers, New Milford Savings Bank rose 1/2
to 4 after the New Milford, Conn., bank said it dissolved its
subsidiary, Westconn Realty Co., and sold its trust services
subsidiary, Taylor House Investment Management Inc. The bank
said the dissolution of Westconn Realty was one of the final
steps in phasing out its real estate development business.
   Investors embraced an initial public offering of Wet Seal,
an Irvine, Calif., retailer of women's apparel. Three million
of the company's Class A common shares were priced at $14.25
each; the stock closed at 17 1/4, unchanged, as more than 3.3
million shares changed hands.
   A relatively new issue, K-Swiss Class A shares, rose 2 to
25 after Merrill Lynch analyst Brenda Gall initiated coverage
of the stock with a near-term "above average" opinion and
long-term "buy" opinion, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report. The athletic footwear maker went public June
5 in an offering of 1,450,000 Class A shares priced at $17.50
each.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   This Corporate
   Race Belongs
   To the Safest
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR JNJ DD
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. -- Johnson &amp; Johnson is going far
beyond Band-Aids to patch up worker safety.
   The maker of the adhesive bandages and other health-care
products is redoubling its efforts in an intensive campaign
to become No. 1 in safety. But it won't be an easy feat.
Pinning together its campaign is a set of strict rules
determining how a workplace accident is handled -- rules that
haven't always gone down easily with middle management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To win, Johnson &amp; Johnson must replace Du Pont Co., long
the acknowledged leader in preventing worker accidents and
work-related illnesses. Both companies appear to have in
common a zeal for workplace safety from the top down. "The
common denominator of safety excellence is a company's
culture, which is determined by its chief executive officer,"
says Charles Hurley, a former National Safety Council
official.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson's big push comes amid signs of a hotter
regulatory spotlight on the issue; 1990s corporations and
regulators may have to do more to make the workplace safe. In
the 1980s, Reagan-administration deregulation turned a lot of
such spotlights off.
   The Reagan policies led many employers to relax worker
safety. Patrick Tyson, an official of the Labor Department's
Office of Safety and Health Administration in the early
Reagan years and now an occupational safety and health lawyer
in Atlanta, was a witness. He recalls: "Industry was given
the opportunity to do what they said they wanted to do." In
short, they wanted to show how good their safety programs
could be without being hogtied by federal regulation. OSHA's
inspection force was slashed.
   "Almost inevitably, with very few exceptions . . .
industry responded with tremendous cuts in safety and health
staffs," Mr. Tyson says, and safety and health "went to
hell." Many employers, through most of the decade,
underreported worker injuries and on-the-job illnesses.
   But now, Mr. Tyson says, companies are "paying for" their
policies in stiff fines and tougher enforcement which began
when Bill Brock became Mr. Reagan's second Labor secretary,
and which has been escalating since, most lately under
Secretary Elizabeth Dole and OSHA Chief Gerard Scannell.
   Some recent OSHA targets have been big. OSHA has proposed
fines of $5.7 million against Phillips Petroleum Co.,
stemming from explosions last October at a Houston-area
plastics plant that killed 23 workers, and $7.3 million for
health and safety violations by USX Corp. at two plants; OSHA
cited Phillips internal documents "that called for corrective
action but which were largely ignored," and alleged
"corporate indifference to worker safety and health" by USX.
Phillips and USX are contesting the fines.
   Lately, reported injury rates have been climbing, which
OSHA says reflects a trend toward more accurate reporting;
many of its big fines have been for bad record-keeping.
   But Johnson &amp; Johnson swam against the prevailing Eighties
current, Mr. Tyson notes. Even in the most
deregulation-obsessed days of the Reagan administration, the
company was aggressively trying to improve workplace safety.
Leading the effort was Mr. Scannell, who was brought in as
safety director by then-President David Clare and who spent a
decade at the company. He left OSHA in 1979 to join the
health-care products maker; when he switched back to the
agency in 1989, it was to become OSHA chief.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson's pre-Scannell policies were a lot
looser. Routine yearly reports on injuries were about all
that was required. "They talked a little about safety, but
they never did very much," says Mr. Tyson.
   Mr. Scannell found his job cut out for him: Among the
sloppy and unreliable recording of workplace injuries, nine
pregnancies were logged as illnesses.
   So, over a period of years, the company worked out tough
workplace-safety rules. When any workplace accident causes a
death, or an amputation, fracture, head injury or burn
resulting in at least one lost workday, the head of the
company unit involved must file a written report to the
company's top management within 24 hours. The head person
then has to travel to company headquarters in New Brunswick
and personally explain, to a top-level management committee,
what went wrong.
   The result of such efforts: Johnson &amp; Johnson has slashed
its annual lost workday incidence, or LWDI, rate, per 100
workers to 0.14 last year from 1.81 in 1981. These are the
rates of job-related injuries or illnesses that force
employees to lose at least a full workday.
   By contrast, the lost workday case rate for 14 large
competing pharmaceutical concerns in 1988 was 1.20. Overall
rates for the pharmaceutical industry and the surgical
appliances and supplies industry, in which Johnson &amp; Johnson
competes, were much higher than that, government reports
show.
   The company's rate has flattened out over the past few
years. So Johnson &amp; Johnson is redoubling efforts. Ralph
Larsen, the new chairman, has picked up the torch, setting a
company goal of "an injury-free work environment." Johnson &amp;
Johnson will adopt some new methods: designing safety into
production equipment, spotting accident "near-misses" and
eliminating their causes, and urging workers to report safety
violations.
   The rigid mandate for injury reports and other Johnson &amp;
Johnson safety edicts has often riled managers, particularly
in overseas subsidiaries where safety traditions are
sometimes far weaker. When a company worker in Kenya lost an
arm in a textile machine in 1987, the manager complained to
Mr. Scannell that flying to New Brunswick used up a year's
travel budget. The manager made the trip anyway.
   Many U.S. and foreign managers once protested a plan by
Mr. Scannell to equip all plants and offices with sprinklers
to give workers time to escape a fire. One official said the
estimated $100 million cost would be too much at the same
time the company was involved in a costly recall of its
Tylenol headache capsules because of the poisoned-Tylenol
scare. Chairman James Burke, recently retired, asked: While
the company is protecting its customers, "can we do less for
our employees?" The sprinkler project went on.
   While its overall safety numbers look good, there are some
rough spots. One union official, David Presseisen, president
of Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Local 630, which
represents several Johnson &amp; Johnson facilities, praises the
company's efforts. But Eric Frumin, an official of the same
union, insists that safety performance at its nonunion
facilities "varies a lot, and can be terrible."
   A nonunion Noramco plant in Delaware, for example, has had
an LWDI rate of 1.983 in 1987 and 1.738 in 1988 -- far worse
than the overall corporation's rate. Johnson &amp; Johnson
figures show that it had many U.S. union and nonunion plants
with no lost workdays in 1987 and 1988; for the others, the
nonunion performance was somewhat worse than at union plants,
but rates for even nonunion plants were mostly below 1.0.
   Currently, OSHA investigators are looking into some
possible record-keeping violations at another Johnson &amp;
Johnson plant.
   And Johnson &amp; Johnson has a ways to overtake Du Pont. The
chemical-products conglomerate's mainline operations have had
LWDI rates of 0.048, 0.038 and 0.05 in 1987, 1988 and 1989,
respectively. Fully 14 Du Pont plants with more than 10
million hours without a lost workday are on the National
Safety Council's honor roll; two had a string of more than 40
million hours.
   Still, Du Pont has its share of detractors. William Golt,
president of the Chemical Workers Association, a unit of a Du
Pont company union at Deep Water, N.J., contends that Du
Pont, like many employers, tries to hold down its injury-rate
figures by keeping injured employees on the job when they
shouldn't be working. The company denies this.
   ---
                    Making Safety Count
                                                                                                       

   Lost workday cases from job-related injuries and illnesses
(Annual rates, per 100 workers)
                                                                                                       

                         MAKERS OF  MAKERS OF
                          SURGICAL    PHARMA-
                        APPLIANCES   CEUTICAL   JOHNSON
                   ALL         AND   PREPARA-         &amp;
                  MFG.    SUPPLIES      TIONS   JOHNSON
                                                                                                       

 1981              5.1         3.2        3.0      1.81
 1982              4.4         2.9        2.7      0.96
 1983              4.3         2.6        2.8      0.53
 1984              4.7         2.9        2.5      0.36
 1985              4.6         3.0        2.3      0.21
 1986              4.7         3.2        2.5      0.18
 1987              5.3         3.9        2.7      0.14
 1988              5.7         3.8        2.4      0.12
 1989             N.A.        N.A.       N.A.      0.14
                                                                                                       

   N.A.=Not available
   Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics; Johnson &amp; Johnson
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   John Fluke's Net Orders
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FKM
</CO>
<LP>
   EVERETT, Wash. -- John Fluke Mfg. Co. said net orders for
its third quarter ended June 29 were "lower than anticipated"
at $53.7 million. The company declined to say what it had
hoped orders would be.
   It cited reduced orders from defense contractors and
"belt-tightening measures" by certain customers. John Fluke
makes test and measurement instruments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bonn, East Berlin
   Speed the Process
   To Political Unity
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST BERLIN -- The ink isn't even dry on the epic
agreement that merged the two German economies, but Bonn and
East Berlin are already speeding on to the next step.
   The East German government agreed to Bonn's agenda for
political unification by proposing Dec. 2 for the first free
elections in a united Germany since 1932, preparing the way
for this summer's talks to formally end German division. The
proposal was seen in Bonn as a sign that East Berlin's
leadership has overcome internal opposition to a swift
unification process. Bonn had proposed Dec. 2 or Dec. 9 as
dates for the all-German vote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This isn't to say the process will be easy or smooth.
Yesterday West Germany's coalition government failed to agree
on a fundamental question: Should the unified elections be
held before, or after, formal German unification?
   Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democratic Union and
its Free Democratic Party allies did endorse East Berlin's
Dec. 2 proposal for the first free all-German vote since
1932. But the Christian Democrats want the two Germanys to
hold separate elections on that day, with political
unification formally taking place at midnight the same day.
The Free Democrats are insisting that unification come first,
followed by a single election in which all Germans would
participate.
   The Free Democrats contend that separate elections would
help the Christian Democrats' political allies in East
Germany, who are more likely to gain the 5% minimum vote in
the polls required for parliamentary representation if they
only have to compete in East Germany. If unified national
elections were held, the small East German parties would have
less chance of meeting the 5% minimum.
   Meanwhile, a joint commission tomorrow begins negotiating
a second state treaty between the two Germanys. The pact,
which would allow the merger of East German states under an
article in West Germany's Basic Law, would complete a
unification process that began when the two nations on Sunday
unified their monetary, economic and social systems. The
costly rescue operation for the crippled East German economy
was set down by a treaty ratified by the two German
parliaments last month.
   West German officials have been pressing East Germany to
agree to a quick political follow-up to monetary and economic
union to better coordinate East Germany's difficult economic
adjustment. In a recent interview, Bonn Economics Minister
Helmut Haussmann said that "from an economic standpoint, a
free market can only be brought about under a united
government and one federal budget."
   West German parties and their East German counterparts are
already preparing to merge by autumn. East German Prime
Minister Lothar de Maiziere has been promised the post of
deputy chairman of West Germany's ruling Christian Democrats.
   East Berlin also disclosed plans to reorganize its
regional districts into five federal states and to hold state
elections on Oct. 14, about three weeks later than originally
planned. The division of East Germany into five federal
states would then allow each state to be absorbed into the
West German federal republic as provided for under the Basic
Law, West Germany's constitution.
   East Germany stipulated, however, that achieving an
all-German ballot depends on the success of the Two-Plus-Four
negotiations on the status of a united Germany. The talks
include the two Germanys and the four World War II allies --
the U.S., the Soviet Union, Britain and France. West German
Chancellor Kohl, who has sanctioned West German credits and
aid programs for the ailing Soviet economy, recently
expressed confidence that the talks would reach an accord in
time for the special session in November of the Conference
for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Charismatic Path to South African Brotherhood
   ----
   By Bruce Barron
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   Nelson Mandela's visit to the U.S. reminded us just how
far away from racial reconciliation South Africa remains. In
fact, each uncertain step the South African government takes
seems only to heighten tension.
   So who will unite the divided nation? One immediately
thinks of Archbishop Desmond Tutu, whose bold opposition to
apartheid won him a Nobel Prize. But the Anglican churches
over which he presides remain heavily segregated. Even his
own congregation is nearly all black.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the grass-roots work is being done by a group
of Christians without international recognition: South
African charismatics. The idea of charismatics having a
serious socio-political impact may sound strange to American
ears. In this country, charismatic and Pentecostal forms of
Christianity have been more associated with emotional worship
and speaking in tongues -- and, more recently, with lavish
life styles and theme parks.
   But in South Africa the results of this enthusiastic form
of religious experience have been far different. Not that
South Africa's charismatics started out to be political.
However, in the South African context, just the act of
building large churches where blacks and whites mingle
harmoniously is a political statement. And that is exactly
what the charismatics have done.
   Probably the most significant of these integrated
congregations is Ray Macauley's Rhema Church in Johannesburg.
Mr. Macauley graduated from Tulsa, Okla.-based evangelist
Kenneth Hagin's Bible school in 1981 and returned to South
Africa to preach an apolitical message of emotional, physical
and financial wholeness for all who would accept God's
promises. The church he founded now has 10,000 members, about
one-fourth of them black.
   Rhema is just one of a dozen charismatic congregations
with integrated memberships of 1,000 or more. The racial
balance varies. More important than the specific proportions,
though, is the fact that these large churches and innumerable
smaller ones constitute a substantial social movement
consciously committed to racial equality and intermingling.
   Karla Poewe, professor of anthropology at the University
of Calgary, who (along with her husband, religious studies
professor Irving Hexham) has extensively studied South
African charismatics, found remarkable changes in racial
attitudes among members of these churches. Many of them,
especially the blacks, were initially attracted by the
rousing, energetic style of charismatic worship, a definite
departure from the staid formalism of most South African
churches.
   For most newcomers, sitting beside a worshiper of another
race was a breakthrough. Ms. Poewe found that only four of
the 150 church members she interviewed retained a reactionary
stance on race relations. Most members reported having
interracial friendships for the first time.
   Along with employing both quantitative and qualitative
forms of analysis, Ms. Poewe watched as whites and blacks
spontaneously, unhesitatingly chatted after services. "Every
indicator we have," she concluded, "shows a change in racial
attitudes from reactionary to enlightened."
   These churches have done more than integrate their
services. Two charismatic ministers initiated a "Joweto
Project," its name an amalgam of white Johannesburg and black
Soweto, which in 1984 began taking whites to meetings in
black townships and vice versa. An interracial singing group,
Friends First, came together during a period of prayer and
fasting in 1985 and has released a record entitled "We See a
New Africa"; Nick Paton, son of renowned author Alan Paton,
is one of the singers.
   The integrated churches are making a political impact in
spite of themselves -- and losing naivete along the way. Two
years ago they were still thinking they could ignore politics
and just preach the Gospel. Now they are facing pressure not
only from black liberals, who demand radical pronouncements
from them, but also from white conservatives for whom these
churches' visible pattern of racial equality is a quiet but
real threat. Mr. Hexham says the Botha government attempted
to close their integrated day schools, and a South African
scholar told him the government also sought to discredit
these churches by showing TV programs ridiculing their
faith-healing practices.
   Though reluctant politicians, some of these charismatics
are beginning to think politically, thanks in part to the
influence of an American import called "Kingdom theology."
Its main proponent, Earl Paulk, pastors an interracial,
10,000-member congregation in suburban Atlanta.
   Mr. Paulk emphasizes that the church should be socially
relevant and unhesitant to challenge ungodly "world systems."
His church's size and activism have made it a recognizable,
though nonpartisan force in local politics.
   Kingdom theology first entered South Africa four years ago
when a drama written by Mr. Paulk's church was performed at a
church in Durban. Last year Kirby Clements, a black pastor on
Mr. Paulk's staff, traveled there and addressed 2,000 leaders
of the Apostolic Faith Mission, South Africa's largest
Pentecostal group.
   "We confronted the classical Pentecostal theology by
saying you can be politically concerned without being
politicized," says Mr. Clements. The result: more
charismatics, both black and white, quietly determined to
link their faith to peaceful methods of social change.
   The spirit motivating these charismatics may be the best,
if not the only, path to the elusive goal of racial justice
without bloodshed in South Africa.
   ---
   Mr. Barron is a doctoral candidate in religion at the
University of Pittsburgh and author of "The Health and Wealth
Gospel" (InterVarsity, Downers Grove, Ill., 1987).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Imperial Chemical Industries PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ICI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (London) -- Tony Rodgers
was named an executive director of this British chemical
company as of January 1991. Mr. Rodgers, 50 years old, is
principal executive officer of ICI Colors and Fine Chemicals
and chairman of ICI's Fine Chemicals Manufacturing
Organization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   EDO Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   EDO WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EDO Corp. (New York) -- Alfred Brittain III was elected to
the board of this maker of electronic and specialized
aerospace equipment, bringing its membership to 12. Mr.
Brittain, 67 years old, is a director and former chairman of
Bankers Trust New York Corp., and is a director of Philip
Morris Cos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Delta Air Traffic Off
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Delta Air Lines said June traffic fell 1.8%, to
5.43 billion revenue passenger miles from 5.53 billion in the
year-earlier period. Load factor, or the percentage of seats
filled, was 65.44%, compared with 70.98%.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger carried
one mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year to date, the carrier said its traffic fell
1.2%, to 28.74 billion revenue passenger miles from 29.11
billion a year ago. Load factor fell to 59.64% from 64.24%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Proposal to Tax Sale of Securities
   Considered by Bush Administration
   ---
   Levy on Vending of Stocks,
   Bonds Weighed as Tool
   To Cut Budget Deficit
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum and Alan Murray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Top Bush administration officials are
considering a proposal to impose a tax on the sale of
securities as a way of reducing the budget deficit.
   The so-called securities transfer excise tax, which could
impose a levy of as much as 0.5% on sales of stocks, bonds,
futures contracts and other instruments, is getting serious
consideration in the White House primarily as a way to
satisfy Democrats that the coming tax package won't be a
giveaway to the affluent. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady
and Budget Director Richard Darman are said to be intrigued
by the idea, but not committed to it. Administration aides
term the tax a "live option."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue-raising proposals are popping up all over the
capital now that President Bush has declared that tax
increases are needed to tame the federal deficit. The
proposals that carry the most weight, however, are those
being discussed within the generally anti-tax Bush
administration.
   The fact that the securities tax is being floated by Bush
aides is causing alarm from Wall Street to LaSalle Street.
The Securities Industry Association has written to Secretary
Brady detailing objections to such a tax and asking him to
oppose it. And Rep. Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, who chairs
the House Ways and Means Committee and is an advocate for the
commodity exchanges, has drawn applause from audiences back
home when he makes a point of saying he intends to fight a
transaction tax.
   The securities tax could offer a way out of a dilemma that
faces the budget negotiators. The Bush administration wants
any tax package to include a cut in the capital-gains rate.
But Democrats in Congress say a capital-gains cut is a
giveaway to the rich. They are demanding that the president
also agree to raise taxes on the wealthy by boosting the top
income-tax rate for high-income Americans to 33% from 28%.
   In an effort to avoid boosting the top tax rate,
administration officials are looking for other ways to tax
the wealthy. The securities transfer excise tax is one
proposal that has caught their attention. Administration
officials note the tax was proposed in 1987 by former House
Speaker James Wright (D., Texas).
   The most often discussed securities tax would impose a
0.5% levy on the value of security sales. To bring in the
most revenue, the tax would be assessed on individuals,
corporations and tax-exempt institutions such as pension
funds. In its broadest form, it would apply to the sale of
stocks, options and debt, with the exception of Treasury
securities. It would also apply to Americans trading on
foreign exchanges.
   The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that
such a tax would raise $7.8 billion in its first year and
$57.7 billion over five years.
   The budget summit talks between White House aides and
congressional leaders are moving toward a deficit-reduction
pact that would cut about $50 billion from the projected
fiscal 1991 deficit, with about half coming from tax
increases. The securities tax could provide a substantial
chunk of that revenue.
   But whether the tax is actually a tax on the wealthy is
likely to become the source of considerable debate. Pension
funds are among the most active traders of securities, and
they will probably try to portray the tax as a levy on the
retirement funds of working people.
   Officially, the White House is staying mum about its
tax-increase preferences. White House Chief of Staff John
Sununu told reporters Tuesday that the president's tax
statement last week has "gotten the summit started again."
But, he added, administration officials "do not want to
negotiate in public, nor do we want to tip our hands in
public."
   Still, he said, neither he nor other top administration
aides "underestimate the understanding of the American people
that something significant has to be done about the deficit."
   Securities industry lobbyists aren't underestimating the
possibility of a transfer tax. On June 22, two top officials
of the Securities Industry Association wrote to Treasury
Secretary Brady noting with some distress that "a securities
transaction excise tax has resurfaced as a possible revenue
raising measure."
   The letter, signed by the association's chairman, Robert
Downey, and president, Edward O'Brien, went on to state: "We
ask you to oppose this type of tax as a new source of
government revenue. Few other taxes would be as strongly
opposed by our industry, which has witnessed the
deterioration of market liquidity and declining volume since
the 1987 market crash."
   In the past week, Wall Street representatives have combed
Congress to talk about their securities-tax anxiety. To
bolster their case, they are circulating a 1987 study by the
Congressional Research Service that indicated a 0.5% levy
would decrease trading volume and cause a 9.3% decline in
stock prices. "A tax on all stock transfers obviously would
have an adverse effect on the stock market, and the effect
could be larger than might be expected initially based on the
relatively small size of the tax," the report stated. They
also argued that the tax could force trading to go offshore.
   One securities company lobbyist said the industry is so
distressed by the notion of the tax that it might even oppose
a cut in the capital-gains tax if it were linked to a
broad-based securities transfer tax.
   For its part, the commodities industry is focusing its
lobbying energies not on the transfer tax but on trying to
prevent the Securities and Exchange Commission from taking
over the regulation of certain financial contracts from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. But still, an industry
lobbyist says, people in commodities "are holding their
breath" about the transaction tax.
   Chairman Lloyd Bentsen of the Senate Finance Committee has
expressed interest in the tax. The Texas Democrat has
publicly said he would consider increasing taxes on
short-term trades as a way to discourage churning of stocks.
Rostenkowski partisans are concerned that Mr. Bentsen's
interest may go beyond such a narrow tax, however. They
foresee the possibility of a battle between the two
tax-writing chairmen over the issue.
   But both Sen. Bentsen and Rep. Rostenkowski have indicated
they would favor an increase in the top income-tax rate if
the capital-gain tax were cut.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lufthansa's Volume Up 24%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Lufthansa AG said it boosted its
passenger traffic in May 24% from a year earlier to around
two million people.
   The 51%-state-owned West German flag carrier added that in
the first five months of the year, the volume of its
passenger business rose 9.6% to 8.5 million people.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The airline said it carried 350,000 metric tons of freight
in the first five months of the year, 2.4% more than a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Halliburton Unit Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   P HAL
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Brown &amp; Root Braun, a unit of Halliburton Co.,
said it was awarded a contract to rebuild two of the
high-density polyethylene units destroyed last October in an
explosion and fire at Phillips Petroleum Corp.'s Phillips 66
Co. plant in Pasadena, Texas. Terms weren't disclosed.
Phillips is a Bartlesville, Okla., energy and chemical
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dutch Industrial Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- Dutch industry's first-quarter sales rose
2.5%, based on strong growth in exports.
   Including the first-quarter rise of 1% in Dutch industrial
prices, sales as measured by prices increased a total of
3.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dutch industrial exports grew 4.5%, and industrial sales
for use within the Netherlands rose a less robust 0.5%. Dutch
industries also were able to add 1.5% to their export prices,
bringing the to 6% the total increase in Dutch industrial
sales for export as measured by prices. Dutch industries
didn't increase prices in the domestic market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hadron Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HDRN
</CO>
<LP>
   HADRON Inc. (Fairfax, Va.) -- James L. Arnold, vice
president and general counsel of this integrated high
technology company, was elected chairman. Mr. Arnold, 43
years old, succeeds Dominic A. Laiti, who left the post in
June 1989 to become president of Globalink Language Services
Inc., a spinoff of Hadron.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Bright Outlook for Artificial Intelligence
   Yields to Slow Growth and Big Cutbacks
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SMBX INAI CMTK
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Five years ago, optimistic entrepreneurs in Cambridge,
Mass., erected a billboard proclaiming the area near the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology "AI Alley," in honor of
a host of burgeoning little artificial-intelligence
companies.
   They might as well have focused on "Buggy Whip Boulevard."
Of several Cambridge AI companies widely publicized at the
time, at least three are out of business; the biggest has
shrunk to half its former size, and others have slashed
employment 50% to 90% in desperate attempts to become
profitable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nationwide, the picture is much the same. The AI industry,
which many market researchers had projected would reach $4
billion in annual sales by now, remains nascent. Generous
estimates of the market today are closer to $600 million.
After swallowing up hundreds of millions of dollars in
venture capital and exciting some of the brightest professors
at top technical schools with visions of riches, hundreds of
AI start-ups have yielded only a few profitable public
companies.
   "We're in AI winter," says Richard A. Shaffer, publisher
of Technologic Computer Letter, a New York newsletter on
venture capital and high technology.
   These days, the surviving AI companies are trying to
regroup. They are hiring outside managers, trumpeting the
merits of cost-cutting now that venture funds are gone, and
playing up what their products do while playing down the AI
link.
   "We're not an AI company. We're not selling, `Get close to
AI,'" says J. Philip Cooper, a former McGraw-Hill Inc.
executive who slashed employment to 45 from 110 after he was
hired to rescue Applied Expert Systems Inc., a Cambridge
maker of "expert systems" for financial planners.
   Artificial intelligence is the art of making computers
mimic ordinary human abilities. Broadly defined, it includes
computerized vision systems that help machines in factories
"see" or let computers analyze aerial photographs; speech
recognition systems that someday may result in language
translators or electronic typewriters that can take
dictation; and robotics systems that guard warehouses or
carry television cameras. The biggest AI market is for expert
systems: software programs that seek to mimic the reasoning
and decision making of specialists in different fields based
on rules of thumb and their data bases of knowledge.
   To be sure, AI techniques are showing up in many areas.
American Express Co. says an expert system in its
credit-authorization department saves it millions of dollars
a year by reviewing cardholders' big purchases and
authorizing them in seconds or flagging them for employees to
query. An expert system called Ask Dan About Your Taxes has
been melded into Andrew Tobias's Tax Cut software program.
   And hope springs eternal. With new management in place,
this year "will be a turnaround for a lot of these
companies," says Harvey Newquist, president of Relayer Group,
a Scottsdale, Ariz., firm that follows the industry.
   Some companies echo that optimism. Industry pioneer AI
Corp., a 15-year-old software company in Waltham, Mass., went
public last week at $9.50 a share, 68 times earnings for the
year ended March 31, a sign that the market may be warming to
AI stocks again. Another AI software company, closely held
five-year-old Neuron Data Corp., Palo Alto, Calif., which had
$8 million in sales last year, projects revenue of $100
million for 1995.
   Predicting how high technology will work as business is
notoriously difficult. Few analysts would have picked Apple
Computer Inc. and Compaq Computer Corp. out of the myriad PC
companies 10 years ago. But the ebullient birth and
discouraging collapse of the AI industry go far beyond the
norm.
   In retrospect, many people say artificial intelligence
isn't really a market in itself, but rather a series of
techniques for products in many different markets. Lawrence
Weber, a Cambridge marketing consultant, says: "I was
promoting AI as an end-all. It turned out to be an
ingredient. None of us knew that at the time."
   Among investors, the situation "was mass delusion," says
Philip A. Cooper, who raised tens of millions of dollars to
start a now-defunct expert system company called Palladian
Corp. in Cambridge. Mr. Cooper, who now heads a venture
capital firm, says, "In the 17th century, people said
`tulips' and the world went nuts. AI was a more virulent case
because it was more difficult to define."
   AI companies ran into trouble for a variety of reasons.
Many didn't have a good understanding of the potential
markets. Applied Expert Systems tried to sell a $50,000
package to professional financial planners who were
threatened by a computer that was said to produce better
financial plans than they could. Now the company is marketing
the package to banks and insurance companies as a tool that
will let employees produce financial plans quickly for
customers.
   Other products were too expensive. In the early 1980s,
LISP Machine Inc., Xerox Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc. all
designed workstations that ran on LISP, the language of
choice for early AI work, and predicted big sales. But
customers balked at the cost, which ran as high as $100,000,
and eventually figured out ways to make LISP run on existing
workstations and PCs. LISP Machine disappeared from public
view after filing for Chapter 11 protection from creditors;
Xerox is out of the business, and Texas Instruments' AI
effort now emphasizes software and consulting.
   Some companies had problems because executives came from
academic backgrounds and gave short shrift to marketing. Mr.
Cooper, who took over Applied Expert Systems, says one
important innovation was diverting some research money to
develop a training video and cue cards to teach customers how
to use the company's products. John S. Wurts, who was brought
in from a successful software company to turn around
Symbolics Inc., says he discovered that salespeople at the
Cambridge company didn't realize they had to sell to senior
management and data processing managers as well as
technicians within companies.
   Many AI companies headed by well-funded academics spent
money freely, says Mr. Newquist of Relayer Group. He says
money-losing companies threw lavish parties at AI
conventions. Mr. Wurts says Symbolics, started by veterans of
MIT's AI laboratory, paid programmers $60,000 to $90,000 a
year, 30% more than they would get now. At its peak,
Symbolics had 1,100 employees and planned to hire 600 more.
Mr. Wurts consolidated in cheaper office space Symbolics
operations that had been split up among three high-priced,
elegantly furnished facilities in Cambridge, suburban Boston
and Los Angeles.
   Russell Noftsker, Symbolics's founder and former chief
executive, says the company "had a proprietary advanced
technology. We could command the price margins that would
allow us to support that structure." Symbolics could have
been a player in the booming workstation market, he says, if
the company's venture capitalists hadn't delayed funding for
a low-priced microprocessor version. Instead, he says,
pricing pressure from other companies "brought our revenue
down faster than we could cut costs."
   Growth turned to wrenching retrenchment. Symbolics's
employment has plunged by more than two-thirds to 350 people.
Sales, which had soared to $114.2 million in 1986 from $1.8
million in 1982, fell to $67.2 million in the year ended June
30, 1989, when the company had a small profit. Revenue fell
18% in the first nine months of fiscal 1990, and the company
expects to post a loss for the year.
   Several software companies likewise spent too much and
overestimated the market, and their stocks have performed
poorly. Intellicorp Inc., a Mountain View, Calif., maker of
AI tools used by programmers to write expert systems, went
public in 1983 and traded as high as $17, but closed recently
at $6. After several erratic years, it expects to post its
second straight year of profits, with sales topping $20
million, analysts say. Teknowledge Inc., which went public in
1986 at $13, was eventually acquired by a Pittsburgh company
called Cimflex in a stock swap; the stock of Cimflex
Teknowledge Corp. is now under $1 a share.
   Even at struggling companies, executives remain believers
in the technology. But they fear that the industry's lack of
commercial success will hurt interest. "When the AI industry
started going down, an awful lot of people said, `I guess AI
isn't any good,'" says Mr. Wurts of Symbolics. "It's
important for the future of the U.S. that people understand
this stuff is a real competitive weapon."
   ---
            Great Expectations Meet Hard Reality
                                                                                                       

              Mid-1980s projections of the 1990
                Artificial intelligence market
                                                                                                       

   ESTIMATE
   (in billions)     SOURCE                     YEAR
                                                                                                       

   $4 +              American Banker            1986
   $4.2              L.F. Rothschild            1986
   $4 +              Sperry Corp                1985
   $3 to $12         Arthur D. Little           1985
   $2 +              Financial World Magazine   1986
                                                                                                       

                  Current estimates for 1990
                                                                                                       

   ESTIMATE                     SOURCE
                                                                                                       

   $191 million                 International Data Corp.
   More than $600 million       Relayer Group
                                                                                                       

   Source: Technologic Partners
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Road to European Unity -- 1992
   ---
   Glory Years:
   Europeans Foresee Era
   Of Prosperity, Unity
   And Growing Power
   ---
   A Boom in Capital Spending,
   Led by Germany, Fuels
   Continental Juggernaut
   ---
   Robots in the Shipping Room
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- A new world leader is being forged in a cauldron
of political and economic change: a Europe bigger, more
united and more powerful than seemed possible six months ago.
   Unexpectedly strong growth in West Germany and France,
fired by extraordinarily large investment by corporations, is
helping politicians mold once sacrosanct national policies
into pan-European consensus. Seemingly unachievable goals
such as the unification of Germany and the rebuilding of
Eastern Europe are being achieved, fueling a strong sense of
optimism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Before the end of the century there will be a single
currency in Europe," Cornelis van der Klugt, former chairman
of N.V. Philips of Holland, recently told a lecture hall
jammed with business students in St. Gallen, Switzerland.
"Much of Eastern Europe will be in the EC," he continued,
"and 20 years from now there will be a Europe of 700 million
people able to be equal partners with the U.S., Japan and the
rest of the world."
   Evidence of much greater political confidence abounds,
too. The formerly fractious European Community reacted
immediately and unanimously to the recent repression of
dissent in Romania by cutting off all but humanitarian aid.
So successful has been the EC-led effort to coordinate help
to Poland and Hungary that the EC may be asked by other
industrialized nations to lead a similar aid program to the
Soviet Union, and maybe also Latin America and the Caribbean.
   European politicians are crowing. "Europe is no longer in
search of its identity," says French Prime Minister Michel
Rocard. "It is now the fulcrum of international relations."
Says EC Commission vice president Henning Christophersen:
"Europe is now the pole of attraction for the whole world."
Adds Jean-Claude Paye, secretary-general of the Paris-based
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development: "There
is a dynamism for development in Europe with less {perceived}
risk than in the United States."
   Fears that the collapse of physical barriers to Eastern
Europe would derail Western Europe's effort to remove its
internal trade barriers have proved groundless. Western
European integration is both accelerating and spreading.
Fears that a united Germany would dominate Europe militarily
and economically are giving way to confidence that Germany
will be the engine driving a fast-growing Europe.
   Worries about global recession are absent here. Unlike
Japan, Europe has a big and growing home market. Unlike the
U.S., it has neither a budget deficit nor a savings-and-loan
crisis.
   Business is betting on a decade of European prosperity.
Volkswagen, which already owns the Spanish auto maker SEAT,
has announced plans to build 250,000 cars a year in East
Germany. Coca-Cola, which recently built a new bottling plant
in Dunkirk, France, also plans to invest $140 million in East
Germany. PepsiCo will spend more than $1 billion on a trade
deal with the Soviet Union.
   General Electric of the U.S. bought just over half of
Hungarian lightbulb maker Tungsram for $150 million, at the
same time as it is developing several West European joint
ventures to make turbines and household appliances. Sony is
planning a fourth stereo equipment factory in France. Philip
Morris just plunged into the cutthroat European food business
by agreeing to buy 80% of Swiss coffee and chocolate producer
Jacobs Suchard for $3.8 billion.
   Mergers involving Europe's 1,000 biggest companies have
nearly quadrupled in the past five years. Last year, there
were more than 400. European investment in the U.S. reached
more than $250 billion in assets at the end of last year; it
is greater in dollar volume yet less politically sensitive
than Japanese investment.
   French groups have been particularly hungry. Recently,
Rhone-Poulenc bought Rorer Group, a pharmaceuticals maker.
Groupe Michelin bought Uniroyal Goodrich to become the
world's biggest tire maker. Pechiney bought American National
Can Co. to become the world's biggest can maker, and Hachette
bought two publishing concerns, Grolier and Diamandis
Communications, in separate transactions totaling more than
$1 billion.
   But Europe's renaissance will cause problems, too --
especially for the U.S. Hans-Joerg Rudloff, chairman of
Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd., says that current tight
credit conditions will tighten further for Latin America and
the U.S. "Capital will go to the countries that show the
highest growth potential for the next five to 10 years;
that's Eastern Europe, not South America," he says. "The
market will force the U.S. to earn the money it imports. The
market won't any longer finance U.S. fiscal and monetary
indiscipline."
   Fast economic and political integration of the EC's 12
countries could also unbalance the organization. West Germany
represents about 30% of the EC's gross national product; the
united Germany would represent about 35%. In contrast, France
has about 20%, and Italy and the United Kingdom each have
about 12%. Yet these four countries have the same voting
power within EC institutions; they also have the same number
of members of the European Parliament, and the same number of
EC Commissioners.
   "Will the system still work as well?" wonders former
French president Valery Giscard d'Estaing. "It's not a
military fear of invasion, but we do need to handle this
shift in power within the EC." To avoid internal friction,
says Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, the Germans mustn't push for more
EC voting power right away.
   A more general worry is that outside events, such as a
violent break-up of the Soviet Union or clashes between
nationalist groups in Eastern Europe, could quickly deflate
corporate and political confidence in Europe. But short of a
cataclysm, it seems assured that intra-European trade will
become easier and the production of goods and services
cheaper. This would make European companies more competitive
world-wide, and also make it more profitable for U.S. and
Japanese companies to do business here.
   Germany is the first target for investment. "We have to
strengthen the position of all our companies in Germany,"
says Carlo De Benedetti, chairman of Ing. C. Olivetti and of
COFIDE, an industrial holding company. Olivetti already owns
Triumph-Adler, a West German office machines company, and
COFIDE's Valeo unit recently bought two German auto parts
makers. "Germany is the place where things will happen," Mr.
De Benedetti says. "Germany will be the center of industrial
power in Europe."
   A Germany growing at 4% a year or more -- an estimate many
economists think is conservative -- will pull the rest of
Europe up along with it, and increase Europe's global reach.
"To have a European strategy is to have a global strategy,"
says Jean-Luc Lagardere, chairman of Matra SA, the defense
contractor. Matra has deepening links with Germany through
one current and two planned joint ventures with Daimler-Benz,
the aerospace and automotive conglomerate, which owns a small
amount of Matra's shares.
   Joergen Rasmussen, whose family owns Rasmussen GmbH, a
maker of industrial hose clamps in Maintal, near Frankfurt,
runs his plant round the clock and still can't keep up with
demand. "Germany is absolutely booming," he says, showing a
visitor around the spotless, computer-controlled shipping
room, where robot arms move soundlessly up, down and across a
grid of shelves, pluck out shiny clamps and put them on a
conveyor belt. They are ready to be shipped, all without
human intervention. This system has allowed the company to
double sales in the past three years, he says. Rasmussen,
like hundreds of other West German companies, has signed a
letter of intent to buy an East German company. Rasmussen
hopes the acquisition of a parts maker will increase sales in
the East and add more production capacity cheaply.
   But investments tend to be different in Eastern Europe,
the continent's Appalachia. Dresdner Bank, along with other
big German banks, is rapidly opening dozens of branches in
East Germany to help soak up the mark windfall generated by
monetary union. Its effort required ingenuity as well as
capital: Dresdner rented a satellite telephone channel and
gave each of its new branches a receiving dish and new
telephones, thus establishing reliable communications without
having to wait for East Germany's antiquated phone system to
be rebuilt.
   Still, with the political and business climate unsettled
in Eastern Europe, most of the action remains in the West.
Big European companies are getting bigger by buying American,
by buying each other, and spreading their wings.
   Grand Metropolitan PLC, for example, last year bought
Pillsbury of the U.S. and is now embarking on the conquest of
the continental sweet tooth. Ove Sorensen, president of the
Haagen-Dazs unit Grand Met acquired in the deal, sits in a
corner of Paris's first Haagen-Dazs shop, not far from the
Arc de Triomphe. Around him Parisians sample the delights of
vanilla ice cream with chocolate-covered almonds, or pralines
and caramel at a pricey nine francs a scoop. Business is
brisk, but Mr. Sorensen's eyes are on Europe's grocery trade.
He already has gotten his ice cream into 100 Paris groceries
and frozen-food outlets, and into Harrod's department store
in London.
   Pillsbury had put 13 Haagen-Dazs stores in West Germany
three years ago, but Grand Met's appetite is much bigger. A
new shop opened last week in London's Leicester Square, and
more are planned soon in Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Austria,
Scandinavia and the Benelux countries.
   The political background to this economic optimism is an
unexpected detente between two factions within the EC, the
"deepeners" and the "broadeners." This seemingly arcane
political debate has real economic consequences. For the
"deepeners," led by France, Europe's future depends on ever
tighter links between the 12 current EC members, including a
single European currency and a European government. This,
they argue, would tie Germany permanently into the Western
European economic system. For the "broadeners," led by Great
Britain, Europe's future depends on bringing Scandinavia,
Switzerland and Eastern Europe into a loose federation of
sovereign states, where national parliaments remain supreme.
   Suddenly it seems both sides are right. "Widening and
deepening will occur simultaneously," says UK deputy prime
minister Sir Geoffrey Howe.
   This is happening because of a fortuitous combination of
economic good times and political guile. The Berlin Wall
collapsed during a boom in Western Europe, and well after the
program to dismantle trade barriers by 1992 was under way.
Rebuilding Eastern Europe is apt to mean slightly higher
inflation in Germany, but an annual growth rate at or above
4%. European politicians -- whatever their personal
reservations -- have welcomed the unification of Germany in
order to embed it in a more-unified EC.
   The psychological success of the EC's 1992 plan has led
the deepeners to plunge ahead with plans to create a European
central bank system and a single European currency. While
final decisions won't be made before a treaty-writing
conference in December, already the EC Commission has a
detailed blueprint for a linked central bank system, to be
called EuroFed. Even the British, long holdouts against
economic and monetary union, have proposed a plan for a
common, though not obligatory, European currency.
   The deepeners are now pushing political union as a way to
cope with the startling change in Eastern Europe. This could
eventually lead to a much more genuine political federation
that would allow pan-European control over things such as
defense and security that now are solely national concerns.
These changes won't be made final until a separate
treaty-writing conference meets alongside the economic one.
But ideas include establishing a powerful European Senate of
government officials from each member, to approve Europe-wide
legislation; strengthening the role of the existing elected
European Parliament; giving the EC's executive Commission
more of a political role; or all of these at once.
   The broadeners are getting their way, too. Many other
European countries, scared they will be denied full access to
the EC, now want in. The current EC -- Germany, France,
Britain, Italy, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark,
Ireland, Spain, Greece and Portugal -- won't accept new
members till the 1992 program is fully operating. But it is
negotiating a liberal free-trade treaty with members of the
European Free Trade Association (Sweden, Norway, Finland,
Iceland, Austria and Switzerland) to create a "European
Economic Space" encompassing 18 countries with 360 million
people.
   The EC is also negotiating trade agreements with Poland,
Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Bulgaria. Both the EFTA and
Eastern European agreements could eventually lead to full EC
membership for these countries. Turkey, Malta and Cyprus also
want in, and Austria has applied to join separately from
EFTA.
   EC officials, who had crossed their fingers hopefully when
predicting that the 1992 plan would raise growth by 5%, have
uncrossed them and revised their forecasts to at least 7%.
Even before the developments in Eastern Europe, capital
investment in the EC soared by 9% in 1988, more than double
what was forecast, and investment has stayed robust since
then.
   German economist Herbert Giersch, who was among the first
to describe the "Eurosclerosis" of the late 1970s, is now on
the high-growth bandwagon. "This is not a sham prosperity,"
he says. "It is based on modest wage growth and higher
investment going into productive capacity. The long-term
upswing should last well into the next millennium."
   ---
                     Rich Man, Poor Man
                                                                                                       

             Real GNP per capita; converted at
           Purchasing power parities, 1987 data

   Portugal .......... $ 6,297
   Greece ............ $ 6,363
   Ireland ........... $ 7,541
   Spain ............. $ 8,681
   Austria ........... $11,664
   Belgium ........... $11,802
   Netherlands ....... $12,252
   Italy ............. $12,254
   Britain ........... $12,340
   France ............ $12,803
   Finland ........... $12,838
   Japan ............. $13,182
   West Germany ...... $13,323
   Denmark ........... $13,329
   Sweden ............ $13,771
   Luxemborg ......... $14,705
   Norway ............ $15,405
   Iceland ........... $15,508
   Switzerland ....... $15,842
   Canada ............ $17,211
   United States ..... $18,338
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stone &amp; Webster 4-Year Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SW IPC
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stone &amp; Webster Engineering Corp., received a
four-year contract to provide maintenance and other services
to Illinois Power Co.'s nuclear power plant in Clinton, Ill.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   The Boston unit of construction and engineering company
Stone &amp; Webster Inc., has been providing maintenance services
at Clinton since 1985. Illinois Power is a Decatur, Ill.,
utility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Want a Check, Mate? Bankers Trust
   Seeks Chess, Bridge Players as Traders
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   BT
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Do you spend hours a week playing bridge? Or
are you a neighborhood chess master?
   Bankers Trust may have a job for you.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a bid to discover new foreign-exchange and bond-trading
talent, Bankers Trust New York Corp., the U.S.'s 10th-largest
bank, is advertising in magazines for chess and bridge
enthusiasts for players who may be interested in turning
their game skills into cold cash -- for themselves and the
bank.
   According to the ads, chess and bridge "require certain
finely-honed skills," among them the ability to predict an
opponent's moves, courage to take short-term risks for
long-term gains, and the patience to assess every option
available.
   "Interestingly enough, these are the exact skills
necessary to succeed as a trader in the global currency and
securities markets," the ad in Chess Life says.
   "It doesn't really matter what your background is" the ad
in Contract Bridge Bulletin emphasizes, "and it could be the
best move you'll ever make."
   Bankers Trust won't talk about how it came to advertise
for chess and bridge players. "We really have nothing to
say," says a spokesman for the bank. "We've just placed the
ads and we haven't had any response yet."
   But the ads say that the idea came from several of the
bank's best traders, including one highly successful currency
trader who is an international master chess player. "He is
still moving pieces to form a calculated game plan, but now
it is yen and Deutsche marks as well as rooks and knights,"
the ad says.
   Competitors have mixed feelings about trolling for trading
talent in hobby magazines. "We just hired some traders, but
we didn't hire them from a bridge club," says the head
currency trader at one bank.
   But Carmine Rotondo, chief corporate foreign-exchange
dealer at Security Pacific National Bank, says good traders
have to keep their wits about them. Bridge players, he says,
"tend to be more calm, more acclimated to changing
conditions" than other games players, especially gamblers.
"You wouldn't want a blackjack player on the desk," he says.
"They tend to self-destruct."
   Yet another currency trader says bridge and chess players
may be fine, but the people he really wants on his trading
desk "are the guys that scalp tickets outside the stadium."
   In any event, traders are well rewarded when they produce
big profits for their employer. While a trader straight from
a bank's training program would probably be paid about
$60,000 a year, senior traders with five years or more
experience earn six-figure salaries with generous bonuses.
That's in return for producing $2.5 million or more in annual
profits for the bank.
   How much did you make in your last chess match?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   J.P. Morgan Chooses
   Lane to Succeed Head
   Of U.S. Private Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   JPM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. replaced Earle N. Cutler as
head of its U.S. private bank, in one of several personnel
changes affecting that unit.
   John T. Lane, who until May had been a corporate banker at
Morgan, will succeed Mr. Cutler, who will become senior
marketing executive within the domestic private bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Arthur Sculley, who heads private banking for
Latin America and the Middle East, will become head of a new
global asset management group within Morgan's private bank,
effective Oct. 1.
   Also, Harry Barbee will retire Oct. 1 as head of the
private bank's investment management unit. He will be
succeeded by Jean L.P. Brunel, who currently heads J.P.
Morgan Investment Management Australia Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UPS Acquires Seabourne Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- United Parcel Service of America Inc.,
a giant package-delivery company, acquired the Seabourne
European Express Parcels division of Seabourne Express Ltd.
of Antwerp, Belgium. Closely held UPS didn't disclose terms.
   The purchase of the division, which has annual revenue of
more than $26 million, will help UPS develop a Europewide
ground-delivery system. It now covers all of Europe through
air-delivery routes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alitalia S.p.A. Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM I.ALI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Alitalia S.p.A., Italy's flagship air carrier,
said it has pulled out of the international bidding for
Aerolineas Argentinas, Argentina's state airline.
   Alitalia said it decided not to participate in the bid
after determining "the impossibility of developing a
practicable management program under the restrictive terms of
the Argentine government."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The privatization of Argentina's state airlines will
involve 85% of the company's share capital, while the
remaining portion will remain in the hands of the state.
   Under terms stipulated by the Argentine government
regarding the portion to be privatized, only 49% can end up
in foreign hands, and only 30% can be sold to a foreign
airline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   Israel's Extraordinary Rejection of Palestinians' Rights
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   I fear it is necessary to return again, the third time in
as many columns, to the topic of Israel. This is not because
I am monomanic on the subject but because in a second letter
Steven Emerson continues to assert that I have been
practicing deceptions upon the readers of The Wall Street
Journal. So it is necessary to respond one last time.
   What is the prime issue on the table as regards Israel,
the Palestinians and the U.S.? Surely it is the right to
self-determination of the indigenous Palestinian inhabitants
of the territories and Gaza, which have been occupied by
Israel since 1967.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Successive Israeli governments have not only denied
Palestinians that right, but even the right to select their
own representatives at any negotiation. In this, Israel has
been abetted by the U.S. and so long as the U.S. persists in
this rejectionist policy nothing is going to change.
   People often forget how extraordinary this rejectionism
is. Suppose Zionists had been excluded from negotiations over
the fate of Palestine in 1947. Such exclusion would have been
denounced as grotesque. Yet when today Palestinians
overwhelmingly regard the PLO as their proper representative
they are refused the right to such representation by Israel
and the U.S., and the U.S. press here takes it for granted
that there can be no equality of rights.
   A prime task for lobbyists and propagandists for the
Israeli government in this country is to proclaim
simultaneously that this rejectionism is just but that Israel
is virtuously eager to continue the "peace process." Here is
where Mr. Emerson enters the story. When Ami Popper shot to
death seven Palestinians last May, Mr. Emerson hastened to
assert in these pages that Israel's humane values had been
demonstrated by denunciation of the killings across "the
entire political spectrum."
   By way of response I suggested that Popper's deeds be set
in a context of verbal and physical violence toward
Palestinians exercised by the armed forces and by right-wing
settlers encouraged by the Israeli government. I also cited
evidence that Israel has not the slightest intention of ever
yielding any part of the territories to Palestinians and that
indeed the notion of deporting or "transferring" Palestinians
out of the territories altogether is gaining in political
respectability.
   Some of my examples Mr. Emerson never contested or has
ceased to do so. So yes, Lt. Col. Yehuda Meir did indeed
order his soldiers to break the arms and legs of Palestinian
villagers in Huwara and Bita. In fact, Col. Meir broke down
in court last week, said the army had been ordered to do this
by Interior Minister Yitzhak Rabin, that he was being "thrown
to the wolves" as a scapegoat. Yes, prominent Israeli
politicians have called for "transfer."
   But Mr. Emerson is still reluctant to concede that Rabbi
Moshe Levinger, a leader of the extremist settler group the
Gush Emunism recently convicted of killing a Palestinian
shopkeeper and at the time about to go to prison for that
crime, was an honored presence at the anniversary
celebrations for the illegal West Bank settlement of Elkana;
that Chaim Herzog, president of Israel, pandered to extremist
settlers at that same celebration. Finally, Mr. Emerson
insists that when Rabbi Moshe Neriya enjoined every Jew
without thinking and without hesitation "to shoot Arabs right
and left" he was speaking only of shooting in self-defense.
   These are not trivial matters. Suppose, in this country,
that one of the Joint Chiefs attended a Klan rally and
fraternized with the Grand Wizard; or that the president of
France attended a racist rally, wearing the insignia of
LePen's movement; or that the Rev. Ian Paisley enjoined all
Protestant Ulstermen to "shoot Catholics left and right
without thinking and without hesitating." It would be big
news.
   So it was with the celebration and the statement of Rabbi
Neriya at Elkana, even though Mr. Emerson cannot bring
himself publicly to acknowledge the fact. Exactly as I quoted
him, Gideon Levi of Ha'aretz took particular pains to record
the intimacies between the convicted Levinger and Israel's
third most senior army officer: "Who didn't hug Levinger? The
head of the army's central Command warmly shook the hand of
the rabbi-convict. . . . Yep, he's one of the boys, Levinger,
even among senior army officers."
   Did President Chaim Herzog pander to extremist settler
sentiment? Mr. Emerson dismisses the significance of the
knitted cap Mr. Herzog donned for the occasion and claims
that when he used the Hebrew word "ger" to describe
Palestinian residents in the area he was describing them as
"non-Jewish neighbors." In his description in Ha'aretz of the
events at Elkana, Mr. Levi particularly noted the president
"was quick to put on a skull cap -- not his usual black
velvet one, but a knitted one, appropriate for settlers."
"Ger" means "foreigner" or "stranger," and the implications
of a word describing indigenous Palestinians as "strangers"
or "foreigners" would be obvious to Ha'aretz's readers.
   And Rabbi Neriya? In his letter of June 27 Mr. Emerson
makes a show of announcing that he telephoned Ha'aretz
reporter Dan Margalit to ask whether the infamous injunction
"to shoot right and left" had been "a call for mass murder."
"Absolutely not," he quotes Mr. Margalit as responding. But
the words "mass murder" are Mr. Emerson's, not mine. All I
did was quote what the rabbi said, and if Mr. Emerson had
lingered on the phone he could have asked Mr. Margalit to
read him his Ha'aretz story of May 13, which began with the
description of Rabbi Neriya's statement as "a hair-raising
document written by the most senior religious-national
educator." Mr. Margalit then denounced Rabbis Levinger and
Neriya, saying that the "right of self-defense" has its rules
and these "prohibit shooting at random and in a reckless
manner, without identifying the target, and these rules are
what Levinger and Neriya want to destroy." Mr. Margalit later
refers in the same story to "the blatantly illegal Halachic
ruling of the educator -- rabbi (i.e. Neriya) to shoot right
and left without thinking."
   The words Mr. Emerson so dutifully defends provoked
outrage in Israel. For example, the Israeli novelist Amos Oz
said in a speech quoted in the May 28 London Independent
concerning Rabbi Neriya: "Not even during the worst battles,
not even during Israel's most bitter wars has anyone ever
dared to preach that thinking ought to cease, and be replaced
by indiscriminate shooting `left and right.'"
   Once again Mr. Emerson has the effrontery to denounce the
human-rights activist Israel Shahak, this time as a man who
"has called Jews `Nazis' who run `concentration camps.'"
Prof. Shahak is a survivor of the Warsaw ghetto and of
Bergen-Belsen, and if Mr. Emerson took the trouble to study
what Prof. Shahak has long been saying he would know Prof.
Shahak has been very precise. He has said Israel's policies
in the territories can be compared with the policies used by
the Nazis against Jews from 1934 to 1939. This is
unquestionably true even though it is apparently the life's
mission of people like Mr. Emerson to proclaim otherwise and
to denounce anyone who dares suggest that only recognition of
Palestinian rights to self-determination will end these
terrible blemishes on the conduct of the Israeli state.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and the
Anderson Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unocal Unit Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL PDG UXP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp. said one of its units
completed the acquisition of the Prairie Producing unit of
Placer Dome Inc. for about $336 million. Placer is a
Vancouver-based gold producer.
   The transaction, which includes about $252 million in
cash, adds to Unocal's natural gas reserves and new
exploratory lands in East Texas and Louisiana. The buyer is a
unit of Union Exploration Partners, or UXP, a Houston-based
limited partnership 95%-owned by the oil giant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Chain Finds
   Incentives
   A Hard Sell
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   DH LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Retailers claim better service depends on linking clerks'
pay to performance. But Dayton Hudson Corp. is discovering it
isn't easy to switch to an incentive-pay plan.
   Unhappy workers at half a dozen Hudson's department stores
in Michigan are attempting to unionize. In the first election
in May, salespeople at the Westland store voted 274 to 179 in
favor of joining the United Auto Workers union. The company
has challenged the results. But one fact is undisputed:
Complaints about the company's Performance Plus pay plan
fueled the union drive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The experience of the Minneapolis-based department store
chain illustrates the pitfalls retailers are likely to
encounter as more of them attempt to link pay to performance.
Store managers say incentive plans are necessary in today's
competitive environment. But store clerks often say they feel
intimidated by unrealistically high sales goals and threats
of dismissal.
   Stores from Bloomingdale's Inc. to R.H. Macy &amp; Co. have
switched to incentive-pay plans in recent years to better
compete with the likes of Nordstrom Inc. The Seattle-based
retailer built a reputation for stellar service by paying
clerks commissions that boost their incomes above the average
clerk's wage. But now, with Nordstrom's sales-growth slowing,
even some of its clerks are griping publicly about the
Darwinian struggle on the sales floor.
   Bloomingdale's, however, says its incentive-pay plan has
been a success. The retailer's program, first instituted in
1986, has been adopted in 13 of its 17 stores, including most
of its New York metropolitan locations, a spokeswoman says.
"Even the most unbelieving become believers when they see the
correlation between performance and salary," she says. Macy's
declined to comment on its program.
   Dayton Hudson, which has converted to Performance Plus in
11 of its 37 Dayton's and Hudson's stores, which are mostly
in Minnesota and Michigan, now is trying to ease workers'
anxieties by changing some of the most onerous aspects of its
three-year-old program. It also is surveying workers and
re-evaluating whether to convert five more stores this year.
"We were not as effective in listening to our employees as we
should have been," admits Stephen E. Watson, Dayton Hudson's
president.
   Under Performance Plus, salespeople are paid a combination
of hourly wages and "bonuses" for exceeding sales quotas. But
the word bonus is a misnomer. Workers are fired for
consistently failing to meet their quotas. And the quarterly
bonuses can sometimes be withheld.
   At the store in Westland, a Detroit suburb, employees
contend they were incensed by the firings of a few veteran
salesclerks, who were penalized under the new pay plan.
Because sales quotas are calculated on the basis of hourly
pay, longtime clerks who earn more are required to sell more.
The alternative: dismissal.
   Sandra Jedlowski, a clerk earning nearly $9 an hour when
she was fired in 1988, attended union organizing meetings
recently to tell her story. The 52-year-old Mrs. Jedlowski
says she had worked at Hudson's for nearly a decade and had
been one of the highest-paid salespeople in the petite dress
and sportswear department. But she failed to meet her quota
under the incentive-pay program.
   Mrs. Jedlowski says the only alternative proposed was to
take a pay cut to lower her quota. She refused. "They had
given me the raises," she says. "I didn't see a reason to
take a cut. What guarantee did I have that they wouldn't fire
me at a lower rate?"
   Bob King, director of UAW Region 1A, maintains that
"Hudson's was trying to squeeze out the longtime employees."
Dayton Hudson officials deny the charge.
   More recently, as Merredith White, a 20-year-old cosmetics
clerk, tells it, she was unfairly denied a bonus of roughly
$900 because of a single complaint from a customer she didn't
even wait on. "They told me I wouldn't be receiving my bonus
because this was a legitimate customer complaint," she says.
   The customer claimed Ms. White ignored him one evening
last December. But Ms. White says she was taking a
well-deserved break. Instead of leaving the sales floor,
however, she sat at a nearby Lancome counter to have her
caricature drawn -- while a Lancome salesclerk kept an eye on
her Estee Lauder area. The Lancome clerk actually waited on
the customer. But Ms. White says the customer apparently
spotted her navy blue Estee Lauder uniform and concluded that
she was shirking her responsibilities.
   One of her supervisors agreed, saying clerks aren't
supposed to take breaks so late in the day. Then, Ms. White
says, the supervisor told her to sign a statement
acknowledging that "the customer was very unhappy about his
service" and that Ms. White wouldn't get a fourth-quarter
bonus. The statement also warned that she "could be
terminated" for any more complaints.
   Ms. White says she signed, fearing she would be fired if
she refused. "I felt very intimidated. She made me feel like
I should crawl underneath a rug," says Ms. White, who is
still working at Hudson's while attending cosmetology school.
   "I feel cheated," she says. "I worked my tail off for that
bonus. Sometimes I wouldn't even take my break."
   A Dayton Hudson spokeswoman says "there were other issues
involved" in Ms. White's case. But she declined to elaborate,
saying: "We don't feel it's appropriate to publicly comment
on particular incidents. We believe that's a matter between
the employee and management."
   Dayton Hudson officials say a typical salesclerk's annual
wage has risen under Performance Plus to a range of $16,000
to $20,000 from $10,000 to $14,000. But they acknowledge
sweeping changes are under way in the program, partly to
provide more protection for longtime clerks such as those
like Ms. Jedlowski. Salespeople with at least 10 years of
service, for example, will see sales goals fall in August by
a percentage equal to years of service.
   The company also changed disciplinary procedures for
clerks, making it tougher to get on the track leading to
dismissal and easier to get off it. Workers facing dismissal
were granted amnesty in April so they could benefit from the
changes. The company says most policy changes aren't
retroactive.
   Moreover, the company several months ago stopped
withholding bonuses earned by employees who failed to meet
eight of 10 customer-service standards that some clerks
consider too subjective. Those included approaching
customers, developing a rapport with them and suggesting they
buy additional items.
   Dayton Hudson says it now withholds bonuses only for
excessive absenteeism, arguments with other clerks on the
sales floor and customer complaints.
   As for complaints, Dennis Toffolo, new president of
Hudson's stores, says bonuses generally can't be withheld
because of a single beef. "And we don't just listen to what
the customer has to say," he says.
   Marvin Goldstein, chairman and chief executive of Dayton
Hudson's department store unit, insists the company isn't
trying to intimidate employees. Instead, he says, "We're
trying to enhance their stature in our company and help them
have greater earnings capacity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arrow Bank Acquires Company
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UVTB AROW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   GLEN FALLS, N.Y. -- Arrow Bank Corp. said it completed its
acquisition of United Vermont Bancorp., Rutland, Vt., in a
stock transaction valued at about $28 million.
   Under the terms of the acquisition, each United Vermont
share was exchanged for 1.13 shares of Arrow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Local Taxes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   A study by the National League of Cities offers more
evidence of the additional tax load any federal tax increase
would place on voters: About 41% of surveyed cities in their
current budgets have already raised property taxes and 76%
have raised various fees. But only half have cut their rate
of spending growth. In other words, most taxpayers already
know from experiences in their own neighborhoods that, like
Washington, the politicians' reflexive answer to their
failure to gain control of spending is a tax increase to
"cut" the "deficit."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM's Olds Offers a Rebate
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp.'s Oldsmobile division said
it is offering $1,500 consumer rebates on its 1990 Oldsmobile
Eighty-Eight models in several sales zones covering most of
the U.S. through Aug. 2.
   Oldsmobile already offered consumer rebates nationally on
its Cutlasss Ciera, Toronado, Trofeo and Silhouette models,
and it has applied factory-to-dealer incentives to most of
its other models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Ford Motor Co. said it extended through Aug. 8
from next Tuesday consumer incentives on its trucks. The
program, which covers the Aerostar, Bronco II, Bronco, Ranger
and Econoline/Club models, includes discount financing and
cash rebates of as much as $1,500.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RBS+ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (Edinburgh) -- George
Younger, 58, was named chairman of the board of directors of
this bank holding company's principal subsidiary, Royal Bank
of Scotland PLC. Mr. Younger, the former secretary of state
for defense, has been deputy chairman since January and
succeeds Sir Michael Herris, 67, who will remain as director
of the bank and also retain the chairmanship of the parent
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Air's June Traffic Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- UAL Corp. said June traffic at its United
Airlines unit climbed 8.4% to 6.91 billion revenue passenger
miles from 6.37 billion a year earlier. A revenue passenger
mile is one paying passenger flown one mile.
   The airline's June load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, slipped to 70.9% from 72.2%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic traffic eased less than 1% to 5.02 billion
revenue passenger miles from 5.03 billion a year earlier. But
overseas traffic rose significantly, the company said, citing
recently instituted trans-Atlantic flights and more
substantial Pacific routes.
   In the first six months, United's traffic rose 7.3% to
35.84 billion revenue passenger miles from 33.41 billion a
year earlier. The load factor increased to 65.5% from 64.9%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cyprus Minerals Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   CYM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CYPRUS MINERALS Co. (Denver) -- Philip C. Wolf, 42 years
old, was named senior vice president of this mining company's
industrial minerals and specialty metals operations. He will
continue as president of Cyprus Industrial Minerals Co. and
will assume the title of president of Cyprus Foote Mineral
Co. Mr. Wolf is succeeding Thomas A. Williams, 54, who
resigned as executive vice president to pursue other
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Daddy of Defense
   ----
   By John Lehman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Tucked off the Pentagon's drab "A" ring are about 100
square feet reserved for nondenominational worship. But on
the prestigious "E" ring about 2,000 square feet are set
aside for devotions to George C. Marshall. In addition to
statuary and portraits, there is a huge reliquary containing
bits of old uniforms and personal items. The altar lacks only
incense and candles.
   Marshall's memory is held sacred above all others not
because of his excellent leadership of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff in World War II, nor for his courage and vision as
secretary of state, nor even for his term as the third
secretary of defense. The hushed reverence of bureaucrats
passing through the "Marshall corridor" honors a different
conquest. In 1947, he inspired the War Department's hostile
takeover of the Navy Department, ending in victory the Army's
longest battle. Though the name of the Pentagon was changed
from War to Defense, it was the admirals who were led across
the river in chains from their vanquished redoubt on
Independence Avenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ed Cray's "General of the Army George C. Marshall: Soldier
and Statesman" (Norton, $29.95) brings up the full flavor and
bitterness of this and other struggles in Marshall's long
career. The flavor comes in no small measure because Mr. Cray
is even more passionate and partisan than his hero. His lack
of objectivity may diminish the scholarly value of this book,
but certainly not its readability.
   To him, Marshall was a combination of Washington, Plato,
Alexander and Francis of Assisi. Those who disagreed with him
are knaves, fools or, like FDR and Churchill, shallow
politicians. But his special contempt is saved for everyone
and anything naval. Secretary James Forrestal was a lunatic;
Adm. Ernest King, a malevolent obstructionist; and Adm.
Chester Nimitz, a simpleton. Even the victory at Midway, seen
by most historians as one of the most decisive in history, is
derided as "a victory by the narrowest of margins and the
greatest of luck."
   But for all its excesses, the book is a good review of
Marshall's life and times with lots of new material nicely
written. This book leaves no doubt that here was a great man
of vision and integrity. It also documents the fact that he
was a lifelong Democrat, a consummate political intriguer,
manipulator of the media and shameless promoter of cronies,
though Mr. Cray doesn't always conclude the obvious from his
research. After describing how Marshall connived with his pal
Harry Hopkins (to whom he owed his promotion from brigadier
to Army Chief of Staff) and survived years of army
infighting, it is amusing to read that "the General had never
engaged in partisan politics and had avoided equally savage
Army politics." Har, har, har]
   Many of the 850 pages deal with World War II and are
especially good in explaining the deep cleavage on strategy
that divided the allies throughout the war, and indeed that
continues to the present day. From the start, Churchill
pressed what today are called "competitive strategies" -- the
applying of Allied maritime and land strength against enemy
weaknesses using blockade, bombing, maneuver and special
operations, delaying any direct invasion until the enemy was
sufficiently weakened. Strongly in support of this strategy
were Roosevelt, the U.S. Navy and MacArthur. Marshall, on the
other hand, was a firm believer that "war could end
decisively only with huge land armies eventually colliding in
Western Europe." His was the direct attrition strategy of
Army doctrine that went back to Grant. It had none of the
lower risk, lower casualty appeal of a naval and air war. "It
was a concept based on overwhelming force, of crushing
opposition," writes Mr. Cray, approvingly.
   The British military leadership never had much admiration
for Marshall as a strategist. "He had old-fashioned ideas of
always wanting to get straight at the enemy regardless of
overall strategic requirements," said Lord Ismay.
   After the war Marshall's direct assault approach was the
secret of the enormous success of the Marshall Plan, which
revitalized a rubbled Europe. And in molding the postwar
military, his victory was absolute. He is the father of our
vast overcentralized defense organization, equivalent in
assets to the top 30 Fortune 500 companies combined, and it
is he more than anyone who molded the staff-dominated culture
of our modern armed forces. Since the establishment of the
Defense Department, with its staff of 90,000 military and
civilians, most of the service chiefs and all of the chairmen
of JCS were selected because of accomplishments in staff
duty, not field command. So orthodox has his culture become,
that recent law prohibits an officer in any service from
promotion to flag rank without at least 4 1/2 years of staff
duty. There is no such requirement for field or sea
experience.
   Marshall also was able to fix the orthodox military
doctrine of the Pentagon so firmly that it has endured
largely unchanged to the present day. Its principles are:
First, that wars can only be won on land with the sea and air
arms subordinated; and second, that Europe must always be the
foundation of U.S. defense policy -- the rest of the world is
a sideshow.
   With the Cold War over, the book is a timely look back at
its beginnings. And for anyone interested in learning how
that fabulous circus of entropy called the Defense Department
was conceived, Mr. Cray's biography is must reading.
   ---
   Mr. Lehman is a managing director of PaineWebber Inc. and
a former secretary of the Navy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bechtel Group Affiliate Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Bechtel Investments sold its controlling
interest in Dual Drilling Co. to Mosvold Shipping A/S of
Kristiansand, Norway, for $170 million. Dual, of Dallas, is
among the nation's largest offshore oil drilling concerns.
   "Essentially, it was a portfolio decision that the
investment company has taken to reduce our high exposure to
energy investments," said a Bechtel spokesman. "We found a
buyer who offered us a good price and we accepted their
offer."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The affiliate of Bechtel Group Inc. acquired its stake in
Dual about 10 years ago. Dual operates in the Gulf of Mexico
and the U.S. Pacific Ocean, as well as off the coasts of
Brazil, India and Indonesia. Mosvold is a publicly held
company that, with this acquisition, will have about 1,800
employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Tiny Company Elevates an Idea to a Marketable Product
   ---
   Without R&amp;D, Guardsman Elevator Develops
   Gadget to End Rides Atop Cars
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- At Guardsman Elevator Co. in the
rough-and-tumble South Bronx, a loud, fierce-looking dog
named Tiger watches the parking lot. Inside the building, a
shotgun is perched in an executive's office.
   But street crime isn't the danger that preoccupies
Guardsman these days. Instead, it is concerned with the risks
faced by juvenile and college-age daredevils who ride on top
of elevators rather than inside them. Guardsman has developed
a new gadget, called the Elevator Car Top Intrusion Device,
to keep people off the elevator tops.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In their day-to-day work, small companies often spot needs
for new products or services. Mired in their routine
activities, however, the companies assume they aren't
equipped to develop products to fill those needs. Yet
Guardsman -- which says it has 42 employees and about $6
million in annual revenue -- shows how even a small company
with no research department can turn an idea into a
marketable product.
   Riding the tops -- a game known by such names as "elevator
chicken," "elevator surfing" and "elevator action" -- has led
in recent years to injuries and deaths in many cities with
high-rise apartment buildings. In most cases, players use a
shoestring to defeat the hoistway-door lock just above an
elevator stopped one floor below. Then they jump onto the top
of the car.
   Though such riding has occurred mostly in poor, inner-city
neighborhoods, it has also been faddish recently at some
colleges. Only last March at the University of Massachusetts,
in Amherst, an 18-year-old freshman plunged 16 stories to his
death. He apparently had tried to leap from the roof of one
elevator to another in a double shaft, the Boston Globe
reported.
   Housed in a black steel box that can be bolted to an
elevator top, Guardsman's device shuts off the elevator and
sounds an ear-piercing siren whenever an infrared beam
detects tampering with the hoistway doors. Eight prototype
units are already at work at test sites in New York City and
in Newark, N.J. Val Coleman, a spokesman for the New York
City Housing Authority, says of a unit installed about five
months ago in a 30-story building on Vernon Street in
Brooklyn: "So far we've had good success. We're very pleased
with it."
   Guardsman is pleased, too. Until recently, it was just
another small service company, one of hundreds in the region
that maintain and repair elevators. Now its owners have
formed a new, separate company, G.E.C. Holding Corp., that
they hope will earn millions of dollars in the next few years
from sales of the anti-intrusion device. Though no new
technology is involved, G.E.C. is seeking an applications
patent covering its product. It is also seeking a
manufacturer to produce it in quantity. Before long, G.E.C.
believes, such devices may be standard equipment in high-rise
buildings, at a price of perhaps $500 for each elevator.
   If all goes well, says Robert F. Cummins, one of the three
owners of Guardsman, sales of G.E.C.'s device will enable the
owners to develop more ideas for elevator components into
actual products. The envisioned products would make
Guardsman's regular work easier, by reducing unscheduled
elevator maintenance. And they would give the company a new
source of earnings. "We hope to generate a load of money,"
Mr. Cummins says.
   Until recently, Guardsman gave little thought to anything
but its constant day-to-day service work for some 650
clients. The company says it earns the most money when
careful scheduling permits employees to service an increased
number of clients. But in 1988, unscheduled service calls due
to elevator riders -- who often vandalize equipment -- were
becoming frequent enough to unnerve the company.
   Besides risking injury, the riders were driving up repair
costs for elevator owners, shortening the useful lives of
elevators and exposing owners to possible liability claims in
the event of accidents. And in some cases, riders descended
through trap doors into elevator cars, where they mugged
passengers.
   Not all elevator-service companies were upset by the
riders, who often cause damage leading to $150-an-hour repair
calls. Says Mr. Cummins, "There are guys in the industry who
say, `We're glad people are wrecking the elevators -- we can
bill the hell out them for repairs.'" Guardsman, on the other
hand, stuck to its view that in the long run, eliminating
unscheduled service would be more profitable.
   But how to do this? In recent years, elevator companies
tried a variety of tricks to discourage top-of-the-car
riding, says Mr. Coleman of the New York City Housing
Authority. But he adds, "Until now, the kids have been able
to circumvent anything we do." For example, riders learned to
disconnect the pressure-sensitive rubber mats that were added
to some elevator tops a few years ago as a warning device.
   Guardsman says it had a different idea: using infrared
technology to trigger an alarm before any intruder could
disconnect it. Late in 1988, by combing through suppliers'
catalogs of electronic and mechanical parts, Guardsman
employees found the components to put together such a device.
Tinkering on their own in the company's metalworking shop,
the employees built several prototypes, which they housed in
16-gauge steel to resist tampering.
   "Our biggest problem was finding the time and energy to do
this without taking too much away from our normal day-to-day
operations," Mr. Cummins says. Actually, the work went fairly
smoothly, with no major technical problems.
   To design the devices, "we just played devil's advocate
with each other," says Joseph Vitiello, one of the owners.
One concern was the alarm, which the company decided to make
as loud as possible. After five months of tinkering and field
tests, Guardsman had a working product, consisting of about
15 off-the-shelf parts. In January, after forming G.E.C., the
owners had an attorney pay a $305 fee and file for a U.S.
applications patent. (The government's decision is still
pending.) Including the value of the time that Guardsman
employees spent on the project, the owners say they've
invested about $150,000 in the product.
   Now, the owners say they're talking with parts suppliers
and with a manufacturer (which they decline to name). Lacking
capital, the owners say they'd require any manufacturer to
finance the tooling expenses necessary to prepare for
production. But in return, the manufacturer would enjoy an
exclusive contract to produce the product for G.E.C. Mr.
Cummins estimates that a national market exists for 400,000
devices, to be sold during the next five years or so.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Market Investors Pull $4.3 Billion
   Out of Mutual Funds in 6-Day Period
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors pulled $4.3 billion out of money market mutual
funds in the six days ended Monday, apparently seeking better
returns on stocks and bonds.
   The average seven-day compound yield of 430 taxable funds
tracked by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report was 7.97%,
compared with 7.96% a week ago and within the narrow range of
the past five months. Compound yields assume reinvestment of
dividends. The Holliston, Mass., newsletter did its weekly
survey a day early because of the Independence Day holiday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yields on most certificates of deposit, meanwhile, eased
slightly in the week ended Tuesday, according to Banxquote
Money Markets, a New York information service. The average
yield on a one-year small-denomination CD, for instance,
slipped to 7.83% from 7.85%, according to Banxquote's 18-bank
survey. Average yields on one-year CDs sold by leading
brokerage firms eased to 8.15% from 8.17%.
   The drop in money fund assets was the largest in more than
two years, although there was a weekly drop of $4.2 billion
in January. Assets of taxable funds now total $374.6 billion.
   Martha Wittbrodt, editor of Donoghue's, said some of the
cash leaving money funds in the latest period may have gone
into the stock market or short-term Treasury securities.
Three-month and six-month bills sold at Monday's auction
yielded slightly more than the average money fund.
   In addition to the usual weekly auction of three-month and
six-month bills, one-year bills and two-year and four-year
Treasury notes were auctioned this past week. One-year
T-bills sold at auction last week yielded 8.09%; four-year
notes yielded 8.5%.
   James M. Benham, chairman of Benham Capital Management, a
Mountainview, Calif., investment management firm, said some
money fund investors may be extending maturities a bit. He
noted that investors can buy two-year and four-year notes
with a money fund check.
   At mutual fund giant Fidelity Investments, much of the
cash coming out of money funds went into stock and bond
funds, said Michael Hines, a marketing vice president. "It's
not out-the-door money, it's exchange money," he said, adding
that a number of money fund accounts were opened last week.
   Although none of the banks in the Banxquote survey offered
a yield as high as 9%, investors can still find consumer CDs
yielding that much or more on maturities of six months or
longer at some banks. Yields on large-denomination CDs,
generally $90,000 and more, at the surveyed banks also were
mostly lower. Average yields on one-year jumbo CDs slid to
7.88% from 7.94%, while five-year maturities fell to 8.20%
from 8.25%.
   "There is a general expectation in the market for rates to
continue to fall gradually," said Norberto Mehl, chairman of
Banxquote.
   Money fund portfolio managers seem to agree. The average
maturity of the funds' investments -- such things as
commercial paper (short-term corporate IOUs), Treasury bills
and CDs -- lengthened by a day to 45 days. Longer maturities
typically are thought to indicate that fund managers expect
interest rates to fall because the longer maturities permit
funds to retain relatively higher yields for a longer period.
Average maturity has been as short as 29 days and as long as
53 days in recent years.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
inched up to 7.68% from 7.67%. The average 30-day simple
yield remained at 7.67%, while the average 30-day compound
yield moved to 7.97% from 7.96%.
   Assets of 221 tax-free funds fell nearly $300 million to
$75.7 billion, while yields were little changed, Donoghue's
said. The average seven-day compound yield of the tax-exempt
funds was 5.46%, for instance, compared with 5.45% last week.
That's equivalent to 7.58% for someone in the 28% tax bracket
and 8.15% for investors paying 33% in taxes.
   Average maturity of the tax-free funds lengthened by five
days to 48 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Prime Crime Time
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Giving out punishment to kids today
   Can make modern parents nervous,
   For instead of spanking or early bedtime,
   Current tots want community service.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Those Blankety Blanks]
                                                                                                       

   When recovering from illnesses,
   Relapses become the norms,
   While filling out those
   Medicare And health-insurance forms.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Securities &amp; Investments Board
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SECURITIES &amp; INVESTMENTS BOARD (London) -- John Craven, 49
years old, was named a director of this regulatory body for
the British investment industry. Mr. Craven is chairman of
Morgan Grenfell Group PLC and member of the board of managing
directors of the Deutsche Bank AG, which owns Morgan
Grenfell. Also, Lord Runciman, 56, is to be named a deputy
chairman as of next month, succeeding Sir Mark Weinberg, 58.
Lord Runciman is chairman of Walter Runciman PLC and
currently an SIB board director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ADC Acquires an LPL Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ADCT LPLI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- ADC Telecommunications Inc. said that it
acquired American Lightwave Systems Inc., a maker of
fiber-optic video transmission equipment and a 65%-owned unit
of LPL Technologies Inc., Wallingford, Conn., for $10.7
million, and that it agreed to make "certain guaranteed and
contingent payments over a 3 1/2-year period" totaling at
least $4 million.
   ADC, which acquired LPL's 65% stake and certain American
Lightwave employees' 35% holding, said the transaction "adds
significantly" to its fiber-optic capabilities and "positions
us to participate in the fast-growing video-services delivery
market." ADC said it and American Lightwave are cooperating
in providing field trials with major telephone companies of
voice and video systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Safety Board's Ruling on USAir Crash
   Sparks Questions About Crew Experience
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   U
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A government finding blaming the pilot for a
USAir crash at LaGuardia Airport last year is focusing
renewed attention on flight-crew experience and the pairing
of relatively inexperienced pilots.
   The National Transportation Safety Board, in its official
ruling on the cause of the Sept. 20 accident, blamed the
USAir captain for failing, as he taxied for takeoff, to
detect that the rudder trim control was set improperly. That
bad setting caused the plane to veer sharply to the left
during its takeoff roll.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The panel also criticized the captain for failing to
correct the situation aggressively. The Charlotte, N.C.-bound
plane skidded off the end of the runway and into the Bowery
Bay, breaking into three pieces. Two passengers were killed.
   Both the captain, Michael Martin, and the co-pilot,
Constantine Kleissas, were relatively inexperienced in their
jobs, according to the safety board, raising questions about
whether a more experienced crew would have handled the
situation better. The Federal Aviation Administration doesn't
have any rules regulating the pairing of crews, but a joint
industry-government task force, which has been examining the
issue since the USAir crash, is expected to propose such
regulations to the agency shortly.
   The task force may propose that new co-pilots be denied
permission to conduct takeoffs and landings in bad weather.
In the case of the USAir flight, that would have kept Mr.
Kleissas from being at the controls initially. All the
co-pilot's previous Boeing 737 takeoffs had been under the
supervision of special airline instructors, called check
airmen, according to the board.
   While the board didn't blame the co-pilot for the
accident, one member, John Lauber, did question the captain's
judgment in allowing an inexperienced co-pilot to handle a
takeoff during a rainy night at LaGuardia. Another, James
Burnett, proposed that the board officially cite USAir as a
contributor to the accident, arguing that it had failed to
provide a "seasoned and experienced flight crew." But the
other board members rejected that step, saying that the crew
had met the minimum regulatory requirements.
   The task force is being coordinated by the Air Transport
Association, the airlines' trade group. It also may propose
that inexperienced captains and co-pilots be assigned to work
with crew members who are more experienced. FAA Administrator
James Busey said many airlines already have moved to "make
sure that they match a new captain with a well-experienced
co-pilot," but he said that making such a match mandatory
would be a good idea. He said the agency probably would
propose a crew-pairing rule in the late summer or fall.
   The safety board, in its recommendations on the Flight
5050 accident, urged the FAA to take action on the
crew-pairing issue.
   In describing the USAir crash, the board also found that
the captain hadn't set his cockpit equipment so that the
aircraft's automatic brakes would be activated in an aborted
takeoff. USAir recommended the setting, but didn't require it
until after the accident.
   The board said the captain tried to stop the plane by
braking manually, but that he in effect "delayed the
attainment of effective braking" and extended the aircraft's
stopping distance.
   In laying blame for the accident on Mr. Martin, the board
also cited other errors, including trying to use the
nosewheel steering mechanism to straighten out the veering
plane -- an action that investigator Robert Benzon said
"wasn't doing a whit of good" given the aircraft's high speed
at the time.
   What he should have done, Mr. Benzon said, was "punch in a
little bit more right rudder." Investigators also faulted Mr.
Martin for using ambiguous language in the cockpit. For
example, when he decided to abort the takeoff, he said to the
co-pilot, "Let's take it back," but the co-pilot wasn't sure
what he meant.
   At another point, board investigators said, things got so
confused that neither the pilot nor the co-pilot was steering
the plane; each thought the other was doing it. The board
never figured out how the rudder came to be improperly set,
but a cockpit-control knob has since been redesigned to
prevent such problems.
   A spokesman for USAir Group Inc. said: "While we don't
take issue with the NTSB probable-cause statement, it fails
to direct attention to the problem of the rudder trim system
that created the environment in which the accident occurred."
He declined to elaborate.
   The Air Line Pilots Association, the pilots' union, called
the board's conclusions, "an absolute travesty."
   Both pilots temporarily lost their licenses, but have
since been retrained and are flying for USAir as first
officers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Panel Seeks Killing
   Gulf Canada Plan
   For Ocean Drilling
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA GOU
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- A Canadian environmental panel recommended that
the federal government reject plans by Gulf Canada Resources
Ltd. to drill in the western Arctic Ocean, citing the
potentially devastating effects of a spill.
   The recommendation, if accepted by the federal government,
would result in a suspension of operations in Canada's
Beaufort Sea region, which leads into the Arctic Ocean. Gulf
Canada, a unit of Toronto-based Olympia &amp; York Developments
Ltd., which is controlled by the Reichmann family, is the
only company that planned to drill there this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Environmental Impact Review Board said Gulf Canada, an
energy concern, and federal regulators had demonstrated
"complacency" toward environmental protection and wildlife
preservation. The regulators, the Canada Oil and Gas Lands
Administration, will rule on Gulf Canada's drilling plans.
   Gulf Canada had proposed to drill four wells in the
Beaufort Sea in the next three years.
   The environmental board, made up of representatives from
the federal government, the governments of the Yukon and
Northwest Territories, and Western Arctic Inuit natives, said
Gulf Canada hadn't been able to estimate the effects of an
oil spill on the area's coastline or to give details of how
the company would carry out cleanup operations in the event
of a spill. It said Gulf Canada didn't provide adequate
evidence at a public hearing last month to enable the board
to estimate the cost of cleaning up a hypothetical worst-case
oil spill.
   Gulf Canada officials estimated that a worst-case well
blowout could release 40,000 barrels of oil a day for 66
days, or 10 times more oil than that released when Exxon
Corp.'s Valdez tanker ran aground in Alaska last year. The
board said such a spill could have "devastating impacts on
sensitive shorelines and on wildlife that could last for
decades."
   Frank Mitton, manager of Gulf Canada's northern
operations, said the board's comments were even "harsher than
anticipated." Gulf Canada has "all the plans and precautions
to make sure we don't have an environmental disaster," he
said.
   The review board said it blamed the lack of preparedness
for dealing with oil spills on "a complacency" on the part of
Gulf Canada and the government, which is "driven by an
ultimate belief that a blowout is so unlikely to occur that
preparing to meet it is largely an academic exercise."
   It added: "This is the kind of complacency that has been
blamed for the confused response to the Exxon Valdez oil
spill."
   Maurice Taschereau, administrator of the Canada Oil and
Gas Lands Administration, said he was "shaken and puzzled" by
the board's criticism. He said the agency has "lots of
contingency plans" in place to deal with environmental
disasters. Mr. Taschereau declined to indicate how his agency
will respond to the board's recommendations. It has 30 days
to reach a decision.
   Stephen Hazell, executive director of the Canadian Arctic
Resources Committee, an environmental group, said the federal
regulator can't reject the board's advice without calling
into question the government's own environmental review
process.
   No wells are being drilled in the Beaufort Sea now. Amoco
Canada Petroleum Co., a unit of Chicago-based Amoco Corp.,
recently canceled its plans to drill two wells in the
Beaufort Sea, because of insufficient interest from its
partners to proceed with the project. An Amoco spokesman said
the company now intends to carry out some seismic work this
summer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Microcom Slashes 4th-Quarter Results,
   Raises Projections of 1st-Period Losses
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MNPI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Microcom Inc. slashed its previously reported fiscal
fourth-quarter and year-end results and said it also expects
to report sharply higher than anticipated losses for the
first quarter.
   The announcement suggests deepening problems at the
Norwood, Mass., software and data communications equipment
maker. In June, the value of Microcom's stock was reduced by
nearly half in frenzied trading after the company warned
investors it would post a loss in its fiscal first quarter
ended June 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement issued after the close of the market
Tuesday, Microcom said it revised its fourth-quarter results
downward to net income of $1 million, or 11 cents a share,
from the previously reported net of $3.2 million, or 32 cents
a share. Revenue for its fourth quarter, which ended March
31, was revised to $18.25 million from $21.8 million.
   Microcom also said it expected to report a loss of between
43 cents and 48 cents a share for the first quarter ended
June 30, on sharply lower revenue of $10.5 million. Just last
month, the company had estimated the loss at between 15 cents
and 20 cents a share, on revenue of $14 million. In the
year-ago first quarter, Microcom reported net income of $2.5
million, or 29 cents a share, on revenue of $17 million.
   Microcom attributed the unexpected adjustments of the
fourth-quarter results to "overstocking of key North American
distributors" during the period.
   James M. Dow, president and chief executive officer, said
first-quarter revenue was substantially below estimates "due
to tightened credit policies with distributors and
resellers." He also said sales reserves were increased and
that purchases of two key product lines, LAN Bridge and
Protocol modems, were delayed. International sales, however,
were in line with estimates, he said.
   Michel Guite, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc., called
the problems in the first quarter a "serious distribution and
packaging blunder" by the company, which caused a large
number of software product returns. He also said sales of
modems had fallen short of expectations. Sales of equipment
such as modems -- which transmit computer data over phone
lines -- have accounted for about two-thirds of revenue, Mr.
Guite said, though they contributed only about 35% of
earnings.
   Microcom's stock still hasn't recovered from the pounding
it took last month when the company issued its initial
forecast of a loss for the quarter. The stock, which dropped
$8.50, to $9.75, with more than 1.7 million shares changing
hands on June 11, closed at $8.75, unchanged, in national
over-the-counter trading Tuesday.
   For the full year, Microcom said it revised net income to
$9.5 million, or $1 a share, from a previously reported
$11.66 million, or $1.22 a share. Revenue was adjusted
downward to $71 million, from a previously reported $75.1
million. In 1989, Microcom reported net income of $7.6
million, or 92 cents a share, on revenue of $59.3 million.
   The revisions to the fourth quarter and full year did not
amount to a formal restatement, because they had not yet been
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
company indicated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Madison &amp; Hamilton Settled the Matter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   In suggesting that "Each State Can Limit Re-Election to
Congress" (editorial page, June 19), Stephen Glazier brings
attention to serious constitutional issues. Sadly, however,
he gives entirely too short a shrift to the important
Qualifications Clauses of Article I, Sections 2 and 3.
   Contrary to the impression given by his treatment of these
clauses, it is well-settled, as both James Madison and
Alexander Hamilton noted in the Federalist Papers (Fed. Nos.
52 and 60), and the Supreme Court painstakingly recognized as
recently as 1969 (in Powell v. McCormack), that the clauses
"define and fix" the maximum qualifications for
representatives and senators, and that those qualifications
are "unalterable" by either Congress or the states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Glazier's limited analysis of some "ballot access" and
"automatic resignation" case law succeeds in casting no doubt
upon the continued vitality of this enduring constitutional
principle.
   He cites the Supreme Court case Storer v. Brown, the
district-court case Williams v. Tucker, the Second Circuit
case Signorelli v. Evans and the Ninth Circuit case Joyner v.
Mofford.
   But Storer, Williams and Signorelli were all "ballot
access" cases. Denying people access to the ballot for
legitimate procedural reasons simply does not impose an
"additional" qualification for office. After all, if any of
the challengers in those cases had won the offices they
sought through valid write-in campaigns they would have been
seated, and neither Congress nor the states could have done
anything to stop it. See Powell.
   Similarly, so-called "automatic resignation" statutes
simply do not impose additional qualifications for office.
Mr. Glazier unwittingly recognized this in his summary of the
Joyner case. He noted that the statute in that case was found
not to impose "an additional qualification because the
(challenger) was not barred from running for Congress"
(emphasis added). Yes, that's the point.
Automatic-resignation statutes require only that the
candidate resign some other office before running for
Congress. These statutes do not disqualify candidates from
holding congressional office. To the contrary, they were
carefully drafted precisely so as to respect the important
protections inherent in the Qualifications Clauses.
   By contrast, a term limitation on congressional offices
would, in Mr. Glazier's own words, directly "bar (affected
incumbents) from running for Congress." This restriction,
like the many that state courts have recognized (see, e.g.,
Hellmann v. Collier, 1958, holding that the Qualifications
Clause required states to permit candidates to run in any
election district across the state), would disqualify certain
people from holding office not because they were under 25 or
30 years of age, not because they were not inhabitants of the
state, not because they had not been citizens of the U.S. for
seven or nine years, but simply, and additionally, because
they had held those very same offices for the preceding 12
years. This is simply not in the Constitution. And it's going
to take some judicial activism of an entirely new and more
wicked sort to find it there.
   Timothy DeWitt
   Richmond, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Glazier fails to take account of the states'
individual interests in being represented by long-term
incumbents in Congress. Every state would wish the terms of
the congressional legislators representing the other states
to be limited, and might even be willing to have the terms of
its own legislators be limited if the other states' terms
were limited as well. But no state is going to limit the
terms of its federal legislators-and thus their power to
represent state interests on the federal level-unilaterally.
   Jurisprudentially and politically, Mr. Glazier's
suggestion just will not wash.
   Richard D. Shore
   Washington
   ---
   Mr. Glazier's premise that we who believe in limiting
congressional terms need to promote state legislative action
as a solution has merit. It would seem simpler than a
constitutional amendment. There is, however, at least one
major problem with looking to our state legislators for
relief: They are just as insulated as our national
representatives.
   Perhaps the most powerful person in Ohio politics is a
long-term legislator from a rural section of the state. He
decides who gets what committee assignments. He decides what
legislation gets through. If he is unhappy with whomever my
district sends to Columbus, that person might as well stay
home.
   If this power-legislator and his friends vote to limit
congressional terms, might they not be putting themselves at
risk? Wouldn't we voters be correct in next asking our state
legislators to limit their own terms? Can we reasonably
expect them to be any more altruistic than the members of
Congress?
   There is a solution. If there is going to be any
term-limitation fruit to pick, it will be solely the produce
of grass-roots activity. We voters will need to strive to get
such legislation on our state ballots, allowing the decision
to be made in the voting booth and not the back rooms of our
state capitals or Washington.
   Walter G. Pfeiffer Jr.
   Mansfield, Ohio
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health-Mor Inc. Acquires Bliss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   HMI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOMBARD, Ill. -- Health-Mor Inc., a maker of vacuum
cleaners and specialty machinery, said it completed its
acquisition of closely held Bliss Manufacturing Co., a maker
of metal stampings for the automotive industry, based in
Youngstown, Ohio. Terms of the cash-and-stock transaction
weren't disclosed.
   Bliss had $55.4 million in sales for the year ended Sept.
30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Market Rise Extends to 5 Sessions,
   With Focus on Profit-Jolt Safety
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market on Tuesday rose for the fifth
consecutive session, as investors loaded up on stocks they
hope will be safe from negative earnings surprises. But
trading was moderate.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 12.37 to 2911.63,
the first close above 2900 since June 21. The current winning
streak in the Dow industrials is the longest since early May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 130,050,000
shares, compared with 130,200,000 on Monday. Advancing issues
on the Big Board outpaced decliners 834 to 650. The financial
markets were closed yesterday in observance of Independence
Day.
   Profit-taking depressed technology issues: Compaq Computer
fell 2 to 123 1/8; Digital Equipment Corp. fell 5/8 to 83
3/4, and International Business Machines slipped 7/8 to 117
5/8.
   Traders expect little change in stock prices until the
wave of corporate earnings reports begins next week.
   "I would be hard-pressed to call it anything other than a
trading-range market right now," George D. Adler, director of
portfolio management at Banc One Asset Management Corp.,
said. "We are all sitting on our hands waiting for something
to happen."
   Still, stocks of companies that maintain earnings growth
throughout the ups and downs of economic cycles were clearly
in favor Tuesday. Tobacco, waste-management and beverage
stocks advanced. For example, American Brands rose 7/8 to 65
5/8, Waste Management gained 1 to 42 7/8, and Anheuser-Busch
added 5/8 to 43 3/4.
   Among advancing growth and consumer issues in the Dow
industrial average were Philip Morris, which gained 7/8 to 48
and was the most active Big Board stock, with more than 2.6
million shares changing hands; Merck, which gained 5/8 to 87
5/8; General Electric, which rose 5/8 to 71 1/8, and
Woolworth which jumped 1 to 34 1/8.
   Periodic stock-index arbitrage buy programs, in which
traders buy stocks and sell futures to lock in fleeting price
differences, also lifted these shares.
   Among declining stocks, Dow Jones slipped 1/2 to a new
52-week low of 22 1/2, continuing a monthlong slide. Since
early June, shares of the information and publishing company,
which publishes this newspaper, have fallen 20%. Several
analysts, including Susan Decker of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette, have recently lowered their earnings estimates for
Dow Jones. Ms. Decker said she is concerned about a "softer
profit outlook" at Dow Jones's Telerate subsidiary.
   General Instrument rose 1/2 to 45 5/8 on volume of more
than 1.9 million shares, an indication that market players
believe another suitor for the company will surface with an
offer higher than Forstmann Little's buy-out bid of $44.50 a
share. Analysts said potential bidders include U.S.
telecommunications companies and foreign concerns such as
Matsushita Electric Industrial and N.V. Philips.
   But Kay Jewelers, another takeover target, slipped 1/2 to
13 3/4 as Ratners Group's offer drew a cool reception from
some holders of the company's two "junk" bond issues. The bid
calls for the British concern to pay 75% of face value for
Kay's high-yield bonds.
   Mattel, which said it expects to report that
second-quarter sales rose about 16% from a year earlier, rose
3/8 to 22 1/2 on 1.3 million shares. The company didn't
provide an earnings estimate.
   TCBY Enterprises dropped 1 5/8 to 17 5/8, after
Robinson-Humphrey downgraded the stock's short-term
investment rating and cut earnings estimates. Separately, a
company spokeswoman acknowledged that a Florida-based
franchisee with about 50 stores had filed for bankruptcy-law
protection, but she said the filing in "no way will impair"
TCBY.
   Dividend-related trades by institutions swelled volume in
Central Maine Power, which rose 1/8 to 18 3/4, as 2.3 million
shares were traded, and SCEcorp, which added 1/8 to 37 5/8 on
1.4 million shares. Another utility stock, Entergy, also was
high on the NYSE's list of most active stocks; the issue
gained 1/8 to 20, as two million shares changed hands.
   Signet Banking, which said it expects to post "minimal
earnings" for the second quarter after adding to its reserve
for loan losses, regained 5/8 to 19 7/8, after plummeting 3
3/4 on Monday. But selling spread to issues of other
Southeast-based bank holding companies: Sovran Financial
dropped 1 1/4 to 26 3/4, Citizens &amp; Southern slipped 5/8 to
22 3/8, and Southeast Banking fell 3/8 to 9.
   Dallas Semiconductor lost 5/8 to 7 1/8, after Shearson
Lehman Hutton, in resuming its coverage of the company,
downgraded the stock's short-term investment rating and
removed it from two listings of recommended growth stocks.
The firm also lowered earnings projections for 1990 and 1991
by four cents a share to 55 cents and 70 cents, respectively.
   Genuine Parts slid 1 3/8 to 38 1/8, after Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette cut its rating on the stock to
"unattractive" from "neutral" and lowered earnings estimates.
The firm now expects the company to earn $2.70 a share in
1990 and $2.90 a share in 1991; its earlier forecasts were
$2.85 and $3.20, respectively. Hillenbrand Industries fell 2
1/8 to 42 3/4. The company reported that net income for the
quarter ended June 2 dropped slightly from a year earlier.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.53
to 360.67. Volume totaled about 11,730,000 shares, compared
with about 9,850,000 on Monday. Advancing issues edged
decliners, 295 to 263, and 240 stocks ended unchanged.
   Greenman Bros. jumped 1 7/8 to 7 1/8, after agreeing to
sell its Circus World toy-retailing unit to Melville for $90
million to $100 million; the price will be set upon
completion of the sale, which is expected in early August.
Melville added 3/4 to 53 in Big Board trading.
   Fruit of the Loom dropped 3/8 to 12. Standard &amp; Poor's
lowered its ratings on debt issues of the company and two
other concerns controlled by the investor William Farley.
   P. Leiner Nutritional Products dropped 1 3/8 to 10 1/8.
The company estimated that sales for the June quarter fell to
about $27.2 million from $32.2 million a year earlier, and
said it expects net income to be substantially lower, as
well.
   John Fluke Manufacturing, which said orders for the
quarter ended June 29 were below its expectations, slipped 2
1/8 to 19 7/8. Net orders for the period amounted to $53.7
million, the company said.
   Sanifill rose 3/4 to 20 3/4, after revising its
first-quarter earnings upward to reflect an acquisition. The
company declined to identify the takeover that led to the
restatement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Monsanto Unit's Ulcer Drug Is Found
   Cost-Effective Only in High-Risk Group
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   An ulcer-prevention drug used by arthritis sufferers is
cost-effective only for high-risk patients who have had
previous gastric ulcers, a new study suggests.
   The report could mean difficulties for the medicine,
marketed by Monsanto Co.'s G.D. Searle unit under the trade
name Cytotec. The study also reflects the increasing role
cost considerations -- not just clinical measures -- play in
evaluating the effectiveness of medicines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cytotec, known generically as misoprostol, helps prevent
ulcers in patients taking other drugs to relieve arthritis
pain. As many as 19 million people in the U.S. take such
medicines, known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs,
which can cause ulcers as a side effect. In a small number of
cases, severe or even fatal bleeding results.
   The study, published in yesterday's Journal of the
American Medical Association, says that because most users of
the nonsteroidal drugs aren't likely to develop ulcers, wide
use of Cytotec among these patients isn't cost-effective.
   While preventing such ulcers "is an appealing clinical
strategy," say Jonathan T. Edelson, president of Medical
Decision Resources, Brookline, Mass., and his co-authors,
"the cost of {prevention} may be high relative to the
benefits provided."
   A spokesman for Monsanto's Searle unit didn't dispute the
thrust of the findings, which he termed "not surprising." He
said the report probably wouldn't affect sales of Cytotec
because the drug is targeted only at high-risk patients
anyway. About 5.5 million nonsteroidal drug patients have a
history of ulcer disease, the spokesman said, and the company
has estimated that 5.5 million "other patients at risk" might
also benefit from the medicine. Searle projects world-wide
Cytotec sales at $90 million to $100 million in 1990.
   The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the drug
only for patients "at high risk of complications from a
gastric ulcer," or of developing such ulcers. However, once a
drug is on the market, it isn't unusual for doctors to
prescribe it for patients whose symptoms fall outside the
approved criteria. Earlier this year, Searle came under fire
for ads that appeared to target the drug at a broader
audience. The company denied the intent but ran corrective
ads.
   Dr. Edelson's research was based on previous studies of
the drug's effectiveness in preventing ulcers and on the
incidence of ulcers among patients taking nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs. These data were analyzed by a
computer model that accounts for the cost of the drug,
patients who fail to take medicine and other factors to
predict health and cost benefits.
   The study showed, for instance, that about 4.5% of all
patients on arthritis medication are likely to develop ulcers
each year, while 4.4% of those taking Cytotec risk developing
ulcers. Using the computer model, treating all such patients
with Cytotec for one year would translate to a cost of
$667,400 per year of life saved.
   For patients over 60, 14.5% with Cytotec and 17.6% without
it are likely to develop ulcers, for a cost per year of life
saved of $186,700, the study estimated. For patients with
rheumatoid arthritis, the cost per year of life saved would
be $95,600.
   In contrast, flu vaccine for the elderly, a
well-established primary prevention program, costs about
$2,200 per year of life saved, while certain blood pressure
medicines cost about $12,400 per year of life saved, the
study says.
   But the study found that at least 60% of patients who
developed ulcers once from the nonsteroidal medicine would
likely develop them again. For this group, the cost of using
Cytotec to prevent a second occurence would be less than
$40,000 per year of life saved -- an amount that may be
cost-effective, the study says.
   Dr. Edelson cautioned that changing some assumptions in
the model would lower the cost figures. In any event, the
study is just one factor doctors should use in determining
treatment and "doesn't in any way dictate the care of any
individual patient," he says.
   But such studies are of increasing interest, not only to
doctors, but among drug companies, insurers, hospitals,
health maintenance organizations and others concerned about
who will pay for drug therapy and how much. "It's no longer
adequate to show that a drug is safe and effective," says
Alan L. Hillman, assistant professor of medicine and
health-care management at the University of Pennsylvania.
"The {pharmaceutical} industry has been finding that it's
important to establish an economic argument for its new
products."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Raise
   $5.2 Billion Next Week
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise about $5.2
billion in cash next week through sales of bills and notes.
   On Monday, it plans to raise $1.9 billion with the sale of
about $18 billion in short-term bills to redeem $16.09
billion in maturing bills. The offering will be divided
evenly between 13-week and 26-week bills maturing Oct. 11 and
Jan. 10, 1991, respectively. The bills will be available in
minimum denominations of $10,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Wednesday, the Treasury plans to raise $3.3 billion in
cash with the sale of about $8 billion in seven-year notes to
redeem $4.7 billion in maturing notes. The offering will
mature July 15. The notes will be available in minimum $1,000
denominations.
   Bids for the bills and notes must be received by 1 p.m.
EDT on the day of the auction at the Treasury or at Federal
Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Plans to Propose Inviting Gorbachev
   To Give Address to NATO, Sources Say
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush plans to propose, at a
meeting of Western leaders opening today in London, that
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev be invited to address the
Western military alliance, diplomatic sources said.
   The idea of inviting the Soviet leader to visit the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization is included in a package of
proposals Mr. Bush privately has recommended for discussion
among the Western allies during the two-day London meeting.
The proposals are designed to make the Western defense
alliance appear less threatening to the Kremlin so that Mr.
Gorbachev will acquiesce to a newly united Germany becoming a
full NATO member.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A visit by Mr. Gorbachev to NATO would be largely
symbolic, but it could be important. Bringing the Soviet
leader inside a military alliance that was formed to defend
against a Soviet threat would be a powerful way of
underscoring the West's contention that the Kremlin has
nothing to fear from NATO or German membership in it.
   The proposal would dovetail with another of Mr. Bush's
proposals -- that the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact be
allowed to send permanent representatives to NATO
headquarters to observe the alliance's activities.
   Already, in one gesture of openness toward the Kremlin,
NATO hosted Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze on a
similar trip to NATO headquarters in Brussels earlier this
year. It isn't clear when Mr. Gorbachev, who is enduring
heavy criticism at a Soviet Communist Party Congress this
week, would visit NATO, the diplomatic sources said.
   Other proposals Mr. Bush plans to present are designed to
alter NATO's military structure in response to the collapse
of communism in Eastern Europe without so radically
overhauling the alliance that its power fades away. Allies
were given a preview of the ideas in a letter distributed
late last week.
   Mr. Bush plans to propose, for instance, that NATO and the
Warsaw Pact each issue non-aggression statements, diplomatic
sources said. Such statements have been suggested as another
way to illustrate that NATO hasn't any hostile intentions
toward the Soviet Union.
   And the president will propose declaring that the U.S. is
prepared to withdraw hundreds of its nuclear-tipped artillery
shells from Western Europe, provided Soviet troops are
withdrawn from Eastern Europe. The short-range shells have
little use because they are designed to strike East European
countries that no longer pose an immediate military threat to
the West.
   The U.S. also will suggest that the NATO leaders endorse a
plan, already discussed in other alliance meetings, to thin
out the ranks of NATO troops on the alliance's front line and
put them under multinational commands made up of officers
from several alliance nations.
   In addition, the sources said, Mr. Bush plans to suggest
several steps to strengthen the Conference for Security and
Cooperation in Europe, an organization designed to ease
political tensions on the Continent. He plans to suggest
creating a conflict-resolution office within the CSCE,
strengthening the leadership of the organization and creating
a CSCE committee to monitor elections being held in newly
democratized nations in Eastern Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speaking of Business:
   Aging of America May Offer Opportunities
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In case you haven't noticed, we're all getting older. The
postwar baby boom has ended. A woman reaching childbearing
age in 1960 would expect 3.6 children; in 1990, only 1.9. I'm
always a little nervous talking about six-tenths of a child
or even nine-tenths of one, but that's the way demography
works.
   Demographers, economists and a lot of politicians have
been worrying for several years about the burdens this older
population will inflict on America -- particularly on the
post-baby boom generation. Those who pay Social Security
taxes will be decreasing in numbers and the baby boomers will
be sliding into retirement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the past decade this raised fears for the future of the
Social Security system. Keeping the system going, and keeping
the checks flowing, might require such large tax increases
that workers would rebel. There was no sign of imminent
rebellion, but the average American usually doesn't know what
demographers have in mind. In any case, the perceived problem
led the government to appoint a commission to study the
matter and propose solutions.
   Before long there was a schedule of higher Social Security
taxes. For the next 30 years tax payments are slated to
exceed benefits, with the surplus piling up in a trust fund.
After 2020 the fund would be drawn down as the population
aged. There has been a great deal of concern that Americans
aren't saving enough, but through the tax system the public
is saving, whether it wants to or not.
   Now at hand, however, is a study by four economists, David
Cutler and James Poterba of MIT and Louise Sheiner and
Lawrence Summers of Harvard, that suggests we may have
worried too much about the after-effects of the baby boom.
   For one thing, the end of the baby boom means not only
more old folks but -- guess what? -- fewer babies. The
decline in the number of dependent children, moreover, will
come before the surge in the number of dependent elderly.
Furthermore, the fraction of the labor force either at or
near peak productivity will increase. Between 2010 and 2060,
the total work force will decrease slightly, making it
possible to reduce investment without reducing capital
investment per worker.
   All in all, the authors suggest, a declining work force
may be good for productivity. They offer a study of 29
countries in the years 1960-85. Over that period, the
countries with slow labor-force growth had above average
productivity growth. The authors don't claim this analysis is
any more than a theory, but it does make sense. A
fast-growing labor force normally has lots of very young
workers, short on training as well as experience.
   In addition to helping to care for dependent children and
the elderly, savings are supposed to fuel the investment that
provides jobs and keeps the economy growing. During the
low-savings 1980s, this gap was largely filled by investment
from abroad. There has been some concern that this inflow
will diminish, making it necessary to generate more domestic
savings, but the MIT-Harvard economists are optimistic. They
note that in other countries, notably Japan and West Germany,
the populations will age faster and the work forces will grow
more slowly than in the U.S., so other nations are likely to
continue to seek investment opportunities in the U.S.
   Finally, the economists note that one argument for
reducing the federal budget deficit is that it would increase
national saving. There are arguments for reducing the
deficits; otherwise, all of those congressmen and
administration officials wouldn't be bothering with all of
those current meetings in Washington. But demography does not
dictate a budget reduction, at least not immediately. Over
the next three decades, in fact, the gradual aging of the
population is likely to lead to higher rates of personal
saving. A few months do not a trend make, of course, but the
saving rate last year bounced up to 6%.
   The MIT-Harvard economists don't come right out and attack
the Social Security trust fund, but their analysis surely
damages some of the arguments for the big fund buildup. A key
argument is that, without the buildup, the post-boom workers
will be faced by big tax increases to pay benefits to the
boom generation's retirees, a result that the Social Security
planners obviously found to be unfair.
   The MIT-Harvard authors, however, believe that the boom
generation deserves some special treatment. During their
working years, wage growth is slow because of low
capital-labor ratios. During their retirement years, the
number of potential purchasers of capital will fall, reducing
the rate of return on savings. Studies suggest a sharp
decline in the inflation-adjusted prices of houses, causing a
substantial transfer of wealth to people who are now very
young.
   At the same time, as noted, productivity is likely to be
growing, which should mean that the post-boom generation will
be more affluent than its predecessors. There may be
arguments for piling up that Social Security surplus, but
fairness to the postboomers isn't the most persuasive one.
   Some population scholars argue that it would be nice if we
could get another baby boom going to spread the burden of
caring for the growing numbers of elderly. The authors argue
strongly against such an approach: "Dependency at the
beginning of the life cycle is between 50% and 100% as costly
as dependency at the end of the life cycle. It also comes 60
years earlier."
   In sum, the aging of America presents some problems. It's
nice to know, though, that it also offers us some
opportunities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baker Proposes
   Central American
   Aid at G-24 Parley
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST FORGN LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Secretary of State James Baker proposed that
24 Western nations establish an aid program to assist Central
America.
   Mr. Baker gave few details of the proposal, which came as
the two dozen countries that have pooled $14 billion in
financial aid for Poland and Hungary agreed to offer similar
help to four other Eastern European countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though there was no official reaction to Mr. Baker's
proposal, which he said would help "broaden the support for
democracy and development in Central America," several
countries said they would consider the idea. Mr. Baker said
President Bush had received a favorable response to the idea
when he discussed it recently with EC Commission President
Jacques Delors. And Mr. Baker said several European foreign
ministers had indicated they would support the idea.
   Regarding Eastern Europe, the ministers of the so-called
Group of 24 agreed that Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, East
Germany and Yugoslavia were making progress toward market
economies and democratic societies and thus should be
included in the joint aid programs.
   "The door is now open for direct, coordinated assistance,"
said Frans Andriessen, the EC Commissioner for external
relations who chaired the G-24 meeting.
   But the ministers expressed widely divergent views about
creating a separate aid program for the Soviet Union. And
they refused to offer any aid to Romania until that country
does more to create a democratic political system.
   The discussions among the G-24 ministers, the second since
they agreed one year ago to coordinate their financial
assistance to Poland and Hungary, were described as a major
step toward creating a more stable and prosperous Eastern
Europe. The meeting came less than a week before the summit
of leaders of the seven major industrial countries in
Houston, where the controversial subject of aid to the Soviet
Union is likely to be brought up again.
   The ministers didn't estimate how much additional aid
would be necessary to help the four new members of the G-24
aid program. But in their joint statement, they said it would
require "further financial efforts from the whole Western
Community."
   "The amount of money needed to give help to these
countries is enormous," added Mr. Andriessen.
   The ministers also asked the EC Commission, which is
administering the aid program for the G-24, to study the
possibility of a large financial "safety-net" fund, that
could be used to help the Eastern countries create
convertible currencies, finance short-term
balance-of-payments shortfalls and meet other emergency
needs.
   Mr. Andriessen and several other commissioners had
suggested the fund, which would be similar to the $1 billion
stabilization fund that the G-24 already has put into place
for Poland. The Polish fund is credited with helping that
country put into place radical changes in its economic and
monetary system. Mr. Andriessen said that such a fund for all
of Eastern Europe should amount to 10 billion European
Currency Units ($12.47 billion).
   But the ministers were cautious about endorsing the fund
before it was clear whether it would duplicate the efforts of
the International Monetary Fund, which is the principal
organization that tries to help countries with
balance-of-payment problems or other short-term financing
needs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Another Shoe Drops
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   We have no fondness for former dictators or their
self-indulgent widows, but the acquittal of Imelda Marcos is
a reminder that criminalizing political doesn't pay. Whatever
else the jurors may have thought during the three-month trial
of the woman with all the shoes, they easily concluded that
Mrs. Marcos wasn't a racketeer.
   The real mystery is how then-U.S. Attorney Rudolph
Giuliani persuaded the Justice Department that the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law was appropriate for
this case -- just as he managed to RICO other notorious
"gangsters" such as investment bankers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Marcos juror Thomas O'Rourke, a Transit Authority worker,
said Mr. Giuliani was "only trying to make a name for
himself" with this "totally silly case." Those are remarkably
critical words from a juror. So much for a reported State
Department cable that Mr. Giuliani had "guaranteed" a
conviction.
   The case became more complex when Ferdinand Marcos died in
September; none of the case's allegations involved Mrs.
Marcos alone. But there were problems with the case as early
as the indictment two years ago after the Marcoses gave up
power and were given refuge in Hawaii. The case claimed to be
about property in the U.S., but it was obvious to everyone
that the prosecution was brought because of what the Marcoses
did in the Philippines.
   The charges were based on alleged stealing of some $200
million from the Philippine treasury that the couple then
spent on jewels, art and New York real estate. The defense
that the money was from a gold hoard Mr. Marcos discovered
may not have been easy to credit. Still, after almost 100
prosecution witnesses and thousands of pages of bank records,
even the judge wondered what a case that belonged in a
Philippine court was doing in ours. Judge John Keenan asked
out of the jury's hearing, "What's an American court, what am
I, doing here, trying a case involving the theft of money
from Philippine banks?" The jury apparently agreed.
   The collapse of this prosecution is surely a telling
example of prosecutorial hubris. We knew that with RICO an
aggressive prosecutor could indict a ham sandwich, but it now
appears that convictions may no longer be so easy. Coming
after a judge vacated the RICO sentences of Princeton/Newport
securities officials, this acquittal leaves us wondering how
a Michael Milken might have fared with a New York jury if
RICO's power hadn't rubber-hosed him into a settlement. The
embarrassing Marcos acquittal should be another nail in
RICO's coffin.
   There is also a serious foreign policy point here. We
worried that this case might deter other tyrants from giving
up power bloodlessly if they saw that they'd still end up
RICO'd into a U.S. jail cell. We doubt that the State
Department will be pressured again by U.S. Attorneys who want
to indict foreign heads of state, at least without clear
evidence of legal wrongdoing in this country.
   This prosecution didn't do the Philippines any favors
either. Whatever Mr. Marcos's venal crimes, the real scandal
remains that his reign delayed any mature system of democracy
and free markets. Surely the embattled Corazon Aquino has
enough on her mind without having to worry about more
internal divisions caused by any unintended rehabilitation of
the Marcoses in a U.S. court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Montreal Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BMO F.CIC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Bank of Montreal said it sold its 20% stake in
Paris-based Banque Transatlantique to Credit Industriel et
Commercial de Paris for about 23 million Canadian dollars
($19.8 million). Bank of Montreal said Credit Industriel et
Commercial now will hold about 60% of Banque Transatlantique.
   Bank of Montreal said it will realize a pretax capital
gain of about C$17 million on the sale. Bank of Montreal said
it will continue to maintain its own representative office in
Paris.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN LABOR EUROP CANDA IR G.SIE
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOVIET HIJACKINGS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Soviet aviation minister said air piracy in the Soviet
Union was assuming a mass scale, with the hijacking of five
aircraft to foreign countries in three weeks.
   The hijackers "are young people between 17 and 20 who have
no experience of life," Deputy Civil Aviation Minister
Mikhail Timofeyev said. "We must make clear to them the
seriousness of such acts, so that they should never dream
that terrorism will go unpunished."
   Mr. Timofeyev said everything possible was being done to
stop this "wave of terrorist acts," including purchase of new
screening equipment for airports. He said five aircraft on
internal flights had been hijacked to Turkey, Sweden and
Finland since June 18, all by young people pretending to
carry guns or explosives.
   The minister denied that the hijackings took place because
tight travel laws gave the youths no other way to leave the
country. "Some will have got their ideas from video films and
some saw an element of heroism in it," he said.
                                                                                                       

   CUTTING JAPAN'S WORK HOURS
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese Labor Ministry has reportedly decided to
curtail the length of Japan's legal work week to 44 hours
from the current 46, beginning next April. A Japanese news
agency, quoting ministry sources, said the move is another
step toward the government's goal of reducing the annual
working time of the Japanese to 1,800 hours by fiscal 1992.
                                                                                                       

   WARNING FOR EAST GERMANY
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission warned East Germany not
to allow West German companies to set up monopolies, cartels
or similar arrangements with East German companies. In a
letter to East German Economics Minister Gerhard Pohl, Sir
Leon Brittan, the EC's competition commissioner, underscored
his worries that German companies may be trying to exclude
other EC companies from competing in a united Germany. He
specifically cited the takeover of the East German state
insurance monopoly by West German insurance giant Allianz AG.
                                                                                                       

   CANADIAN HELP FOR CHINA
                                                                                                       

   The Canadian government said it would lend up to 37.5
million Canadian dollars (US$32.2 million) to China for the
construction of a pulp and paper mill. Canadian Industrial
Consortium will supply equipment and engineering services for
the mill. The consortium includes such pulp- and
paper-equipment designers and builders as Ingersoll-Rand
Canada Inc., Dillingham Construction Ltd. and Societe de
Developpement Industriel du Quebec.
                                                                                                       

   NUCLEAR POWER FOR PILSEN?
                                                                                                       

   West Germany's Siemens AG is conducting a joint study to
determine the feasibility of building a nuclear-power plant
to provide heat for the Czechoslovak city of Pilsen. If
Czechoslovak authorities decide to go through with the
project, Siemens could receive the contract to design and
manage construction of the plant. The facility, a
water-cooled nuclear reactor, would supply only heat, not
electricity. It thus would operate at lower temperatures than
full-scale power reactors.
                                                                                                       

   GOOD NEWS FOR EUROPE'S AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   The Association of European Airlines said overall
passenger traffic on its 21 member airlines showed a strong
start to the summer-vacation season, with an 11.5% increase
in May compared with May of 1989. The best results were seen
on Far Eastern and Australian routes where passenger traffic
rose 14% in May, to the highest level in 31 months, the
association said. Good results were also posted by the North
Atlantic routes which were the scene of capacity expansion by
some carriers, the airline group said.
                                                                                                       

   GLOBAL OUTPUT
                                                                                                       

   Global economic output, which grew by 3.1% last year
compared with 4.4% in 1988, is expected to slow further this
year to 2.2%, according to the United Nations World Economic
Survey for 1990.
   The report forecast a recovery to 3% in 1991. But it
warned of a further fall in output in Eastern Europe and the
Soviet Union as they shift from state planning to market
economies.
   Developed market economies continued their long expansion
in 1989, when their economic output grew by 3.5%, the survey
said. This was lower than the 4.3% figure of the year before
but more vigorous than had been expected. The forecast for
1990 is 2.7%, with a rise to 3.1% projected for 1991.
   The survey suggested the establishment of a Central
European Payments Union, similar to the European Payments
Union set up after World War II, to help the East European
countries move toward market-oriented economies with fully
convertible currencies.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   India, amending a recent government announcement, said
Amnesty International representatives could enter the country
only for private visits and meetings with government
officials but not to investigate alleged human-rights abuses.
Last week, India had said it was completely lifting a ban on
visits by the London-based organization. . . . Authorities in
the French city of Grenoble banned Bermuda shorts in public
pools and encouraged the wearing of bikinis and other skimpy
bathing suits. They said the knee-length shorts, a current
swim-fashion craze, pollute pools. The more swimmers wear,
they said, the dirtier the water.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Nuclear Cleanup
   Estimates Raised
   By Energy Agency
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Energy Department estimates that the
cost of cleaning up its nuclear weapons plants and other
facilities could rise to $6 billion a year later this decade
-- about twice as much as current spending levels.
   In a new five-year cleanup projection, the department said
it could cost $31.6 billion from fiscal 1992 through fiscal
1996 to remove, treat and store radioactive and hazardous
waste from nearly 100 department sites around the U.S. The
total costs of cleanup are unknown, although previous
estimates have ranged to more than $100 billion. Work is
expected to continue through at least 2019.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials cautioned that the projections represent a
high-cost scenario and are too preliminary to signal how much
the department actually will seek from Congress in the years
ahead. However, the department conceded that the costs of
dealing with severe environmental problems at the
government's nuclear weapons complex and other sites are
projected to mount significantly in fiscal 1992, when the
projection calls for almost double the $2.8 billion requested
by the Bush administration for fiscal 1991. Fiscal 1992
begins Oct. 1, 1991.
   The higher costs will have to be borne by the U.S.
taxpayer. "We're going to get it from the taxpayer," said Leo
Duffy, director of DOE's environmental management office.
"There's no other supply."
   When the department issued its five-year plan last year,
the estimate was $19.1 billion through fiscal 1995. Mr. Duffy
said the latest projection is significantly higher in large
part because both the government and private contractors who
run many of the DOE facilities fear civil or criminal
liability for violating environmental regulations.
   Mr. Duffy said it's doubtful the department would ask
Congress to allot the full amount it has projected. He said
neither the government nor private contractors will have the
manpower or technology available to spend that much money
efficiently for the next four or five years. He also
predicted there will be a shortage of qualified job
applicants to carry out the complex cleanup project in the
years ahead. The report said the DOE and its contractors
would have to more than double the size of their staffs to
handle the mammoth cleanup project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Chemical-Weapons Agreement With Soviets Spurs
   Discord as Senators Contend It Should Be a Treaty
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When is a treaty not a treaty?
   That is the sticky political and legal question the Bush
administration is encountering as it prepares to ask Congress
to approve the agreements signed by President Bush and Soviet
leader Mikhail Gorbachev at last month's summit meeting. The
way the question is answered is far more than a matter of
legal arcana; it could set precedents for a whole series of
historic U.S.-Soviet agreements likely to be wrapped up in
the next few years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Contrary to general perceptions at the summit, the
administration isn't treating the most important deals Mr.
Bush and Mr. Gorbachev signed -- a pact to eliminate chemical
weapons and a trade agreement -- as formal treaties, which
would require ratification by two-thirds of the Senate. That
process often has resulted in amendments and reservations
that then require further negotiations. Instead, the
chemical-weapons and trade accords are to be treated as
executive agreements, which can be approved by resolutions
backed by simple majorities of the House and Senate.
   And that already is generating spats between Congress and
the White House -- and between the two houses of Congress
itself.
   Prominent senators from both parties -- including 18 of
the 19 members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee --
have formally protested that the decision not to treat the
chemical-arms deal as a treaty robs them of their
constitutional ratification rights. "We must be unequivocal
about the imperative that significant international
agreements take treaty form," declare Foreign Relations
Committee Chairman Claiborne Pell, a Rhode Island Democrat,
and ranking Republican Jesse Helms of North Carolina in a
joint letter to Mr. Bush.
   And Sen. Joseph Biden (D., Del.) warns that failing to
allow the Senate to ratify the deal would be "a serious
political mistake."
   There isn't the same kind of dispute over the treatment of
the trade pact. Under American trade law and tradition, such
bilateral trade deals are treated as executive agreements and
submitted to both the House and the Senate for simple
majority approval.
   But there's a related problem with the trade pact. Bush
administration officials contend, and many in Congress
concur, that for technical reasons the current process for
approving trade deals is unconstitional because the
resolutions of approval aren't sent to the president for
signature. So, although the White House says it doesn't
intend to do so, some administration lawyers contend
President Bush could put the trade deal into effect without
approval unless Congress passes pending legislation to fix
the system.
   That legislation seems likely to clear Congress soon. But
if it doesn't, the question of what sort of congressional
approval is legally necessary could still emerge as a
debating point when the trade deal is submitted for approval,
probably later this year. That would be particularly
important if Congress remains angry over Mr. Gorbachev's
treatment of Lithuania and continues threatening to block the
trade deal in retaliation.
   For now, the more politically charged debate is on the
chemical-arms deal, which requires an end to production of
chemical weapons and destruction of a large share of existing
stockpiles. The question of whether such a pact is a treaty
or not is a murky area of constitutional law, leaving much
open to presidential discretion.
   The White House doesn't consider the pact a full-blown
treaty because it is supposed to be just an "interim" step
toward a broader, multinational accord banning chemical
weapons world-wide, says C. Boyden Gray, the president's
counsel. In addition, administration aides contend, the House
has been particularly active on chemical-weapons issues and
shouldn't be cut out of the approval process, as it would be
in a Senate treaty ratification.
   But many in Congress suspect that other, long-range
political considerations also are behind the administration's
calculation.
   Persuading two-thirds of the Senate's 100 members to
ratify a formal treaty without them first tacking on their
own amendments and reservations has proven to be a tough job
in recent years. So some suspect that the administration's
handling of the chemical-weapons deal, which even Sen. Biden
says probably would get the two-thirds Senate support, may be
intended in part to set a pattern of approving some arms
accords through resolutions requiring only a simple majority
-- an important point at a time when six arms deals with the
Soviets could be completed in coming years.
   "It's such an epic struggle to get a treaty through the
Senate that if you're going to go ahead on a pragmatic basis
you're going to have to go more to the executive agreement,"
says Rep. Lee Hamilton (D., Ind.), a leading Democrat on the
House Foreign Affairs Committee.
   In fact, there is some historical precedent for treating
arms pacts this way. The SALT I strategic-arms accord also
wasn't ratified as a treaty but rather approved by both
houses as an executive agreement. Under President Nixon, as
now, the White House argued that the pact was merely an
"interim accord" leading to a broader SALT II agreement --
which also never was ratified by the Senate because of the
invasion of Afghanistan.
   As if to underscore the problem with getting treaties
ratified, Mr. Bush has just sent to the Senate for
ratification two lesspublicized agreements he signed with Mr.
Gorbachev at the summit, which detail how to verify limits on
underground nuclear explosions. Those agreements are designed
to finally win ratification of two nuclear-testing accords
with the Soviets, which have been lying unratified for 14
years.
   House members would love to see arms deals treated as
executive agreements because they are cut out of the action
in a Senate treaty-ratification process. As a result, some
intracongressional sniping has broken out between House
members and senators over the handling of the chemicalarms
pact.
   Recently, Secretary of State James Baker appeared before
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and was chided for
declining to submit the chemical-weapons pact as a treaty.
Sen. Biden, in particular, argued that the deal is
significant because it would commit the U.S. to ban
production of an entire class of weapons, and therefore
should be treated as a "serious and significant" treaty.
   The next morning, Mr. Baker appeared before the House
Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Dante Fascell (D., Fla.),
the panel's chairman, immediately argued against his Senate
colleagues. He implored the administration to continue
treating the deal as an executive agreement and even
declared: "I congratulate the administration for sending this
up as an executive agreement."
   The House should play a role in approval because on
chemical arms "there's been a debate going on in Congress for
the last eight or nine years in which the House has been
intimately involved," Rep. Fascell says in an interview.
Besides, he adds, the decision of whether to call the pact a
treaty or an executive agreement "is purely a political
decision. Both have equal effect in law."
   And in fact, there aren't any hard and fast rules to
distinguish between a treaty and an executive agreement. Such
ambiguity about the constitutional rights of Congress is
"always the case in foreign afffairs," says Louis Fisher, a
specialist on executive and legislative powers at the Library
of Congress. "Whenever it gets gray, that means the
institutions have to be alert to their own powers, and if
they think they're being infringed, then to fight back."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Moody's Downgrades
   General Instrument
   Debt and Sets Review
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it
downgraded its rating on General Instrument Corp.'s
commercial paper and put its subordinated debt under review,
after a leveraged buy-out offer for the cable-television
equipment maker.
   The rating concern said it lowered the commercial paper
rating to not prime from prime-2. It also will consider
downgrading the subordinated debt, which is rated Baa-3.
About $175 million of debt outstanding is affected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's said its action reflects the deteriorated
financial flexibility in General Instrument that would result
from a buyout. It said it expects the deal will be completed
at a minimum of $1.42 billion, the amount proposed Monday by
Forstmann, Little &amp; Co., a buy-out firm. It said General
Instrument's management supports the proposed transaction,
and noted that an enhanced offer could be made. The Forstmann
bid was valued at $44.50 a share. General Instrument shares
closed Tuesday at $45.625, up 50 cents, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, on volume of more than 1.9
million shares, making it the third most-active issue on the
Big Board.
   Forstmann Little has said it will use $600 million in
subordinated debt in financing the planned acquisition. The
remainder will be financed with equity from Forstmann Little
investors and syndicated bank loans totaling about $1
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   REUTER INC.'S National Market System short position in the
month to midJune was 9,941, not the 512,341 shares listed in
the June 27 edition. Reuters Holdings PLC's National Market
System short position in the month to mid-June was 2,734,527,
not 2,232,127 as reported in the same edition. The incorrect
numbers were due to a reporting error by a Nasdaq member
firm.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   WILLIAMS-SONOMA Inc. sold ex-distribution Monday and
closed in national overthe-counter trading at $25.125, after
adjustment for a 3-for-2 stock split. Failure to make the
stock split adjustment caused the company to be mistakenly
listed as a Price Percentage Loser in Tuesday's edition.
   ---
   JOHN GORDON of Deltec Securities Corp., who heads a
steering committee of Southland Corp. security holders, said
issues remain between security holders and Southland
regarding a revised debt exchange offer by the company. In
Tuesday's edition, Mr. Gordon was quoted as saying he was
favorably impressed by the exchange offer's details. Mr.
Gordon said his comments related only to the relative
allocation of values among various security holder groups and
not to the overall amount being offered by Southland.
   (See: "Southland Unveils Debt-Offer Details, Stock-Split
Plan" -- WSJ July 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Gives Stock Awards to Managers
   In an Effort to Stem High-Level Turnover
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   C LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp., in an effort to
stem a surge in management turnover, gave stock awards to the
company's top 1,800 officials if they stay with the auto
maker until January.
   The move is designed to compensate top-level employees
because they didn't get their customary cash bonuses this
year, even though Chrysler had $22 million in its executive
bonus pool. Chrysler's contract with the United Auto Workers
union prevents the company from paying executive bonuses for
years, such as 1989, when rank-and-file workers don't get
profit-sharing payments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Omitting bonuses placated the UAW but angered high-level
managers, many of whom get half their total compensation from
the bonus. In the first quarter of 1990, turnover of
"bonus-level" employees hit three times the normal level, a
Chrysler spokesman said.
   "Part of the problem is that they didn't get a bonus," the
spokesman said. "All of a sudden the total compensation
package became noncompetitive, and you had people looking."
   Chrysler wouldn't disclose how much stock it had set aside
for the executives. But the company said all its top
executives, including Chairman Lee A. Iacocca, were awarded
shares. Executives will get the stock in January with no
restrictions on its sale.
   Three top executives -- including Vice Chairman Gerald
Greenwald -- have either resigned or announced plans to leave
the struggling auto maker in recent months. Pay was a key
factor in only one of those departures: that of Michael N.
Hammes, who resigned as vice president of international
operations to take a top job with Black &amp; Decker Corp.
   But taking a de facto pay cut has caused a surge in
defections among middle- and upper-middle managers who are
eligible for bonuses. Many of these people were angry because
top management had repeatedly promised them some sort of
bonus, albeit reduced from prior years, sources inside the
company said.
   Chrysler's bonus formula assigns a 20% weighting to
profits and another 20% weighting to market share -- two
areas where the company fell well short of its goals.
However, another 20% depends on "customer satisfaction" and
40% depends on vehicle quality. The idea is to induce
managers to focus on more than short-term profits.
   Chrysler met its customer satisfaction and quality goals
last year. But net income dropped 66% to $359 million, or
$1.55 a share, not enough to permit profit-sharing under the
formula agreed on with the UAW.
   The union, which had praised Chrysler's earlier
withholding of cash bonuses, criticized the stock awards as
creating a loophole in the contract. "In this day, when we're
supposed to be a team against competition, that esprit de
corps is only in the board room, it does not extend to the
shop floor," said Aaron Taylor, president of UAW Local 7,
which represents workers idled by the closing of Chrysler's
Jefferson Avenue assembly plant in Detroit.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Tuesday,
Chrysler closed at $15.50, unchanged.
   A year ago, Chrysler announced a $1 billion cost-cutting
program (later raised to $1.5 billion) that included an 8%
reduction in the white-collar ranks by the end of 1989. Along
with that, Chrysler announced a "voluntary" program in which
executives could "bet" on Chrysler's performance by
transferring as much as 10% of their salary to a special
escrow account.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sudbury Inc.'s Chief
   And President Resigns
   With Two Directors
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SUDS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Sudbury Inc.'s president and chief executive
officer, Douglas F. Johnston, resigned along with two other
board members, in what the company described as a "major
difference of opinion" over its management and strategic
course.
   Ross D. Lake, 52 years old, who had held the No. 2
position at the automotive-parts maker, was named by
directors to succeed the dismissed Mr. Johnston, 59.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Johnston had been recruited two years ago to turn
around Sudbury and craft a new strategy. But while declining
to cite the board's specific disagreements with that
strategy, the company's corporate secretary Robert G. Kuhbach
said a majority of directors had a different vision of "how
to return the company to profitability." The resignations of
Mr. Johnston and board members William C. Scott and Thomas C.
Sutton leave six remaining directors.
   Sudbury, which makes dashboard padding, cast car parts and
other components for the automobile industry, has been
unprofitable in recent years. It recently said it expects to
report net income of about $2 million for the year ended May
31, reflecting a $10 million extraordinary gain. Sales were
about $500 million, it said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Florida Sets Out to Restore Wetlands
   By Refilling a Canal Inadvisably Dug
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Though man's possible alteration of South
Florida's climate is neither well understood nor widely
discussed here, wetlands drainage is a major public issue for
other environmental reasons.
   Last week, Republican Gov. Bob Martinez, who is fighting
for re-election, stood on the bank of a central Florida river
and signed legislation authorizing the sale of $3 billion of
state bonds to acquire wetlands. The state, counting on heavy
federal support, is also planning two of the largest land
restoration projects ever undertaken -- official recognition,
environmentalists say, of the shortsightedness of past
water-management policies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Water resources are the critical issue of the next decade
for Florida," says Brian Ballard, Gov. Martinez's chief of
staff. "Everything else you can manage, if you have water."
   In one project, Florida has earmarked $7 million to begin
filling in a 60-mile canal built in the 1950s that shunted
water from Lake Kissimmee, south of Orlando, to Lake
Okeechobee, bypassing the once-meandering Kissimmee River.
The deep trench drained the flood plain adjoining the
Kissimmee and dried out the old river bed. In addition to
draining a marsh once rich in wildlife, the canal polluted
Lake Okeechobee by feeding it high doses of nutrients from
cattle-ranch runoff. Before the canal, water was cleansed by
the leaching process of the slow-flowing and winding river.
   State officials put the cost of restoring the Kissimmee
River at $300 million. "We're looking for the {Army} Corps of
Engineers and the federal government to restore the river,
since they're the ones who came in and built the canal," says
Mr. Ballard.
   The other project is the expansion of Everglades National
Park to encompass key watershed areas to its northeast. Park
officials say the project, to cost an estimated $90 million
in state and federal money, is essential if the park's
ecosystem is to survive.
   The added territory would allow state water regulators to
better simulate the "river of grass" that once washed over
the Everglades and South Florida. Currently, because the land
to the park's northeast is private and thus protected from
flooding by the water district, water pumped into the
Everglades from the north flows over only about half of the
terrain it once drenched. The difference, scientists have
found, has had a jarring effect on the area's wildlife.
   Yet some scientists and environmentalists say Florida's
piecemeal efforts at restoring wetlands are doomed to
failure. Robert Livingston, director of Florida State's
Center for Aquatic Research and Resource Management, is one.
"Most scientists are saying that there isn't enough water any
more," he says. "And if there isn't enough water, how are you
going to restore wetlands?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Columbia Gas System Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CG
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBIA GAS SYSTEM Inc. (Wilmington, Del.) -- James P.
Holland was elected chairman and chief executive officer of
this natural gas pipeline company's Columbia Gas Transmission
Corp. and Columbia Gulf Transmission Co. units, effective
Sept. 1. Mr. Holland, 41 years old, is currently president of
both subsidiaries. He will succeed John D. Daly, who will
become an executive vice president and director of the parent
company. R. Larry Robinson, senior vice president of planning
for the two subsidiaries, will succeed Mr. Holland as
president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- 12 is Enough
   Elections That Count
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   It looks as if voters in California, Oklahoma and Colorado
will vote this fall on limiting the number of terms their
state legislators and other state officials may serve. In
Colorado, voters are also likely to decide if the state
should unilaterally limit the congressional terms of its own
U.S. Senators and Representatives.
   Last week, an initiative signed by one million
Californians qualified for the state's November ballot. It
would limit all state officials to a maximum of two or three
terms, end the Legislature's "golden parachute" pension plan
and limit the amount spent annually by the Legislature on its
operations to $950,000 per member.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A competing initiative to limit terms, sponsored by
California Attorney General John Van de Kamp, is already set
for the ballot. Mr. Van de Kamp, a Democrat, says interest in
limiting terms crosses party lines.
   In Oklahoma, voters may go to the polls as early as
September on an initiative to limit state legislators to 12
years of service. As with the President of the United States,
Oklahoma's governor is already limited to two terms. A former
Democratic governor and 30 state legislators have endorsed
the measure.
   But Colorado has the most interesting term-limit news.
State Senator Terry Considine is sponsoring an initiative to
limit not only the terms of state officeholders, but also
those of Members of Congress from Colorado. He has already
collected 40,000 of the 50,000 signatures he needs to win
ballot status, and has a month left to gather more.
   Mr. Considine argues that getting two-thirds of the states
to call for a constitutional amendment to limit terms and
then securing approval by three-fourths of the states would
take years. A better approach would be the one taken by
states that wanted the popular election of U.S. Senators
early in this century. By the time the 17th Amendment ending
selection of Senators by state legislatures was passed in
1913, nearly half the states were effectively choosing their
Senators by popular vote. Those Senators in turn helped force
Congress to accept nationwide popular elections. The same
principle could force Congress to limit its terms or initiate
other reforms limiting the power of incumbency.
   New York attorney Stephen Glazier argued on these pages
last month that each state has the authority under Article I,
Section 4 of the Constitution to limit the right of a
congressional incumbent to stand for re-election. Clause I
gives the states the power to set "the times, places and
manner of holding elections for senators and representatives"
while allowing Congress the power to override any regulations
by majority vote.
   Critics of Mr. Glazier argue in the letters column nearby
that in the 1969 case of Powell v. McCormack, the Supreme
Court held that no one can be excluded from serving in
Congress if he or she meets the requirements of age,
citizenship and residency stated in the Constitution (See
related story: "Letters to the Editor: Madison &amp; Hamilton
Settled the Matter" -- WSJ July 5, 1990). However, what the
court actually ruled was that Congress was powerless to
exclude a Member-elect who met those requirements. It was
silent on the issue of state regulation. Its argument against
congressional exclusion was based on the principle that in a
democracy the people should be able to elect whom they
please.
   But surely the near-impossibility of defeating an
incumbent today allows Colorado voters to democratically
decide that the only way they can easily remove incumbents is
to limit terms. By a two-to-one margin, voters of all ages
and income groups as well as both parties and sexes favor
this drastic action to break up the incumbents' monopoly.
   Critics of the Glazier approach also raise a practical
objection: A state that limits its representatives to 12
years of service would hamper the power of its delegation to
represent the state's interests in Washington.
   Mr. Considine says similar arguments were made in Colorado
over the extension of the vote to women and the state's
pioneering law on open government meetings. He says voters
believe the incumbent-entrenched Congress is doing far more
damage to them than any benefits represented by pork-barrel
projects dragged home by committee chairmen. He believes
voters will weigh the political risks and benefits, and if
they favor term limitation the momentum will spread the idea
quickly to other states.
   Term limitation is admittedly a blunt weapon, but the
array of incumbent protections Congress has created on its
own behalf forces its use. Without it, citizen interest and
participation in politics will continue to plummet as
elections more and more seem a sullen ratification of the
status quo, rather than competitive contests. No matter what
the outcome of this fall's term-limitation initiatives, the
campaigns around them promise to be anything but dull and
routine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   South Korea's Concessions to the North
   May Lead to Diplomatic Breakthroughs
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PANMUNJOM, South Korea -- Newfound confidence and a
willingness to make concessions could give the South Korean
government another diplomatic breakthrough, this time with
North Korea, its enemy of more than 40 years.
   There still could be a last-minute hitch, but it appears
likely the prime ministers of the two countries will meet in
late August or early September. It would be the highest-level
contact ever by the two hostile governments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seoul made another breakthrough in June when President Roh
Tae Woo met with Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in San
Francisco. The Soviet Union is North Korea's main ally and
military supplier.
   The breakthrough came when representatives of both
countries met at the truce village of Panmunjom, where
negotiations have been held off and on since an armistice was
signed there in 1953. The two countries officially are still
at war. South Korea's team, led by Vice Unification Minister
Song Han Ho, softened its hard-line position and agreed to
North Korean demands that had held up negotiations for
months.
   The negotiations were hung up on the agenda for the prime
ministers' meeting; the North wanted political and military
affairs to top the list; the South insisted on cultural and
economic cooperation issues first. On Tuesday the South
agreed not only to the North's agenda, but also to discuss
United Nations membership, another sticking point. "The talks
were settled because we showed concessions," Mr. Song said.
   But the North Koreans also showed signs of change. "We
cannot stick to the logic of the Cold War and ignore changes
in the world," Paik Nam Joon, chief of the North Korean
delegation, told reporters after the meeting. Allies of both
countries have been urging the two governments to ease
tensions on the peninsula.
   The two sides came to an agreement in less than an hour,
breaking up with handshakes and laughter, even from a North
Korean major general who had failed to crack a smile when the
meeting began. "There are no obstacles," said Mr. Paik. "I am
sure they will meet at the end of August or early September."
   The concessions are part of Seoul's new diplomatic game
plan. No longer seeking to isolate Pyongyang, it sees its
advantage in opening up North Korea so that changes sweeping
the communist world may also affect the isolated and
economically backward North. In the past, it often seemed to
observers that the South Korean government lacked the
confidence that it was on the winning side of history. It
feared allowing contact from the North when its radical
students looked to the North for inspiration. "South Korean
leaders . . . are afraid they cannot sustain political
support" if they give in to the North, said Ahn Byung Joon, a
professor of political science at Yonsei University, only a
few months ago. But the South Korean government now suggests
it has more to gain by allowing contact. Mr. Roh declared
Friday that South Korea would accept trade goods directly
from North Korea.
   Neither side now allows direct trade, personal contact,
transmission of each other's television and radio shows or
distribution of each other's newspapers. Even mail between
the countries isn't allowed. It is still a serious crime in
South Korea to visit North Korea without government
permission -- or even to fail to report somebody who is
making an unauthorized visit.
   Past negotiations have bogged down on such trivial issues
as whether North Korea could perform one of its revolutionary
operas in Seoul. In that recent case, the South Korean
government refused, out of fear of offering the North a
propaganda opportunity. It contended it didn't have a
facility large enough to accommodate the North's show, even
though it had hosted the largest Olympic Games in history.
   The agenda for the prime ministers' meeting will be
finalized tomorrow. In both nations, the prime minister isn't
the most powerful political figure. That honor goes to
President Roh in South Korea and President Kim Il Sung in the
North. The prime minister of North Korea is Yon Hyung Mok;
his South Korean counterpart is Kang Young Hoon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Exabyte Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EXBT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EXABYTE Corp. (Boulder, Colo.) -- Peter D. Behrendt,
president and a director of this maker and marketer of
cartridge tape systems, was named to the additional and new
post of chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mistrial Declared
   In WPPSS Suit
   Filed Against GE
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   GE LIL
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Phoenix, Ariz., declared a mistrial
Monday after eight jurors failed to reach a verdict in a $989
million suit brought by Washington Public Power Supply System
against General Electric Co.
   The suit, filed in 1985, charged General Electric with
fraud and breach of contract in the design of the containment
vessel at WPPSS's No. 2 plant near Richland, Wash. The
containment vessel is the thick concrete enclosure designed
to prevent the escape of radiation after a nuclear accident.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   WPPSS will probably request a retrial, subject to board
approval later this month. "We've come this far, I expect
we'll pursue it," said a spokesman for WPPSS, a
quasi-government agency that supplies electricity in the
state of Washington.
   "We were pleased the jury didn't accept the allegations,"
said a spokesman for General Electric, Fairfield, Conn. "If
they want to pursue another trial, we think the outcome would
be favorable to us." General Electric has denied all of
WPPSS's allegations.
   Other utilities with nuclear reactors and containment
vessels designed by General Electric have apparently been
watching the WPPSS case. Pennsylvania Power &amp; Light Co. and
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co., among other utilities,
sent lawyers to observe the trial, WPPSS said.
   It wasn't clear when or if Judge Alan McDonald, who
presided over the trial, would unseal his separate ruling on
the validity of a damage-limitation clause in General
Electric's 1971 contract with WPPSS. The contract capped
General Electric's liability at the face amount of the
contract, or about $110 million. Judge McDonald had sealed
his decision to avoid biasing the jury.
   During the 4 1/2-month trial, jurors were presented with
detailed engineering data and analysis about structural loads
on concrete and pipes during a nuclear plant accident. WPPSS
has been trying to recover its costs for redesigning and
reconstructing the containment vessel. WPPSS says the
"rework" caused an 18-month delay in completing the plant,
which began commercial operation in December 1984.
   General Electric said that the only lawsuit against the
company that is similar to the WPPSS case is a $600 million
action brought by Long Island Lighting Co., which owns the
Shoreham nuclear plant in Brookhaven, N.Y.
   "We feel we have even a stronger case than in the WPPSS
situation," the General Electric spokesman said. The suit is
expected to go to trial this fall in federal district court
in Pathogue, N.Y.
   WPPSS's claims in its General Electric suit aren't related
to the 1983 default by the agency on $2.25 billion of bonds
issued for construction of its nuclear units 4 and 5. Those
units were abandoned after being partially built.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Hormonal Treatments Show Benefits
   For Aging Men and Cancer Patients
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   LLY GNE BMY
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   New studies found that aging men and advanced cancer
patients can benefit from hormonal treatments.
   Researchers in Wisconsin reported that the increase in fat
tissue and atrophying of the muscles seen in many elderly men
can be reversed by regular injections of human growth
hormone. The hormone is made by Eli Lilly &amp; Co. and Genentech
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cancer researchers in the Midwest reported that a sex
hormone stimulated the appetite and fostered weight gain in
patients emaciated by cancer. The hormonal drug used in the
study was megestrol acetate, sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
under the brand name Megace.
   The experiment with growth hormone in elderly men is
likely to gain wide attention because it suggests that the
frailty of aging can be prevented or even reversed, at least
in some men. But the experiment, published in this week's New
England Journal of Medicine, raises a number of questions,
including whether the treatment, which could cost almost
$14,000 a year, constitutes treatment of a healthy person.
   "Because there are so many unanswered questions about the
use of growth hormone in the elderly and in adults with
growth hormone deficiency, its general use now or in the
immediate future isn't justified," declared a University of
Virginia physician, Mary Lee Vance, in an editorial
accompanying the report from Wisconsin.
   The growth hormone experiment, by a team headed by Daniel
Rudman, professor of medicine at the Medical College of
Wisconsin in Milwaukee, tested a theory that the frailty of
aging is a result, at least in part, of a drop in production
of growth hormone by the pituitary gland.
   "In middle and late adulthood all people experience a
series of progressive alterations in body composition," Dr.
Rudman and his colleagues noted. "The lean body mass shrinks
and the mass of adipose {fat} tissue expands."
   To see if the growth hormone treatments could reverse this
change in body composition, the researchers recruited 21 men
aged 61 to 81 years who, blood tests indicated, had low or
negligible production of growth hormone. Their low output of
growth hormone made them representative of about a third of
men over age 60. Otherwise, the men appeared healthy.
   In the following year, 12 of the men gave themselves shots
of growth hormone three times a week. The remaining nine men
served as controls.
   None of the men experienced any change in weight. But
measurements of body mass by scientists at the Argonne
National Laboratory in Chicago found that the men taking the
growth hormone had an average 8.8% increase in lean tissue
and a 14.4% drop in fat tissue. The density of the spine
vertebrae and the thickness of their skin also increased, as
measured by researchers at the North Chicago Veterans
Administration Medical Center.
   No such changes were seen in the nine men who didn't take
the hormone shots.
   Dr. Rudman and his colleagues, as well as Dr. Vance,
cautioned that larger studies must be done to uncover side
effects of the hormone and to see if reversing the body
composition changes has any benefit. Dr. Vance noted that it
isn't clear if the changes seen in the men in the experiment
"produces substantial improvement in muscle strength,
mobility, or the quality of life." Dr. Vance added, "The cost
of long-term treatment is also an obvious consideration."
   More clear-cut were the potential benefits to cancer
patients of the hormone, megestrol, in a study by the Mayo
Clinic and five cancer centers in Minnesota, the Dakotas,
Nebraska and Pennsylvania.
   Loss of appetite and loss of weight are problems that
afflict an estimated 87% of cancer patients and contribute
directly to death of about 22% of cancer patients, the
researchers noted.
   The researchers gave 67 cancer patients tablets of
megestrol to take three times a day while 66 other cancer
patient volunteers took identical-appearing but inert or
placebo tablets. All the patients had advanced, incurable
cancers, had lost at least five pounds in the preceding two
months and were eating very little.
   Of those who took the hormone tablets, 60% said their
appetite and food intake improved while only about 40% of
those who took the placebo reported such improvements, the
researchers reported in the Journal of the National Cancer
Institute.
   Of those who took the hormone for the minimum 10 weeks of
the experiment, 16% had a weight gain of 15 pounds or more
while only 2% of those who took the placebo had such a weight
gain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   UAL Group
   Sets Edwardson
   As Finance Chief
   ----
   By Richard Gibson and Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR WNEWS IMA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- John A. Edwardson, a former airline finance
specialist, is joining the union buy-out bid for United
Airlines as its chief financial officer because he sees it as
"the ultimate experiment" in employee corporate ownership.
   Mr. Edwardson, 40 years old, will resign from Imcera Group
Inc., an Illinois-based health and chemical products concern,
tomorrow to join the buy-out team headed by Gerald Greenwald,
former Chrysler Corp. vice chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The selection of Mr. Edwardson, who spent nearly four
years at NWA Inc., parent of Northwest Airlines, is seen as
an effort to strengthen the union group's hand in lining up
the $4.38 billion in financing. He is the first executive
hired by the unions' United Employee Acquisition Corp. with
previous airline experience.
   At NWA, where he was chief financial officer until 1988,
Mr. Edwardson worked extensively with banks in NWA's 1986
merger with Republic Airlines. He also negotiated what at the
time was NWA's first airplane-leasing program, for Boeing
757s, and was instrumental in NWA's purchase of a
half-interest in Trans World Airlines' PARS computer
reservation system.
   Interviewed yesterday, after he completed a four-mile
Fourth of July run in suburban Wilmette where he lives, Mr.
Edwardson said he views the buy-out bid as "an opportunity of
a lifetime. It's a chance for 70,000 people to make business
history together." Long a believer in employee profit-sharing
or employee ownership, he termed the bid for UAL Corp. "the
ultimate experiment of that" concept.
   Although he plans to "immerse myself in the transaction,"
Mr. Edwardson declined to comment on where financing efforts
stand beyond saying, "If I didn't believe this was a bankable
transaction I wouldn't have made this decision."
   In recent days Mr. Greenwald and other union-group
representatives have met with airlines and suppliers in the
U.S. and Europe seeking support. Those investor targets are
believed to have included airplane makers Boeing Co. and
Airbus Industrie, engine manufacturers General Electric Co.
and Rolls-Royce PLC, British Airways PLC and Guinness Peat
Aviation, a leasing concern.
   Mr. Edwardson's decision to join the buy-out effort is
tinged with irony. Several years ago he declined to be
interviewed for the top finance job at UAL because, he said
yesterday, "United and Northwest were competitors and I felt
it would be inappropriate even to consider it."
   As previously reported, UAL Corp.'s current chief
financial officer, John C. Pope, has said he would resign if
the proposed buy-out succeeds.
   After leaving NWA, Mr. Edwardson joined what was then
International Minerals &amp; Chemical Corp. as senior vice
president and chief financial and administrative officer. He
subsequently was named executive vice president at the
company, which changed its name to Imcera Group.
   Though Mr. Edwardson termed the timing of his departure
from Imcera "pure coincidence," he wasn't part of an
executive reshuffling at Imcera in recent days that resulted
in the naming of a new president and chief operating officer
-- jobs that some of Mr. Edwardson's colleagues believe he
wanted.
   Imcera didn't name an immediate successor for his
positions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Smith Coolly Mans Digital's `Hot Seat'
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAYNARD, Mass. -- John F. Smith, recently anointed
second-in-command at Digital Equipment Corp., has the
prognosticators stumped. Is he or isn't he the heir apparent
to Kenneth H. Olsen, Digital's iron-willed founder?
   Jack Smith shrugs off such questions. "I'm disappointed,"
he says. "I always thought I was the No. 2 around here."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's not surprising that Mr. Smith would want to play down
the significance of his new job as senior vice president for
operations. Historically, getting named Mr. Olsen's No. 2 has
been a precarious perch. The last person to hold the job,
John J. Shields, resigned last year after falling from favor
with Mr. Olsen and being stripped of his power. He's now
president of competitor Prime Computer Inc.
   Succession is a delicate subject at Digital, which is one
of the largest companies in the world still run by its
founder. Mr. Olsen, 64 years old, shows no signs of slowing
down, and has disavowed any interest in retirement. He has
dominated Digital's executive ranks for so long that many of
the company's top executives labor in near anonymity.
   Indeed, Mr. Smith's promotion wasn't accompanied by a
public announcement, even though he was given sweeping
responsibility over all sales, field service, engineering,
marketing and manufacturing.
   "Jack Smith is in the hot seat," says George Colony,
president of consultant Forrester Research Inc. "Digital is
facing some rough water over the next 18 months. If he can't
turn things around, then he'll be out, too. If he can, he'll
deserve to be named president."
   If that happens, insiders say, Mr. Olsen would take the
title of chairman and step back from day-to-day management.
But he's unlikely to take that step while Digital is on the
defensive. After years of breakneck growth that made it the
world's second-largest computer maker, Digital is now
struggling to cut costs and spark new growth.
   Digital's unusual management structure makes handicapping
the race to succeed Mr. Olsen especially difficult. The
computer giant has never had a chairman, chief executive
officer or chief operating officer. James M. Osterhof, a
former Ford Motor Co. executive who is now Digital's vice
president for finance, says that "at Ford, you could flip
open the policy manual and find a detailed organizational
chart on page two. There's nothing even remotely like that
here."
   But Mr. Smith's new title may not make things any clearer.
If Mr. Olsen stays at the helm another five years or more,
Mr. Smith, 55, could very well serve out his career as
second-in-command. "He'd be Olsen's day-to-day operations
man, a very capable, loyal lieutenant -- but not necessarily
the guy who will take Digital to the 21st century," says Marc
G. Schulman of UBS Securities Inc.
   Despite his broad influence within the world's second
largest computer maker, Mr. Smith has a low profile in the
industry. "I guess I'm relatively unknown," Mr. Smith says.
"Some people seek out the limelight. I'm not really that kind
of person."
   That low profile may have helped his career. "Jack has
shown tremendous staying power," says Don McInnis, a former
executive who is now a vice president at Prime. "He knows how
to work effectively with Ken -- and he can move his ego aside
to get the job done." As a result, others say, he is less
likely to suffer Mr. Shields's fate.
   Friends describe Mr. Smith as the consummate insider. He
was Digital's 12th employee, handling everything in those
early days from wiring logic modules to painting cabinets and
sweeping the floor. He has run Digital's manufacturing for
much of his career.
   Mr. Smith thinks Digital has to take some swift steps to
regain its competitive edge. "We're at war," he says. "Our
profit level is at its lowest in the company's 33-year
history. We have too high a cost structure, and it's obvious
that we can eliminate more jobs." In key areas, he says, "we
took our eyes off the ball."
   Digital already has cut 3,000 jobs through a voluntary
severance program. But that's only about half of what has to
be done, he says, indicating that the goal is to trim the
payroll by a total of about 6,000 to 8,000 people. As of
March 30, Digital employed 125,800.
   Philip Caldwell, a longtime Digital board member and the
former chairman of Ford, says Mr. Smith "has had an
opportunity for hands-on experience in virtually all the line
activities. He's done well in those assignments,
demonstrating leadership and judgment." Mr. Smith, he says,
"knows where all the bodies are buried in the organization,
and that can come in handy." But he indicated that the board
hasn't made any final decisions on succession. "It's
something that has to be undertaken one step at a time," he
says.
   Mr. Caldwell says that as difficult as it is to imagine
Digital without Mr. Olsen, succession is the board's biggest
task. "Digital in so many ways is a reflection of this one
man," he says. "But the world had to consider Ford Motor Co.
without Henry Ford, too."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Japanese Journalists Flood Washington
   But Have Trouble Finding a Place to Sit
   ----
   By Carl Johnston
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Kyodo News Service correspondent Hirotsugu
Aida probably would write more about what happens at the
White House if he had a desk. But despite his 40 million
readers back in Japan, he doesn't have any place to sit. The
White House won't give him one.
   Wearing a broad grin -- and comfortable shoes -- in the
West Wing press office where he spends most of the day, Mr.
Aida borrows a vacant chair assigned to Scripps-Howard
Newspapers and laughs: "I don't like it."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese reporters are flooding the U.S. capital these
days. But Washington, in its inscrutable way, has kept the
welcome mat tightly rolled. In small but telling ways, a city
that prides itself as cosmopolitan treats Japanese
journalists as second-class citizens. Japan currently buys
about a third of U.S. government debt, for example, but no
Japanese news agencies have been allowed work space in the
Treasury's newsroom.
   Japan appears to have the largest colony of foreign
correspondents based in the U.S., with 79 working here and
another 129 in New York. That makes Japan's press corps in
those cities far larger than West Germany's (52 in Washington
and 74 in New York), France's (25 and 49) and Britain's (37
and 52).
   That's a major shift in the balance of media power from 15
years ago, when Britain and West Germany maintained the
biggest communications links here and in New York, and Japan
had only half the number of reporters in Washington that it
has now.
   Press observers say Japanese reporters also are better
educated and better at their jobs than they were years ago.
In the past they often were content simply to translate
stories from U.S. newspapers, a practice not uncommon among
foreign correspondents. Now they do more first-hand
reporting. They have acquired a reputation for provoking
controversial statements from officials through persistent
questioning, and often scoop U.S. news organizations on
Washington stories, particularly those dealing with trade
issues.
   "They work late at night and they are always aggressive,"
says Frank Baba, a retired director of the Foreign Press
Center, a division of the U.S. Information Agency that
facilitates briefings and interviews for the foreign press. A
longtime observer of the Japanese press, Mr. Baba maintains
his contacts through long afternoons on the golf course. Not
only have their numbers grown, he says, but so too has the
competition among them -- and the money they make and spend
pursuing their stories.
   But, as Kyodo's Mr. Aida has learned, all that doesn't
mean they're treated with respect. Mr. Aida, who believes he
is the first Japanese wire-service reporter to be assigned
full time to the White House, has asked for a desk and chair
in the cramped briefing room in the West Wing. He wants
nothing more than what his French, British, and, of course,
U.S. colleagues already have. So far, no luck. Direct and
indirect requests have been pending since late last year, but
a press office aide says "He's way down on the list" of
applicants to be granted space. The aide says dozens of other
news organizations are seeking working space at the White
House, including numerous U.S. media groups that take
precedence.
   Mr. Aida isn't alone. No Japanese news agencies have
chairs or desk space in the cramped newsroom at the Treasury.
Despite several requests dating back to January, and despite
the fact that Japanese investors and institutions acquire an
estimated 30% or more of U.S. government notes and bonds,
they haven't been granted space at the Treasury, the single
most vital source of financial news in this country.
   Both Kyodo and Jiji Press, Japan's two biggest news
agencies, have applied for a vacant spot made available by
the demise of McGraw-Hill Inc.'s business news wire. U.S.
news services also have applied, but no decision has been
made, says Treasury spokeswoman Desiree Tucker.
   "I was always a little bit surprised by the xenophobia
among some of our colleagues," says Johanna Neuman, former
president of the White House Correspondents' Association.
During her tenure she fielded numerous protests from U.S.
reporters who objected to sitting next to the Japanese press
corps during summits, complaining that they smoke too much.
   At the Houston Economic Summit next week, the Japanese
press corps isn't likely to be disadvantaged much, if only
because the Japanese government is handling most
accommodations for them. But they will be seated far away
from the regular White House press corps, which has its own
room.
   There is another side to this, however. While Japanese
reporters in Washington are denied seats at the Treasury and
the White House, U.S. reporters in Tokyo sometimes aren't
even given standing room. When Japanese government agencies
and companies have news to announce they frequently announce
it only to the Japanese "press club" that covers them. In
recent years, some press clubs have begun to allow foreign
journalists to attend their briefings, but others are still
closed. When Sony Corp. announced last year that it was
acquiring Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. for $3.4
billion, it did so at a news conference that foreign
reporters were told they couldn't attend.
   But Japanese reporters in the U.S. also complain about
what they see as an inability or unwillingness of many U.S.
officials to provide the level of detailed information
Japanese reporters need to satisfy finicky readers back home.
One reason for this seems to be that contact with
high-ranking government officials is more difficult here than
in Japan, where reporters are frequently invited to visit
officials at their residences late at night. "Here in
Washington, politicians don't want to be visited at home in
their private time," notes Sadafumi Tani of Jiji Press.
   While he says he tries to remain objective as a
journalist, Mr. Tani says "I sometimes feel uneasy and
offended" by occasionally unfounded criticism of his nation
he hears on Capitol Hill. Some criticism of Japan is
justified, he adds. "I accept the blaming if it is based on
the facts and is reasonable. But in many cases, the blaming
is just for the sake of blaming."
   On the other hand, he credits such top officials as U.S.
Trade Representative Carla Hills and Agriculture Secretary
Clayton Yeutter with a "profound" understanding of trade
problems that sometimes exceeds those of their Japanese
counterparts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Firms Ordered to Deal
   With Discount Brokers
   By Ontario's Court
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA T.MKF T.TD
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Ontario Supreme Court prohibited four mutual
fund management companies from refusing to deal with discount
brokers and dealers.
   The four companies are: A.G.F. Management Ltd., Mackenzie
Financial Corp., Noram Capital Management Inc. and Templeton
Management Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The federal Bureau of Competition Policy investigated the
companies' sales practices after receiving a complaint from a
Toronto discount broker, Gardiner Group Stockbrokers Inc.
Gardiner alleged that the four management companies were
refusing to do business with it because of its practice of
rebating to its clients part of the commission it receives
for the sale of securities of mutual funds.
   The court orders were requested by the Attorney General's
Department with the consent of the four companies.
   The management companies all said they weren't admitting
to any offense. Templeton said it consented to the order to
avoid long and costly litigation. Templeton said it doesn't
refuse to supply any broker because of its low pricing policy
or commission rebate practices.
   The competition bureau said the four companies "have each
taken steps to make clear that securities of mutual funds
managed by them may be sold in Canada on a negotiated basis."
   Since Gardiner Group made its complaint to the competition
bureau in 1985, the company has been acquired by Green Line
Investor Services Inc., a discount stock brokerage unit of
Toronto Dominion Bank. Keith Gray, a Toronto Dominion Bank
senior vice president, said Green Line Investor Services
deals with all four mutual fund management companies named in
the court orders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   HOV PHG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES Inc. (Red Bank, N.J.) -- Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp. said it affirmed its single-B-plus rating on $92
million of subordinated debt of this home builder. The rating
concern said its move reflects Hovnanian's "strong
competitive position . . . impressive earnings track record,
solid capital base, and the expectation that the company will
prudently manage its operations, outperform competitors, and
maintain profitability during the current residential market
downturn in the Northeast."
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PHILIPS INDUSTRIES NV (Eindhoven, the Netherlands) --
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. placed the senior and short-term debt
totaling $1.4 billion of the company's U.S. unit, North
American Philips Corp., under review for a possible
downgrade. The review was prompted by the parent company's
expected $1.07 billion loss for the year, resulting from
special charges for its unprofitable computer and
semiconductor businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., South Korea Appear Near Accord
   On Sale of McDonnell Douglas Fighters
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MD FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S. and South Korean governments appear to have
resolved their differences over selling McDonnell Douglas
Corp. F/A-18 fighters to Seoul, paving the way for an
agreement to be signed within the next few days.
   The 120-aircraft, $3 billion deal hit a snag a couple of
months ago when the Koreans demanded that the U.S. hand over
sensitive aviation technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Congressional critics of the transaction, led by Sen. Alan
Dixon (D., Ill.), have expressed fears that the U.S. will
help build Korea's aerospace sector into a serious economic
rival, undermining one of the few industries in which the
U.S. maintains a trade surplus. That same issue was debated
vociferously on Capitol Hill last spring when lawmakers
considered the fate of the FSX fighter with Japan. That
project, however, calls for co-development of the airplane
with General Dynamics Corp. as opposed to the much more
standard co-production arrangement with the Koreans.
   Seoul, for its part, was worried that the U.S. would buy
back only 30% of the contract's total value in Korean goods
-- a standard practice known as "offsetting"; it is not
unusual in military equipment sales for the offset to be
closer to 100%.
   Just how those concerns have been resolved wasn't
immediately clear. Congressional sources said the U.S.
appeared to have caved in on a few key points, including
softening its stance on offsets and allowing the Koreans
access to certain engine and flight-control technology.
However, the influential Dong-A Ilbo newspaper reported that
the accord was modified to make it more difficult for South
Korea to acquire sophisticated U.S. technology, especially
computer and radar systems.
   Either way, there is little doubt that progress has been
made. A spokesman for St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas said
Tuesday that talks between the two countries "are going well,
and an announcement is expected soon." An industry source
added that McDonnell Douglas has scheduled a meeting for next
week with its subcontractors to plot legislative strategy.
   Late last year, the Koreans formally selected the F/A-18,
dubbed the Hornet, over General Dynamics's F-16. The
government plans to buy 12 F/A-18s off the shelf, assemble
another 36 from kits sent from U.S. factories, and then
co-produce another 72 planes on South Korean soil.
   Negotiators have been working furiously to conclude a pact
so lawmakers will have sufficient time to elicit public
comment on it, as is required, and still be able to sign off
on the deal during the current congressional session.
   Once the agreement hits Capitol Hill, though, it is sure
to cause something of a stir. The Koreans have been accused
in the past of improperly selling U.S. military hardware to
third countries.
   Sen. Dixon, aides say, may still decide to introduce a
resolution to scuttle the Korea Fighter Project entirely;
that tack, however, is unlikely to get very far. Of even more
concern to lobbyists backing the program is that restrictive
language will be imposed upon the contract, making it
unpalatable to the Koreans.
   "There will be a lot of posturing, but there is nothing
unusual or threatening about this sale," asserted Joel
Johnson, vice president of international activities for the
Aerospace Industries Association, a Washington, D.C., trade
group. "What would be more threatening is if we mess this up
and they turn around and buy European aircraft instead."
   "Congressmen," Mr. Johnson added, "keep forgetting that we
have current competitors."
   ---
   Damon Darlin contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Men Get Prison Terms
   For Falsifying Test Results
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Two men were sentenced after pleading
guilty in April to a long-running scam involving falsified
test results on millions of nuts and bolts designed to fasten
parts in aircraft engines.
   Norman McHaffie, president of the now-defunct defense
contractor McHaffie Inc. of Sylmar, Calif., was sentenced to
three years in prison and three years' probation and was
fined $750,000. James Hicks, an employee, was sentenced to
one and a half years in prison and two years' probation, and
the company was fined $750,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A third defendant, former shop floor manager William
Whitham, was sentenced June 18 to 20 weekends in prison,
three years' probation and 150 hours of community service
after pleading guilty.
   The government accused the men of participating in a
10-year scheme beginning in 1979 that involved more than
4,000 government and commercial contracts. According to the
government's investigation, the company did not conduct
Pentagon-mandated tests on the products, but went to great
lengths to falsify results and otherwise mask the fraud.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eastman Kodak Co.:
   Recyclable 35mm Camera
   To Be Offered by October
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y., said it plans to
introduce a recyclable 35mm camera, the Fun Saver 35.
   The photographic, pharmaceutical and chemical concern said
the camera, with a built-in electronic flash, will be priced
at less than $16 and available to consumers by mid-October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Designed for indoor and outdoor use, each camera will be
sold loaded with a 24-exposure roll of Kodacolor Gold 400
print film, Kodak said. Upon completing all 24 exposures, a
user may return the entire camera to a photofinisher, who
will process the film and return the camera for recycling.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE, Snecma Sign Accord
   On Developing Jet Engine
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   GE F.SNM FIA BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co. said it signed an
agreement with France's Snecma to share in the development of
its new jumbo-jet engine, the GE-90, and is negotiating with
Italy's Fiat SpA on a similar agreement.
   A spokesman for GE's Aircraft Engines division in
Evandale, Ohio, wouldn't confirm whether the company had
reached a definitive agreement with Fiat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In January, GE said that it planned to offer the GE-90, a
new and more powerful engine for Boeing Co.'s planned 777 and
other wide-body planes in the mid-1990s. It also said it
would seek to form a partnership with several foreign firms
to share in developing, manufacturing and marketing the
GE-90, which it estimated would cost from $1.2 billion to $2
billion.
   Under the terms of its agreement with GE, Snecma will have
a 25% stake in the GE-90 program. The French company also
will provide 40% of the assembly and test work on the GE-90
engine.
   People in the industry said Fiat was considering a 10%
stake in the project, but neither Fiat nor GE would provide
additional details.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Price Stern Sloan Inc.:
   Publishing Concern Drops
   Plans to Sell the Company
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   PSSP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Price Stern Sloan Inc. said it has abandoned the idea of
selling the company, and will instead consider asset sales or
other steps to reduce debt.
   In November, the Los Angeles-based publishing company
retained Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Inc. to help
evaluate restructuring or merger alternatives. A company
spokesman said no decision has been made as to which assets
might be sold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   L. Lawrence Sloan, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the company is working to control costs and improve
gross profit margins despite a slow retail environment. Even
so, the company won't report a profit for the first half,
usually a weak period.
   Price Stern Sloan reported a loss of $11.7 million, or
$3.10 a share, on sales of $41 million for 1989. The
company's stock closed unchanged at $4.25 in over-the-counter
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CBL
</CO>
<LP>
   CORROON &amp; BLACK Corp. (New York) -- Richard S. Vernale was
named vice president for real estate and facilities planning,
a new post. Mr. Vernale, 46 years old, previously was
assistant vice president for facilities and real estate.
Corroon &amp; Black is an insurance broker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CL RAL
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   THRIFTS IN LIMBO: S&amp;Ls hobble along while awaiting
government sale.
   Some 256 S&amp;Ls thrash in conservatorship, a kind of
no-saver's-land between receivership and going on the block.
"It's like a ship with no rudder" staying open pending sale,
says Richard White, president of Midwest Federal Savings,
Minot, N.D. Resolution Trust Corp. sends a managing agent who
often curtails activity. Generally not allowed: new loans;
maturities beyond six months; top rates or ad promotions.
That makes it tough to keep even the most loyal customers.
"We're not competitive," sighs Mr. White. Deposits fell 10%
to $510 million at Midwest since the end of 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George Bragg, new president of Sooner Federal in Tulsa,
Okla., visited every one of the thrift's branches to stem
outflows last year. "I talked with 900 customers," says Mr.
Bragg, who also has had political aspirations. Sooner lost
$80 million of its $1.2 billion in deposits. Managers also
fled, but he says the thrift "spread responsibility" and now
has "a more efficient staff." RTC, meanwhile, speeds up
sales.
   RTC figures 60% of the thrifts were "victimized by
criminal activity."
                                                                                                       

   FIDO'S A FATSO, say pet food companies pushing new "lite"
products.
   "Lots of cats and dogs sit with their owners and watch TV
when they used to be out chasing birds," says Elizabeth
Hodgkins of Hill's Pet Products. To combat an "epidemic of
overweight," the Colgate-Palmolive unit offers high-fiber,
low-fat "maintenance" pet food as well as prescription
products. Ralston Purina adds Pro Plan Lite for cats on the
paws of Tender Vittles Lite. Purina's Fit &amp; Trim for dogs --
its pioneer product -- is still a big seller in the $5.8
billion supermarket pet food field.
   Snacks are always a problem: one extra-large Milk-Bone has
254 calories. Ms. Hodgkins suggests withholding some of
doggie's canned food, baking it and "cutting it into little
bites" for treats. Wesley Bayles, a Washington, D.C., vet, is
more generous, but he confesses to being overweight himself.
"My evaluation of a dog's weight may not be the same as some
skinny veterinarian's." His own black Lab manages to stay a
trim 72 pounds on dog food and the odd pizza crust.
                                                                                                       

   FIRST-DAY DOCS lay hands on patients this month. Should
you be one?
   The academic year begins in teaching hospitals as interns
fresh from medical school join newly-advanced residents in a
changing-of-the guard. Turnover of the so-called house staff
means a patient can have one team of doctors on June 30 and
another on July 1 -- provoking anxiety all around. But a
recent study led by Dr. Eugene C. Rich of the University of
Kentucky College of Medicine, found that quality of care
didn't suffer during the summer months. However, the length
of hospitalization rose -- and so did the bill.
   The report, published in the Journal of the American
Medical Association, drew criticism from Dr. Jeffrey L.
Kaufman, of Albany (N.Y.) Medical College, for counting
readmissions, death and nursing home placement rather than
more relevant criteria like quality of written orders or
correctness of drug dosage. His advice? Ask your doctor if
the hospital has a transition strategy. If not, "I'd say wait
a little bit." If so, "it's perfectly reasonable to go in."
Dr. Sol Sherry, former chief of medicine at Philadelphia's
Temple University Hospital, says overlapping the teams helps
greatly.
   "It's a pressure cooker," Dr. Sherry says of the
transition. But "we never had a great problem."
                                                                                                       

   A ROOM WITH A VIEW isn't enough. In New York, Hotel
Macklowe promises to deliver faxes within minutes while the
Empire Hotel says voice mail assures correct messages for
guests. Boston's Lafayette Swissotel rents cellular phones.
                                                                                                       

   GETTING SOAKED is good for the garden and the conscience
with a water-saving hose made of recycled tires. Moisture
Master Soaker Hose seeps slowly. Cost: $12 to $15 for 50
feet.
                                                                                                       

   VANITIES FOR THE BONFIRE? Liebert Autobiographies will
publish your bio from taped recollections for $2,246. For
$600 more, they'll update it a few years later.
                                                                                                       

   HAZARDOUS TO YOUR LOAN: Concern over toxic materials
clouds lending.
   Commercial loans and multifamily housing projects have
been subject to environmental audits for some time. Now, as
lists of hazardous substances and potential liabilities grow
well beyond asbestos and radon, some lenders feel the home
mortgage may be the next big risk. There aren't the typical
business-site hazards, "but more lenders are becoming more
sensitive to other kinds of problems," says Warren Tyler of
State Savings Bank, Columbus, Ohio.
   Mr. Tyler, a former state EPA director, predicts lawn
chemicals and drinking water are the next potential concerns.
Others point to backyard, underground fuel-storage tanks. In
Massachusetts, state law says prospective homeowners must
agree to remove lead-based paint from certain surfaces if a
child under six will live in a house built before 1978. But
enforcement has been feeble. Part of the problem: budget
cuts.
   Chemical Bank's first-stage environmental audit for a
multifamily project costs $2,000 to $3,000.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The pro shop at Pebble Beach offers a $12,300 set
of clubs: iron heads are cast from a Queen Elizabeth II
propeller, woods are persimmon. . . . Waldbaum's supermarket
in Port Chester, N.Y., speeds up with 15- and 20-item express
lines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brokers Expected to Break
   Into Black in 2nd Quarter
   ---
   But Net May Be Down
   Significantly From '89
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER SLH AXP SB BSC MS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After six months in the red, the nation's
brokerage firms finally eked out a profit in the second
quarter, analysts say.
   But earnings are hardly rosy for the beleaguered brokerage
houses. Second-quarter profits, although an improvement over
the two previous quarters, will be down as much as 35% from
year-earlier levels when they are announced later this month,
some analysts say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Profitability for a lot of the firms is still poor," says
Alison Deans, a brokerage analyst at Primerica Corp.'s Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Still, even meager profits will be a welcome relief for
the 350 New York Stock Exchange broker-dealers doing business
with the public. As a group, the brokerage firms had a pretax
loss of $91.7 million in last year's fourth quarter -- the
first industrywide loss since the quarter that included the
1987 stock-market crash.
   And the Big Board is expected to soon report that in the
1990 first quarter, the 350 broker-dealers had a $486 million
pretax loss, in part due to a surge in interest rates,
industry executives say.
   The recent red ink also reflects big onetime retrenchment
charges by industry leaders Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in the fourth
quarter and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in this year's first
quarter.
   Now Shearson (which had a record $915 million
first-quarter loss) is telling analysts it made money in the
second quarter; the American Express Co. unit could wind up
making a respectable $100 million for the remainder of the
year, says James Hanbury, an analyst at Wertheim Schroder &amp;
Co.
   The brokerage industry's expected second-quarter earnings
will look particularly poor compared with the robust 1989
second quarter. That quarter was a blockbuster, with several
firms riding big bond-trading windfalls. Salomon Inc., for
one, reported a record $253 million net income.
   The problems crimping Wall Street's bottom line are
daunting. Even with near-record levels in the stock market
this year, trading activity remains moribund. New York Stock
Exchange volume has averaged about 155 million shares a day
this year, down 17% from its 1987 peak. Individual-investor
activity has spurted, but remains far below the levels seen
before the stock-market crash.
   Moreover, Wall Street has been pummeled by a sharp drop in
investment-banking and underwriting revenue. The volume of
mergers and acquisitions that have generated big advisory
fees for Wall Street has tumbled to a seven-year low. And in
the second quarter, fees from underwriting stocks and bonds
plunged 29.4% from a year earlier, according to Securities
Data Co.
   For the full year, underwriting revenue will be the lowest
for Wall Street since 1984, predicts Michael Goldstein, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. "This is a pretty
mediocre investment banking year," he says. "There aren't a
lot of bright spots."
   The most active underwriting areas are the least lucrative
for securities firms: mortgage and asset-backed securities.
"The nature of the business now is lower margins," says Smith
Barney's Ms. Deans.
   Even Bear Stearns Cos., which is benefiting most from the
surge in mortgage-backed securities, should fall short of its
year-ago profit, analysts say, although the firm is expected
to do better than it did in the prior quarter. Salomon and
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. were aided in the first quarter by
big trading gains; they aren't expected to match their
first-quarter earnings, or those of the year-earlier period,
analysts say.
   "Firms will be fortunate if their earnings in the second
quarter equal the first," says Perrin Long, senior securities
analyst at Lipper Analytical Services Inc. "In some
instances, they could be down sharply."
   Here are how some analysts view the biggest publicly
traded brokerage firms:
                                                                                                       

   SALOMON: Even with expected big refining gains in its
Phibro Energy unit, Salomon isn't likely to come anywhere
near its year-earlier performance of $1.73 a share. Profits
from bond trading, a big driver in Salomon's first-quarter
earnings, were pared by a sudden burst of bond-market
volatility last week, several analysts said. Smith Barney's
Ms. Deans, who earlier had raised her second-quarter estimate
to $1 a share from 60 cents, said Salomon "may have given
back" some trading gains because of the recent bond-market
gyrations. Other analysts think Salomon will earn about 75
cents a share.
                                                                                                       

   MORGAN STANLEY: Some analysts expect Morgan Stanley to
have one of its weakest quarters in the last two years,
earning between $1.80 to $2 a share. Like Salomon, Morgan
isn't expected to report big bond and foreign-exchange
trading profits, as it did in the first quarter. Its year-ago
results of $2.83 a share were bolstered by a big
merchant-banking gain that won't be repeated. Wertheim
Schroder's Mr. Hanbury expects Morgan's return on equity to
fall to 16% -- "low for them, but still tops for the
industry," he says.
                                                                                                       

   BEAR STEARNS: A pickup in its mortgage-backed securities
and trade-processing operations is expected to help Bear
Stearns record respectable earnings of about 42 cents a
share. That would be below its year-earlier profit of 45
cents a share, despite the firm's strict cost consciousness.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH: Merrill is likely to repeat its lackluster
first-quarter earnings of 34 cents a share, analysts say.
That would be sharply below the 62 cents a share reported a
year earlier. "Expenses have to be down to prevent a
wipeout," says Mr. Hanbury. Cost cutting at the nation's
biggest securities firm is still slogging along, several
analysts say.
                                                                                                       

   SHEARSON LEHMAN: After its monumental first-quarter
charge, Shearson is likely to post its first operating profit
in three quarters, analysts say. Although its restructuring
has led to some meaningful cost reductions, some analysts
remain skeptical of reading too much into second-quarter
results. That's because Shearson typically books between $25
million and $30 million in pretax fees from customers'
Individual Retirement Accounts and Keogh plans during the
second period.
                                                                                                       

   PAINEWEBBER GROUP INC.: PaineWebber is expected to do
better than the first quarter, earning about 25 cents a
share. That would be down from 33 cents a share last year.
Despite a recent pickup in individual-investor activity,
however, the firm still disappoints several analysts because
of PaineWebber's continuing poor performance in investment
banking. "Profits have gone from subpar to mediocre," says
Ms. Deans, and won't go much higher until individual
investors return to the stock market in a big way.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
   To Sell Gartner
   For $70 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Saatchi &amp; Saatchi PLC said it agreed to sell its
Gartner Group Inc. consultancy business to an investment
vehicle owned by Information Partners L.P. of the U.S. for
$70 million in a mixture of cash and either a promissory note
or shares.
   The sale of Gartner, a Connecticut market information and
product data supplier, forms part of Saatchi's bid to sell
off its consulting businesses in favor of concentrating on
its core communications operations and reducing debt, the
British advertising company said. Last month, Saatchi sold
its Peterson Consulting unit -- for which it paid $116
million -- for less than $20 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Information Partners, a Boston investment group
specializing in communications concerns, is proposing to pay
$55 million in cash and $15 million of either a subordinated
promissory note or exchangeable preferred stock.
   Saatchi, meanwhile, said it is paying an estimated $4
million for an evaluation of Gartner's net asset value.
   The sale is expected to go through within the next six
weeks, the company said.
   Saatchi paid $86 million for Gartner, which it bought in
June 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Development-Bank Plan
   For South Africa Advance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A proposed South African development bank took
a step toward reality when Nelson Mandela met with Peter
Goldmark, president of the Rockefeller Foundation.
   "What began as a germ of an idea is now a seedling," Mr.
Goldmark said yesterday after his return to New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Goldmark had suggested during a New York breakfast
with business leaders for Mr. Mandela June 22 that
corporations and foundations were interested in a mechanism
for channeling investments to South Africa that could begin
to function "the minute a just government is elected."
   Few specifics have been settled, but Mr. Goldmark said
that after an hour's discussion in Mr. Mandela's London hotel
Tuesday it was tentatively decided that the development
bank's objectives for South Africa would be establishment of
an equitable economic structure and investment in roads,
irrigation systems and other development infrastructure.
   Mr. Goldmark said a "core group" was formed to plan the
bank's structure, including himself, African National
Congress Foreign Secretary Thabo Mbeki, and ANC Treasurer
Thomas Nkobi. The Rockefeller Foundation "is only to be of
professional and technical assistance," with central
leadership coming from the South African participants, he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Factory Orders
   Were Up 2.1%
   During May
   ---
   Figure Follows Erratic Path
   Of Earlier This Year;
   Durables Sector Strong
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- New government figures show the
manufacturing sector continuing on its bumpy path, with
factory orders rising 2.1% in May after declining 2.1% in
April.
   New orders to U.S. factories increased to $240.98 billion
in May, the Commerce Department said, after falling to
$236.03 billion in April and jumping 4%, to $241.07 billion,
in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "These figures are consistent with what we have been
seeing for most of the year," said Neal Soss, chief economist
for First Boston Corp. in New York. "Over the last six
months, orders are up only one-half of a percent . . . What
this says to me is that nothing has changed."
   The department said that much of the strength in May was
concentrated in orders for durable goods -- big-ticket items,
such as cars and aircraft, expected to last at least three
years. Orders for durable goods rose 4% in May to $128.56
billion after declining 4.1% in April and climbing 6.7% in
March. In a preliminary report late last month, the
department had said durable goods rose 3.9% in May.
   Orders in May were strongest for transportation equipment,
which rose 10.1%, with motor vehicles and parts accounting
for most of the gain. Also showing large rises were
nonelectrical machinery, which includes computers, up 3.5%,
and primary metals, up 1.7%.
   "Good thing there is a transportation industry in
America," said Mr. Soss. The manufacturing sector, which he
said is too dependent on transportation equipment, is
currently "at a high level of activity but fairly stagnant"
in growth.
   However, Robert Dederick, chief economist for Northern
Trust Co. in Chicago, said the report is "a small positive
because orders are edging upward" but said he questions the
manufacturing sector's ability to maintain its growth.
   "This is a modest uptrend, one that I view as being quite
vulnerable," said Mr. Dederick. "Unless we get some strength
in consumption and capital-goods spending, it will be
vulnerable to aborting its gains."
   Orders for nondurable goods were relatively flat in May,
after a 0.2% gain in April and a 1.1% rise in March. Unfilled
orders -- factory work that is in the pipeline -- edged up
0.4% in May, following a 0.3% increase in April and a 0.7%
rise the month before.
   May shipments, also concentrated in durable goods,
increased 2%, after a 1.3% downturn in April and a 1.2% rise
in March. Inventories of durable goods were unchanged after
April's 0.5% increase, while inventories of nondurable goods
edged up 0.2% in May.
   The numbers are adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
   ---
                       FACTORY ORDERS
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for
manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                  May        April     %
                                 1990        1990     Chg.
                                                                                                       

 All industries .............   240.98      236.02   + 2.1
  Durable goods .............   128.56      123.61   + 4.0
  Nondurable goods ..........   112.42      112.42     0.0
                                                                                                       

 Capital goods industries ...    46.05       44.98   + 2.4
  Nondefense ................    36.03       36.57   - 1.5
  Defense ...................    10.02        8.41   -19.2
                                                                                                       

 Total shipments ............   238.90      234.26   + 2.0
                                                                                                       

 Inventories ................   372.42      372.30     0.0
                                                                                                       

 Backlog of orders ..........   520.27      518.19   + 0.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Comdata Holdings Corp.:
   Charge Set for 2nd Quarter,
   Will Widen Expected Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDT
</CO>
<LP>
   Comdata Holdings Corp., Brentwood, Tenn., said it expects
to take a second-quarter charge of $23 million for prepaying
a non-compete agreement with American Express Information
Services Co.
   Comdata, which provides electronic data services to the
transportation, leisure and retail industries, said the
transaction with the unit of New York-based American Express
Co., including $15 million in cash and a $5.7 million
non-interest-bearing note, will increase the loss that the
company expects to report for the second quarter, but will
"reduce substantially" its continuing amortization costs in
the future. Comdata had a net loss of $1.8 million on revenue
of $32.7 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comdata said the non-compete obligation relates to the
company's acquisition in June 1989 of three American Express
Information Services units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   NEC Corp. Unveils
   Computer It Calls
   World's Fastest
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   NIPNY J.FUT IBM HIT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- NEC Corp. unveiled what it says is the world's
fastest mainframe computer.
   But analysts, and even company officials, said the new
machine would do little to boost the company's tiny share of
the world mainframe market, as the Japanese company still
clings to its own exclusive architecture, for which
relatively little software is available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's going to be tough for them to make inroads," said
Steven W. Myers, a technology analyst with the Tokyo office
of Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd. "I question whether
performance alone is enough."
   Hiroshi Hatta, general manager of product planning for
NEC's information processing unit, added: "We don't have any
positive plans to market this machine overseas." He explained
that "our machine is not compatible with {International
Business Machines Corp.}, and in the U.S. the market for
IBM-compatible machines is very, very large."
   Yesterday's NEC announcement comes a month after Hitachi
Ltd. first showed its new generation mainframe, which it said
at the time was the fastest available. Industry officials
take the Hitachi announcement much more seriously, however,
as its machines are based on IBM's architecture, the
industry's prevailing standard.
   Fujitsu Ltd., which also makes IBM-compatible machines,
and IBM itself, are expected to announce their next
generation machines within the next few quarters. Although
NEC has started taking orders for the machine, it won't begin
shipping units for nine months.
   NEC said its ACOS 3800 machine can compute 100 million
instructions a second (mips) on one processor, and 500 mips
with six processors. Comparisons between companies are
difficult because they use different structures. But Mr.
Hatta said that NEC's machine could run 360 mips with four
processors, compared with 210 mips for Hitachi's
four-processor configuration.
   Mr. Hatta said NEC could accomplish the high-processing
speed because of its advanced semiconductor technology. "The
large-scale integration we're using on this machine is
basically the same technology we're using on our
supercomputers," he added.
   NEC also claims to have the world's fastest supercomputer.
In its most powerful configuration, the new NEC mainframe is
nearly four times as powerful as the current generation. NEC
also claimed to have the world's fastest mainframe when it
last announced a new round of machines in 1985 and 1986.
   But NEC's share of the high-end market is still only
around 2% of the U.S. market, and 8% of the Japanese market,
analysts said. The company said it expects to sell about 200
of the ACOS 3800 machines in the next five years, compared
with about 150 systems of the comparable machines in the past
five years. Hitachi, in contrast, expects to sell 1,000 of
its machines, according to analysts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Medical Plans
   To Sell, Lease Back
   Some of Its Hospitals
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   MACON, Ga. -- Charter Medical Corp. said it is considering
proposals for the $100 million sale and leaseback of several
of its hospitals in a step to improve cash flow.
   Charter said the sale-leaseback transactions under review
would generate about $45 million in net cash flow after the
payment of bank debt and transaction costs. J. Rodney
Laughlin, executive vice president, human resources and
development, declined to identify the prospective
sale-leaseback parties, "because we're still looking at
several proposals."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charter also confirmed that a bond holder had filed a
lawsuit last week against the company in a federal district
court in Macon alleging that Charter had misrepresented its
financial condition in filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commision. A spokesman said the company hasn't yet
received copies of two other similar suits that reportedly
were filed against it this week.
   The giant psychiatric and general hospital concern also
said that it decided to bow out of a proposed hospital
management contract in Saudi Arabia, because the bidding
process was dragging on. "We decided to withdraw and go about
our business," said Mr. Laughlin, noting the Saudi project
had become "time consuming and expensive."
   In a move aimed at reassuring the public in the wake of a
recent spate of adverse publicity, Charter also said it is
"current with all debt obligations" and noted that following
the return of $6 million from a bid bond posted for the Saudi
Arabian project, it has $50 million in cash on hand and a $30
million line of bank credit available.
   Wall Street analysts generally hailed the sale-leaseback
proposal as a positive and predictable step that would help
cash flow. "Clearly the sale-leaseback is good," said
Meredith Adler, a First Boston Corp. analyst. "The question
is, is it enough to help them to finance the building they've
already done and to continue to make payments on the debt."
She added that while the cancellation of the Saudi project
was a minor move, it indicates the company's intention of
focusing on its central problems.
   Charter, in the face of a tightening market for
psychiatric hospital care, is struggling under $1.6 billion
in debt from the 1988 management-led leveraged buyout of the
company. The company said it is continuing to reduce costs --
particularly in the area of marketing -- to try to get itself
back on track. "We expect to see a good improvement in
reducing expenses in the upcoming months," Mr. Laughlin said.
   Charter's woes came to a head in March when the company
said it was taking a $35 million special charge for
accounting irregularities that involved, among other things,
a pervasive practice of inadequately reserving for bad debts.
In June, it laid off 600 workers, about 3% of its workforce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Ousted Defense Aide Gets
   Posts at Research Group
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- Microelectronic &amp; Computer Technology
Corp., a private research consortium better known as MCC,
said Craig Fields will assume the new posts of president,
chief technical officer and chief operating officer Monday.
   Mr. Fields, 43 years old, was ousted in April as director
of defense research and engineering with the Defense Applied
Research Projects Agency, a research arm of the Defense
Department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While with the defense agency, Mr. Fields touted private
industry's involvement in the development of high-definition
television, a technological endeavor in which the U.S. is
competing against Japan and Europe.
   But Mr. Fields rankled the Bush administration and some
Pentagon officials by promoting a federal role in the
development of HDTV, advanced semiconductor manufacturing and
a host of other technologies with potentially big commercial
payoffs. He was demoted to a less-visible Defense Department
post in April.
   MCC, which counts 21 technology companies among its
shareholders, said it would release more information about
Mr. Fields's duties Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farley Empire's
   Ratings on Debt
   Are Cut by S&amp;P
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.FRY WPM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on
about $1.14 billion of debt issued by the investment and
manufacturing empire controlled by beleaguered William
Farley.
   Separately, Mr. Farley's troubled, closely held holding
company, Farley Inc., disclosed in its annual report that its
1989 net loss widened to $814.7 million from $41.8 million in
1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A recently obtained auditor's report to Farley Inc.
directors by the accounting firm of Ernst &amp; Young cites the
company's previously reported failure to make interest
payments on certain debt. "These conditions raise substantial
doubt about Farley Inc.'s ability to continue as a going
concern," the report said.
   Farley Inc.'s latest annual report states current assets
of $1.57 billion and current liabilities of $3.25 billion.
   S&amp;P lowered Farley Inc.'s subordinated debt rating to
single-C from triple-C, and lowered ratings on the senior
debt of Farley's 95%-owned West Point-Pepperell Inc. unit to
triple-C-minus from single-B-minus. The ratings concern said
Farley Inc., based in Chicago, "remains in a strained
financial condition due to its heavy debt load, and the
general weakness of some of Farley's operating units."
   Mr. Farley hasn't been able to complete last year's
protracted $1.56 billion tender offer for West
Point-Pepperell, a textile company based in West Point, Ga.
   A Farley spokeswoman had no immediate comment.
   Mr. Farley's financial strength was based on junk bonds.
That strength is ebbing in the wake of the collapse of his
investment banker, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Farley continues to negotiate with his
bondholders and bankers over voting control and majority
ownership of West Point-Pepperell, according to sources close
to the situation. Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., financial adviser to
some of Mr. Farley's bondholders, suggested to its clients in
May that they seek voting control, according to a person
close to those discussions.
   Troubles worsened for Mr. Farley and his creditors in
March when West Point Acquisition Corp., the unit he set up
to buy West Point-Pepperell, fell into default on $796
million in bank debt and missed bondholder interest payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Air Union, NWA
   Unit Are Said to Set Talks
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR CTA NWA PN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Leaders of Eastern Airlines's machinists union are
scheduled to meet with officials of Northwest Airlines later
this week to discuss a possible integration of the carriers,
according to people familiar with the talks.
   It's unclear whether NWA Inc.'s Northwest unit would be
interested in buying all of Eastern, currently operating
under bankruptcy-court protection, or just some assets.
Northwest, based in St. Paul, Minn., declined to comment on
such a purchase, although it's understood it might want to
buy some of Eastern's gates in Atlanta as well as the
carrier's maintenance facility there. Eastern is a unit of
Continental Air Holdings Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   People familiar with the machinists union, however, say
that Northwest would absorb Eastern's entire system. Those
people say leaders of the machinists union will meet with
Alfred Checchi, Northwest's chairman, this week.
   An Eastern spokesman declined to comment on any talks.
However, in a company newsletter sent to employees last
month, Eastern said that Northwest and Pan Am Corp., New
York, had approached it to discuss "the possibility of future
business relationships." Eastern wouldn't rule out "either
the possibility of a merger with another carrier or a
buy-out," the newsletter said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alaska Air's June Traffic Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   ALK
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Alaska Airlines, a unit of Alaska Air Group
Inc., said its June traffic increased 7% to 425.1 million
revenue passenger miles from 396.6 million miles a year
earlier. A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger
flown one mile.
   The carrier's June load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, decreased to 57.8% from 59.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Banker Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.TOC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Banker-Bond Buyer said it acquired
Trepp Information Services Inc., a provider of data on
asset-backed securities. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Trepp Information Services was owned by closely held Trepp
&amp; Co. American Banker-Bond Buyer is owned by Thomson Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baby Boomer People
   Make Less, but Make Do
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE BABY BOOM generation is faring better economically
than many studies suggest.
   Considerable research has indicated that the huge size of
the cohort born between 1946 and 1964, plus the recession of
the early Reagan years, have depressed the boomers' earnings
compared with those of earlier groups at similar ages. But, a
new analysis argues, that's just part of the story.
   Richard Easterlin and Christine Macdonald of the
University of Southern California and Diane Macunovich of
Williams College agree the earnings picture isn't too good.
Their data show that average real earnings of young men
between the ages of 20 and 40 in 1987 were lower or just
barely above the earnings of men in that age range in 1974.
For example, men 30 to 35 in 1987 had average earnings $2,300
a year less than the comparable age group in 1974.
   But the researchers maintain that the boomers made
life-style adjustments giving them a higher economic standard
of living than the earnings figures imply. They continued to
live with parents, cohabited or doubled up with other adults,
stretching their buying power. They postponed marriage and
children until they were older and making more money. Wives
went to work and then kept on working after having kids.
   The Easterlin team calculates an "average income per adult
equivalent," a figure that takes into account the number of
adults and children sharing each household's income and
economies of scale; they conclude that this figure was
sharply higher for young people in 1987 than for comparable
age groups in 1974. In 1987, for instance, the average annual
income per adult equivalent for men between 30 and 35 is
figured to be $2,700 higher than it was for those 30 to 35 in
1974.
   "For the baby boom generation," the analysis says,
"altered demographic behavior has been the key to
transforming adverse labor market conditions into favorable
living levels."
                                                                                                       

   Parents' Relationships
   Shape Sexual Attitudes
                                                                                                       

   PARENTS' MARITAL history influences their children's
attitudes toward sex and marriage, a University of Michigan
professor reports.
   Arland Thornton drew on a large sample of white Detroit
families who had children in July 1961, interviewing the
mothers repeatedly between 1962 and 1985 and interviewing the
children when they were 18 and again when they were 23. He
found that children whose mothers had married young generally
had more accepting attitudes toward premarital sex than
children whose mothers married older. They also tended to
enter more quickly into cohabitation or marriage.
   Children whose mothers were pregnant before marriage were
substantially more sexually active themselves than children
conceived after marriage.
   Parental divorce and remarriage had similar impact. Young
people whose parents divorced during the years they were
growing up were substantially more likely to have extensive
premarital sex and to cohabit before marriage. The
cohabitation rate among children whose childhoods were marked
by family disruption was more than double that for children
from intact families.
   "One particularly interesting finding," Mr. Thornton says,
was that children whose mothers divorced and remarried were
far more sexually active than those whose mothers didn't
remarry.
                                                                                                       

   Non-Traditional Homes
   Can Hurt Kids' Health
                                                                                                       

   FAMILY STRUCTURE has much to do with children's health and
development, a new survey documents.
   With so many more children living in single-parent or
stepparent families, the subject takes on new urgency.
Deborah Dawson of the National Center for Health Statistics
examined a 1988 government survey of the health and emotional
status of some 17,000 children ranging in age from infancy to
17.
   After adjusting for the children's age, sex, race, family
income, whether the mother worked outside the home and other
factors, she found that on a series of health tests, children
living in non-traditional families had substantially greater
problems than those living with both natural parents.
   For example, the risk of having had an injury or accident
during the year before the survey was 20% to 30% higher for
children living with a mother and stepfather or with a
divorced mother only; peculiarly, children living with a
never-married mother had no higher injury rates. Children in
mother-headed families, whether never-married or previously
married, were 50% more likely to have asthma.
   Children living in mother-headed families or with mothers
and stepfathers were anywhere from 40% to 75% more likely to
have had to repeat a grade in school than those living with
both biological parents. Children from disrupted marriages
were over 70% more likely to have been suspended or expelled,
and those living with never-married mothers more than twice
as likely.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MEN MADE UP 73% of the full-time faculty in U.S. higher
education in 1988 and 56% of the part-time faculty, according
to the Department of Education. Whites accounted for
nine-tenths of all faculty members, while 4% were Asian, 3%
black, 2% Hispanic and 1% American Indian. . . . More
arrestees in the Northeast test positive for multiple drug
use than in any other part of the U.S., National Institute of
Justice researchers report. Compared with males, female
arrestees show as high or higher multiple drug use in every
section of the country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP UN UL TOYOY U.BCI U.LRH J.TKB DRSDY S.SEB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Tuesday's and yesterday's
offerings and pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets,
with terms and syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rhode Island and Providence Plantation -- $150 million of
6 1/2% general obligation tax anticipation notes priced by a
Shawmut Bank group to yield 6% on Dec. 20, 1990. The notes
are rated MIG-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Banque Indosuez Paris (France) -- one billion Luxembourg
francs of 9 1/2% bonds due July 31, 1996, priced at 101 1/2
via Banque &amp; Caisse d'Epargne de l'Etat Luxembourg.
   Bayerische Landesanstalt fuer Aufbaufinanzierung (West
Germany) -- 200 million marks of floating-rate notes at the
six-month London interbank offered rate less 0.10 point,
priced at par and due July 23, 1996, via Trinkaus &amp;
Burkhardt. First Libor fixing July 19.
   Unilever Capital Corp. (U.S.) -- 100 million Swiss francs
of 6 5/8% privately placed notes due July 31, 1997, priced at
101 3/4 via Union Bank of Switzerland. Joint guarantee by
Unilever PLC, Unilever USA and Unilever NV.
   Toyota Motor Credit Corp. (Japanese parent) -- $250
million of 9% bonds due July 30, 1993, priced at 101.50 to
yield 8.95% after fees, via UBS Phillips &amp; Drew. Fees 1 3/8.
   Blue Circle Industries Capital Ltd. (United Kingdom) --
#90 million of 10 1/2% extendible convertible capital bonds
due June 21, 2005, via Baring Brothers &amp; Co. Convertible into
ordinary shares of parent Blue Circle Industries PLC at #2.70
a share, a 9.76% premium to Tuesday afternoon's share price.
Guarantee on subordinated basis by Blue Circle Industries.
Callable after three years.
   Lonrho Finance PLC (U.K. parent) -- indicated $160 million
of bonds due Aug. 9, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants
indicating coupon of 6 5/8% to 6 7/8% at par, via Nomura
International Ltd. Guarantee by Lonrho PLC. Each $5,000 bond
carries one warrant, exercisable Aug. 15, 1990, through July
26, 1994, to buy shares at an indicated premium of 15%. Terms
to be fixed by Wednesday.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 250 billion lire of
floating-rate notes due Aug. 6, 2000, via Istituto Bancario
San Paolo di Torino. Coupon 11 1/8% at par until Feb. 6,
1991, thereafter six-month London interbank bid rate. Call on
any interest payment date from 1991 at par.
   Tomen Finance Netherlands B.V. (Japanese parent) -- $56.5
million of zero-coupon bonds due Sept. 30, 1997, priced at
55.414, via Nikko Securities Co. (Europe). Guarantee by Tokai
Bank.
   Dresdner International Finance PLC (West German parent) --
75 million Australian dollars of 14 1/2% bonds due Aug. 2,
1994, priced at 101 1/2 to yield 13.99%, via Dresdner Bank.
Guarantee by parent Dresdner Bank AG.
   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (Sweden) -- 100 million
Swiss francs of 7 1/8% subordinated public bonds due Aug. 3,
2000, priced at 102 via Credit Suisse.
   TopDanmark AS (Denmark) -- 80 million Swiss francs of 7
1/2% privately placed notes due July 20, 1996, priced at 101
1/4, via Swiss Volksbank.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FRE FNM MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, July 4, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% three months; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% four months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% five months;
8 5/16% - 8 3/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 5/16% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
Tuesday, July 3, 1990
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 30 to 44 days; 8.10% 45 to 59 days;
8.025% 60 to 119 days; 7.975% 120 to 149 days; 7.925% 150 to
209 days; 7.875% 210 to 239 days; 7.825% 240 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.225%
30 days; 8.175% 60 days; 8.125% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.70% one month; 7.72% two
months; 7.74% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.11% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.25% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.08% 30 days; 8.03% 60 days; 7.97%
90 days; 7.90% 120 days; 7.86% 150 days; 7.81% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% three months;
8 3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 2, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73% 13 weeks; 7.60% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.98%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.92%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.80%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Massey Coal Picks
   Union Opponent
   As Its President
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LABOR FLR
</CO>
<IN>
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   A.T. Massey Coal Co., known for its bitter battles with
the United Mine Workers, named a tough anti-union manager
president and heir apparent of this Appalachian coal
producer.
   Don Blankenship, president of Massey's Coal Services unit,
assumes much of the daily operating chores from E. Morgan
Massey, grandson of the company's founder. Mr. Massey, who is
63 years old, becomes chairman and chief executive officer,
both new posts at the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1984, Mr. Blankenship, now 40, advocated that Massey
fight the UMW rather than sign an industrywide contract. The
result was a 15-month strike.
   The dispute was termed a "guerrilla war" after a sniper's
bullet killed a coal truck driver in Pike County, Ky., in
1985. The strike ended in January 1986 when Massey, a unit of
Los Angeles-based Fluor Corp., agreed that all its coal units
would bargain as one employer.
   Mr. Blankenship was then in charge of Massey's Rawl Sales
&amp; Processing Co., which was in the middle of the dispute. His
Matewan, W.Va., office is still peppered with bullet holes he
says came from strikers' guns. "I kept the TV with a bullet
hole in it," he says. "The judge liked to use it to show
tapes of the violence."
   Mr. Blankenship, the son of a West Virginia coalfields
grocer, still faces a tenuous relationship with the UMW. "I
don't view this move as positive for labor relations," says
Mike Browning, vice president of UMW District 17 in West
Virginia. "They're designing themselves to be a nonunion
company."
   Massey and the UMW still have various lawsuits in the
courts and complaints before the National Labor Relations
Board related to wildcat coal strikes staged last summer in
support of striking mineworkers at Pittston Co.
   Mr. Blankenship, who spent his college breaks working in
the mines, suggests the labor climate could improve now that
the industry as a group is addressing how to solve some of
its biggest problems, including new funding schemes for its
troubled pension and health funds. Those funds were key
issues in the Pittston strike.
   "Anybody that's lived in southern West Virginia can't help
but have respect for what the union achieved," he says. "But
they've not been as pragmatic as they should."
   Beyond labor problems, Mr. Blankenship takes over Massey
at a time when Fluor has hired investment bankers to evaluate
what to do with its coal holdings. One option is to sell the
company. Fluor, a construction and engineering firm, has been
divesting itself of its natural resource holdings. "I have no
idea what Fluor might choose to do," Mr. Blankenship says.
   An accountant by training, the executive considers the
stricter clean air legislation a plus for low-sulfur coal
producers such as Massey.
   Utilities could choose low-sulfur coal as one solution to
tighter requirements curbing sulfur dioxide emissions from
power plants. All of Massey's more than 700 million tons of
coal reserves are considered low-sulfur. "It will give us new
opportunities," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Interleaf Inc.:
   Software Firm Expects Loss
   In Its Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LEAF
</CO>
<LP>
   Interleaf Inc. said it expects to report a loss of about
$2.9 million, or 25 cents a share, for the first quarter
ended June 30, compared with a profit of $126,000, or one
cent a share, a year earlier.
   The Cambridge, Mass., maker of electronic publishing
software also said it is unlikely that it will break even for
the first six months of the year, though it expects
"improvement" in the second quarter from the first quarter.
In the year-ago first half, Interleaf had a loss of $843,000,
or seven cents a share, on revenue of $44.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Interleaf, which cut its work force 18% last year in a
restructuring, said the first quarter was "difficult,"
because the firm is making the transition to a software and
services company and withdrawing from computer hardware.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Overseas on Technical Sales
   As Support Level Against Yen Is Broken
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   The dollar ended European dealings Wednesday broadly lower
after technical selling was drawn into the market when a key
chart support level against the yen was erased in Asian
dealings.
   In London, the dollar was quoted late at 1.6464 marks,
down from 1.6505 marks late Tuesday. The U.S. unit ended at
149.70 yen, down from 151.10 yen. The pound rose to $1.7840
from $1.7790.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo early Thursday, the dollar was quoted at 150.68
yen, up from Wednesday's Tokyo close of 150.30 yen.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6516 marks, up
from 1.6477 marks on Wednesday.
   The dollar's biggest move Wednesday was against the yen,
although dealers are generally discounting the significance
of Wednesday's action given extremely thin trading
conditions.
   Dealers noted that outside a flurry of morning dealings in
Europe, little business was done in the afternoon. They
pointed to the Independence Day holiday in the U.S., Moslem
observations in the Middle East and lack of interest among
European players in taking overnight positions.
   Laudy Bahl, head of corporate trading at Bank of Tokyo in
London, said that even though technical factors played a
clear role in the dollar's decline on the day, the level of
short-covering seen in late Asian dealings indicates that the
downturn action hasn't quiet signaled a fresh trend.
   She and other dealers expect the dollar to recover
modestly Thursday when Asian markets open given the lack of
clear fundamental trends and some disagreement in the market
over the near-term direction of U.S. and Japanese interest
rates.
   But a dealer with a large U.S. bank added that he agrees
with Ms. Bahl that the dollar may again move to test lower
levels depending on Friday's potentially pivotal U.S.
employment report for June.
   Some technical chart watchers maintained that because of
the dollar's move through long-term chart support levels, the
U.S. currency is more likely to stay under pressure against
the yen Thursday.
   But dealers suggest that the dollar's weakness against the
yen has also taken pressure off movement toward higher
Japanese interest rates, a factor that may translate into
dollar stability once the technical-based selling exhausts
itself.
   In Tokyo, the dollar pitched lower Wednesday as fear of
lower U.S. interest rates set off a wave of selling.
   Japanese players, caught off guard by the dollar's fall
overnight, sold heavily in Pacific and early Tokyo trading.
   While neither U.S. nor Japanese interest rates have moved
substantially, participants are trading on speculation that
the Federal Reserve will ease its tight monetary policy soon.
Thus, Japanese institutions are becoming wary of holding long
dollar positions, dealers said.
   The dollar was pressured lower Tuesday against all major
European currencies amid more activity than most traders
expected ahead of Independence Day. The dollar fell out of
its comfortable range against the mark and through technical
supports vs. the Swiss franc.
   The dollar gained marginally on the yen and Canadian
dollar. Early Asian dealings set the stage for the squaring
of short, or oversold, dollar positions, following the U.S.
unit's rapid decline against these two currencies over the
past week.
   In New York Tuesday, the dollar ended at 1.3930 francs,
below 1.3965 francs late Monday. It was quoted late at 1.6505
marks, unchanged. The U.S. currency was also changing hands
at 150.90 yen, above 150.83 yen.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Tuesday, gold for
current delivery jumped $3.30 to $362.10 an ounce, the
highest close since May 31.
   In early Hong Kong trading Thursday, gold was quoted at
$361.60 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Insurance Brokerage Stocks May Soon Rise
   As Some Analysts Predict Turn in Pricing Cycle
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   MMC POEA AAL CBL AJG HRHC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If it were a soap opera, they'd call it "As
the Cycle Turns."
   The cycle, in this case, is the pricing cycle for property
and casualty insurance. And the drama, such as it is, comes
from trying to predict when the cycle will turn -- when
insurers will stop cutting prices and start raising them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For investors in insurance brokerage stocks, there is big
money to be made by calling the turns correctly. When
commercial insurance premiums start rising, profits of
insurance brokers rise too. That's because the brokers are
paid a percentage of the premium on each policy they sell.
Stock prices of insurance brokers tend to rise with profits,
but they usually start rising months before, when reports of
price increases begin circulating.
   Thus the game for analysts is to call the turn in the
insurance cycle just before it happens.
   A few brave souls are saying now is the time to buy
insurance brokerage stocks. First, these analysts believe the
cycle will turn upward in the next few quarters. Second, they
point out that insurance brokerage stocks are trading at the
low end of their historic range, measured by the stocks'
price earnings ratios. And the current P-E ratios are near
that of the rest of the stock market, so there is relatively
little risk that insurance brokerage stocks will drop much,
they add.
   "The timing is quite good, because sometime in the next
couple quarters we'll be in the early stages of a sharp
earnings rebound," says Thomas G. Rosencrants, an
Atlanta-based insurance analyst. Insurance brokers' stock
valuations currently "are quite compelling," he says.
   Mr. Rosencrants has made an aggressive buy recommendation
for six insurance brokers, ranging from one of the industry's
biggest players, Marsh &amp; McLennan, to one of the smallest
publicly traded brokers, Poe &amp; Associates. The others on his
shopping list are Alexander &amp; Alexander Services, Corroon &amp;
Black, Arthur J. Gallagher, and Hilb, Rogal &amp; Hamilton.
   Mr. Rosencrants concedes that there isn't yet any evidence
that insurance companies are raising prices significantly,
though "the numerical evidence is that pricing has bottomed
out." After three years of price cutting, "there are acute
and intensifying financial pressures on the insurance
companies to begin raising prices," he says.
   Though Mr. Rosencrants's stance is perhaps the most
aggressive among insurance analysts, he isn't alone in
recommending insurance brokerage stocks. He and others point
out that insurance brokerage stocks offer a way to play the
property-casualty cycle while avoiding some of the risks in
insurance-company stocks -- such as exposure to big claims
liabilities and problems with commercial real estate
investments.
   Ira H. Malis of Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, Baltimore, is
recommending only two stocks, Marsh &amp; McLennan and Hilb,
Rogal &amp; Hamilton.
   Mr. Malis says of Marsh &amp; McLennan: "It's rare that you
see a company that is the best at everything it does, trading
at a market multiple." Mr. Malis expects Marsh &amp; McLennan to
earn $4.45 a share this year and $5.90 a share next year. At
Tuesday's closing price of 78 on the New York Stock Exchange,
Marsh &amp; McLennan is trading at about 13 times next year's
estimated earnings. "We don't think the {stock} price
reflects the fact that earnings should double over the next
three years," Mr. Malis says.
   Hilb, Rogal &amp; Hamilton is a small broker that operates
only in the U.S.; Mr. Malis says it's "trading at the
cheapest multiple of the {insurance broker} group." At
Tuesday's close of 13 3/4 in national over-the-counter
trading, the stock is trading at about 10 times Mr. Malis's
1991 earnings estimate of $1.35 a share.
   As for the turn in the cycle, Mr. Malis says: "It's
ridiculous to try to be too specific" about the timing.
   Samuel Liss of Salomon Brothers is recommending Marsh &amp;
McLennan and Arthur J. Gallagher. He says there is
"corrective change going on right now" in insurance prices,
and notes that Salomon is expecting the 18 companies in its
property-casualty insurance stock index to post premium
growth of 4% this year and 10% next year, following zero
growth last year.
   "There is a reason to have an investment presence in the
group, primarily because, as intermediaries, the insurance
brokers have the ability to quickly capture the benefits of a
pricing change," Mr. Liss says.
   Among the skeptics is Alice Cornish of Northington
Partners, Avon, Conn., which specializes in insurance-stock
research. She doesn't expect insurance prices to start rising
until next year, "probably in the second half." And even that
distant prospect, she warns, depends on a drop in the
industry's capital, which has yet to occur.
   "I think it's early" to start buying insurance brokerage
stocks, Ms. Cornish says. She expects analysts to start
reducing their earnings estimates for insurance brokers after
the brokers begin reporting second-quarter earnings. After
that happens, Ms. Cornish believes that insurance brokerage
stocks will be available at lower prices than today's.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   TV: Wimbledon, World Cup, Political Women
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Saturday, July 7, 9 a.m. EDT to conclusion, on NBC:
Women's tennis finals at Wimbledon. Chris Evert and Jimmy
Connors are commentators for the 113th championships. The
men's final airs Sunday at 9 a.m.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sunday, July 8, 1:55 p.m.-3 p.m. EDT, on TNT: World Cup
soccer final from Rome.
                                                                                                       

   Sundays, beginning July 8, 8-9 p.m. EDT, on A&amp;E: "Women in
Politics." The first segment of this three-part BBC series
somewhat breathlessly chronicles Corazon Aquino's
transformation from homebody to president of the Philippines.
President Aquino herself sizes matters up nicely, noting, "If
I were not the widow of Ninoy, I don't think anyone would
have paid attention to me." Unlike members of this year's
graduating class at Wellesley, Philippine citizens found
little to object to in a woman whose status had been derived
entirely from the man she was married to, as they showed by
electing her president. Sparse in the hard-question
department, when not being altogether reverential, the
portrait of Mrs. Aquino is nonetheless interesting biography.
Much less so, however, than that of the prime minister of
Dominica, Eugenia Charles, a considerably more compelling
personality. Both are covered in the first installment, which
repeats at midnight. Encore, July 14 at 1 p.m.
                                                                                                       

   Monday, July 9, 8-10 p.m. EDT, on TNT: "Sweet Revenge," a
mildly engaging farce about a divorcee (Carrie Fisher) forced
to pay alimony to her former husband. The main attraction is
a performance by Rosanna Arquette, as an Audrey Hepburnish
type on the loose in Paris.
                                                                                                       

   Monday, July 9, 9-10 p.m. EDT: "American Masters -- John
Cassavetes," an informative documentary about the director of
"Shadows," "Faces," "A Woman Under the Influence" and other
"independent" films. Cassavetes, who died last year at age
59, is praised as the director who was unafraid to torture
his audiences -- and in some of the scenes on display here,
we can see why.
                                                                                                       

   Tuesday, July 10, 10-10:30 p.m. EDT, on PBS (PBS air dates
and times vary, so check local listings): "Alive From Off
Center-Postcards," a playlet by Mark Rappaport about parted
lovers, which has but one thing in its favor -- several
different recorded versions of the gorgeous Cole Porter song,
"Every Time We Say Goodbye I Die a Little," which can be
heard almost throughout the entire play.
                                                                                                       

   Thursday, July 12, 10-11 p.m. EDT, on CBS: "Northern
Exposure." The first segment of this new series by the
doctor-fixated creators of "St. Elsewhere" details the trials
of a physician only slightly older than Doogie Howser, posted
to a remote Alaskan village for reasons too baroque to go
into here. En route, a fellow traveler lets him know that he
is in for it, with this venture to Alaska. So, as it turns
out, are we. Salvaged somewhat by a scenic locale and the
adult presence of John Cullum.
                                                                                                       

   Sunday, July 15 and Monday, July 16, 9-11 p.m. EDT, on
NBC: "Love and Hate," a first-class, fact-based drama that
would stand out in any season, to say nothing of the
wasteland of the summer. Kate Nelligan is entirely compelling
in this chilling story (a Canadian import) of a marriage gone
bad.
                                                                                                       

   Tuesday, July 17, 10-11:30 p.m. EDT, on PBS: "P.O.V. --
Letter to the Next Generation." The sad tale of a 40ish '60s
veteran -- the film maker -- who looks at today's student
generation and finds confirmation of his long-held suspicion:
that his was the only truly noble and heroic generation of
young people in modern times. He makes a pilgrimage to Kent
State, site of the fatal 1970 encounter between National
Guardsmen and protesting students, and is astounded to
discover that there actually are undergraduates now who have
grown tired of the cult of martyrdom surrounding the slain
students. And some who even think the Guardsmen may not have
been all evil and the students not all blameless. Such
responses all are grist for Joe Klein's ode to the glories of
his generation: a journey into narcissism that doubtless will
be of interest both to other veterans of the '60s and their
psychiatrists.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Lower Interest Rates Will Aid
   Economy, Help Avert Recession
   But Growth Will Be Very Weak,
   Says Survey of 40 Economists
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Falling interest rates will bolster the
sagging U.S. economy, helping to avert a recession for at
least another year, according to a survey of 40 economists by
The Wall Street Journal.
   But economic growth will be painfully slow, most
forecasters warn. Unemployment will increase, and many
struggling industries, such as housing, defense and Wall
Street, are heading for even tougher times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I don't foresee a nationwide recession, but a lot of
industries and regions of the country already feel like
they're in {a recession} now," says Stuart Hoffman, vice
president at PNC Financial Corp in Pittsburgh. "Just look at
the real estate business in the Northeast. When you can't
sell your home, you feel like your whole world is in a
recession."
   Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc., agrees there won't be a countrywide
recession. But he says the economy "should continue to
experience rolling recessions, which hit different industries
and regions at different times."
   Higher taxes could make this grim outlook even darker,
several forecasters fear. President Bush's abrupt about-face
in deciding to consider new taxes comes as many state and
local governments are raising taxes and reducing budgets.
   Nonetheless, most analysts are counting on the Federal
Reserve to race to the rescue, cutting interest rates in the
nick of time to keep the economy afloat. Of the 40 economists
surveyed, 35 predicted that the economy will expand for at
least 12 more months.
   "The Federal Reserve will take appropriate steps to
prevent business from getting weaker than it is," says Neal
Soss, a managing director at First Boston Corp. Political
pressure also could help persuade the Fed to cut rates soon,
says James Smith, a professor of finance at the University of
North Carolina. He says Alan Greenspan "knows what he has to
do to get reappointed" as Fed chairman in 1991.
   Fed officials probably will cut rates within a few weeks,
says Donald Straszheim, chief economist at Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co. "The Fed's focus has shifted from reducing inflation to
sustaining economic growth," he says. However, he adds with a
laugh: "We forecast not because we know, but because we are
asked."
   The large number of forecasters who say a recession won't
occur makes skeptics even more worried that a slump is
inevitable. They say the economy is even weaker than it looks
and that the Fed won't act quickly enough to stave off a
slump.
   "The economy is clearly vulnerable to a recession right
now, and we are increasingly likely to move into one" this
year, says Philip Braverman, senior vice president at DKB
Securities. "The longer the Fed delays its inevitable easing,
the steeper the economic decline."
   The gloomiest forecast, as usual, comes from A. Gary
Shilling, a New York economist who heads a consulting firm
bearing his name. He argues that a recession "may already
have started" and says the civilian unemployment rate will
soar to 8.9% next May from 5.3% this past May. He also
predicts that interest rates will plunge as much as two
percentage points, and thus he urges investors to "start to
move into Treasury bonds and other high-quality bonds."
   Mr. Shilling's forecast is consistent with his jeremiad of
six months ago, which was by far the least accurate in the
Journal's survey. At that time, Mr. Shilling predicted a
sharp recession in this year's first half, driving the
unemployment rate to 7% by May, or 1.7 percentage points
higher than it was. He also predicted the yield on short-term
Treasury bills would plummet to 5% by midyear -- three
percentage points lower than they actually are.
   Mr. Shilling now has predicted four of the past zero
recessions.
   He says, "All I can say is we may be in a recession now,
but it obviously hasn't unfolded as rapidly as we thought it
would." He also says U.S. interest rates are being held up by
high rates in Europe and Japan and that the Federal Reserve
"has been extremely reluctant" to ease credit despite the
economy's softness and Bush administration pressure.
   While most economists six months ago were correct in
forecasting continued economic growth, most also were way off
the mark with their interest-rate forecasts. The average
forecast six months ago called for long-term Treasury bond
yields to drop to 7.62% by the end of last month. Instead,
yields rose to 8.40%.
   This time around, the Journal distributed its survey to
several non-economists, some of whom did much better than
most professional forecasters. By far the best interest-rate
forecasts came from Raul Gonzalez, a 31-year-old doorman at a
Manhattan apartment building. Mr. Gonzalez predicted the
yield on 30-year Treasury bonds would rise to 8 1/2% -- only
1/10 of a percentage point off the mark. "You want any hints,
now you know who to come to," he told a reporter.
   None of the 40 economists surveyed last December expected
inflation to surge as much as it did. J. Dewey Daane, a
former Fed official now a finance professor at Vanderbilt
University's Owen Graduate School of Management, came the
closest.
   But Susan Seidel, director of the William Beadleston Inc.
art gallery, was even more accurate. Six months ago, she
wrote to this reporter: "According to economists, there
shouldn't be inflation when times are bad (using, for
example, the Depression), but it still seems to me that
things are costing more and more." Inflation "has got to go
up," she predicted. "Taxicabs are going up, restaurants are
going up, and mass transit is going up. That's my perception
of inflation."
   To be fair, economists who failed have plenty of company,
even among professional investment managers. For example, a
weekly survey of 46 fixed-income managers in late December by
C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell found 68% bullish on bonds.
Only 10% were bearish. Shortly thereafter, interest rates
began to surge and bond prices tumbled.
   Most forecasters have "terrible" track records on interest
rates, says Walter Wriston, Citicorp's former chairman. "We
lost our teeth trying to guess rates" at the bank, he
recalls. The moral: "You have to treat these forecasts with a
large saltshaker."
   This point is underscored by a study by Ryan Labs Inc., a
bond analysis firm in New York. Ronald J. Ryan, president,
looked back at average forecasts in surveys by this newspaper
since mid-1982. Only on rare occasions has the group average
been correct even on the general direction of interest rates.
   Here is a summary of forecasts from The Wall Street
Journal's latest survey:
   -- Anemic Growth. The economy will expand at only a 1.6%
annual rate, adjusted for inflation, in this year's second
half. That would be about the same as in the first half.
(First-half results won't be available from the government
until later in the month, but they are expected to show a
growth rate of about 1.5% to 2%.) Growth will pick up very
slightly in next year's first half, to a 1.8% pace.
   -- Lower Interest Rates. Treasury bills, now about 8%,
will yield 7.56% at year's end and 7.43% in mid-1991.
Government bonds, now about 8.40%, will yield 8.16% at year's
end and 8.09% by the middle of next year.
   -- Lower Inflation. The consumer price index will rise 4%
over the next 12 months, compared with an estimated annual
rate of around 5.5% in this year's first half.
   -- Sturdy Dollar. The dollar, which now buys about 150
Japanese yen, will be worth about the same in six months and
12 months: 150 yen at the end of this year and 149 yen by
mid-1991.
   -- Higher Unemployment. The civilian unemployment rate,
which stood at 5.3% in May, will rise to 5.6% in November and
5.7% by next May. June's unemployment report will be released
tomorrow.
                                                                                                       

   WINNERS AND LOSERS: Saul Hymans of the University of
Michigan came up with the best bond forecast. He predicted
30-year Treasury bonds would yield 8.40% by midyear, which
was exactly correct. Tied for second place were David Berson
of the Federal National Mortgage Association and Paul Boltz
of T. Rowe Price, followed by Arnold Moskowitz of County
NatWest and Richard Hoey of Barclays de Zoete Wedd. Gary
Shilling came in last.
   The best short-term interest-rate forecasts came from
Messrs. Berson and Boltz. Mr. Shilling again ranked at the
bottom.
   Robert Dederick of Northern Trust Co. was among the first
to admit the error of his forecasts. In early February,
referring to several of his first-quarter average interest
rate forecasts, he wrote: "No doubt we've sent out worse
forecasts in our time (sad to admit) but not many. (And with
our having said it, there's no real need for you, the
recipients, to do the same, is there?)"
   Mr. Smith of the University of North Carolina was best on
the dollar, followed closely by Ed Hyman of C.J. Lawrence,
Alan Lerner of Bankers Trust, Mickey Levy of First Fidelity
Bancorp. and Edward Yardeni of Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc. Mr. Daane, the former Fed official now at Vanderbilt,
finished last -- even though, curiously enough, his inflation
forecast was the best.
   Although final economic-growth figures aren't yet
available, it appears that more than a dozen forecasters came
close to being correct. The worst predictions came from
Messrs. Shilling, Hoey and Hoffman, as well as Irwin Kellner
of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Corp. It also appears that
Messrs. Kellner and Shilling were farthest from the mark with
their inflation forecasts.
   Mr. Hoey, who formerly worked for Drexel Burnham Lambert,
nominates himself as "most improved." However, he has mixed
feelings about his forecasts. "The good news is that our
forecast of financial illiquidity in 1990 was right," he
says. "The bad news is that we lost a few bucks on Drexel
stock as a result. On balance, I wish I had been wrong."
   Once again, the survey shows that interest-rate
forecasting is much tougher than forecasting the economy. "I
think it's pretty obvious that if anyone really did know how
to forecast interest rates, they would have long ago retired
to fame and fortune," Mr. Shilling says.
   ---
               A Sampling of Interest-Rate,
              Economic and Currency Forecasts
                                                                                                       

        (In percent except for the dollar vs. yen)
                                                                                                       

                                DECEMBER 1989 SURVEY
                        ----------------------------------
                         3-MO   30-YR  GNP**   CPI#   DLR

                        BILLS*  BONDS   HALF   HALF   YEN
                         6/30    6/30   1990   1990   6/30
                                                                                                       

   Robert Barbera, Shearson Lehman
                         6.75    7.85    1.3    4.1    128
                                                                                                       

   David Berson, Fannie Mae
                         8.00    8.25    2.3    4.5    138
                                                                                                       

   Paul Boltz, T. Rowe Price
                         8.00    8.25    1.7    4.5    140
                                                                                                       

   Philip Braverman, DKB Securities
                         7.00    7.50    0.8    3.9    140
                                                                                                       

   Kathleen Cooper, Security Pacific
                         7.00    7.50    1.6    4.0    135
                                                                                                       

   Dewey Daane, Vanderbilt Univ.
                         7.00    7.50    1.7    5.0    120
                                                                                                       

   Robert Dederick, Northern Trust
                         7.40    7.75    1.2    4.0    130
                                                                                                       

   Lyle Gramley, Mortg. Bankers Assn.
                         7.20    7.40    1.5    4.1    135
                                                                                                       

   Maury Harris, PaineWebber Inc.
                         6.25    7.00    1.3    3.3    135
                                                                                                       

   Richard Hoey, Barclays de Zoete
                         7.50    8.15   -0.5    4.7    132
                                                                                                       

   Stuart G. Hoffman, PNC Fin'l Corp.
                         6.60    7.65   -1.3    4.4    135
                                                                                                       

   Edward Hyman, C.J. Lawrence
                         6.50    7.50    1.0    3.0    150
                                                                                                       

   Saul Hymans, Univ. of Michigan
                         7.60    8.40    3.1    3.9    141
                                                                                                       

   David Jones, Aubrey G. Lanston
                         7.00    7.75    1.0    4.5    140
                                                                                                       

   Jerry Jordan, First Interstate
                         6.75    7.85    1.9    4.3    135
                                                                                                       

   Samuel Kahan, Fuji Securities
                         6.75    7.25    1.7    4.2    140
                                                                                                       

   Irwin Kellner, Manufacturers Hanover
                         6.75    7.80   -0.2    2.9    135
                                                                                                       

   Lawrence Kudlow, Bear Stearns
                         7.40    7.50    1.8    3.9    144

   Carol Leisenring, CoreStates Fin'l
                         6.90    7.60    1.7    4.0    136
                                                                                                       

   Alan Lerner, Bankers Trust Co.
                         7.50    7.65    2.5    4.0    150
                                                                                                       

   Mickey Levy, First Fidelity Bancorp
                         6.25    7.50    0.8    3.7    150
                                                                                                       

   William Melton, IDS
                         6.60    7.20    1.1    4.4    134
                                                                                                       

   Lynn Michaelis, Weyerhaeuser Co.
                         7.10    7.80    0.8    4.5    135
                                                                                                       

   Arnold Moskowitz, County NatWest
                         7.45    8.20    0.8    4.3    140
                                                                                                       

   Elliott Platt, Donaldson Lufkin
                         6.70    7.38    0.8    4.3    140
                                                                                                       

   Donald Ratajczak, Georgia State Univ.
                         6.95    7.62    1.5    4.3    136
                                                                                                       

   David Resler, Nomura Securities Int'l
                         6.88    7.10    1.3    4.0    140
                                                                                                       

   Alan Reynolds, Hudson Institute
                         6.90    7.40    1.8    3.2    141
                                                                                                       

   Richard Rippe, Dean Witter
                         6.80    7.25    1.2    4.4    133
                                                                                                       

   Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank
                         7.50    8.00    1.9    4.4    138
                                                                                                       

   Francis Schott, Equitable Life
                         7.10    7.50    1.2    4.6    140
                                                                                                       

   A. Gary Shilling, Shilling &amp; Co.
                         5.50    7.00   -3.5    3.0    135
                                                                                                       

   Allen Sinai, Boston Co.
                         7.31    7.47    0.3    4.0    134
                                                                                                       

   James Smith, Univ. of N.C.
                         6.75    7.15    2.8    3.7    151
                                                                                                       

   Neal Soss, First Boston Corp.
                         7.00    7.75    2.2    4.5    140
                                                                                                       

   Donald Straszheim, Merrill Lynch
                         7.54    8.10    1.6    4.5    143
                                                                                                       

   Joseph Wahed, Wells Fargo Bank
                         6.80    7.60    2.2    4.3    142

   Raymond Worseck, A.G. Edwards
                         7.20    7.50    1.3    3.5    155
                                                                                                       

   David Wyss, DRI/McGraw-Hill
                         7.70    7.70    1.5    4.2    135
                                                                                                       

   Edward Yardeni, Prudential-Bache
                         7.30    7.30    2.5    4.0    150
                                                                                                       

   Average
                         7.03    7.62    1.3    4.1    139
                                                                                                       

   Actual closing rates as of 6/29/90##
                         7.98    8.40    N.A.   N.A.   152
   ---
                        NEW FORECASTS FOR 1990-91
                               INFLATION
                                                                                                       

   3-MONTH     30-YEAR     GNP**       RATE#      DOLLAR
   TREASURY   TREASURY   2nd   1st   2nd   1st    vs. YEN
    BILLS*      BONDS    HALF  HALF  HALF  HALF  DEC.  JUNE
 12/31  6/30 12/31  6/30 1990  1991  1990  1991  1990  1991
                                                                                                       

   Robert Barbera, Shearson Lehman
  7.40  7.20  8.00  8.10  1.2   3.2   3.8   3.9   140   138
                                                                                                       

   David Berson, Fannie Mae
  7.75  7.55  8.30  8.20  1.7   1.9   4.9   4.5   152   146
                                                                                                       

   Paul Boltz, T. Rowe Price
  8.25  8.50  8.75  9.00  2.3   2.2   4.5   5.0   150   145
                                                                                                       

   Philip Braverman, DKB Securities
  7.00  6.25  7.75  7.00  0.5   0.0   3.5   3.5   140   135
                                                                                                       

   Kathleen Cooper, Security Pacific
  7.90  7.50  8.20  7.90  1.7   1.8   4.5   4.2   150   150
                                                                                                       

   Dewey Daane, Vanderbilt Univ.
  7.75  7.75  9.00  9.00  1.8   1.8   5.0   5.0   140   135
                                                                                                       

   Robert Dederick, Northern Trust
  8.00  8.40  8.50  8.90  2.2   2.6   4.0   4.5   145   143
                                                                                                       

   Lyle Gramley, Mortg. Bankers Assn.
  8.00  8.10  8.50  8.70  1.8   2.2   4.4   4.7   150   140
                                                                                                       

   Maury Harris, PaineWebber Inc.
  7.50  7.75  8.25  8.50  2.0   2.0   3.9   4.2   150   150
                                                                                                       

   Richard Hoey, Barclays de Zoete
  7.50  7.50  8.25  8.50 -1.5   2.0   4.4   4.2   148   140
                                                                                                       

   Stuart G. Hoffman, PNC Fin'l Corp.
  7.63  8.15  8.25  8.45  1.4   2.3   4.1   4.3   153   160
                                                                                                       


  7.25  6.75  8.00  7.50  1.0   1.0   3.0   3.0   158   165
                                                                                                       

   Saul Hymans, Univ. of Michigan
  8.13  8.18  8.76  8.89  3.4   2.6   4.3   4.7   152   150
                                                                                                       

   David Jones, Aubrey G. Lanston
  7.75  7.50  8.25  8.00  1.2   0.5   4.5   4.0   152   150
                                                                                                       

   Jerry Jordan, First Interstate
  7.25  7.55  8.00  8.10  2.5   2.7   3.7   4.0   145   147
                                                                                                       

   Samuel Kahan, Fuji Securities
  7.50  7.25  8.00  7.75  1.7   2.0   3.8   3.8   145   150
                                                                                                       

   Irwin Kellner, Manufacturers Hanover
  7.50  7.65  8.25  8.50  0.9   2.3   3.5   3.0   140   140
                                                                                                       

   Lawrence Kudlow, Bear Stearns
  7.10  7.10  7.30  7.30  1.3   2.7   3.0   3.0   160   165
                                                                                                       

   Carol Leisenring, CoreStates Fin'l
  7.30  7.50  8.10  8.20  1.9   2.1   4.2   4.2   145   150
                                                                                                       

   Alan Lerner, Bankers Trust Co.
  7.50  8.00  7.85  8.15  1.5   2.3   4.5   4.0   145   135
                                                                                                       

   Mickey Levy, First Fidelity Bancorp
  7.45  7.10  8.00  7.60  0.8   0.5   3.8   3.1   160   165
                                                                                                       

   William Melton, IDS
  7.65  7.75  8.60  8.75  1.0   2.2   3.9   4.3   149   146
                                                                                                       

   Lynn Michaelis, Weyerhaeuser Co.
  7.80  7.60  8.40  8.30  1.5   2.2   4.6   4.8   145   135
                                                                                                       

   Arnold Moskowitz, County NatWest
  8.05  7.65  8.70  8.60  1.9   2.1   4.8   4.4   165   170
                                                                                                       

   Elliott Platt, Donaldson Lufkin
  7.23  6.70  7.88  7.38  1.3   0.0   4.0   4.0   148   145
                                                                                                       

   Donald Ratajczak, Georgia State Univ.
  7.83  8.09  8.55  8.63  2.1   2.3   3.9   4.4   148   140
                                                                                                       

   David Resler, Nomura Securities Int'l
  7.25  6.75  7.75  8.00  1.8   2.1   3.6   3.8   155   160
                                                                                                       

   Alan Reynolds, Hudson Institute
  7.50  7.20  7.80  7.60  2.7   3.2   3.6   3.3   149   144
                                                                                                       

   Richard Rippe, Dean Witter
  7.50  7.75  7.75  8.00  1.7   2.2   3.8   4.0   142   135
                                                                                                       

   Norman Robertson, Mellon Bank
  7.60  7.80  8.30  8.50  1.9   2.3   4.0   4.4   148   140
                                                                                                       


  7.70  7.40  8.20  8.50  1.8   2.3   4.3   4.4   150   148
                                                                                                       

   A. Gary Shilling, Shilling &amp; Co.
  6.00  5.00  7.25  6.00 -2.4  -3.0   2.7   2.1   170   180
                                                                                                       

   Allen Sinai, Boston Co.
  7.50  7.01  7.92  7.40  0.8   1.1   3.8   3.5   141   134
                                                                                                       

   James Smith, Univ. of N.C.
  6.75  6.70  7.75  7.25  3.7   2.5   2.9   3.2   158   164
                                                                                                       

   Neal Soss, First Boston Corp.
  7.50  7.00  8.00  7.75  1.3   1.0   4.5   4.5   145   150
                                                                                                       

   Donald Straszheim, Merrill Lynch
  7.49  7.65  8.10  8.40  1.7   2.0   4.4   4.3   150   143
                                                                                                       

   Joseph Wahed, Wells Fargo Bank
  7.50  7.50  8.00  8.10  2.0   2.2   3.7   3.9   150   152
                                                                                                       

   Raymond Worseck, A.G. Edwards
  8.50  7.00  8.80  7.75  2.3   1.7   4.2   4.0   145   160
                                                                                                       

   David Wyss, DRI/McGraw-Hill
  7.95  8.30  8.75  9.10  1.9   2.5   3.8   4.3   148   140
                                                                                                       

   Edward Yardeni, Prudential-Bache
  7.75  7.25  7.75  7.25  2.0   2.0   3.5   3.5   165   170
                                                                                                       

   Average
  7.56  7.43  8.16  8.09  1.6   1.8   4.0   4.0   150   149
                                                                                                       

   N.A. -- Not available. *Treasury bill rates are on a
bond-equivalent basis. **Gross national product, adjusted for
inflation. Seasonally adjusted annual rate. #Consumer price
index, annual rate. ##The government will estimate first-half
GNP later this month. Most analysts in this survey expect it
to show inflation-adjusted growth of about 1.5% to 2.0%. The
CPI figure for this year's first half is expected to show an
annual growth rate of about 5.2% to 5.9%, based on last month
compared to December 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rothmans International PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.RIN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROTHMANS INTERNATIONAL PLC (London) -- The Marquess of
Douro, deputy chairman of Guinness Mahon Holdings PLC and
Joseph Kanoui, chairman of Cartier Monde, were named
nonexecutive directors of this tobacco products, luxury
consumer goods and brewing concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Saatchi's Flagship Agency
   Feels Chill of Parent's Woes
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA PEP Z.NES
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Seeking new business last spring, Maggie Taylor
assured a potential advertising client that Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
Co.'s troubles didn't touch its similarly named flagship ad
agency.
   Ms. Taylor, a planning director for the London agency,
recalls the would-be client grilled her hard: "Will you still
be our team in six months' time? Are you going to get fed up
and leave?" Unconvinced, the British manufacturer took its
business elsewhere.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few weeks later, Ms. Taylor and six colleagues quit to
form their own shop. It was the biggest defection ever from
Britain's largest and most award-winning agency.
   The breakaway pummeled the parent's share price, because
investors feared possible client losses and a wider exodus
from an agency created by company founders Maurice and
Charles Saatchi in 1970. Saatchi pooh-poohed the defectors as
disgruntled unknowns, then sued them to dissuade others and
recover everything from corporate marker pens to old news
clippings.
   A major walkout from the heart of the empire marked a
symbolic turning point for Saatchi, the world's biggest
advertising business until a flawed diversification led to
red ink and a boardroom upheaval in recent months. The
Charlotte Street agency, informally known by its address, no
longer can escape the parent's well-known ills.
   "In this town, the name Saatchi is now associated with
failure. Advertising is basically about selling confidence,"
says Tim Delaney, creative director at Leagas Delaney, a
smaller rival. The Charlotte Street attitude of "`we can do
no wrong, we are the world conquerors' is gone."
   The Saatchi agency is snaring fewer clients. It has
tumbled to seventh place in the U.K. ad-agency new-business
rankings so far in 1990, after leading the pack for the past
three years. Amid Britain's worst ad downturn in a decade,
Charlotte Street lost several medium-sized clients earlier
this year, while many remaining ones (mostly hard-hit
retailers) are slashing their ad budgets.
   And staff morale has begun to sag under a round of
layoffs, deferred pay raises and other cost-cutting measures
dictated by the harsher business climate and the parent's
burdensome debt.
   Saatchi executives insist Charlotte Street's powerful
creative reputation remains unscathed and predict solid
profits this year for its overall U.K. advertising and
marketing-services operation, which barely broke even in the
first fiscal half.
   "I hope we will be on top" in new-business rankings by
year end, says agency Managing Director Paul Bainsfair. With
typical Saatchi bravado, he corrects himself: "I am sure we
will be No. 1." Even if "Charlotte Street doesn't win the
Super Bowl," Mr. Bainsfair goes on, "it doesn't mean the end
of the dynasty."
   But the jewel in Saatchi's crown may be all that's left
after dismemberment of the far-flung enterprise. Some
industry analysts think that to repay debt, the company will
shed everything but the international ad network headed by
the flagship agency -- and then go private by letting the
disillusioned Saatchi brothers buy it back. That "is a
perfectly reasonable scenario," says an individual close to
Saatchi. "They would like to go back to running an agency
again . . . like they used to do." Saatchi officials haven't
ruled out the possibility of a future disposal of one of the
two international ad networks.
   Charlotte Street grew out of an agency the youthful Iraqi
Jewish brothers launched with #25,000 of borrowed capital,
tough creative standards, systematic client poaching -- and a
knack for well-timed publicity. "The clients for whom the
Saatchis have done the best job for are Saatchi &amp; Saatchi,"
remarks Chris Jones, J. Walter Thompson's managing director
in Britain and an ex-Saatchi man.
   The agency bred fierce, almost familial loyalty, based on
"Saatchism" -- a culture of success and the cocky belief that
nothing is impossible. Maurice Saatchi once tried (but
failed) to land Black &amp; Decker Corp.'s Continental Europe
account by offering to move Saatchi's Paris operation to
Lyons in order to serve the U.S. power tool maker's European
office there.
   The brothers ran their rapidly expanding business for more
than a decade from Charlotte Street's sixth, top floor.
There, temperamental Charles often tossed phones and chairs
at Maurice during shouting matches audible below. (Both
declined to be interviewed for this article.) Corporate
headquarters moved several blocks away in 1986, after a
dizzying string of U.S. acquisitions had realized the pair's
global ambitions.
   But close ties linger between the agency and the brothers.
Reclusive and eccentric Charles Saatchi, despite his
preoccupation with a bulky contemporary art collection, still
routinely calls to suggest music for commercials or critique
campaigns. Charlotte Street initially kept its favored-child
status even when the parent company's earnings tumbled last
year and Chairman Maurice Saatchi relinquished the
chief-executive-officer role. Although Saatchi reduced its
world-wide staff by some 800 during 1989, the agency escaped
layoffs at that time.
   Maurice Saatchi, urged by Saatchi's new Chief Executive
Robert Louis-Dreyfus, resumed wooing potential and current
Charlotte Street clients this spring -- something he rarely
did during the company's takeover spree.
   In any case, his efforts may not suffice. The downturn in
Charlotte Street's new business partly mirrors advertisers'
skittishness about turmoil at the parent company. "This
feeling that Saatchi might be a slightly precarious bet has
to come through to the new-business clients," a senior agency
official concedes.
   Peter Church, advertising manager at Abbey National Bank
PLC, concurs. "Heavy media coverage of Saatchi's {corporate}
situation at the moment" may persuade some advertisers "to
not commit themselves to a new agency." The U.K. bank
recently stopped using Charlotte Street for its #2.5 million
($4.4 million) checking-account campaign after employing the
agency for four years. "We felt we hadn't gotten the right
creative idea," Mr. Church says, adding: "It may well be that
they have hit the crest of the wave."
   A new corporate name might end client confusion between
the still-successful agency and its ailing parent, many
Charlotte Street staffers believe. They have even dreamed up
some alternatives: Chas. &amp; Mo Inc. or Titanic Enterprises
Inc. The Saatchi brothers aren't amused. "They're used to it
{the name} and don't want to change it" because they "spent
20 years building up a company" called Saatchi &amp; Saatchi,
explains the individual with Saatchi ties.
   At the same time, the corporate and industry crunch now is
forcing retrenchment at the flagship agency. Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus has been nicknamed "Jaws" for effectively
freezing most equipment purchases companywide. "You've got
fewer tools to do your business with," complains a manager
who recently quit Charlotte Street, primarily because of such
spending restrictions.
   The Saatchi agency laid off 30 of its roughly 900 staffers
in February -- the first ever. More layoffs loom, workers
fear. Further job cuts aren't expected "at the moment," says
Mr. Bainsfair, the managing director. But "the great $64,000
question is how long will this {downturn} go on for?" The
agency may skip this year's Christmas bonus, typically a
month's pay, And its management is cracking down on certain
common ad-industry practices, offering fewer company cars and
banning expense-account staff lunches.
   Around the corner from the agency's squat gray building, a
French brasserie feels the pinch. A year ago, "we used to
have dozens and dozens of Saatchi people in here from early
afternoon until early evening drinking champagne," recalls
Zazou manager Nick Stern. The Saatchi people "now are all
eating sandwiches at their desks," he sighs.
   The Saatchi setbacks have failed to completely diminish
the flagship agency's characteristic self-assurance, however.
It recently ran a secretarial recruiting ad that promised
applicants they would "be working at the most successful
advertising agency in the known universe."
   "There is still a hell of an atmosphere" here, argues the
senior agency official. Even with fewer people, "the people
here are very Saatchi. We still do great advertising."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Goldberg Moser O'Neill will handle the
national launch of Wings, a personal learning system by
Intelligy Corp. The win, estimated at more than $5 million,
is the first for the former Chiat/Day/Mojo San Francisco
office since its management buy-out.
                                                                                                       

   ALLY COMPENSATION PLAN: Ally &amp; Gargano, hoping to attract
the attention of potential car clients, introduced a gimmicky
new compensation for car makers. The new system would involve
paying Ally primarily in cash but partly in cars. It also
would involve a sliding commission based on sales goals; if
sales fell short of goals, Ally would be paid less cash and
more cars. Bill Luceno, chief executive, said the plan aims
to "provide a little incentive for somebody to come on in and
talk to us." And what happens to the cars? "We'll cross that
bridge when we come to it."
                                                                                                       

   ADS MODIFIED: PepsiCo and Nestle's Stouffer Foods unit
modified campaigns in response to inquiries by the National
Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business
Bureaus. The campaigns, for Diet Pepsi and Stouffer's frozen
pizza, used comparison claims the NAD said were
unsubstantiated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Rogers Communications Inc.:
   Company Agrees to Acquire
   Skyline Cablevision Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RCI.B
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rogers Communications Inc. said it agreed to purchase all
the shares it doesn't already own of Skyline Cablevision
Ltd., a closely held cable television concern.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed. Skyline
Cablevision, Ottawa, has 115,000 subscribers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Rogers Communications official said the company already
has a stake of "less than 50%" in Skyline Cablevision, and
that the acquisition of the remaining shares from a group of
individuals in Ottawa would bring its stake to 100%.
   Toronto-based Rogers Communications, through its Rogers
Cablesystems Ltd. unit, has 1.6 million cable subscribers.
Rogers Communications also has interests in
telecommunications, broadcasting and mobile communications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Communist Party Identity Crisis
   Shapes Debate at Soviet Congress
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- "Ten days, for . . . what?"
   That irreverent headline in a Moscow youth newspaper this
week aptly summed up the mood of crisis pervading the Soviet
Communist Party's 28th Congress. Rather than setting
grandiose and unrealistic goals for Soviet society, as such
meetings used to do, the congress is engaged in a
hand-wringing debate about the party's declining influence
and ideological vacuum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Contrary to some expectations, the meeting hasn't turned
into an all-out attack on Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev,
though both he and his Politburo colleagues have taken sharp
criticism. Instead, moderates and hard-line conservatives
have embarked on a painful search for ways to ensure the
future of a party that used to boast it was the future.
   "We need to retain socialism, but how?" asks Alexander
Bolatov, a moderate delegate from the Ukrainian coal-mining
town of Donetsk. "Stalin built his model. Now we don't like
that, but we have no new model. We're in an ideological
crisis."
   The message from conservatives is similar, if differently
phrased. "One of the most important tasks today is the
defense of socialist and communist ideals," Mukhu Aliyev told
the congress yesterday, to loud applause. "Under the guise of
reform, the party is being pushed out of the political
arena."
   The delegates have much to fret about. Under Mr.
Gorbachev's perestroika reform program, the party has given
up its political monopoly and is gradually ceding power to
elected government councils. Its domestic reputation is at an
all-time low; recent polls show most people blame it for
their economic and social ills.
   Even the working class it long claimed to represent has
lost faith. Next week, miners plan a one-day nationwide
strike to demand, among other things, the nationalization of
all Communist Party property and an end to party influence in
factories, the KGB, army and police.
   A lunchtime conversation echoes a constant refrain:
   "The working class is the basis of the party. How come
there are so few workers among the delegates?" asks a Soviet
journalist, puzzled by the preponderance of full-time party
hacks at the congress.
   "When workers start delving into politics, there's
something wrong in society," replies Vladimir Sarostov. He
works at a glass factory in Byelorussia, one of just 541
workers among the 4,700 delegates. Peasants, another
constituency long claimed by the party, account for just 255
delegates. In the past, a quota system would have ensured
that many more representatives of the working class showed
up. This time, in a semblance of democracy, congress
delegates were elected instead. Workers either didn't stand
for election, or lost.
   The atmosphere at the congress is mainly subdued. Fearful
of exacerbating a growing split that could speed the party's
demise, conservatives have stopped gunning for Mr. Gorbachev.
Even some of his fiercest critics, such as Boris Gidaspov,
the Leningrad Communist chief, and Ivan Polozkov, head of the
newly created Russian Communist Party, say they want him to
stay on as party leader.
   But there are flashes of anger. Vadim Medvedev, the
party's ideology chief, is a prime target. Conservatives and
moderates alike criticize him for his pomposity and lack of
ideas. "Comrade Medvedev appears incapable of forming new
debate on ideology," said Yuri Prokofiev, head of the party's
Moscow branch.
   Few give Mr. Medvedev much chance of being reappointed to
the 11-man Politburo when the congress elects party leaders
next week. But if he goes, he will be in good company. Three
Politburo colleagues, Vitaly Vorotnikov, Nikolai Slyunkov and
junior member Alexandra Biryukova, have announced plans to
retire. Four others hint that their days in the party
leadership are numbered: Gorbachev confidant Alexander
Yakovlev; Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov; Foreign Minister
Eduard Shevardnadze; and Lev Zaikov, who is in charge of
military industry.
   If they carry through, Messrs. Yakovlev and Shevardnadze,
and perhaps Mr. Ryzhkov, would still wield power in their
government posts and as members of the presidential council.
But the fact that such important people could even consider
giving up their party posts is a clear sign of the decline of
Communist power.
   Still, the party can't be written off. The conservative
majority at the congress is showing signs of making a stand
against Mr. Gorbachev's plans to introduce market-oriented
economic reform. If the congress withholds its support, Mr.
Gorbachev would have difficulty pressing ahead.
   Many delegates equate the idea of a market economy with
capitalism. But they concede that decades of socialist
planning have failed to provide the people with basic
necessities. So something has to change, they say.
   "You need to convince people why the market is the
savior," says Alexander Kapto, who heads the Central
Committee's ideological department. It is a task that turns
ideology into mental gymnastics.
   "A market economy doesn't have to be capitalist," says Mr.
Bolatov, the delegate from Donetsk. How so? "You could have
production on a market basis," he says after thinking for a
bit, "and distribution on a socialist one."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.:
   Restructuring Accord Set
   By Pickands Mather &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CLF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. said its Pickands Mather &amp; Co. unit
agreed to restructure the ownership and operation of the
jointly run Savage River iron ore mines in Australia.
   Terms weren't disclosed. But Cleveland-Cliffs, a
Cleveland-based iron ore mining concern, said the transaction
would have a "material effect" on its financial position and
its current year operating results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Savage River properties are a joint venture managed by
Pickands Mather in Tasmania. Under the restructuring accord,
effective Oct. 1, Pickands Mather will acquire 100% of the
interests of the current Australian, U.S. and Japanese
participants, including the 36% interest of a company
affiliate.
   In turn, Pickands Mather said it agreed to reduce iron ore
production to 1.3 million tons, from the current capacity of
2.5 million tons. Operations are expected to continue through
1995, with production, mostly iron ore pellets, being
marketed to customers in Australia, Japan and Korea.
   Continued operation will maintain about 300 jobs,
Cleveland-Cliffs said.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CLEVELAND-CLIFFS Inc. said a transaction to restructure
ownership of the Savage River iron ore mines in Australia
would not have a "material effect" on the company's financial
position or operating results. An earlier edition misstated
the company's position.
   (WSJ July 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BEI Electronics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   BEII WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BEI ELECTRONICS Inc. (San Francisco) -- Peter G. Paraskos
was named chief executive officer of this technology company.
He succeeds George S. Brown, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Vision for 1990s
   Spotlights `Human Values'
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Ministry of International Trade and Industry
released its vision for the 1990s, with a general theme of
"creating human values in the global age."
   The document, as expected, professes a shift from visions
for the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, which focused on Japan's
economic growth and international competitiveness. Skeptics,
however, question whether the agency, which many credit with
helping coordinate Japan's rapid industrial rise, has really
changed its basic policies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The statement says the ministry's three main objectives
for the 1990s are to "contribute to international society and
promote internal reforms;" to "improve the quality of life
for the Japanese people;" and to "secure the foundations of
long-term economic growth."
   To support those goals, the ministry calls for major
changes in Japan's domestic economy, such as shortening
working hours, cutting land prices and encouraging imports.
   It also calls for Japan to play a more active
international role, particularly in environmental and Third
World development issues. It says Japan should become "a new,
powerful, and creative standard bearer" for the world.
   To help sustain Japan's domestic economy, the vision
statement calls for improving Japan's "information
infrastructure" by promoting the more widespread use of
technology.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Procordia AB:
   Swedish Company Acquires
   Danish Confectionery Maker
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.PRC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sweden's Procordia AB continued its push into European
confectionery by acquiring Danish candy maker Benzon Brands
AS.
   Benzon Brands, a unit of Danish holding concern Monberg &amp;
Thorsen Holdings, is the third European candy company snapped
up by Procordia in the past 18 months. The acquisition brings
Procordia a new brand of product, Sorbits chewing gum, plus
bases in Holland and Belgium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms weren't disclosed. Procordia officials said the
purchase price was less than Benzon Brands' 1989 sales of 450
million Danish kroner ($71.2 million) but declined to
elaborate, citing a pledge of confidentiality given to the
Danish seller.
   The relatively modest price fetched by Benzon Brands' core
candy operations reflect dwindling profit in recent years.
According to Procordia officials, Benzon Brands' pretax
profit fell 52% last year to 24 million kroner from 50
million kroner the previous year.
   Besides confectionery, Benzon Brands also makes skin-care
and hair-care products, which account for about a fifth of
sales. Those activities will be shifted to a division at
Procordia's drug unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Shares End Higher After Late Sell-Off;
   Stocks Fall in London, Advance in Frankfurt
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices were slightly firmer Wednesday,
declining from midday highs on index-linked selling in late
afternoon trading.
   Stocks in London closed lower on mounting concern about
the strengthening pound and the continued spate of corporate
profit downgradings, while Frankfurt shares rose on support
of a successful start to monetary union with East Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues, which
gained 254.37 points Tuesday, rose 31.32 points to close at
32445.92.
   In early trading Thursday, the Nikkei index was up 21.14
points at 32467.06.
   Wednesday's volume on the first section was estimated at
550 million shares, up from 466 million shares Tuesday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues 641 to 324,
while 160 issues remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section, which gained 0.78 points Tuesday, was up 13.87
points, or 0.59%, at 2363.35.
   The second section index, which advanced 13.77 points
Tuesday, was up 19.17 points, or 0.46%, to close at 4222.84.
   Volume in the second section was estimated at 28 million
shares, up from 21 million shares Tuesday.
   The Nikkei index rose 213 points during the first half
hour of the morning session. The strength of the yen favored
domestic demand-related shares, while prompting profit-taking
on export-oriented high-technology shares, which had been
bought in the past weeks on expectations that the yen's
weakness would push up their earnings, traders said.
   "But buying didn't continue," said Hiroyuki Murai, general
manager of stock trading at Nikko Securities.
   Gains made for the domestic demandrelated shares prompted
selling by institutional investors, who hold these issues by
heavy volume, traders said.
   Concern about an official discount rate increase by the
Bank of Japan has gradually been slackened this week, helped
by the central bank's recent stance, which is perceived as
neutral in controlling market interest rates, said a senior
trader at Wako Securities.
   Meanwhile, most investors -- institutions in particular --
continued to hold off from buying, traders said, because the
future of German economic conditions after Sunday's monetary
union and results of the Soviet Communist Party conference,
which will last until July 13, are unclear.
   High-priced, high-technology shares were broadly lower.
Fanuc fell 120 yen to 7,700 yen (80 cents to $51), and
Kyocera lost 230 yen to 8,850 yen.
   Sony lost 120 yen to 8,750 yen, while TDK fell 100 yen to
7,400 yen and Pioneer dropped 90 yen to 6,350 yen.
   Construction and development stocks were firmer on the
day. Ohbayashi rose 30 yen to 1,690 yen, Taisei added 20 yen
to 1,360 yen and Shimizu rose 20 yen to 2,130 yen.
   Kajima rose 30 yen to 1,990 yen, and Kumagai Gumi rose 20
yen to 1,160 yen.
   In London, the market started the session easier, with
initial losses ascribed to Barclay's de Zoete Wedd
downgrading RTZ's profit forecast.
   The pound's continued strength, with the currency standing
at a 16-month high vs. the dollar, heightened nervousness
about stocks with considerable overseas business, prompting
some sell activity.
   "People are concerned that, on a currency translation
basis, a number of overseas earners will be disadvantaged by
the strong pound," said one dealer.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Index, which fell
0.3 points Tuesday, ended down 16.2 points at 2355.5.
   The narrower Financial Times-Stock Exchange 30-Index,
which fell 1.9 points Tuesday, ended down 13.6 points, at
1881.1.
   Dealers said if company profit warnings and downgradings
continue at the current pace, the uncertainty in the market
will continue to prevail.
   Leading stocks to fall on currency worries included
Reckitt &amp; Colman, which eased 29 pence to #12.65 (51 cents to
$22.40). RTZ ended down 22 pence at 541 pence.
   A profit downgrading of P&amp;O by James Capel sent that
company's share price down 21 pence to 628 pence. A James
Capel source said that P&amp;O's operations were similar to
Trafalgar House, which was downgraded earlier in the week.
   The only sector to show gains Wednesday was clearing
banks, with Midland leading, ending up 6 pence at 295 pence
on rumors of a bullish statement by the chairman of Hong Kong
&amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. about a possible merger with Midland
by year end. The report was refuted by both banks.
   Total turnover during the session was 353 million shares,
down from an equally modest 449.9 million shares on Tuesday.
   Share prices on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange gained 1% in
lively trading. The German Stock Index, or DAX, jumped 18.90
to 1925.13.
   Traders said the market was led higher by financial
issues, which were basking in the glow of a stronger bond
market. Market operators are optimistic about the acceptance
of the German Unity Bond, and say that a successful launch of
the unity bond could be a signal for even higher prices in
coming weeks.
   Dresdner Bank jumped 15 marks to 449.50 marks (9 cents to
$272.08), Deutsche Bank added 10.50 marks to 818.50 marks,
and Commerzbank gained 7 marks to 293 marks.
   The banking sector had lagged the market this year as
fears of a rapid surge in interest rates at the start of
1990, due in large part to worries about the costs of
unification and monetary union, weighed against their share
prices.
   But with monetary union passing its first start-up hurdles
without any major hitches, and with German central bank
officials sounding much more optimistic about inflation being
under control, pressures are easing, dealers say.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Zurich, Stockholm
and Madrid; lower in Paris and Milan; and mixed in Brussels
and Amsterdam. South African gold stocks closed mixed.
   Share prices closed lower in Taipei, Manila and Seoul,
higher in Sydney, Wellington and Singapore and stable in Hong
Kong.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                    Jul 3    Jul 2    Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ...........................   332.8    332.3   +  2.4
 Britain ........................   707.2    707.5   -  1.9
 Canada .........................   391.3    389.5   -  9.5
 Japan ..........................  1307.7   1307.8   - 21.0
 France .........................   567.7    567.8   +  0.1
 Germany ........................   307.4    306.7   +  7.7
 Hong Kong ......................  2498.7   2470.7   + 19.2
 Switzerland ....................   227.9    225.9   +  3.2
 Australia ......................   311.4    308.0   -  6.0
 World index ....................   524.0    523.0   -  7.6
   ---
                   Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                          CLOSE    %CHG
                                                                                                       

                        WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Foxboro (U.S.) .......................    51.375   + 34.8
 Tasek Cement (Mal) (Singapore) .......     3.327   + 23.0
 M/A-Com (U.S.) .......................     5.375   + 22.9
 Metana Minerals (Australia) ..........     0.55    + 19.6

 Kokusai Kogyo (Japan) ................  2610       + 18.1
 Nagasakiya (Japan) ...................  5990       + 17.5
 Yokogawa Bridge Works (Japan) ........  3120       + 16.2
 Tucson Electric Power (U.S.) .........    12.625   + 16.1
 Evergo Int'l Holdings (Hong Kong) ....     4.1     + 15.5
                                                                                                       

                       LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Bell Resources (Australia) ...........     0.19    - 32.1
 Western Union (U.S.) .................     0.5     - 27.3
 AWA (Australia) ......................     0.41    - 26.8
 Burton Group (Britain) ...............     1.185   - 25.0
 Clf Yeoman (Ireland) .................     0.85    - 27.7
 Caterpillar (U.S.) ...................    52.375   - 17.5
 Next (Britain) .......................     0.47    - 16.1
 Carroll (PJ) (Britain) ...............     1.18    - 15.7
 Canada Packers (Canada) ..............    10.75    - 15.7
 Northern Star Holdings (Australia) ...     0.11    - 15.4
                                                                                                       

 Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- GLI Holding Co.:
   Greyhound Creditors Seek
   Change of Venue to Dallas
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group of major creditors in the Greyhound Lines Inc.
federal bankruptcy case filed a change of venue motion
seeking to move the Chapter 11 proceedings from Brownsville,
Texas, to Dallas, headquarters of GLI Holding Co., parent
company of Greyhound and five other subsidiaries involved in
the case.
   The creditors' group includes Security Pacific Business
Credit Inc., a unit of Security Pacific Corp., and other
secured lenders who had provided Greyhound with $50 million
in term loans and a $110 million revolving credit facility
prior to Greyhound's Chapter 11 filing last month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Security Pacific group alleges that the
Brownsville-based Eagle Manufacturing Company Inc., one of
the GLI units involved, accounts for only a small percentage
of GLI's revenue and that most of the corporation's
executives and business records are in Dallas.
   Arguing that the Eagle plant represents one of the
country's largest concentrations of GLI employees, Greyhound
attorneys said they would oppose the move. No hearings have
been scheduled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Weather Alert:
   Florida Has Been Dry
   For Years, Prompting
   Fears of Climate Shift
   ---
   Some Experts -- Not All -- Say
   Massive Swamp Drainage
   Reduces Local Rainstorms
   ---
   Alarm for a Go-Go Economy
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   After scouting the great South Florida swamp in 1905, Gov.
Napolean Bonaparte Broward proposed a plan of conquest. By
building a system of canals to drain four feet of water from
flood-prone Lake Okeechobee, Florida could gain as much new
farmland as all the land then under cultivation in the state.
   And with the drainage extended south to the Everglades, he
told the state Legislature, "ultimately about six million
acres of the finest land in the country would be rendered
cultivable -- an area capable of producing the entire tonnage
of cane sugar produced in this country."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And so the muck was won. For 50 years, state and federal
engineers diked and dug along Florida's southeast coast, from
Palm Beach County in the north to Dade County in the south.
They spent $30 million building 1,400 miles of canals, 2,000
floodgates and 19 pumping stations. The results were
extraordinary: A vast expanse of teeming raw nature became
dry land for crops, providing irrigation and drinking water
for millions of new inhabitants.
   Now, however, nature may be biting back. The Florida
peninsula, in spite of some recent rains, is suffering
through the second year of its worst drought in decades. This
comes on the heels of a nearly 30-year spell during which
South Florida's rainfall has averaged 10% below normal. And
now the huge flood-control project that made possible the
region's boom is at the center of a scientific controversy:
Have the man-made changes in terrain affected the very
climate of South Florida?
   At first glance, the notion seems silly. Florida has water
on three sides, so how could draining part of its surface
make a difference? And anyway, climates aren't the sort of
thing especially amenable to human influence, to say the
least. Many Floridians dismiss the proposal out of hand.
   What's significant, however, is the number and stature of
those who don't. A vanguard of experts, some buttressed by
exhaustive studies, suggest that draining South Florida's
wetlands has made the region permanently drier.
   There are two basic sources of rainfall, here as
elsewhere: large disturbances, or fronts, that crisscross the
globe (and show up on TV-news satellite photos); and local,
so-called meso-scale thunderstorms, which build on hot days
and come crashing down in the late afternoon.
   Local storms normally account for much of South Florida's
rainfall. The current drought involves declines of both kinds
of storms. But in the 10%-below-normal rainfall noted since
1960, the deficit has been mostly in the local, meso-scale
variety.
   Most of the water in those local clouds comes from the
Atlantic or Gulf of Mexico via sea breezes. But, some
scientists contend, the sea breezes are more likely to turn
into rainstorms if they get saturated, at low altitude, by
water evaporating from below. If the land below is dry, less
water vapor rises to meet the breezes than if the land is
marshy.
   Dry land also is hotter, as is the air above it. Over dry
land, these scientists say, clouds habitually form higher in
the sky, become less saturated -- and yield scantier
rainfall. "When you dry out a landscape, the lower
{atmospheric} layers don't have enough water vapor to form
clouds," contends H.T. Odum, a University of Florida
climatologist and an early researcher of this so-called rain
machine theory. "If the ground is dry, clouds form higher,
and it doesn't rain."
   There are probably as many weather and climate experts who
dismiss this theory as embrace it. "It is certainly appealing
to say that draining the wetlands has had an effect" on
rainfall, say Wayne C. Huber, a University of Florida
hydrologist. "Scientifically, I don't think it holds up."
   It is an issue of considerable importance. If South
Florida is getting permanently drier, the impact on the
region could be staggering. Already, salt water has begun
contaminating wells along both populous coasts, forcing
conservation measures in some areas and expenditures for
desalinization equipment. In April, a moratorium on new
water-use permits was imposed in 1,400 square miles east of
Tampa Bay and extending south to Sarasota. "We expect to see
water-quality deterioration all along the {west} coast" from
salt-water intrusion, says David Moore, of the Southwest
Florida Water Management District. The underground reservoir,
he says, "is being de-watered, and it isn't being recharged
by rainfall."
   Drainage, by removing the moderating effect of wetlands on
air temperatures, has also brought more winter frosts to the
area, scientists say, devastating huge citrus groves. As for
wildlife, "the Everglades National Park is in jeopardy of
becoming a biological desert," says Robert Chandler,
superintendent of the park, whose withered marshes were
ravaged by wildfires this spring. The park is home to 12
endangered animal species.
   Scientists debated the rain-machine theory about a decade
ago, during South Florida's last major drought. After weather
returned to near normal in the mid-1980s, the debate faded.
But research continued, with some disquieting results.
   In 1985, Colorado State University scientists Jeffery
McQueen and Roger Pielke devised an elaborate computer model
showing that thunderstorms form much more slowly over those
parts of South Florida containing dry land than over those
with wetlands.
   The following year, one alternative to the rain-machine
theory took a hit. That alternative holds that the long-term
rainfall decline is due to a drop in the number of tropical
storms and hurricanes passing over the area. But a 1986 study
found that the largest rainfall deficits had come in July, a
month that never has many hurricanes and tropical storms
anyway. The study's author was Cecil Palmer,
environmental-services coordinator for Polk County, east of
Tampa.
   Perhaps the most unsettling report was a study of what has
happened in a much larger area of wetlands drainage: the
Amazon. Computer simulations based on extensive historical
data suggest the Amazon's rainfall can be expected to decline
radically as drainage and deforestation proceed; then, as
rainfall dwindles, reforestation becomes nearly impossible.
The report, in the March issue of Science, is by researchers
at the University of Maryland's Center for
Ocean-Land-Atmosphere Interactions.
   Its lead author, J. Shukla, says the lessons would apply
to South Florida as well. "There's no doubt that meso-scale
climate is influenced by land changes," he says.
   The drought has renewed concern in Florida that something
big and irreversible is going on, and a growing chorus of
finger-pointing politicians, developers, farmers and
environmentalists is circling the state's water regulators in
a perverse sort of rain dance. Urbanites say farmers irrigate
too much. Farmers say the cities are growing too fast. Animal
advocates call both cities and farms enemies of Florida's
vanishing wildlife. And rain-machine scientists say the state
refuses to confront the real culprit: swamp drainage.
   "One of the most important needs now," says Everglades
superintendent Chandler, a rain-machine proponent, "is for a
thorough understanding of how the total Florida water system
really works."
   It used to be much easier to understand. Before the
drainage network was built, Lake Okeechobee would spill
southward in an annual flood that slowly flowed in a wide
"river of grass" into Florida Bay 100 miles away. The vast,
shallow marsh formed a rich wildlife habitat and prime
conditions for the evaporation/cloud-formation/rainfall
cycle. A century ago, more than 90% of South Florida was
swamp, compared with about half today.
   But now, the arbiter of water flow isn't the land's
natural contours but the South Florida Water Management
District. Its mandate, to protect urban and farm areas from
flooding, dates from a time when water and rain were seen as
threats to Florida civilization.
   Wildlife is low on today's priority list of water users.
"When I first came to South Florida, there used to be
literally millions of birds roosting in the trees and
marshes," says Gerald Parker, who, working for the U.S.
Geological Survey in the 1940s, first mapped Florida's water.
"Now, if you see a hundred birds while driving across the
state, it's a good day."
   In the two wildlife preserves carved from South Florida's
alluvial past, the Everglades National Park and Loxahatchee
National Wildlife Refuge near West Palm Beach, the marshes
are nearly dry. What little water would normally wash through
during drought is routed to farms for irrigation and into
canals to bolster the coastal water table against saltwater.
   The tradeoffs are stark. The number of alligators in the
Loxahatchee has fallen 40% in just two years; in the
Everglades it has plunged by more than two-thirds. In both
places, gators that survive -- generally larger, older ones
that have eaten many of the smaller offspring during the
drought -- are beginning their summer nesting season, and
rainfall is essential for their reproduction. The few wading
birds still to be seen in the dry saw grass are a vestigial
reminder of the giant flocks that once carpeted Floria's wet
green plains.
   The possibility that draining those plains has permanently
cut the fresh-water supply threatens the soul of this go-go
state: growth. The implications for development of all sorts
are so grave that state officials have shunned the issue,
contend scientists who have worked within state government
and at universities. Environmentalists, federal wildlife
managers and even county government officials claim that they
have tried for years to get the water districts and other
state agencies to finance research on rain patterns, but the
topic has been ignored, they say, and even suppressed.
   In the past three years, Mr. Palmer, the Polk County
official who did the rainfall studies, has urged the state's
legislature to initiate climatic research, but to no avail.
"Our universities are doing polar meteorology, tropical
meteorology, mountain meteorology -- most everything except
Florida meteorology," he says.
   Robert Livingston, a biologist who heads Florida State's
Center for Aquatic Research and Resource Management, claims
he was blackballed by state financing sources for focusing
his research on ecological issues. Until two years ago, he
says, the Florida Department of Environmental Regulation had
provided him with $100,000 to $300,000 a year for his work,
but the grants dried up after he released a critical report
on lakeside development. A spokesman for the department
denies Mr. Livingston was blackballed. "He's just one of many
people that we draw on as a research source," the spokesman
says.
   Within the South Florida Water Management District,
several scientists want more research, but management, which
serves a board appointed by a conservative governor and
dominated by agricultural and real-estate interests, ranks
"climate change planning" last on a list of 31 priorities.
The reason, says deputy executive director Thomas MacVicar,
is that "nobody has convinced us that, number one, it's a
real phenomenon, and number two, that we have any control
over it, assuming we could find the relationships."
   In Polk County, a key runoff area whose rainfall helps
supply the entire region, lake levels are down by as much as
30 feet. Housing built on the shores of Star Lake now lies
hundreds of feet from the water. Piers are high and dry.
   Water district officials say Polk County's water table has
been drawn down through heavy ground water pumping by citrus
growers, but the citrus growers blame the cities. "If we were
really serious about planning, we'd stop urban development
until we had something in place to correct the water
shortage," says James Griffiths, a farm lobbyist who has his
own explanation, with maps and drawings, of how urban wells
near the coast have lowered inland lakes. "I don't see any
evidence that we're thinking about the bigger picture," he
says.
   Agribusiness is also on the defensive in the Everglades
Agricultural Area just south of Lake Okeechobee, the plain of
muck and saw grass that inspired Gov. Broward's visions. It
is now one of the most productive cane-growing areas in the
world -- and the heaviest consumer of South Florida water.
But rain-machine scientists say diverting the "river of
grass" down canals to the coast not only dried out the
landscape but also caused the organic muck to oxidize and
condense in the sun, creating a permanent dip in the
three-inch-per-mile slope that once fell nearly perfectly all
the way to Florida Bay.
   The soil loss probably means agriculture is doomed in the
area within the next 20 years, most experts agree. Land in
the southern stretches is already being retired from farming.
But the river of grass will never return. If Lake Okeechobee
were allowed to flood its banks again, the soil subsidence
would cause the water to form a giant puddle to the south and
flow no further.
   "They'll probably try to restore the saw grass, the
waterlilies, the turtles, the alligators, the gar fish some
day," says Mr. Parker, the scientist who first mapped
Florida's water flows. "But the Everglades will never be
restored as long as there's the general feeling here in
Florida that water is the enemy of the people."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Enasa:
   Spain, West Germany Clear
   Spanish Truck Firm's Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   E.ENA EUROP G.MAN G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Spain's industry minister, Claudio Aranzadi, reached
agreement with West German government officials for the
planned sale of Spanish truck manufacturer Enasa to MAN AG
and Daimler-Benz AG, the Spanish government television
station said.
   Television de Espana said Enasa, whose full name is
Empresa Nacional de Autocamiones S.A., "will be sold" to the
two West German firms. The report didn't give any further
details, and an industry ministry spokesman said he couldn't
elaborate. Mr. Aranzadi is to hold further meetings with MAN
and Daimler-Benz officials today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the original sale agreement signed in December, MAN
was to take 60% of Enasa and Daimler-Benz 20%. The agreement
valued the Spanish truck manufacturer at 36 billion pesetas
($354.9 million).
   The agreement ran into opposition from the European
Commission and the West German cartel office on the grounds
that it infringed competition rules. The Spanish government
recently offered new proposals under which Enasa's operations
would be split into two divisions, to be run respectively by
MAN and Daimler-Benz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gold Price Jumps in Active Pre-Holiday Trading,
   But Some Analysts See Technical Factors at Work
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gold staged a pre-holiday rally Tuesday, but some analysts
said its move was due to technical conditions.
   Gold for August delivery gained $3.30 an ounce to settle
at $364.10 in active trading. Don Tierney, a precious metals
analyst at Stanley B. Bell &amp; Co. in New York, said the
strength was surprising for the day before a holiday. The
U.S. market was closed yesterday for Independence Day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Tierney said a lot of Tuesday's buying probably was
done by traders who didn't take profits Friday on short
positions they had sold in anticipation of price declines.
These traders, he said, probably didn't want the profits to
show up in their June or their second-quarter statements.
   Mr. Tierney also said gold may have gained strength
because traders in many Middle Eastern countries were
observing a four-day Muslim holiday that will not end until
today. "Investors believe that the massive selling in March,
May and June came from Middle Eastern interests," he said.
"They {were} taking some comfort from the holiday."
   Mr. Tierney noted that Tuesday was the fifth consecutive
day that gold had closed higher, with the rally lifting the
August contract by $11.20 an ounce since last Tuesday. The
next technical resistance point, he said, is $365 an ounce.
   Jeffrey Christian, managing director of CPM Group, a New
York-based metals research consultant, said gold rose because
it closed above $360 an ounce Monday.
   "It was simply follow-through buying," he said. "That's
the whole story."
   Other analysts attributed gold's strength to recent
weakness in the dollar, but Mr. Christian said that wasn't
much of a contributing factor.
   The silver market held modest gains for most of Tuesday's
session. But in the final two minutes of trading, heavy
selling drove prices down. September silver settled two cents
an ounce lower at $4.99 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Mr. Tierney said it was apparent that traders didn't want to
hold any silver positions over the holiday. Earlier, there
was evidence of covering of short positions and fund buying,
according to market technicians.
   Mr. Tierney also said a smaller-than-expected number of
delivery notices for silver against the expiring July
contract indicate some support for silver. "The fact that so
few notices are being delivered tells me that {traders
holding previously purchased contracts} want to acquire
silver bullion at these low prices," he said.
   Platinum traders wondered why strong cash prices for
rhodium, another metal in the platinum family, weren't
spilling over into their market. October platinum settled at
$494.40 an ounce, down 10 cents. Rhodium was rumored to have
traded at $5,000 an ounce Friday and above $7,000 an ounce
Tuesday. There is no futures market for rhodium, which is
used as a catalyst in emission-control units and in refining.
   Mr. Christian of CPM Group said such high prices for
rhodium are actually bearish for platinum. Traditionally, he
said, rhodium is mined as a byproduct of platinum, but that
relationship can become distorted under special conditions
such as those now occurring. He said the rhodium-producing
unit at the Rustenberg platinum mine in South Africa has been
experiencing technical problems in recent months and that
there have been problems lately at several other rhodium
refineries too.
   "That means the market was expecting several thousand
ounces of rhodium that never appeared," Mr. Christian said.
   Also affecting the relative prices of platinum and rhodium
is the ratio in which the two metals occur in the ore body
from which they are mined. According to Mr. Christian, one
ounce of rhodium is found for every 16 ounces of platinum in
the Merensky reef, the main platinum ore body in South
Africa. This ratio suggests that rhodium should sell for
about 16 times the price of platinum, he said, and the two
metals currently are approaching that price ratio.
   However, he said, there is an ore body called UG2 that
yields about one ounce of rhodium for every 4.6 ounces of
platinum. Therefore, "If platinum from the UG2 ore body is at
$500 an ounce, any time rhodium sells for more than $2,300
there is a strong incentive to mine rhodium and let platinum
be the byproduct," Mr. Christian said.
   Most platinum still comes from Merensky, he said, but
there is a definite shift toward mining the UG2 ore body
because of the higher concentration of rhodium. "Speculators
who understand the mining economics of these two metals look
at the high price of rhodium and conclude that it is not
bullish for platinum," Mr. Christian said.
   Several participants in the European metals trade noted
that the rally in rhodium took place on extremely small
volume. They said that if only a small amount of metal were
offered to the market it could cause a sharp sell-off.
   In other commodity markets Tuesday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Prices for July and August pork belly
futures contracts fell their daily limit of two cents a pound
on heavier-than-expected deliveries of frozen pork bellies to
contract holders. Many of the deliveries were thought to have
been made to speculators rather than commercial users,
according to Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling Research
Corp., Arlington Heights, Ill. That means the speculators are
likely to resell the bellies they have been stuck with,
further depressing prices, Mr. Morgan said. Pork bellies are
used in making bacon. July pork belly futures closed at 57.67
cents a pound, and August bellies closed at 55.77 cents a
pound. Monday was the first day deliveries could have been
made against holders of the July contract, but no deliveries
were made until Tuesday, analysts said. Support for pork
belly futures prices is likely to come from figures released
after the close of trading Tuesday, said Jerry Abbenhaus, a
futures analyst with A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc. in St. Louis.
He said the report of 3.6 million pounds of frozen bellies
moving out of warehouses last week was far above analysts'
estimates of one million to 2.5 million pounds. With
warehouse supplies dwindling more rapidly than expected,
futures prices are likely to rebound somewhat, Mr. Abbenhaus
said.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil futures prices finished slightly higher,
mostly in reaction to a strike by Norwegian offshore oil
workers. Wildcat strikes in defiance of a back-to-work order
from the Norwegian government and the workers' union have
kept crude prices from declining in the face of enormous
inventories and high output by Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries members. Roald Larsen, a Norwegian union
official, was quoted Tuesday as saying strikers were blocking
helicopter landing pads on some platforms to prevent relief
crews from landing. Norway's normal North Sea oil production
is about 1.6 million barrels a day. North Sea Brent crude for
August delivery rose 10 cents a barrel Tuesday to settle at
$15.97, while the August West Texas Intermediate contract
gained eight cents to close at $16.80 a barrel. A prolonged
strike would boost prices for North Sea oil and for other
crudes, especially the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate
and certain North African crudes, Lawrence Goldstein,
president of Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, said.
News that Saudi Arabia told customers in the Far East that
contract prices for August will be unchanged from July also
was viewed as supportive for prices. However, a report by the
American Petroleum Institute released after trading ended
Tuesday unexpectedly showed an increase in U.S. crude oil
inventories for last week. This report could overwhelm
short-term bullish sentiment, analysts said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Gain Slightly in Pre-Holiday Trading,
   Unaffected by Big U.S. Offerings Due Next Week
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SLCPC X.TMP EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices ended modestly higher in quiet
trading Tuesday, unaffected by news of three large government
bond offerings scheduled to be auctioned next week.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended more than 1/8
point higher, a gain of $1.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, eased to 8.38%. Corporate and
municipal bonds were unchanged to as much as 3/8 point higher
while mortgage-backed securities were little changed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following recommendations made by the Public Securities
Association, many bond dealers closed their trading desks at
2 p.m. on Tuesday, three hours earlier than usual. Financial
markets were closed all day Wednesday in observance of
Independence Day.
   Bond prices opened slightly lower Tuesday at levels
reached during overnight trading in Tokyo. But prices slowly
recuperated throughout the day and remained at the higher
levels even as the government announced it will sell $31
billion of securities next week.
   The Treasury Department said it will auction $5 billion of
30-year "bailout bonds" next Tuesday for the Resolution
Funding Corp., the federal agency that raises money to fund
the government's thrift bailout efforts.
   In preliminary "when-issued" trading activity, which
kicked off at noon Tuesday following the Refcorp
announcement, the 30-year bailout bonds were quoted at yields
of 8.81%, 0.40 percentage point higher than yields on the
Treasury's benchmark 30year bond.
   The government also said it will sell a record $18 billion
in short-term Treasury bills next Monday and a record $8
billion of seven-year Treasury notes next Wednesday.
   Bond prices held firm after the auction announcements,
apparently because so few dealers and investors were
available to trade on the news. Often, bond prices fall --
and yields rise -- when there is news of additional supply as
dealers cut prices and clear out existing securities to make
room for new securities.
   Analysts said the market remains vulnerable to such news,
even though the fallout from the approaching supply may not
be felt until later this week or even next week.
   "There is a fair amount of securities to bid on next
week," said Stephen Slifer, money market economist at
Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc. "Everywhere you
look there's supply, and there has to be some limit to how
much we can take with interest rates at current levels.
People could rebel a bit and push rates higher."
   Although the deluge of new supply has been a continuing
issue in the credit markets, of more immediate concern is the
June employment report.
   If the employment report is as weak or weaker than the
previous two monthly reports, some analysts believe the
Federal Reserve will come under pressure to ease interest
rates by reducing the federal funds rates. Federal funds, the
rate banks charge each other on overnight loans, is one of
the few interest rates that is directly influenced by the
Federal Reserve.
   Norman Robertson, chief economist at Mellon Bank Corp.,
expects employment growth in June to total around 100,000
workers (excluding temporary census workers), which he
considers weak enough to trigger an easing move by the Fed.
   "There is very little vitality in the economy," said Mr.
Robertson. He said that recent weak economic data, "coupled
with the hope of a deficit reduction package should persuade
the Fed that they can ease policy a little without running
the risk of inflation."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Most Treasury notes and bonds ended about 1/8 point higher
on Tuesday.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 103 28/32
to yield 8.38% on Tuesday compared with 103 23/32 to yield
8.40% on Monday.
   Short-term rates were slightly lower than levels set at
Monday's auction. The discount rate on three-month Treasury
bills ended at about 7.70% for a bond equivalent yield of
7.94%, down from a rate of 7.73% to yield 7.99% at Monday's
auction. The discount rate on six-month Treasury bills ended
at 7.59% for a bond equivalent yield of 7.98%, slightly lower
than Monday's auction rate of 7.60% and yield of 8.01%.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The junk bonds of TW Food Services Inc. posted solid gains
on news that the firm's holding company refinanced part of
its bank debt. Junk bonds are high-yield, high-risk corporate
securities that have low credit ratings or no credit rating
at all.
   Analysts said news of the refinancing package boosted bond
prices by removing near-term concerns about TW Holding Inc.'s
ability to make future bank payments.
   TW Food Services's 17% senior subordinated debentures, due
in 2001, ended the day at 49 1/2, up one point. The 15%
subordinated debentures, maturing in 2001, also rose one
point to 100 1/4.
   The bonds of debt-strapped Southland Corp., which operates
the 7-Eleven convenience store chain, held on to gains made
early Tuesday after the company revised and sweetened a
debt-exchange offer.
   Under terms of the revised plan, Southland offered
bondholders and preferred stock holders 18 1/2% of the
company's common stock.
   Southland 15.75% senior subordinated notes, due in 1997,
ended one point higher at 23.
   The junk bonds of casinos operated by real estate
developer Donald Trump were mixed in light trading. Trump Taj
Mahal Funding Inc.'s 14% first-mortgage bonds due in 1998
finished the session at 52 1/2, down 3/8 point on the
American Stock Exchange.
   Trump Castle Funding Inc.'s 13.75% first-mortgage bonds
maturing in 1997 fell 1 5/8 points to 60 5/8. The Trump
Castle second-mortgage bonds maturing in 1999 gained 1 1/2
points to end the day at 38 1/2.
   In the broader market, most junk bonds were little
changed.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 3/8 point
higher, outperforming many other sectors of the bond market.
   Although trading was sluggish, some dealers said they were
impressed with the market's firm tone, which they attributed
partly to President Bush's call for tax revenue increases to
help trim the federal budget deficit. Speculation that taxes
are heading higher has boosted the appeal of tax-exempt
municipal bonds.
   In the new-issue market, Rhode Island and Providence
Plantation's $150 million general obligation tax anticipation
notes were priced by a Shawmut Bank group to yield 6%.
   In secondary trading, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
7.20% bonds due 2018 ended unchanged at 98 3/4 to yield
7.28%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   In foreign bond markets, the U.S. holiday helped make for
a largely subdued day in European trading.
   The major news in Europe was West Germany's expected
offering of German Unity Fund bonds. The proceeds from the
issue will be invested in East Germany.
   The German government issued of 6 billion marks ($3.63
billion) of 8.75% bonds due July 20, 2000, priced at 101 to
yield 8.60%.
   In Japan, government bond market ended firmer on a
stronger yen and rising expectations that there will be an
ease in U.S. monetary policy.
   At the close of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
yield on the benchmark 4.8% issue of 1999 was at 7.2%, down
0.85 percentage point from Tuesday's close. The price was up
0.40, at 86.95.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage-backed securities were virtually
unmoved.
   In the primary arena for mortgage-backed securities and
asset-backed issues, no new offerings were priced Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH AIDES are considering a plan to impose a tax of as
much as 0.5% on the sale of stocks, bonds, futures contracts
and other instruments. The securities industry is already
lobbying against the idea, which the White House sees as a
possible way of making a capital-gains tax cut palatable to
Democrats without boosting the top income-tax rate. Among tax
writers in Congress, Bentsen is interested in the proposal,
but Rostenkowski opposes it.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Falling interest rates will help avert a recession for at
least a year, according to a Wall Street Journal survey of 40
economists. But most forecasters warn of painfully slow
growth, increasing unemployment and tough times for many
industries.
                                                                                                       

   Factory orders increased 2.1% in May, making up for most
of April's decline. Durable goods, especially transportation
equipment, accounted for May's strength. Orders for
nondurable goods were flat.
   ---
   The dollar declined against most currencies in European
dealings yesterday, largely on technical selling. On Tuesday,
the U.S. stock market gained for the fifth day in a row,
while bonds rose modestly and gold rallied. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average went up 12.37 points to 2911.63.
   ---
   U.S. brokerage firms were profitable in the second period,
after two quarters of losses, analysts say. But earnings were
down from a year ago.
   ---
   Chrysler gave stock awards to its 1,800 top officials on
the condition that they stay with the auto maker until
January. The move, an effort to stem a surge in management
turnover, is intended to make up for the omission of
traditional cash bonuses this year.
   ---
   AT&amp;T agreed to buy most of Western Union's
electronic-messaging business for $180 million. The deal,
which requires regulatory approval and the completion of
Western Union's debt restructuring, would make AT&amp;T dominant
in the electronic-mail industry, with a 40% market share.
   ---
   McDonnell Douglas moved closer to selling 120 fighters to
Seoul, as South Korea and the U.S. appeared to resolve their
dispute over the deal.
   ---
   Microcom sharply lowered its results for the quarter ended
March 31, and said losses in the June quarter appear to be
much higher than expected. The disclosure suggests deepening
problems at the software and data communications concern.
   ---
   United Airlines unions recruited John Edwardson, a onetime
finance specialist at NWA, to be chief financial officer in
their bid to buy UAL.
   ---
   Massey named Don Blankenship, a tough anti-union manager,
to be president of the coal producer and heir apparent to the
company's chairman.
   ---
   S&amp;P downgraded $1.14 billion of debt issued by William
Farley's investment and manufacturing empire.
   ---
   Tuesday's Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 130,050,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2911.63, up 12.37; transportation 1140.51, off 3.65;
utilities 208.94, off 0.63.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3458.32, up
4.35.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.10, up 0.71; spot
index 133.90, up 0.70.
   Dollar: 150.90 yen, up 0.07; 1.6505 marks, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Talman Home Federal Savings:
   Investor Group Terminates
   $100 Million Purchase Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TLMN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Talman Home Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association of Chicago
said a private investor group terminated a previously
disclosed preliminary purchase offer of $10 a share, or $100
million.
   The investor group is led by Harrison I. Steans, who has
headed a number of Chicago-area bank holding companies in
recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Talman said Mr. Steans dropped the bid after he had a
chance to look at the company's books. The thrift said the
figures caused Mr. Steans to revise downward his original
earnings projections.
   Talman also said it anticipates that second-quarter
earnings will be lower than those in the first quarter,
primarily because of increased costs of funds. It said
earnings will also be hurt by expenses related to the
transaction that was terminated.
   In the first quarter of 1990, Talman Home had net income
of $4.5 million, or 47 cents a share.
   Talman's stock closed Tuesday in national over-the-counter
trading at $4.75 a share, down $2.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Siemens AG:
   Firm Formed From Nixdorf,
   Unit Will Be 78%-Owned
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE G.NIX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   West Germany's Siemens AG said it will own 78% of the
surviving company following the planned merger of its Data &amp;
Information Systems division with Nixdorf Computer AG.
   In April, Siemens acquired 51% of the voting shares of the
financially troubled West German computer group and plans to
merge it with the Data &amp; Information Systems division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger is scheduled to take effect Oct. 1.
   The resulting company, Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme
AG, would have world-wide sales of around 12 billion marks
($7.26 billion), making it one of Europe's largest
information technology groups.
   Under terms of the merger, Siemens will swap the Data &amp;
Information Systems unit for 26.3 million newly issued
Nixdorf voting shares carrying a total nominal value of 1.32
billion marks. Siemens already owns 11.2 million Nixdorf
voting shares.
   Siemens added that two independent auditors valued Nixdorf
at 3.02 billion marks, while the Siemens division was
estimated to be worth 7.1 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Aztar Corp.:
   Court Upholds a Judgment
   Over 1979 Tropicana Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AZTR
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aztar Corp. said the Nevada Supreme Court upheld a
judgment ordering the casino company to pay $33 million to
settle a contract dispute involving its 1979 purchase of the
Las Vegas Tropicana casino-hotel.
   Aztar, which changed its name from Ramada Inc. last year
after selling hotel and restaurant operations, said it may
petition for a rehearing. The Phoenix company posted a $33
million bond supported by a bank letter of credit after the
initial ruling in May 1989, but said the judgment would be
paid out of available company funds if the order stands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lower court awarded Hotel Conquistador Inc. and its
holders $14,225,000 with 14% interest from January 1982, plus
attorney's fees and other costs, in a dispute over the price
of the Tropicana.
   Harold Gewerter, an attorney for Hotel Conquistador and
holders including Mitzi Stauffer Briggs, Ed Doumani and
members of his family, said the judgment funds will
eventually wend their way into federal Bankruptcy Court,
which is overseeing a reorganization of Hotel Conquistador.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Mentor Graphics Says
   Results Were Lower
   In Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   MENT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Mentor Graphics Corp. said a surprising
slowdown in second-quarter orders resulted in profit and
revenue "significantly less" than anticipated.
   The announcement sent the company's stock plunging $4.375,
closing at $17.625 on volume of over 5.6 million shares in
national over-the-counter trading Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of computer-aided design systems said net income
was five cents to 10 cents a share on revenue of $100 million
to $103 million. Net was 29 cents a share on revenue of $106
million a year earlier. Earnings were restated to reflect the
acquisition of Silicon Compiler Systems in March.
   Analysts had projected that Mentor Graphics would earn
between 31 cents and 33 cents a share. Company officials
cited stiffening competition in the design automation field
from Hewlett-Packard Co., notably its recent announcement of
new generation workstations.
   Thomas Bruggere, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the company had predicted an uncertain year, citing an
"increased risk that order volume could be disrupted." Mr.
Bruggere added that he was "surprised by the severity of the
(earnings) shortfall."
   Allen Denison, an analyst with Black &amp; Co. in Portland,
Ore., said Mentor Graphics's problems, in part, reflect a
sluggishness in the high-tech industry in general. He said he
expects earnings to improve in the second half because of the
pending release of new computer systems and a new software
package.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Beeba's Creations Inc.:
   Company Plans to Liquidate
   Interests in Two Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BEBA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Beeba's Creations Inc. said it plans to liquidate its
minority interests in its two remaining offshore
manufacturing operations, resulting in a $4 million pre-tax
charge against earnings.
   The San Diego-based company also reported a net loss of
$5.3 million, or $1.19 a share, for the third quarter ended
May 31, compared with net income of $1.6 million, or 35 cents
a share, a year ago. The writeoff accounted for 53 cents a
share of the loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The importer and distributor of women's clothing blamed
its problems on decreasing gross margins caused by bankruptcy
filings by major retailers, poor weather, weak economic
conditions in several parts of the country and competitive
pressures.
   As a result, said Steven P. Wyandt, chief executive
officer, "The company has been unable to liquidate its spring
and summer inventory within season as in prior years and will
be forced to carry a significant portion of this inventory
into fiscal 1991."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hibernia Savings Bank:
   Dividend Omitted, Deficit
   To Be Posted for Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   HSBK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hibernia Savings Bank, citing troubled real estate loans,
said it will post losses for the second quarter and the first
half, and the Quincy, Mass., company omitted its quarterly
dividend.
   In the year-earlier second quarter, Hibernia earned
$108,992, or 14 cents a share, and in the 1989 first half,
had net income of $514,863, or 63 cents a share. It has been
paying a quarterly dividend of nine cents a share, last paid
in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank said "the continuing deterioration in the real
estate market, which has resulted in increases in the levels
of both nonperforming loans and other real estate owned,"
prompted it to allocate a special loan-loss provision of
$2,150,000 for the latest quarter; Hibernia said it would
have been profitable otherwise.
   As of Saturday, after recording the special loan-loss
provision, the bank's capital will be about 6.55%, while
regulatory capital will be 8.05%, and it met all regulatory
capital requirements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SSI Services Receives
   $540 Million Contract
   From the Air Force
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LK GE ROK ARV
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- SSI Services Inc. of Tullahoma, Tenn.,
received a $540 million Air Force contract for support of the
Arnold Engineering Development Center.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sverdrup Technology received a $300.1 million Air Force
contract for operating propulsion test facilities at the
Arnold Engineering Development Center.
                                                                                                       

   Calspan Corp. received a $276.5 million Air Force contract
for operating aerospace dynamics test facilities at the
Arnold Engineering Development Center. The center is the Air
Force's only facility for testing large rocket engines.
                                                                                                       

   Lockheed Corp. received a $188.4 million Air Force
contract for C-130 aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   STC Submarine Systems Inc. received a $40 million Navy
contract for fiber optic cables.
                                                                                                       

   Rockwell International Corp. received a $39.8 million Air
Force contract for communications equipment.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. received a $21.5 million Navy
contract for main reduction gears.
                                                                                                       

   Otomelara S.p.A, an Italian firm, received a $12.1 million
Navy contract for 76mm gun mounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Two Princeton Clubs Must Admit Women
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Edward Felsenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
INSURANCE (INS)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   New Jersey's highest court, ruling in an 11-year-old case,
ordered two Princeton University eating clubs to admit women.
   The decision came in the case of Sally B. Frank, a former
Princeton student who sued the university and three eating
clubs in 1979, claiming their males-only policies
discriminated against women.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. Frank, who graduated from Princeton and is now an
associate law professor at New York University Law School,
named the Ivy Club, the Tiger Inn and the University Cottage
Club in her suit. All three are among Princeton's five
"selective eating clubs," meaning they choose their members.
At the time of the suit they were the only three to
discriminate against women. The Cottage Club settled out of
court in 1988 and agreed to admit women.
   The suit, the first of its kind to reach a state supreme
court, argued that the clubs are a place of "public
accommodation" and therefore barred by New Jersey's Law
Against Discrimination from excluding members on the basis of
race, religion, handicap or sex.
   But the law provides an exception to places that are
purely "private" in character, and attorneys for the Ivy and
the Tiger maintained that the clubs fell within the
exception. All of Princeton's 13 eating clubs are similar to
fraternities: They are legally and financially independent of
the campus, serve as the primary dining halls for students
and provide social and recreational activities.
   The Tiger and Ivy are also highly selective in whom they
choose as new members. Forcing them to admit women, their
attorneys argued, would violate the members' right to freedom
of association.
   But the New Jersey Supreme Court unanimously held that the
clubs exist solely as part of Princeton, whether or not they
remain legally and financially independent. Since the
university is a place of public accommodation, the court
reasoned, the clubs also fall under the law: "The clubs
gather their membership from Princeton and, in turn, provide
the service of feeding Princeton students. Because of this,
the clubs lack the distinctively private nature that would
exempt them from the Law Against Discrimination," the court
said.
   Ms. Frank said she felt vindicated and satisfied by the
decision, though the clubs may still appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court.
   Ironically, students at both clubs voted to admit women
earlier this year but must vote in favor again next year for
the decision to become final. The decision on whether to
appeal, however, rests with each club's board of directors.
   Attorneys for both clubs said the clubs had the option of
admitting women and still appealing the ruling to test its
constitutionality.
   ---
   LIABILITY INSURANCE policy may cover subcontractors' work,
court says.
   A California state appeals court reversed a lower-court
decision that would have allowed an insurance company to
avoid paying up on a property damage claim because the damage
was allegedly caused by subcontractors. The insurance
company, Maryland Casualty Co., Baltimore, argued that the
policy's coverage excluded the subcontractors' work.
   The opinion appears to weaken the ability of California
insurance companies to refuse coverage for certain types of
property damage claims. The court said that "in the absence
of unambiguous policy terms we are not inclined to restrict
the risks for which businesses may obtain insurance."
   The case began when a group of condominium owners in
Carlsbad, Calif., filed complaints against the condominium
developers, Roundtree Condominiums, and the project's general
contractor, DMF Construction Inc., San Diego. The complaints
alleged that construction defects and the shifting of soil
were damaging the condominiums and reducing their value.
   Maryland Casualty, which had issued comprehensive general
liability policies to Roundtree and DMF, sought a court order
that the terms of the policies didn't require it to defend
the firms or pay claims on their behalf in the suit by the
condominium owners.
   Robert Coffin, a lawyer who represented Maryland Casualty,
said, "This decision places the insurers at risk for the cost
in many cases of rebuilding the entire complex . . . which I
think is far beyond what was intended by the insurers when
they wrote these types of policies." He said no decision has
been made on whether to appeal.
   Kimberly Lewis of Kolodny &amp; Pressman in San Diego, a
lawyer for the general contractor and the developer, said
that the case was particularly significant because
"construction-defect cases are so rampant in California, and
people are always looking to California as leading the way on
how to interpret insurance."
   ---
   FINE &amp; AMBROGNE will dissolve, sending eight lawyers to
Eckert Seamans.
   Partners of the 52-lawyer Boston firm of Fine &amp; Ambrogne
voted unanimously to dissolve the firm as of July 20. Several
partners in the dissolving firm said its problems stemmed
more from political differences among partners than any
financial woes.
   The 200-lawyer Pittsburgh law firm Eckert Seamans Cherin &amp;
Mellott said that eight Fine &amp; Ambrogne lawyers will join the
firm. Kent May, Eckert Seamans's administrative partner, said
the firm, which has taken on about 30 new lawyers this year,
plans to continue expanding its Boston office.
   "With the {Boston} economy the way it is, other law firms
seem to be disintegrating in one fashion or another, which we
hope will make available good lawyers who need a home," Mr.
May said.
   ---
   DONALD TRUMP testifies on behalf of boxing promoter Don
King.
   The testimony was provided in federal court in Manhattan
in the promoter's contract dispute with heavyweight boxing
champion James "Buster" Douglas. Messrs. Trump and King have
worked together to stage several fights in an Atlantic City
casino owned by Mr. Trump.
   Fending off allegations that Mr. King had dealt
dishonestly with Mr. Douglas and others, Mr. Trump said, "He
is a good man, but a tough man. He tells me the truth."
   Mr. Trump's testimony also offered some revealing details
about how boxing deals are made. Mr. Trump said he and Mr.
King negotiated the purse and date of a rematch between Mr.
Douglas and exchamp Mike Tyson during the middle and late
rounds of their title fight last February.
   After Mr. Tyson was knocked out, Messrs. Trump and King
shook hands on the deal, Mr. Trump testified.
   ---
   PACIFIC MERGER: Carlsmith, Wichman, Case, Mukai &amp; Ichiki,
the largest law firm in Hawaii, is merging with Ball, Hunt,
Hart, Brown &amp; Baerwitz of Long Beach, Calif., and Los
Angeles. The new firm, Carlsmith, Ball, Wichman, Murray,
Case, Mukai &amp; Ichiki, will be based in Honolulu and include
175 attorneys. The firm will specialize in Pacific Rim
business transactions as well as international law.
   ---
   JORDEN &amp; SCHULTE, a Miami-based law firm, beefed up its
Washington, D.C., presence thorough a merger with the
eight-attorney firm of Burchette &amp; Associates. The new
70-attorney firm is called Jorden Schulte &amp; Burchette. The
merger includes three partners from Burchette &amp; Schulte, a
legal and government-relations firm-William H. Burchette,
Foster De Reitzes and Kenneth Lee. Jorden &amp; Schulte, which
has experienced some recent defections, said the move
reflects a longtime desire to increase its Washington
practice.
   ---
   DAVID A. BRAUN, former president of Polygram Records, is
leaving the Los Angeles law firm of Silverberg, Katz,
Thompson &amp; Braun to join New York-based Proskauer Rose Goetz
&amp; Mendelsohn as special counsel in Los Angeles. Malcolm A.
Wisemen, another entertainment law specialist at Silverberg,
will also join Proskauer, which has nearly 400 attorneys,
including 40 in Los Angeles. Says Richard Thompson, managing
partner at eight-lawyer Silverberg Katz: "David left under
amicable circumstances. . . . He wanted to be associated with
a bigger firm."
   ---
   Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this article.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SALLY B. FRANK, the plaintiff in a case in which two
Princeton University eating clubs were ordered to admit
women, is an associate law professor at New York Law School.
An article in the Legal Beat column yesterday incorrectly
identified her as an associate professor at New York
University Law School.
   (WSJ July 6, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Elusive Returns: How Your Funds Really Perform
   ---
   Taxes, Commissions
   Change Bottom Line
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MER MCIC WMX CHW HRC SHN TOY NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With mutual fund performance, what you see
isn't always what you get.
   Most surveys of fund performance provide investors with
only a rough approximation of what happens in the real world.
That's because they ignore the impact of taxes and sales
commissions paid by investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The total return numbers that you see plastered all over
the place are returns that virtually no investor ever gets,"
says Joe Mansueto, president of Morningstar Inc., a Chicago
mutual fund research firm. Once taxes and sales commissions
are figured in, a mutual fund's relative performance can look
dramatically better -- or drastically worse.
   Take Neuberger &amp; Berman Manhattan Fund. In mutual fund
surveys, the fund's performance looks good but not great. For
the 1980s, it showed a compound total return of 445%, making
it the decade's 43rd-ranked performer among mutual funds. But
after taxes and sales commissions, Manhattan turns out to
have been the decade's 11th best-performing fund.
   What was the secret of Manhattan's success? The fund's
edge came partly from the fact that it's a no-load fund,
which means investors can buy shares without paying a sales
commission.
   But Manhattan also got an edge during the 1980s from using
capital-loss carry-forwards. When Neuberger &amp; Berman acquired
Manhattan from CNA Financial Corp. in 1979, the fund had a
rotten record -- but it also had $70 million in capital-loss
carry-forwards, the result of numerous losing stock trades
during its years of poor performance. Under Neuberger &amp;
Berman, these loss carry-forwards were used to offset capital
gains realized by the fund, so that Manhattan didn't have to
make a capital gains distribution to its shareholders until
February 1986.
   How much was this nifty piece of tax sheltering worth?
Morningstar calculates that a Manhattan Fund shareholder
during the 1980s would have lost less than 17% of his gains
to Uncle Sam. By contrast, taxes and sales charges slashed an
estimated 35% from the average gain for stock fund investors.
   Morningstar took a look at the past decade's
top-performing funds to see how they stacked up after taxes
and sales charges. For each fund, Morningstar presumed that
an investor opened an account at the start of 1980 and paid
today's full sales commission, if any.
   Each year, mutual funds are legally obliged to pay out
practically all dividends and net realized capital gains, on
which shareholders then pay taxes. Morningstar assumed these
gains were taxed at 28% and that shareholders met their tax
bill each year with money from their mutual fund accounts.
Morningstar then calculated what the value of the account
would have been at the end of the 1980s.
   The study also presumed that an investor decided to hang
on to his account at the end of the decade. If an investor
closed down his account instead, he would normally be liable
for further taxes. There are a few things that Morningstar's
figures don't take into account, such as the taxrate changes
over the past decade. But their numbers provide a more
realistic guide to fund performance than the more traditional
fund surveys do.
   Manhattan Fund now has used up its capital-loss
carry-forwards; these days, the group of funds with the
largest loss carry-forwards are the beaten-up junk bond
funds. But there are other ways for funds to cut their
shareholders' tax bills -- such as avoiding
high-dividend-yielding stocks and hanging on to winning stock
positions, thereby keeping portfolio turnover low.
   The past decade's top three performers -- Fidelity
Investments' Magellan Fund, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.'s Pacific
Fund and the Japan Fund managed by Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark
-- are still the top three after their returns are adjusted
for taxes and sales commissions. But some other top-ranking
funds slipped badly. Lindner Dividend, for instance, is
usually ranked as the past decade's ninth best of a total of
324 stock funds. But because the fund picks up hefty amounts
of dividend and interest income from high-yielding stocks and
junk bonds, which are then immediately taxable to its
holders, the fund slips to 24th on an after-tax basis.
   Robert Lange, a fund manager at Lindner Management, says
taxes are unavoidable given the fund's objective of providing
shareholders with current income. "We presume that people are
going to reach a point in their lives when they are going to
want income," Mr. Lange says. "When you reach that point, you
can't really avoid taxes."
   Many of the top funds on an after-tax basis are those that
pick up capital gains by buying and holding stocks that pay
little or no dividend. That's just what Albert Nicholas does
at Milwaukee's Nicholas Fund, a no-load mutual fund. "We have
a tendency to let our winners run, so we're not taking a lot
of capital gains," says Mr. Nicholas, who also says he
doesn't look for high-dividend-paying stocks: "We're more
growth-oriented. We want companies to reinvest their earnings
and grow more."
   Nicholas Fund has had positions for over a decade in
stocks such as Community Psychiatric Centers, Dean Foods Co.
and National Medical Enterprises Inc. Mr. Nicholas's
willingness to ride his winners means the fund had a low
portfolio turnover rate of just 28% a year during the 1980s.
   Low portfolio turnover also paid off for shareholders in
SLH Appreciation, which -- despite a 5% sales charge --
jumped from 45th to 12th place when taxes and sales load are
figured in.
   "Our largest holdings include things like Walt Disney and
Waste Management, where the yield is nominal," says Harold
Williamson, one of the fund's co-managers. "Current income is
not a focus of the fund. We tend to ride our winners. Many of
them we've held for five years or longer."
   But low turnover doesn't necessarily mean a fund is riding
its winners, nor does high turnover mean a fund is quickly
taking its capital gains. Japan Fund had average turnover of
just 31% in the 1980s, yet taxes put a hefty dent in its
total return. Twentieth Century Select, meanwhile, had
above-average turnover of 112% a year, but the fund looks
impressive on a post-tax basis.
   Another high-turnover fund, the no-load WPG Tudor Fund,
jumped from 32nd on an unadjusted basis to fifth place in
after-tax results.
   "We have a bifurcated holding period," says Melville
Straus, the fund's manager. "We'll have many stocks in there
for two or three years, and some for six months or less. We
try to take our losses early." Among the fund's longer-term
holdings are MCI Communications Corp., Waste Management Inc.,
Chemical Waste Management Inc., Healthsouth Rehabilitation
Corp., Shoney's Inc., Toys 'R' Us Inc. and Novell Inc.
   Instead of concentrating on a fund's turnover, says
Morningstar's Mr. Mansueto, investors might do better to
check the footnotes of a fund's annual report and see if the
fund has large unrealized gains. Those represent a potential
tax liability, but they may also mean that a fund tends to
stay with its winners.
   Though funds that buy high-dividend-yielding stocks look
relatively poor on an after-tax basis, "I don't know that you
should avoid those funds altogether," Mr. Mansueto says. One
way to avoid the tax liabilities generated by such funds is
to buy them for an individual retirement account.
   And what about funds that charge high sales commissions?
These charges can put a big dent in an investor's returns if
he only hangs onto a fund for one or two years. But for truly
long-term investors, Mr. Mansueto points out, taxes can be
much more significant. "Loads tend to get all the attention,"
he says. "Nobody ever looks at taxes."
   ---
     After Paying The Piper, It's A Very Different Tune
                                                                                                       

   Most mutual fund surveys ignore taxes and sales charges
when figuring performance results. But if you deduct those
two costs, a fund's result can change radically.
                                                                                                       

                                      Return
      Adjusted               10-Year  Adjusted

      Rank                   Return*  And Taxes**  ciency***
                                                                                                       

  1  (1) Fidelity Magellan   1,124%     780%         69%
  2  (2) Merrill Lynch
         Pacific               933      597          64
  3  (3) Japan Fund            801      502          63
  4 (11) 20th Century Select   542      442          81
  5 (32) WPG Tudor Fund        479      402          84
  6  (6) Lindner Fund          586      389          66
  7  (4) Phoenix Growth        618      388          63
  8 (12) G.T. Pacific Growth   540      384          71
  9 (34) Nicholas Fund         472      379          80
 10  (5) CGM Capital
         Development           614      373          61
 11 (43) Neuberger &amp; Berman
         Manhattan             445      370          83
 12 (45) SLH Appreciation      442      363          82
                                                                                                       

   *Total return, which is share price change plus dividends,
for 10 years ending Dec. 31, 1989
   **Assumes 28% tax on both dividends and capital gains;
taxes deducted at year-end
   ***Adjusted return as a percentage of total return
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morningstar Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Melville Corp. to Buy
   The Operating Assets
   Of Greenman Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MES GMN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   RYE, N.Y. -- Melville Corp. agreed to buy the operating
assets of Circus World Toy Stores Inc., a Greenman Bros. Inc.
subsidiary, for about $95 million.
   The transaction, which is subject to customary conditions
and regulatory approval, is expected to close in August.
Circus World currently operates 330 retail toy stores in 32
states, and its 1989 sales were $177.6 million. It will
become part of Melville's Kay-Bee division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Greenman Bros. said proceeds from the sale would be used
for repayment of bank and trade debt and for expansion, as
well as for other corporate purposes.
   Melville, one of the nation's largest specialty retailers
with interests in toys, apparel, prescription drugs and
footwear, had 1989 sales of $7.6 billion. Last year, Kay-Bee
sales totaled $724 million.
   The Circus World acquisition will be financed from
operating cash flow and existing lines of credit.
   Melville Corp. had earnings of $398 million in 1989. In
New York Stock Exchange composite trading Tuesday, Melville
shares closed at $53, up 75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pratt &amp; Whitney
   Recalls 38 Engines
   Used for Jet Planes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST HARTFORD, Conn. -- Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United
Technologies Corp., said it recalled all 38 of its new PW4000
engines for wide-body planes because of a compressor problem.
   A Pratt &amp; Whitney spokesman said that the company decided
to recall the engines after tests at Boeing Co. in Seattle
disclosed the problem that could cause an in-flight engine
shutdown. Although a few of the engines had been installed on
planes, none of the aircraft were in service, the spokesman
added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The recalled engines are part of a PW4000 "performance
improvement" package that Pratt &amp; Whitney introduced in
February and shipped to Boeing, McDonnell Douglas Corp., and
Airbus Industrie. Boeing plans to use the new PW-4000 engines
for its 747-400 and 767-300 jets. McDonnell Douglas and
Airbus will use the engines to power their MD-11 and A330
jets respectively.
   Pratt &amp; Whitney said the latest PW-4000 engines, which
have slight design modifications from its earlier PW-4000
engines, are being replaced by engines with the older design.
   The PW-4000, Pratt &amp; Whitney's most powerful engine,
accounted for about $4.7 billion in firm orders and options
in the year ended February.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Toughest Part of the Journey
   Is Portaging Down to the Atlantic
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   West Virginia, the Mountain State, may be going to sea.
   Ron Ingram quit his job as an insurance salesman two years
ago with a bold idea to promote his home state. He wants to
fly West Virginia's colors in the BOC Challenge, an
around-the-world sailing race.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But first he must find a boat.
   That's not easy in Appalachia. After all, landlocked West
Virginia is to nautical prowess what Jamaica is to
bobsledding. Mr. Ingram, 47 years old, expects to go out of
state to buy the 50-foot sloop he will need for the voyage.
   The race, which starts Sept. 15, covers a grueling 27,000
nautical miles over eight months, stopping on five
continents. The boats are sailed solo. But Mr. Ingram, who
grew up ocean sailing with his father and has continued to
sail as an adult, worries more about reaching the starting
line than the finish.
   To get there, he needs money. Lots of money. So far, his
group, The Spirit of West Virginia Inc., has raised only
$5,000 of the $350,000 he needs to compete. "That might buy
him a sail," says Peter Dunning of BOC Group PLC, a British
concern that sponsors the race. "We'd love to see him here,
but he's banging his head against a brick wall."
   The state's 35,000 PTA members offered to bail him out,
volunteering to raise funds. Pepsi and Seiko also climbed on
board, donating some promotional material, and the West
Virginia Tourism Office waded in.
   But Mark Schrader, director of the race, is dubious about
Mr. Ingram's chances: "He's swimming upstream."
   Even if Mr. Ingram comes up with the $350,000, he must
first sail the boat on a 4,000-nautical-mile qualifying run.
   Thirty boats have entered the race, from nine countries
and nine states. Except for a homemade number from Hungary,
the would-be West Virginia vessel seems to be the only
landlocked entry.
   Well, not entirely landlocked. West Virginians can reach
salt water by taking the Kanawha River to the Ohio to the
Mississippi, a mere 60-day jaunt. There's a shortcut through
the Atchfalya Swamp, Mr. Ingram says, "but you wouldn't want
to do that."
   Mr. Ingram thinks an appearance on the international
yachting scene could transform West Virginia's image. "About
all we're known for now is West Virginia University's
football team."
   Maybe you've heard of them: They're called the
Mountaineers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Atkinson Sells Interest in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ATKN DOW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -- Guy F. Atkinson Co., a
construction, manufacturing, and oil and gas exploration
concern, said it sold its interest in AWD Technologies Inc.,
an affiliated hazardous-waste remediation company, to Dow
Chemical Co., Midland, Mich. Terms of the sale, completed
last month, weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varlen Completes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VRLN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NAPERVILLE, Ill. -- Varlen Corp., which makes precision
industrial products, said it completed the acquisition of
Walter Herzog G.m.b.H., a West German maker of automated
laboratory-analysis equipment for the petroleum industry.
Terms of the cash transaction weren't disclosed.
   Varlen said Herzog has annual sales of about $15 million.
Herzog, based in Lauda-Konigshofen, is Varlen's first
overseas acquisition, and will be operated as an independent
subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Datron Acquires Unit of Vard
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DTSI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIMI VALLEY, Calif. -- Datron Systems Inc., which designs
and makes satellite communication systems and microwave
products for military and commercial uses, said it completed
the acquisition of Transco Products, a Camarillo, Calif.,
designer of microwave antennas and switches, from Vard
Newport Co., a holding company based in Burbank, Calif., for
about $10 million.
   Transco had sales of $22.9 million last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Investors
   Bid Stocks,
   Bonds Up
   ---
   DJIA Sets Fifth Rise
   In Row in Light Day;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors bid stock and bond prices higher
Tuesday, but without much enthusiasm as many traders took off
early for the Independence Day holiday.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its fifth
consecutive rise, gaining 12.37 points to 2911.63. Treasury
bond prices rose slightly and the dollar was mixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the stock market, investors continued searching for
"the earnings-reliable issues, while we wait to see how the
tax negotiations are resolved between Bush and the
Democrats," said Jack Solomon, market technician at Bear
Stearns.
   Though the Dow Jones industrials have climbed nearly 70
points, or 2.4%, in five sessions, Mr. Solomon said, "This is
one of the crummiest rallies I've ever seen."
   Among the best performers were shares of environmental and
chemical-control companies -- such as Waste Management and
Browning-Ferris Industries -- and pharmaceuticals and
health-case concerns -- a grouping that prompted Mr. Solomon
to remark, "It was a social-welfare Tuesday." Profit-taking
was evident in such technology stocks as Compaq and
International Business Machines.
   Activity is slipping even among the blue-chip stocks that
many investors have been favoring. Volume in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average's 30 stocks fell to 12.3 million shares
Monday and 13.9 million Tuesday from the roughly 20
million-share level of early to mid-June.
   Many investors are holding back now, awaiting tomorrow's
disclosure of the June employment report for signs of
continued economic sluggishness. Many investors hope that if
the unemployment rate inches up, the Federal Reserve will
ease interest rates to keep the recession at bay.
   The jobs report also is being awaited in the bond market,
where trading was very light Tuesday. Brian Fabbri, chief
economist at Midland Montagu Economics, suggested traders
won't make any major new moves until the report comes out.
Investors ignored news Tuesday of larger-than-expected
government debt offerings scheduled for next week.
   The dollar drifted lower Tuesday against some major
currencies, with the pound continuing to gain on the
expectation that the U.K. currency will soon become fully
integrated in the European Monetary System. The German mark
held its own, having survived monetary union.
   "As yet, the decline in the dollar hasn't hurt U.S.
security prices," said Mr. Fabbri. "I think partly because
what's gone on is endemic to individual countries."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in light volume of 130.1 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange. Advancers outnumbered
decliners, 834 to 650.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose one-eighth of a point, or $1.25 for each
$1,000 face amount. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond eased to 8.38%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading Tuesday,
the currency was unchanged at 1.6505 marks and rose to 150.90
yen from 150.83 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Want More Money Mr. Bush? Cut Taxes
   ----
   By Alan Reynolds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Those who spent the past week trying to divine the meaning
of President Bush's words on taxes focused on one phrase.
Early on -- the first time the issue came up publicly -- the
president acknowledged a need for greater "tax revenues."
Later, at the week's end, the president said that in his
negotiations to solve the budget problem a number of things
would be considered "including tax increases." The difference
here between "higher tax revenues" and "tax increases" is
crucial. The important fact is that, the government's new
posture notwithstanding, the two do not usually coincide.
   One way to raise tax revenues, Mr. Bush's first stated
goal, would be to cut the capital-gains tax. Ever since
maximum tax rates on capital gains were increased by 65%
after the 1986 reform, many more investors have preferred
immediate interest income to possible future gains. Companies
in recent years have catered to this preference by increasing
their debt/equity ratios through stock buybacks and leveraged
buy-outs. The result has been larger corporate interest
deductions, and therefore smaller taxable profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A lower capital-gains tax would therefore raise corporate
tax receipts by tilting the debt-equity decision back toward
equity, while making it possible for credit-constrained small
entrepreneurs to raise capital by selling stock. Interest
rates would be held down by the reduced business demand for
credit, as well as by the increased incentive for individuals
to hold taxable bonds for capital gains, thus reducing the
government's interest expense.
   A lower capital-gains tax would also increase the pace at
which capital gains were realized, raising revenues directly
as well as through the increased economic growth arising from
more efficient mobility of capital. It would bid up the value
of assets subject to the capital-gains tax and thus raise the
amount of taxable gain, move more venture capital out of
tax-exempt funds into the hands of taxable individuals, raise
personal incentives to save and to take longer-term risks and
greatly reduce the cost of the S&amp;L bailout by raising the
value of the thrifts' real estate and bonds. A lower
capital-gains tax could shave tens of billions off the
deficit.
   As the chart shows, inflation-adjusted federal revenues
have expanded at an unprecedented rate since fiscal 1983 (see
accompanying illustration -- WSJ July 5, 1990). Measured in
constant 1982 dollars, tax revenues were nearly stagnant
during the 1970s, hovering between $500 and $600 billion.
Since 1980, real federal revenues have increased by more than
one-third, Tax collections are about the same percentage of
GNP as they were 10 years ago, but, thanks largely to the
Reagan tax cuts, the U.S. economy is nearly one-third larger
largely because the 1980s were the years of important tax
cuts.
   If the government in 1980 had instead set out to increase
taxes by one-third average federal tax rates would have had
to have been increased by one-third. It is hard to believe
the economy could have grown at all in the 1980s under such
an onerous tax increase, much less experienced, as it did, a
huge increase in growth.
   Even a seemingly modest increase in tax rates on incomes
or sales can be selfdefeating. In the short run, it can cause
a recession. In the long run, it can slow economic growth.
Yet the U.S. government's own budgetary accountants' revenue
estimates from various increases in tax rates always assume
that taxes do no damage whatsoever to the economy.
   The Congressional Budget Office predicts, for example,
that a one percentage point increase in the corporate tax
rate would yield an extra $1.3 billion next year, on the
untenable assumption that it would have no effect on
corporate investment or employment. But if it really had no
effect, then an extra $65 billion could be collected by
simply raising the corporate tax rate to 84%. A $5 oil import
fee is likewise supposed to raise $7.7 billion on the
assumption that higher energy prices do no damage. If that
made sense, we could raise $65 billion by imposing an oil
import fee to raise prices to $60 a barrel.
   Consider a less-extreme example, the $3.8 billion that is
said to be available if the president and Democratic leaders
opt for what is currently a popular "budget fix": Raising
marginal tax rates on high-income families to 33% from 28%.
This is proposed as a "trade" for a lower capital-gains tax,
even though young professional couples with high salaries
often have negligible capital gains, while people nearing
retirement have large capital gains and small taxable
incomes. Since tax reform made the average tax rate virtually
the same as the marginal rate among the top-bracket
taxpayers, an increase of 5 percentage points in marginal
rates amounts to a brutal increase of nearly 18 percentage
points in average tax rates. That increase would amount to a
$10,000 added burden on a taxable income of $200,000.
   To avoid that, though, affected taxpayers would hold more
tax-exempt bonds and make greater use of the lower
alternative minimum tax; many more salaried people would
become self-employed; professionals would play more golf and
retire earlier. The alleged $3.8 billion revenue increase,
which assumes that people don't react to their taxes, would
soon turn out to be an "unexpected" loss.
   Raising the top tax rate to 33% could hurt the economy,
and therefore the budget, in many different ways. The higher
tax rate on interest income and dividends would raise
interest rates and sink the stock market by reducing the
demand for taxable securities. Those losses in the stock and
bond markets would in turn damage the budget (through higher
interest expense, lower capital-gains tax receipts, weak
taxable sales and profits due to reduced wealth, etc.). The
result of such a higher tax rate could easily widen the
budget deficit by tens of billions of dollars for many years
to come.
   The alleged beneficial effect of higher tax rates on
savings is another myth arising from static accounting. The
whole idea assumes that higher tax rates would in fact yield
higher revenues over time, that higher revenues would
actually be devoted to reduced deficits and that increasing
the government's revenue at the expense of the private sector
would not reduce the private sector's ability or willingness
to save. Not one of these assumptions is consistent with
experience. Instead, the ability of private households and
firms to save would be seriously undermined by higher tax
rates on what people earn or buy, and the value of U.S.
stocks, bonds and real estate would also be depressed by the
reduction in prospective after-tax returns.
   Actually, the U.S. has had some instructive experience
with trying to raise federal revenues by increasing the tax
share of GNP, rather than by increasing GNP itself. The first
major effort was in mid-1932, when individual income tax
rates were roughly tripled. Revenues subsequently fell by
16%. The next experiment was the surtax of 1969-70. Interest
rates rose sharply for many months after the higher rates
were imposed, falling only as the economy was shoved into a
recession that did not end until the surtax was removed.
   Then there were the unlegislated tax increases resulting
from inflation and "bracket creep" in 1974-75 and 1981-82,
when revenues once again declined with the contracting
economy. In fact, federal tax receipts have never exceeded
the current 19.6% of GNP since World War II without tipping
the economy into recession. The option of attaining
significant and sustained "tax revenue increases" through
higher tax rates is a politicians' illusion; it has never
worked.
   Couldn't the contractionary effect of higher tax rates by
offset be an easier monetary policy? Not really. Even if
higher tax rates generated more real revenue, which they do
not, it makes no sense to argue that smaller deficits justify
any easier monetary policy than would otherwise be
appropriate. This amounts to saying that if the government
sold fewer bonds, then it could safely print more money. But
bonds and money are not at all the same. Higher tax rates
would weaken the supply side of the economy, while an easy
money policy merely stimulates spending or "demand." The
result of that "policy mix" is always stagflation -- witness
Britain.
   There is actually only one way in which real tax revenues
can be significantly increased over the next decade, and that
is the same way that real revenues were increased over the
past decade -- namely, by increases in employment, profits,
capital gains and sales. That is why President Bush's
proposed "growth incentives"lower tax rates on capital gains
-- are not at all inconsistent with real and sustainable "tax
revenue increases." Higher tax rates, on the other hand, are
inconsistent with growth incentives, and therefore with the
preservation of the past decade's remarkable increase in real
revenues.
   ---
   Mr. Reynolds is director of economic research at the
Hudson Institute in Indianapolis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Niagara Exchange Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NIEX BKLY
</CO>
<LP>
   BUFFALO, N.Y. -- Niagara Exchange Corp. said that the New
York State Department of Insurance disallowed the purchase of
$8.2 million in preferred stock by W.R. Berkley Corp.
   The proposed sale of the 970,000 shares of preferred stock
had been designed, Niagara said, to help replace funds paid
out last year by a Niagara subsidiary on claims arising from
Hurricane Hugo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Niagara Chairman Charles J. Clauss said "management is
considering its options and responsibilities in light of the
insurance department's decision." The insurer, which writes
property and casualty insurance, did not elaborate on the
reasons for that decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cleveland-Cliffs to Post Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CLF
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Cleveland-Cliffs Inc., a natural resources
concern, said it will report a third-quarter gain of $2.6
million, or 22 cents a share, from the completion of its
previously announced $3.9 million sale of a unit's interests
in Kentucky coal reserves. A year earlier, the company earned
$16.5 million, or $1.42 a share, on revenue of $95 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Alliant Computer Systems Corp.:
   Company Expects to Post
   Loss for Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   ALNT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Alliant Computer Systems Corp., citing disappointing sales
of large systems and costs of introducing a new computer,
said it expects to report a second-quarter loss of eight to
12 cents a share on revenue of close to $20 million.
   In the year-ago period, the Littleton, Mass.-based company
had net income of $377,000, or three cents a share, on
revenue of $17 million. Alliant said analysts had been
predicting revenue of $23 million to $24 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue was hurt by "longer and more extensive" customer
testing of the company's new FX/2800 supercomputer and by "a
predominance of upgrade business," Alliant said.
   Alliant also said that Ronald Gruner, president and chief
executive, was named vice chairman and that Craig J. Mundie,
vice president, research and development, was named president
and chief operating officer. Mr. Gruner will continue as
chief executive officer.
   Mr. Mundie will be responsible for day-to-day operations
and will report to Mr. Gruner. Richard B. Goldman, recently
appointed chief financial officer, will assume the additional
position of treasurer, formerly held by Mr. Mundie.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   Daniel Lieberman Makes Sure
   That Wishes Can Come True
   ----
   By John D. Williams
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   DANIEL LIEBERMAN MAKES HIS LIVING selling bagels and
cheese in Mount Kisco, N.Y. But he lives his life devoting 30
hours or so every week to fulfilling the wishes of children
near death.
   Operating from the small office at the back of his
"Danny's Cheese Shop," the 39-year-old Mr. Lieberman presides
over the Hudson Valley chapter of the Make-A-Wish Foundation.
He also serves as one of 21 volunteer board members of the
national group, a nonprofit organization with 7,300
volunteers that has made wishes come true for more than
10,000 children since its founding in 1980 in Phoenix.
   Mr. Lieberman came to Make-A-Wish five years ago after
hearing about the group from a friend. The description of the
joy brought to seriously ill children, often near death, by
the grant of a single wish touched a nerve with the
bagel-shop proprietor. His own daughter, Rachel, had barely
survived major surgery at the age of five months, and the
45-day hospital vigil following her operation gave Mr.
Lieberman new appreciation for the life of a child.
   His chapter's first wish award went in January 1986 to
Joey, a 12-year-old suffering from leukemia, whose wish was
to visit his grandparents in Czechoslovakia. An airline
donated two tickets to Prague, and Mr. Lieberman's chapter
contributed $4,500 for two more tickets plus expenses for
Joey and three family members. Joey, seen smiling in a
picture on Mr. Lieberman's office wall, is 17 this year, his
leukemia in remission.
   Since then, the Hudson Valley group has worked to grant
the wishes of 350 children. Their stories don't always have a
happy ending, and there seems to be more of them every year.
It's a challenge for Mr. Lieberman and the 200 other
volunteers in his chapter. Two of the six phone lines in his
store are dedicated to "wish work"; he's even got a facsimile
machine, donated by a retired advertising executive, to keep
the wishes coming.
   It isn't hard for a child to qualify. A candidate must be
under age 18 and afflicted with a life-threatening illness;
nominees  come from a network of medical and social workers
and clergy. Financial hardship isn't a criteria. Parents who
could afford an elaborate last birthday party for their
stricken child can't cope with hiring a clown, explains Karla
Blomberg, president of the national group and owner of a real
estate company.
   Mr. Lieberman asks candidates, "If Christmas or your
birthday were tomorrow, what would you like?" Or, "If you
could do anything, what would it be?" Candidates can make
another wish if the first one is rejected. An 11-year-old
boy's wish for a  rifle was turned down because of its
potential harm, but he got his second wish, a trip to Disney
World. Also, the wish granted may not always be the wish
sought. The New York Mets, citing Major League Baseball rules
that restrict the dugout to team personnel, turned down a
boy's wish for a seat with the players but gave him four
season tickets instead.
   There's some formality: Volunteers have to be certain the
wish is the child's own; and a doctor must certify that the
child's life is threatened by an illness.
   Wishes run the gamut. David, 17, exchanged gifts with
President Bush in the Oval Office. Some ask to meet star
athletes or entertainers; others want a doll, a computer or a
shopping spree. There often isn't much time to comply. The
cost isn't high. Excluding donated items such as clothing and
transportation, the average cost of fulfilling a dying
child's dream is about $2,400.
   When he isn't granting wishes, Mr. Lieberman is raising
money to fund them. One big event is a June "bagel day" in
which Mr. Lieberman and other volunteers show up at 39
commuter train stations for three hours to hand out bagels
and cream cheese and accept Make-A-Wish donations. This
June's "bagel day" raised about $100,000, compared with
$4,100 in 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TCF Financial Corp.:
   Thrift Says It Had a Loss
   Of $32 Million in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TCB
</CO>
<LP>
   TCF Financial Corp. said it will report a $32 million loss
for the second quarter as a result of restructuring that
includes the termination of what it called "poorly conceived
expansion" efforts.
   The Minneapolis-based thrift institution said it will take
a $13.1 million write-off in closing its Texas unit, TCF Banc
Savings. Balance-sheet restructuring also includes the sale
of $137 million of mortgage-backed securities at a gain of
$10.1 million and the sale of $28 million of collateralized
mortgage obligations at a loss of $14.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We believe these actions bring to a close TCF's poorly
conceived expansion into Texas and the national commercial
lending markets, and will reduce interest rate risk," said
William A. Cooper, chairman and chief executive officer of
the thrift. He said TCF expects to return to profitability in
the second half.
   In the year-earlier second quarter, TCF earned $5.5
million, or 75 cents a share, which included gains from tax
benefits and a pension plan settlement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Airbus Industrie:
   Group Signs Pact to Deliver
   7 Planes to French Airline
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ASP G.MES U.BA E.CAF F.ABI
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Airbus Industrie said it signed a contract with French
airline Air Inter for delivery of seven Airbus Industrie
A321s and for options on another eight aircraft.
   In keeping with company policy, Airbus didn't disclose the
value of the contract. The latest published price for an A321
is between $40 million and $42 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Airbus said Air Inter also had exercised all of its
remaining options for A320s, bringing to 24 the number of
A320s Air Inter has ordered.
   The A321s will seat 210 passengers in an all-economy
layout, Airbus said. Both the A320s and the A321s will be
used for short routes.
   Airbus said total commitments for the A321 now stand at
185 from 10 customers. Combined firm orders for the A320 and
the A321 now total 607 from 28 customers.
   Airbus is a consortium of Aerospatiale of France,
Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm G.m.b.H of West Germany, British
Aerospace PLC and Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Enimont S.p.A.:
   Operating Earnings Plunge
   On Chemical-Industry Woes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.EMT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chemical joint venture Enimont S.p.A. reported a plunge in
first-half operating profit as the downturn in the world
chemical industry and the Italian company's continuing
internal problems took their toll.
   However the performance was broadly in line with the
company's own budget forecasts, and in some respects better
than anticipated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gross operating income fell to 937 billion lire ($772
million) in the first half of this year from 1.42 trillion
lire in the first six months of 1989, although it was only
slightly below the budget forecast of 955 billion lire.
   Sales slipped to 7.53 trillion lire from 8.21 trillion a
year earlier. Operating profit totaled 477 billion, compared
with a budget forecast of 491 billion and a first-half 1989
operating profit of 999 billion. Gross pretax income was 182
billion lire in the first six months of this year, above the
forecast 61 billion but well below the 693 billion recorded
in the first half of 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   Fiscal 1990 Pretax Earnings
   Rose 9.4% to $1.54 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GEL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Electric Co. of Britain said pretax profit for the
year ended March 31 increased 9.4% to #872 million ($1.54
billion) from #797 million a year earlier, boosted by strong
overseas sales and by acquisitions and alliances that the
electrical company built up during the fiscal year, but still
below market forecasts.
   GEC, which is unrelated to the U.S. company of the same
name, said profit after taxes and minority interests but
before extraordinary items rose 6.5% to #543 million from
#510 million. The latest period included a #139 million gain,
representing surplus from the sale of fixed-asset investments
to joint ventures, and year-earlier results had a #12 million
special provision. Per-share earnings rose 5.8% to 20.2 pence
from 19.1 pence. Net profit attributable to shareholders,
after taxes and special items, increased 38% to #433 million
from #314 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales jumped 32% to #8.79 billion from #6.66 billion.
   GEC is recommending a final dividend of 6.70 pence a
share, making a total payout for the year of 9.25 pence, up
19% from 7.80 pence a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Firm Exploration Spending Abroad
   Exceeds That in U.S. for the First Time
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- For the first time ever, oil companies are
spending more exploration dollars overseas than in the U.S.
and now hold more foreign crude reserves than domestic
reserves, an Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. study found.
   The movement overseas is part of a continuing shift in
emphasis that comes in the face of declining U.S. oil output
and expectations of "increased reliance on imports," said
Victor A. Burk, managing director of the oil practice at
Arthur Andersen, an accounting firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989, exploration and development spending by the 236
public companies in the survey rose 7% to $39.2 billion, the
third consecutive annual increase. A 20% rise in foreign
spending last year to $21.9 billion primarily accounted for
the overall rise in expenditures, Arthur Andersen said.
   Exploration overseas is done mostly by major companies,
but smaller ones are beginning to participate, too.
Generally, companies say, geology outside the U.S. favors the
potential for big discoveries, and tax treatment and other
inducements also can be more favorable.
   Arthur Andersen compiled 1989 data from Securities and
Exchange Commission filings from oil companies with more than
one million barrels of reserves. The vast majority of the
companies are based in the U.S., and a few are foreign but
have large U.S. reserves, such as British Petroleum Co., or
are Canadian.
   A decline of more than $8 a barrel in crude oil prices
this year and depressed natural gas prices won't slow the
exploration spending increases, Mr. Burk said, viewing them
as temporary. "Managements of most companies look at things
on a long-term basis," he said. "They look at things three to
five to 10 years ahead, and not what they see now."
   Many oil industry officials believe that world oil demand
will continue to grow and that production in many countries
will shrink, boosting prices in this decade. Arthur Andersen
estimated that U.S. oil production, for example, will drop by
400,000 barrels a day this year and by one million barrels a
day by 1995. Just since 1986, domestic output has fallen 17%,
or 1.8 million barrels a day.
   While production declines, U.S. demand will rise 1% a
year, or about one million barrels a day between now and
1995, the accounting firm predicted. Demand is growing more
rapidly elsewhere. Mr. Burk said that Japanese oil demand is
expanding about 4% annually, and that in developing countries
such as South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and Taiwan, growth
exceeds 6% a year.
   Mr. Burk said it is unclear what effect energy demand in
Eastern Europe may have on world oil markets in coming years,
though many specialists predict more growth if the economies
in that region expand. Oil production from the Soviet Union
fell about 300,000 to 400,000 barrels a day last year and a
similar decline is expected this year.
   But Mr. Burk said he doesn't expect another oil crisis.
"We are not in the same situation we were in in the 1970s,"
he said. This time, the oil producing countries, mostly in
the Middle East, "are looking for security of demand, just as
we are looking for security of supply," he said.
   The shift overseas by the largest companies has provided
opportunities for smaller ones in the U.S., and domestic
drilling activity is rising. "The environment we are in today
is the best environment we have seen for independents in four
or five years," Mr. Burk said.
   These smaller companies have been acquiring reserves and
acreage from major oil companies and have been able to use
technological advances and their already lower operating
costs to find new oil and gas opportunities, he said.
   The survey found that for the second consecutive year, the
industry increased its U.S. natural gas reserves, which rose
6% in 1989. This reflects increased gas drilling "based on
expectations gas prices will improve as demand increases in
coming years," Arthur Andersen said. U.S. gas output rose 4%
in 1989 to the highest level in five years, the survey found.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   On the Shoulders
   Of Mrs. Robinson
   The Future Rests
   ---
   Plastics, Recycled, Help Cows
   Give Milk, Create a Look;
   But How Much Is Hype?
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the movie "The Graduate," Dustin Hoffman receives some
neighborly advice: "Plastics." Get into a career in plastics.
Mr. Hoffman's character doesn't. Instead, he gets into an
affair with another neighbor's wife. No matter. To movie
audiences in the 1960s, "plastics" became what "advertising"
had been to an earlier generation: the future.
   Well, perhaps the film was ahead of its time. Perhaps
plastic, at least recycled plastic, is the future. Should
there be a "Post-Graduate" sequel, Mr. Hoffman might very
well be wearing it. The swimming pool might be lined with it.
And the famous Mrs. Robinson would surely be wearing shoulder
pads created from it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plastics people would have us believe that anything is
possible when it comes to recycling, and they are spending
millions of dollars to prove it.
   Who would believe, for instance, that Goodyear Tire &amp;
Rubber Co. would turn some fashion tricks and come up with
plastic threads? That company has created a suit made of
recycled plastic soda bottles -- the soft drinks Americans
consume at a rate of 12.4 billion gallons a year.
   Unlike cotton, silk or linen, plastic doesn't exactly
breathe. It isn't great looking, either. Imagine an itchy,
navy-blue polyester leisure suit, with matching navy-blue
polyester tie -- a kind of Smokey and the Bandit look gone
retro. Goodyear has donated this one-of-a-kind suit to
Ripley's Believe It or Not, which professes to be happy about
it. Doubtless it is the only suit that bears a Goodyear
label.
   Actually, Goodyear isn't that far off the mark. Real
fashion designers do incorporate PET (polyethylene
terephtalate) into some of their lesser lines. Bill Blass,
who dresses the First Lady from time to time, uses recycled
PET as stuffing in quilted comforters and bedspreads. It's
cheaper than virgin plastic and, naturally, goose down.
Shoulder pads are often made from PET fibers.
   King Glorious, a horse, wore knitted leg warmers with
recycled-PET padding. "It insulates better, holds its shape
better and costs only a fraction of regular felt padding,"
says Peter Armatto of Equine Textiles, the pads' Arcadia,
Calif., manufacturer. But who's going to rebut that -- Mr.
Glorious, now a happy stud?
   With some stretch of the imagination, this concept could
be pitched to Mikhail Baryshnikov, the ballet dancer, who has
a line of bodywear, for use in human leg warming.
   To cows, recycled plastic makes a more delightful and
delectable table setting than Limoges china. Farmers needn't
worry about breakage, nor be concerned about the acid that
drips from cow tongues, which helps pit cement mangers,
causing the feed to fall through the cracks. Just by covering
the cement with a sheet of recycled high-density polyethylene
(HDPE), Dan Stahl, in Luxemberg, Wis., has increased feed
consumption. Milk production then rose by 7% or 8%, or so he
says. Mr. Stahl, one of the pioneer users of HDPE, chose to
order his plastic sheet in black. But it comes in other
decorator colors.
   Humans sidling up to their own liquid mangers could
discover the miracle of modern recycling staring out at them
from the bottom of their highball glasses. For the bar of his
restaurant in West Palm Beach, Fla., John Pfleger wanted a
terrazzo-look. Instead of using bits of expensive black
marble embedded into Portland cement, Master Builders Inc. in
Cleveland cleverly salvaged some thermoplastic from car
bumpers, and voila] a terrazzo bar, with bits of black bumper
that look almost like the real thing. This terrazzo look is
often found on the kitchen floor, a kind of linoleum redux.
   For all its creative new uses, however, the future of
recycled plastic isn't guaranteed. For one thing, the process
of recycling isn't so easy. In general, after the soda
bottles are cleaned, their plastic is recovered either
through washing with chemicals or mechanical separation. The
recovered plastic then is heated, extruded and cooled back to
a solid that can be beaten into shape. The job gets tough
when the plastic has more than one resin, as many products
do. When it is heated, multiple-resin plastic tends to form a
mush that has little economic value.
   Another serious problem is a chronic shortage of what the
industry calls "post-consumer" plastic. Because the public
perceives plastic as a throwaway, and because old plastic
containers can't just be tied up like old newspapers, fewer
than one million of the 10 million or so U.S. households
covered by a curbside pick-up program have the option of
putting plastic out for collection, says Resource Recycling,
a trade magazine. Recyclers like Du Pont usually buy from
companies like Waste Management, which picks up recyclables.
   There's also another teeny trouble spot, which the
plastics industry doesn't like to mention when it's hyping
the magic of "Oui Oui" screens -- mats for urinals. If that
product, and others like it, eventually make their way to the
junk heap, there, like all other plastic, it will sit for
eternity.
   But some big things are happening in the recycling world,
like telephone poles made from the plastic coating on
curlicue phone cords. Hammer's Plastic Recycling Corp., in
Iowa Falls, Iowa., is currently testing a handsome black
pole, which comes in attachable 20-foot sections, and would,
Floyd Hammer says, "frustrate squirrels."
   And what else? Oh, here's something. Cardinal Comb Corp.
of Leominster, Mass., makes combs from McDonald's polystyrene
containers and school lunch trays. Cardinal sells the bulk of
its recycled-plastic combs to Plastics Again, owned by a
consortium of eight polystyrene manufacturers. They use them
for promotion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union Agrees to Sell Nearly All
   Of Its Business Services Unit to AT&amp;T
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   T WU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., eager to
boost its share of the electronic messaging market, agreed to
buy most of cash-strapped Western Union Corp.'s Business
Services Group for $180 million.
   The transaction would make AT&amp;T the dominant player in the
electronic-mail industry, with 40% of the market. However, it
needs regulatory approval and Western Union must first
complete the debt restructuring plan aimed at keeping the
company out of bankruptcy law proceedings. The companies said
they expect to complete the all-cash transaction by Sept. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, AT&amp;T would combine its own electronic
messaging businesses with Western Union's EasyLink electronic
mail business, telex operations and newer services like voice
mail, specialized fax transmission and the
computer-to-computer transmission of information known as
electronic data interchange.
   Western Union, based in Upper Saddle River, N.J., would be
left with its Mailgram business and its Financial Services
unit, which includes money transfer and telegram. The assets
being sold accounted for roughly $250 million of Western
Union's $629 million 1989 revenue.
   The deal, if passed, would be one of the most significant
transactions between the two companies since their bitter
rivalry for dominance of the communications business before
the turn of the century. At that time, Western Union seemed
an invincible communications giant whose vast network of
telegraph lines criss-crossed America.
   But AT&amp;T essentially won that fight when Western Union
committed what is widely considered one of the biggest
corporate blunders ever, by passing up the rights to
Alexander Graham Bell's telephone for $100,000 in 1876. A few
years later, AT&amp;T bought Western Union's interest in Western
Electric Co. and made it the captive supplier of equipment to
the Bell System. For a period of four years in the early
1900s, AT&amp;T controlled Western Union but the U.S. government
forced it to unload its interest in the telegraph company for
antitrust reasons.
   Now AT&amp;T will combine Western Union's electronic messaging
businesses into a new business called AT&amp;T Intelligent
Network Services, which will become part of AT&amp;T's Business
Communications Services unit, which had revenue of about $14
billion last year.
   "This is a key strategic move to strengthen our position
in global messaging," said John Smart, BCS president. He said
AT&amp;T will initially operate EasyLink, the nation's biggest
electronic mail provider, as a separate entity. The company
will gradually graft EasyLink onto the smaller AT&amp;T Mail
business as AT&amp;T makes the two services' software and
hardware compatible.
   For the past two years, Western Union's telex revenue has
fallen more than 25% a year. But Mr. Smart said the decline
has slowed since the end of 1989. He added that AT&amp;T plans to
continue Western Union's strategy of converting telex
customers to EasyLink.
   Mr. Smart said the $180 million purchase price represented
"a reasonable premium above the net book value for those
assets," but he declined to elaborate.
   A Western Union spokesman said the operation being
acquired by AT&amp;T "is something approaching $250 million {in
revenues}. That's about as close as I can get." He wouldn't
disclose operating profits. In 1989 the entire Business
Services Group posted revenue of $303 million and an
operating profit of $72 million and currently has 1,300
employees.
   Western Union's spokesman said the company will file in
the next few days an amended financial restructuring plan
with the Securities and Exchange Commission to reflect the
AT&amp;T transaction. Proceeds from the transaction will be used
to retire a major chunk of Western Union's $530 million in
senior debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Willis Fights Terrorism, Cruise Cruises
   ----
   By Julie Salomon
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   In the opening scene of "Die Hard 2: Die Harder,"
Detective John McClane unsuccessfully tries to talk a
sneering airport policeman out of towing his illegally parked
car. Because McClane already had overcome enormous obstacles
in the original "Die Hard," I immediately suspected
(correctly, as it turned out) that he would get his car back
in the end, though there would be much mayhem in between.
   Yet somehow the inevitability that hovered over this film
from the start didn't spoil its pleasures. This is the movie
equivalent of a junk-food binge. It may not be good for you,
but sometimes nothing can taste better than just the right
mixture of grease, salt, sugar and crunch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Die Hard 2" has its own surefire queasiness-inducer:
international terrorism played out at a major American
airport during the Christmas rush, and it is snowing. One
suspects that screenwriters Steven E. de Souza and Doug
Richardson are frequent fliers, because throughout the film
they have astutely milked every real and imagined nightmare
an airplane passenger could have. Among other things, they
and director Renny Harlin have staged a brutally ingenious
dogfight in the baggage area, using luggage as both shield
and weapon.
   As a frequent flier myself I always have had a perverse
fondness for even the worst airport-disaster movies. None has
worked the genre better than this tautly constructed piece of
work.
   Once again Bruce Willis plays McClane with his usual
combination of swagger and gravity and the rueful smirk that
has made him a star. Dropping self-mocking wisecracks as he
springs from heroic act to heroic act, Mr. Willis's McClane
is a blue-collar American James Bond.
   Unlike the Bond films, however, which were a creation of
the '60s, the "Die Hard" pictures have an anti-technological
bent, though they are models of technological wizardry. ("Die
Hard 2" contains some startling special effects.) In the
original, McClane almost singlehandedly thwarts a team of
vicious thieves in a brawl that destroys a modern skyscraper
in an explosion of glass and humanity.
   This time, he alone figures out the monstrous labyrinth
concealed behind the public areas of a vast airport, as he
works to head off a band of terrorists who have deftly
undermined the air traffic control system. And the film
makers make sly use of trendy techno-gear like faxes and
airplane telephones both as plot devices and as the subject
of my favorite line in the film, which won't be revealed
here. And in this sequel, they once again up the ante by
placing the hero's wife (Bonnie Bedelia) in peril.
   Mr. Harlin is the young Finnish director who made his mark
here with "Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master," the
most commercially successful of the "Elm Street" films. Here
again he shows that he knows how to improve on an original,
that he's an aces sequel maker (John McTiernan directed the
first "Die Hard").
   There's no place for nuance in this kind of movie and Mr.
Harlin hasn't included any. Dennis Franz plays the witless
airport police chief with an air of unrelenting myopia.
Journalists, as in "Die Hard," are brainless careerists,
though one female reporter is permitted a brief show of
humanity. The villains are double-dyed monsters.
   Mr. Harlin's fundamental gift is knowing how to induce the
kind of controlled panic that kicks in on action-park rides.
You can giggle at the terror because you can see the man at
the switch, setting the same ride in motion over and over
again. Silly as it is, you'll probably go around yet again,
if the opportunity arises, and you expect that it will.
   ---
   "Days of Thunder" tells the story of a stock-car driver
who loses his will to race after an accident but recovers it
and also wins the heart of a beautiful Australian doctor who
conveniently practices medicine near the Daytona
International Race way.
   This didn't turn out to be the bad movie I thought it
would be when early on one character says to another: "If you
build the car I'll find a driver." That bad movie would have
been corny, but it would have had some excitement when the
hero won, then failed, then won again having gained maturity
along the way.
   The movie that director Tony Scott ("Top Gun," "Beverly
Hills Cop II") came up with avoided the usual manipulation
found in this kind of proving-his-manhood kind of movie.
Falling back on his roots in advertising, Mr. Scott has
smoothed over the racetrack world with an airbrush. There is
much talk about the dangers and drama of race-car driving,
but little of it actually appears on screen.
   The movie blurs into a continuum of cars pounding one
another and closeups of faces showing disgust, happiness,
fear and outrage. It's the kind of shorthand imagery that
works best in brief spurts, say, the amount of time it takes
for a television commercial to implant a spark-plug brand
into your brain.
   Dragged out for two hours the imagery becomes boring, and
there is nothing that even skilled actors like Robert Duvall
and Tom Cruise can do to help. Mr. Cruise, who supposedly got
the idea for this movie after driving a race car, was
photographed to look like a soft pretty boy. Millions of
teen-aged girls probably will not be disappointed.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: "Days of Thunder" gave me the urge to look at
some Steve McQueen movies. The late Mr. McQueen raced cars
for fun in life and played men who liked to drive cars as
though they were racing in the movies. The chase sequence in
the detective story "Bullitt" remains nerve-racking, and so
does the chase in "The Getaway." It was a motorcycle in "The
Great Escape" that pushed McQueen into stardom. But McQueen
was his own best engine; take a look at "The Cincinnati Kid,"
"Junior Bonner" -- and my favorite, "The Thomas Crown
Affair."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900705-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900705-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corona to Pursue
   Talks With Placer
   On Gold Prospect
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/05/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   ICRA PDG T.SKZ PLDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Corona Corp. radically altered its plans to
secure control of Canada's hottest gold prospect and said it
would pursue talks with rival Placer Dome Inc. Analysts and
some Corona officials expect the talks will result in joint
ownership of the rich ore deposit.
   Corona said it was pressured to change its plans after
Murray Pezim, a Corona director and honorary chairman,
refused to deliver to Corona his shares in Prime Resources
Group Inc. under a previous agreement. Mr. Pezim also is
chairman of Prime Resources, which owns, together with
Stikine Resources Ltd., the Eskay Creek gold property in
northwestern British Columbia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eskay Creek has estimated reserves of about 4.8 million
ounces of gold, worth about $1.73 billion at current market
prices.
   Under its revised proposal, Toronto-based Corona said it
dropped plans to spin off its gold assets into a separately
listed subsidiary and to acquire Prime Resources by swapping
shares in the subsidiary.
   Corona also said it improved the terms of an offer to
Stikine's major shareholders, who had committed to Corona
their 42% stake. For each Stikine share, holders will receive
one new Corona preferred share that will be redeemable at a
later date into either 8.5 Corona Class A subordinate voting
shares or 70 Canadian dollars (US$60.14) in cash. Corona said
it plans to offer, subject to regulatory approval, the same
terms to other Stikine holders to increase its stake to 55%.
   Placer Dome, a Vancouver, British Columbia, gold mining
concern, has offered C$67.50 a share for Stikine, valuing the
company at about C$225 million. The bid by Placer, which
already owns 45% of Stikine's shares, expired yesterday, but
the company said it wouldn't have final bid results until
today.
   Corona said it agreed to acquire a 7% stake in Prime
Resources from Vancouver financier Jim Pattison. The purchase
price is one Corona Class A share and an amount in cash to
bring the value of the transaction to C$9 a share. Corona
said it also obtained voting rights over the rest of Mr.
Pattison's holdings in Prime Resources, bringing Corona's
voting control in Prime to 34% from 20% currently.
   As previously reported, Mr. Pezim, the Corona director,
refused to turn over his shares to Corona's offer unless the
terms were improved. Mr. Pezim said Corona's latest offer "is
what we wanted in the first place."
   But Corona spokesman Brian Hay said the company hadn't
made any new offers for Mr. Pezim's holdings. He said Corona
decided not to take Mr. Pezim to court over the previous
agreement to deliver his Prime Resources shares because of
the cost of such a procedure.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Corona Class A shares
closed unchanged yesterday at C$7.625 after rising 25
Canadian cents on Tuesday following the Corona announcement.
Stikine shares closed yesterday at C$70, down C$2, after
closing unchanged a day earlier. Placer Dome shares rose 50
Canadian cents Tuesday and 12.5 Canadian cents yesterday to
finish at C$18.50. On the Vancouver Stock Exchange, Prime
Resources shares closed yesterday at C$8.50, up 37.5 Canadian
cents, after losing 87.5 Canadian cents on Tuesday.
   Mr. Hay said he expects talks between Corona and Placer
Dome to result in a merger of Stikine and Prime Resources
into an operating company to develop the Eskay creek ore
deposit. Production at Eskay Creek isn't expected to begin
before 1993.
   "I see a joint venture between Placer and Corona on this
thing," Mr. Pezim said.
   Hugh Leggatt, a Placer Dome spokesman, said, "We'd like to
reach an agreement with them {Corona} on the disposition of
the Eskay Creek assets. In principle we're quite prepared to
speak with them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
