<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Free China's Lee Looks Ahead
   ----
   By Claudia Rosett
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- In a reception room of red and gold -- the
Chinese colors for luck and prosperity -- President Lee
Teng-hui comes across as relaxed and thoughtful; a tall,
smiling, professorial type in a blue suit and bifocals. But
this unassuming man has taken on a large job. In an interview
Friday with three Journal reporters, he describes his goal of
achieving on Taiwan the world's first enduringly democratic
Chinese society. He hopes this might help lead to freedom for
the Communist mainland.
   "We hope China will be reunited soon," says Mr. Lee,
speaking through an interpreter. "But it has to be under the
principle of free economics, democracy and free elections."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It wasn't so long ago that many saw the Nationalist claim
to mainland China as fiction. But with the world lauding the
Cold War's end, that claim deserves a closer look. Taiwan has
become a model of economic and political progress, while the
mainland Communists have wrought poverty, repression and last
year's suppression of the democracy movement.
   Though Communist China today enjoys the diplomatic
recognition stripped from the Republic of China in the 1970s,
Taiwan is quantum leaps worthier of world esteem. Mr. Lee is
delivering the kind of free society that mainland
demonstrators last year were demanding in Tiananmen Square.
At Saturday's opening in Beijing of the 1990 Asian Games, the
delegation that along with Kuwait drew the greatest applause
was Taiwan -- a crowd reaction surely meant as a snub to
Beijing.
   The fall of communism in Europe has inspired hope of a
similar collapse among the creaking holdouts of Asia,
including those aging leaders of the People's Republic of
China. The rapid reunification of Germany, for example, makes
it tempting to seek parallels in the two Chinas.
   It all starts to look like precisely the kind of opening
for which the Nationalist government has been waiting since
Mao Tse-tung's Communist forces seized the mainland, in 1949,
and Chiang Kai-shek retreated with two million mainlanders to
Taiwan and set up the Republic of China's capital in Taipei.
Chiang and his Kuomintang followers vowed they or their
successors would return to free the mainland.
   So began one of the most impressive postwar flowerings in
the Far East. Though Chiang Kai-shek ruled on Taiwan as a
dictator, he did respect some basic institutions of a free
society, such as private property. He also opened the island
more and more to trade. This produced decades of double-digit
economic growth, and rising demand for a more open political
process. When Chiang died, in 1975, leadership passed to his
son Chiang Ching-kuo. The younger Chiang turned out to be a
reformer. In 1987, the year before he died, he lifted martial
law, allowed opposition parties to organize, began opening up
travel to the mainland and ended what was becoming a Chiang
dynasty.
   Chiang Ching-kuo's hand-picked vice president and
successor was Mr. Lee, now 67, who was born on Taiwan. This
has helped gain him support from citizens of Taiwanese
descent, who make up some 85% of the island's 20 million
people. Mr. Lee was educated in Japan and the U.S. as an
agricultural economist, and taught at Taiwan's leading
university before going into government.
   It's a background in keeping with the softer approach
toward the mainland that Taipei has been evolving for some
time. Mr. Lee does not think that China will take the German
fast track to reunification. Nor does he speak of retaking
the mainland by force. Instead, he looks to "long-term
gradual communication" to help bring about reunification on
Taiwan's terms.
   The main task Mr. Lee faces for the rest of his term,
which expires in 1996, is bringing government policies into
line with the freedoms that people on Taiwan have already
seized for themselves. This involves a balancing act among
the Kuomintang old guard, a younger, more liberal generation
of Kuomintang members, and a vigorous opposition that in some
cases has been pushing for Taiwan independence. That position
is still officially considered seditious on Taiwan, though
now it is often discussed. The mainland doesn't like the idea
of Taiwanese independence either, and has repeatedly
threatened to invade should Taiwan try it.
   "Whatever we do, we have to respect our constitution,"
says Mr. Lee, who several times during the interview stresses
the importance of the rule of law. The stickiest problem is
how to reconcile local democracy with the 1947 Nationalist
constitution, which provides for representation of all China.
Mr. Lee himself was elected this year to his current term by
the National Assembly, a branch of government whose job is to
elect the president. It is still made up of old deputies who
have held office since before the 1949 loss of the mainland.
This setup provoked protests, including a student hunger
strike at Taipei's Chiang Kai-shek memorial.
   Mr. Lee's response was to call a constitutional reform
conference in June, to which he invited outspoken members of
the opposition as well as members of the ruling Kuomintang.
The proposals that emerged were vague, but Mr. Lee suggests
that what might prove workable would be a body "similar to
the electoral college of America." The idea would be to hold
the mainland seats in trust, with mainland deputies
temporarily bound to follow the Taiwan popular vote.
   A similar problem of aging mainlanders in the legislature
has been heading toward a gradual resolution, with an
increasing proportion of seats going to legislators elected
on Taiwan. Some 60% of all government spending is done by the
central government, 40% by the Taiwan provincial and local
authorities. This balance will continue to shift away from
the central government, according to the finance minister,
Wang Chien-shien.
   In mainland affairs, Taipei is also scrambling to square
its rules with reality. A few years ago, the strict
government policy was the three nos: "No contact, no
negotiation, no compromise" with the mainland. These days,
Taiwan's finance minister freely acknowledges that
businessmen from Taiwan have become big unofficial investors
in Communist China. It's even easy to direct-dial Beijing. To
start catching up with the traffic, Taiwan's Board of Foreign
Trade last week announced it will officially permit the
importation from China of dozens of goods, including badger
hair, bamboo and coal.
   The difficulty is judging at what point contact with the
mainland might backfire into subversion on Taiwan. Since the
U.S. withdrew recognition in 1978, Taipei has been keenly
aware that it lacks firm allies. Mr. Lee hopes that should a
mainland attack ever come, the U.S. might provide some
military aid. But "we don't think we should count on America
or the Japanese." Indeed, for all the business ties with
Japan today, he's not yet ready to trust the Japanese in a
clinch: "Most of the Asian people cannot forget what Japan
did in World War II." He hopes the U.S. will continue to
police the Asian Pacific.
   There have been some recent setbacks, mainly Saudi
Arabia's decision this year to switch recognition to Beijing
from Taipei. Increasingly, however, Taiwan has been shoring
up its ties abroad by claiming its place at international
events, such as this year's Asian Games.
   In 1988 Taiwan ended its boycott of Asian Development Bank
meetings, which it had begun when the ADB admitted mainland
China as a member in 1986. Last year the Republic of China
even sent its finance minister to an ADB meeting in Beijing
-- although the ADB imposes the craven requirement that it
attend under the name "Taipei, China," so as not to offend
the Chinese Communists. Taiwan has also been hoping to join
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, for which it is
well qualified. The only reason GATT won't make the offer is
the usual fear of offending mainland China, which wants in
first, and is still far from qualified.
   Taiwan's lingering insecurities are further evident in Mr.
Lee's asking one of his interviewers, Dow Jones Vice
President Karen Elliott House, whether she expects war over
the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. The interview runs half an hour
over the allotted 40 minutes as he discusses the fine points
of large military powers invading small neighbors.
   One defense Mr. Lee might usefully pursue is a faster
opening of Taiwan's markets to the world in general. Economic
ties are Taipei's most promising form of diplomacy. Mr. Lee
worries about U.S. protectionism, and notes that "we have to
expand our markets and depend on the international
community." He also predicts that "Taiwan will be able to
become a hub for Asian markets and a financial center." But
the government can't seem to work itself up to the serious
deregulation still needed. For example, Federal Express has
been considering setting up Taipei as a regional hub. So far,
however, the bureaucratic obstacles have been too great.
   Or, to take a more visible problem, by keeping out direct
foreign investors -- who tend to know something about
developing markets -- the government probably contributed to
the wild boom and more than 70% recent free fall of the
Taiwan stock market. This month's decision to let in big
pension funds still doesn't go far enough.
   Import controls and tariffs have been coming down for
years, but in slow steps that have kept domestic prices high.
As the world's 12th-largest trading power, Taiwan deserves
respect. But its economic controls can only hinder the
adjustments any economy must make to keep growing. By now,
they are driving away business.
   Nonetheless, the main impression after a meeting with
President Lee is that the Republic of China is steering a
worthy course. Other governments may lack the courage to
flout Beijing's claim to represent the Chinese people. Lee
Teng-hui reminds his visitors that Asian countries can move
forward only "with a free economy, democratic rule and
pluralistic society."
   ---
   Miss Rosett is editorial page editor of The Asian Wall
Street Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Worm's-Eye View
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 24 article "Good News for Worms: Study Finds
Genetic Clue to Aging in Nematode" notes that the recent
successful mutating of a single gene in the roundworm,
"Caenorhabditis elegans," creates "what might be called the
Methuselahs of the annelid world." May I point out that
annelids, which are segmented worms (earthworms, etc.) belong
to an entirely different phylum than the roundworms, which
are nematodes. The nematodes are a giant step below on the
evolutionary ladder from the annelids.
   John A. Stone
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Venice, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<LP>
   RICHARD MILLER is chairman and chief executive officer of
Corroon &amp; Black Corp. Patrick G. Ryan is chairman, chief
executive and president of Aon Corp. Yesterday's edition
incorrectly reported the executives' corporate affiliations.
   (See: "Aon Withdraws $840 Million Offer For Corroon &amp;
Black" -- WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   NEWELL Co.'s net income for the second quarter rose to
$21.9 million, or 36 cents a share, from $17.1 million, or 28
cents a share, a year earlier. Yesterday's edition misstated
the year-earlier figures.
   (See: "Business Brief -- Newell Co.: Concern Says Strike
at Unit Could Cause Earnings Loss" -- WSJ Sept. 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Sobering Thought
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prices paid for amusing little wines
   Strike me as quite mysterious,
   Since if paying that much for a bottle,
   I'd want one that was serious.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Bride and Grim
                                                                                                       

   Modern marital mores
   Make the old vows out of date;
   The new promise at the altar is
   "To love, honor and arbitrate."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Laboratory insight: funnel vision.
   -- Mark Heyman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cost of French Market's Relit System
   For Back Offices Draws Some Critics
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Having invested millions of French francs
computerizing their trading over the past five years, Paris
stock brokers next month plan to take another big step: a
fancy new system to fully computerize their back offices,
where the market's paperwork is done.
   Defenders say the new system, called Relit, will dynamize
the French market and help to make it more competitive with
London. London hasn't computerized its back offices and is
watching the Relit experiment with interest. But detractors
worry that the cost of Relit, coming just as Paris feels the
clutch of a bear market, could break some brokers' backs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of France's largest brokerage firms, Tuffier-Ravier-Py
&amp; Associes, filed for bankruptcy in July, squeezed by thin
margins, sluggish volume and an ambitious expansion program.
Many brokers fear that the added expense of even more
technology could force more firms to follow Tuffier.
   Relit's backers shrug off that kind of criticism. They say
Relit, which is similar to the systems at New York exchanges,
will eventually cut the time of share delivery as it does
away with lost trades and unsettled business that have
plagued the bourse in the past. By linking banks' and
brokers' back offices to a central clearing house in a single
computer network, Relit will be able to check all trades and
then match deliveries with payments.
   However, next month's start-up is a tentative beginning;
the system still faces major obstacles. Next month it will
handle only off-market trades. Then in November it will take
in 11 of the lesser-known cash market stocks.
   The sticking point will come with handling the monthly
settlement market, where the vast majority of Paris trading
is done. That market, which is unique to Paris, allows
traders 30 days' free credit before they have to settle
trades. Relit's backers have promised to bring the monthly
settlement stocks onto the system by May, but they haven't
yet agreed among themselves whether that means doing away
with the current system.
   Relit's supporters acknowledge that the system raises
problems, but argue that without it the Paris bourse would
not be able to keep up with rival exchanges. Pierre Gobet, a
director at Pinatton S.A., admitted the project could hurt
some of the smaller brokerage firms but described Relit as
"inevitable" in a global market.
   At the moment, French back offices, unable to keep pace
with the forced march of modernization, trail far behind the
trading rooms in terms of efficiency. In a matter of years,
trading has been literally electrified.
   Computerized trading and expanded hours have multiplied
trading capacity by about five times since 1988. But back
offices have only increased their capacity by about one and a
half times. It isn't hard to identify the back offices'
problem: too much paperwork. At present, back office clerks
have to settle share trades on the Paris bourse in any one of
23 different ways.
   Relit will standardize the process. And it will solve an
old headache of the French bourse -- unsettled trades -- by
seeking immediate confirmation of any deal by computer.
Currently, many back offices confirm transactions with their
clients by mail, causing oversights and unsettled orders in
the process. In 1988, 17 billion French francs ($3.2 billion)
worth of unsettled trades were festering in the system.
   Some brokers say it will take a shakeup like Relit to lure
foreign investors back to Paris. But even if it does win
business back, Relit's start-up costs could force another
shake-out in Paris broking.
   Many brokers fear that smaller brokerages might be forced
to close down their own back offices, sub-contracting out to
those that are already equipped. Some large brokerage firms
say they are ready to take on the work. No one has taken up
their offer yet, but it may be only a matter of time. "Some
of the smaller companies will just have to consider whether
it's worth going on," one broker said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Baptist `Moderates'
   Are the Real Radicals
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Your page-one Aug. 24 "What's News" item about Southern
Baptists would have your readers believe that the
"fundamentalists," those rascals who took control of the
unsuspecting Southern Baptist Convention, represent the
radical departure from the historical creedal viewpoint.
   A literal interpretation of Scripture long has been a
cardinal tenet of Southern Baptists, along with a belief in
its verbal, plenary inspiration. The characterization of the
opponents of this orthodoxy as "moderates" is a further
attempt to position the fundamentalists as holding the
aberrant view. It is unfortunate that you cloud the truth:
that a liberal group is attempting to pull the Southern
Baptists from their traditional roots. The so-called
moderates are staging the coup, not the fundamentalists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anthony Gilliam
   Marlton, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Administration Prepares for Layoffs
   As Budget Talks Remain Unresolved
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is preparing to
furlough thousands of federal workers -- from air traffic
controllers to White House spokesmen -- beginning next week
unless budget negotiators reach a last-minute accord.
   The five congressional and three administration
negotiators met again last night. Before the meeting,
Democratic leaders suggested there might be an accord, at
least in principle, by midweek. Administration officials,
however, emphasized that substantial differences remain,
though they acknowledged that negotiators are making
progress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In what amounts to a high-stakes game of chicken, the
White House yesterday renewed its vow to veto any
congressional attempt to delay the automatic spending cuts
slated to begin Monday, the first day of the new fiscal year.
   If President Bush doesn't flinch, the impact will be
immediate -- and not just on the paychecks of federal
employees who will be told to stay home a day or two each
week. "It's seven days to Armageddon," Rep. Steve Gunderson
(R., Wis.) warned on the House floor.
   The Federal Aviation Administration, for instance, says
that its plan to furlough controllers 2 1/2 days in the first
two weeks of October will force the cancellation of 3,000
domestic flights a day. The FAA had been saying that the
cancellations would begin Monday, but after meeting with
airline industry representatives yesterday, the agency said
it is postponing the cancellations until 3 a.m. next
Thursday. Flights will be delayed as necessary Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday of next week.
   Takeoffs and landings at 40 airports will be restricted,
the agency says. At Chicago's O'Hare Airport, the busiest
airport in the nation, no more than 70 landings an hour will
be allowed. But at the peak hour from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., 98
arrivals are scheduled -- so the FAA says 28 flights must be
canceled. Airlines are to notify the FAA by noon Friday what
flights are to be canceled.
   In many other agencies, the initial impact of spending
cuts won't be as drastic. Although plans won't be final until
later this week, the Social Security Administration is now
planning to work six-hour days instead of its usual
eight-hour days Monday through Thursday and close all of its
offices across the country for the day on Oct. 5, according
to Kevin Moley, assistant secretary of health and human
services for management and budget. But Social Security still
expects to be able to deliver benefit checks on time;
benefits themselves are exempt from the spending cuts.
   And in some corners of the bureaucracy, the cuts will have
little instant impact. At the main offices of the Treasury,
typical of many agencies, furloughs won't be ordered next
week. A spokeswoman said employees will have to take off two
days without pay during the two weeks beginning Oct. 8 --
assuming nothing has changed by then.
   Unless the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law is altered,
the government must reduce spending by an estimated $85.4
billion in fiscal 1991 to meet the law's $64 billion deficit
target. With about three-quarters of all federal spending
exempt from the cuts -- including military personnel -- the
remainder will be hit hard. The White House budget office
says spending by affected agencies must be slashed by 32.4%,
six times the cuts imposed last year when Congress missed the
budget deadline. "Every other year, this exercise has been at
the margins. This year it is meat and potatoes," said Mr.
Moley of HHS.
   The spending cuts are so deep that Congress and the
president are certain to prevent them from lasting all year.
But administration officials insist they will let them take
effect next week to increase the pressure on Congress to
reach an agreement. "We think those are an important
discipline," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said
yesterday.
   Congress is contemplating incorporating a provision that
would delay the Gramm-Rudman cuts until Oct. 13 or Oct. 20
into an emergency temporary spending measure that must pass
by Oct. 1 to keep the government running. Republicans are
mobilizing to defeat that bill. And Mr. Fitzwater reiterated
previous warnings that such a measure would be vetoed if it
waives the Gramm-Rudman spending cuts. But he added: "We'll
wait and see what the situation is when we get there."
   Congressional and administration officials expect that the
spending cuts would be waived, or at least delayed, if
negotiators reach an agreement soon -- even though the
agreement won't be enacted into law for weeks.
   Federal agencies have been issuing furlough notices for
weeks and drafting contingency plans, but in many corners of
the bureaucracy, managers confess uncertainty about how the
cuts actually will be executed.
   Some agencies can absorb the spending cuts for the first
few weeks without furloughs -- by deferring purchases,
delaying travel and leaving vacancies unfilled. But the White
House budget office has limited agencies' flexibility and
issued stern warnings about the criminal penalties that
managers face if they expend unappropriated funds.
   Under the Gramm-Rudman rules, small agencies that spend
nearly their entire budgets on personnel are hit particularly
hard. The office of the U.S. commissioner to the Delaware
River Basin Commission must cut $67,000 from its $206,000
allocation for salaries and expenses. Since the commissioner
is exempt, the only other employee, staff assistant Barbara
Cranford, has been instructed to take off 255 days of the
260-day federal work year. She is planning to work five days
next week and stay home after that.
   "You're sort of numb," said Mrs. Cranford, who has worked
for the federal government for 35 years, 22 of them at the
commission. "You sort of hope that Congress wakes up. They
expect civil servants to be responsible, and we hope Congress
will be responsible."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   South Korea to Contribute
   $220 Million to Gulf Effort
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- The South Korean government,
responding to U.S. pressure, said it would donate about $220
million in cash, food, transportation and military equipment
to the multinational effort against Iraq in the Persian Gulf.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and Undersecretary of
State Richard Solomon visited Seoul in recent weeks to argue
for at least $450 million in aid. But a Seoul official said
Korea's economic problems, exacerbated by recent floods,
limited the size of the contribution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Korea said it would provide $120 million in cash, air and
sea transportation, and supplies such as military uniforms,
tents and gas masks. Jordan, Turkey and Egypt would receive
30,000 metric tons of rice valued at $10 million and could
apply for $40 million of low-interest loans. Korea also would
supply $49.5 million of "necessity of life" goods to the
three nations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kalinske Resigns Post
   At Universal Matchbox
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UMG WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Universal Matchbox Group Ltd., shedding a
layer of management, said Thomas J. Kalinske, 46-year-old
president and chief executive officer of its Matchbox
International Ltd. unit, has resigned to pursue other
interests.
   His resignation is effective Monday. As a result, managers
of its international toy businesses, which were under Mr.
Kalinske's direction, will report directly to David C.W. Yeh,
chairman and chief executive officer of the parent, based in
Hong Kong.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the resignation and realignment of
management are part of Matchbox's continuing efforts to
streamline its operations.
   The toy maker, known for its die-cast replica cars, also
said Kenneth Bloom, chief financial officer of Matchbox
International, was named executive vice president and general
manager of Matchbox Toys Ltd., in Moonachie, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Output Increased
   By 0.1% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
increased 0.1% last week to 1,883,000 tons from 1,882,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output rose 7.5% from the 1,752,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 84.4% of its capability last week,
compared with 84.3% the previous week and 78.8% a year
earlier.
   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                    Net tons     Capability
                                    produced     utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to September 22 .........  1,883,000       84.4%
   Week to September 15 .........  1,882,000       84.3%
   Year to date ................. 71,757,000       84.6%
   Year earlier to date ......... 72,551,000       86.2%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Farah Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARAH Inc. (El Paso, Texas) -- This apparel maker
appointed James C. Swaim senior vice president and chief
financial officer. Mr. Swaim joined Farah in 1984 as vice
president, finance, and was named treasurer in 1987.
Christopher L. Carameros, the company's previous chief
financial officer, will pursue other interests and continue
to serve on the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Eastman Kodak Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   EASTMAN KODAK Co. (Rochester, N.Y.) -- Gordon A. Smith,
assistant to the general manager of government systems for
Kodak, was named president of Datatape Inc., a subsidiary of
this photographic, pharmaceuticals and information systems
company. Mr. Smith succeeds Russell Frame, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Australia Clears Airline,
   Telecommunications Moves
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST U.QAI A.ATE
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- The Australian government persuaded
the ruling Labor Party to approve plans for partly
privatizing state-owned airlines and allowing a
private-enterprise competitor to the government's
telecommunications monopoly.
   A special conference of the Labor Party authorized the
government to sell as much as 100% of Australian Airlines,
one of the nation's two major domestic carriers, and 49% of
Qantas Airways, the international airline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government also plans to sell Aussat Pty., its
satellite-services concern, as the basis on which a private
company can build a competitor to Australian
Telecommunications Corp., the monopoly telephone company,
called Telecom. Telecom is to merge with OTC Ltd., the
government's international telecommunications concern, and
will remain state-owned.
   Labor Party policy had prevented these plans from being
drawn up by the cabinet. The party traditionally has
supported government ownership of some companies.
   Prime Minister Bob Hawke said the government wants "to
give effect to the authority that has been given to us by the
party as quickly as possible."
   Kim Beazley, Minister for Transport and Communications,
said he hopes the sale of the airlines can be implemented in
the current fiscal year, which ends June 30. "I would
certainly want to conclude it by the end of next calender
year," he said. Mr. Beazley said he hopes Aussat can be sold
as the basis for the new telecommunications company in the
second half of 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Critic Paid to Dull
   Boston Globe's Luster
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   AFP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   In some editions of your Sept. 10 issue, in a story about
Affiliated Publications Inc., a Boston Phoenix media critic
was quoted. It should be noted that he is paid to bash the
Boston Globe and does his job well.
   We would simply like to present our side to the critic's
assessment about the Globe lacking luster by pointing to the
record:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One day before the article appeared, the Globe added an
investment subsection and expanded its overall Business
section; expanded its Real Estate section, and added baseball
writer Peter Gammons to its roster.
   One week before, the Globe opened a bureau in Berlin, only
a few months after opening a bureau in Moscow. A week before
that, we introduced a special Movie section. This month,
we'll start our fifth zoned section in 30 months, and next
month we'll begin a special Music section.
   Meanwhile, our latest circulation is up 11,000 daily and
12,500 on Sunday over last year.
   If that's lacking in luster -- in a New England recession,
no less -- then we're guilty as charged.
   John S. Driscoll
   Editor
   The Boston Globe
   Boston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota's Shortage
   Of Cars Will Clip
   U.S. Sales Gains
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Toyota Motor Corp. said it won't be able to
sustain the market-share gains it has made in the U.S. so far
this year because it's running short of cars to sell.
   The Japanese auto maker expects to wind up 1990 with about
8.8% of the U.S. car market, said Robert McCurry, who heads
Toyota's sales and marketing operations in the U.S. That's
down from the 9.2% share that Toyota took in the first eight
months of the year, though it's still a substantial increase
from Toyota's 7.3% share in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCurry said Toyota currently has only a 14-day U.S.
supply of its best-selling models: the Camry, Corolla and
Tercel. That is substantially below the 60-day to 65-day
supply considered optimal in the auto industry. An adequate
supply of the three models is crucial to Toyota since
together they account for roughly 75% of the company's sales
in the U.S.
   "Market share growth will be very difficult because of our
low supply" of cars, Mr. McCurry said. He added that Toyota's
share of the U.S. car market will be about 9% in 1991.
   Toyota officials sidestepped questions about whether
they're deliberately slowing their sales to avoid possible
political repercussions in the U.S. Japanese car makers, as a
group, got a record 34% of U.S. car sales last month. While
that hasn't sparked a backlash, Toyota officials privately
acknowledge they're concerned about publicity over Japanese
companies buying U.S. real estate and other assets.
   In August, thanks to heavy price incentives, Toyota had
its best sales month ever in the U.S. It sold nearly 97,000
cars, outselling Chrysler Corp. by about 31,000 cars.
Toyota's market share surged to a record 12% for the month,
and for the first time, the Toyota Camry beat out the Honda
Accord as the best-selling car in the U.S.
   Toyota also yesterday unveiled a new, larger version of
its entry-level car, the subcompact Tercel, and said the base
price will be $6,488, unchanged from a year ago. The company
said it's adding a four-door version to the Tercel lineup,
and put its base price at $7,898. Toyota said it expects to
sell 130,000 to 140,000 of the new Tercels next year.
   The Tercel is aimed at attracting buyers who flocked to
Hyundai Motor Co.'s cars in the mid-1980s. Now, Hyundai's
U.S. sales have cooled considerably, and Toyota sees a
marketing opportunity. "We want to capture young buyers and
keep them in the Toyota family," said John Koenig, the auto
maker's U.S. product planning manager.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Souter Will Sail
   An Uncharted Course
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   In their consideration of Judge David Souter's fitness to
sit on the Supreme Court, senators should recall the
observation of Charles Evans Hughes, just two years before
the confirmation struggle over his appointment as chief
justice in 1930: "If conscientious, able, and independent men
are put on the bench, you cannot predict their course as
judges by reference either to partisan motives or to personal
or party loyalties. If you could get further down to the
bedrock of convictions as to what are conceived to be
fundamental principles of government and social relations,
you might be able to get closer to accurate prophecy. But you
cannot expect to have judges worthy of the office who are
without convictions . . ." ("Hughes, The Supreme Court of the
United States," page 49; 1928). If Hughes was correct,
senators may learn more about Judge Souter by probing
"fundamental principles" than by enticing him to speak out on
current constitutional issues.
   D. Grier Stephenson Jr.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charles A. Dana Professor
   Franklin and Marshall College
   Lancaster, Pa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Biogen Gets a Patent
   In Europe for Version
   Of Interferon Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BGEN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Biogen Inc. said it was awarded a
European patent for genetically engineered beta interferon,
an experimental drug for treating various kinds of cancer and
viral infections.
   A naturally occurring form of the substance, which is made
by certain human cells, has been sold for several years in
various European countries, Biogen said. Last year, Biogen
and Asta Pharma AG of West Germany, a division of Degussa AG,
agreed to develop jointly a genetically engineered version of
the drug for marketing in certain Western European countries.
Biogen plans to develop the drug separately for marketing in
the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Biogen's European patent covers DNA molecules, genetically
altered cells and methods employed in making a genetically
engineered form of the drug, the company said. Clinical tests
indicate the drug may be useful in treating a number of
disorders, including hepatitis C, a liver disease; multiple
sclerosis, a nerve disease; and cancers such as melanoma,
brain tumors and lymphoma, Biogen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Coats Viyella PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.CVY WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   COATS VIYELLA PLC (London) -- This U.K. textiles concern
said it appointed Neville Bain chief executive officer,
effective Oct. 29. Mr. Bain is currently finance director of
Cadbury Schweppes PLC, a British confections and drinks
group. Mr. Bain is succeeding James McAdam, who is leaving
the post of chief operating officer but will remain as deputy
chairman of Coats Viyella.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Rowland Worldwide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rowland Worldwide (New York) -- Mitchell Kozikowski,
president and chief executive officer of the public-relations
company's U.S. operations, resigned, citing "philosophical
business differences" over the growth of the company in the
U.S. Herbert Rowland, chief executive of Rowland Worldwide,
said the parting was amicable. The company will form an
office of the president, consisting of the company's four
executive vice presidents, to manage the New York office.
Rowland, with offices in five continents, said it has annual
billings of more than $50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended Sept.
21, 1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing
in editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to
be definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ONTARIO COUNTY, N.Y., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY will
call for redemption $140,000 principal amount of 1982
industrial development revenue bonds, mortgage lien project,
due Nov. 1, 1993, on Nov. 1 1990. Continental Bank, Chicago,
and Marine Midland Bank, New York, are paying agents.
   PRINCE WILLIAM COUNTY, VA., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY will redeem on Nov. 1, 1990, $290,000 principal
amount of series 1977 6 1/4% first mortgage gross revenue
bonds, due Nov. 1, 1997, via provisions of a sinking fund.
Sovran Bank, Richmond, Va., is trustee.
   RENO COUNTY, KAN., will on Nov. 1, 1990 call $505,000
principal amount of 1979 series A single family mortgage
revenue bonds, consisting of serial bonds due Nov. 1991-1999,
and term bonds due Nov. 1, 2010. Continental Bank, Chicago,
Marine Midland Bank, New York, and Kansas State Bank &amp; Trust,
Wichita, are redemption agents.
   SAVANNAH, GA., PORT AUTHORITY will on Nov. 1, 1990, call
for partial redemption $185,000 series 1980 11.5% revenue
bonds, Days Inn project, due Nov. 1, 2000. First Union
National Bank, Charlotte, N.C., is paying agent.
   SPRINGFIELD, ILL., will call $1,060,000 principal amount
of series 1979 residential mortgage revenue bonds on Nov. 1,
1990. Continental Bank, Chicago, Marine Midland Bank, New
York, and First National Bank of Springfield, Ill., are
paying agents.
   SUFFOLK COUNTY INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY will redeem
on Oct. 1, 1990, $200,000 principal amount of 13% industrial
development revenue bonds, North America Tradimpex Cycles
Inc. Facility, dated Oct. 1, 1981, due Oct. 1, 1996. Bankers
Trust Co. is successor trustee.
   SUMTER COUNTY, S.C., will recall hospital facilities
revenue bonds, series 1982, Tuomey Hospital project, due Oct.
1, 1991-1994, 2005 and 2013 on Oct. 1, 1990. National Bank of
South Carolina, Sumter, or Manufacturers Hanover, New York,
are paying agents.
   WARRENSBURG, MO., will on Nov. 1, 1990, redeem $100,000
principal amount of series 1977 6% industrial revenue bonds,
Unitog Co. project, due Nov. 1, 1991 and 1992. Commerce Bank
of Kansas City is paying agent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Will Study Role of Boeing,
   Northrop, Air Force in Missile Testing
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BA NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   A House Government Operations subcommittee will hold a
hearing today to examine how the Air Force, Boeing Co. and
Northrop Corp. may have manipulated testing of the
nuclear-tipped cruise missile to cover up problems with the
weapon.
   "There is a big question mark hanging out there, and when
we talk about a nuclear warhead, there shouldn't be any,"
said Rep. Christopher Shays (R., Conn.), a member of the
panel on legislation and national security.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Memos and reports written by Boeing managers indicate Air
Force officials knew a fluid within the missile's guidance
unit could freeze and cause its gyroscopes to malfunction if
tests were conducted at the required military standard of
minus-65 degrees Fahrenheit. The documents -- obtained by
this newspaper independent of the subcommittee -- show the
tests were redesigned, evidently to assure passage.
   Specifically, according to a Boeing memo dated July 20,
1988, technicians from Warner Robbins Air Force Base began
their analyses as soon as the ambient air in the testing
chamber hit minus 65, leaving the component itself 15 to 20
degrees warmer.
   Recounting earlier test results, Boeing executive Gary
Henn wrote in a June 2, 1988, telephone record: "After normal
cold soak to -65 F stabilization, waited an additional 45
minutes and gyros just barely passed test; waited an
additional 15 minutes and gyros failed test." After an hour
more, "all gyros were frozen."
   As The Wall Street Journal has previously reported, the
fluid in the unit, a Dow Corning product known as DC-200,
gets thicker as it gets colder, eventually rendering the
gyros immobile. In one newly disclosed February 1988 memo,
Boeing manager Joe Moore said Northrop figured "the gyro
would not operate if the {transmitter} was exposed to -65 for
one or two hours," and that Northrop warned "not to go below
-40 F" for an extended span.
   Boeing, Northrop and Air Force papers were collected by
the Air Force Office of Special Investigations in a criminal
inquiry that resulted in Northrop's guilty plea earlier this
year to charges of falsifying test results on the cruise
missile, as well as on another Pentagon contract. The file
was recently opened to Herbert Hafif, a California attorney
pursuing a civil case against Northrop on behalf of several
company whistle-blowers.
   The new memos further undercut assertions by the Pentagon
and contractors that the fleet of 1,715 air-launched cruise
missiles is reliable in a real-world operating environment.
In battle, a cruise-missile-carrying bomber could be airborne
for hours, exposing the weapons to temperatures of minus-65
or lower.
   The Air Force -- which, along with Northrop and Boeing,
didn't respond to questions about the specifics in this story
-- is quick to maintain that "there has never been a
real-world flight test failure related to" a navigational
unit, formally known as a flight-data transmitter. One April
1988 briefing prepared for the Strategic Air Command,
however, shows that missiles ready to be launched on three
occasions failed because of low-temperature problems with the
device. Another printout labeled "Master ALCM Flight Test"
also shows numerous missions "aborted for weather . . ."
between 1979 and 1988.
   Further, in a May 1988 memo, Northrop manager D.A. Ross
noted that while "the air temperature at 40,000 feet is -65 F
on a standard day," Boeing chief program engineer "Chuck
Hilsinger commented that we could . . . stipulate that the
test be done at 30,000 feet," where the temperatures are
warmer. Another time, Mr. Ross wrote: "Boeing is aware of the
{transmitter} sensitivity to -65 F and plans both to propose
a higher temp and to specify a detailed procedure as regards
to cool down rates, stabilization time, etc."
   Among those scheduled to testify today is Ronald Deady, a
retired Air Force lieutenant colonel, who told this newspaper
in June that from the earliest stages of the program "the
testing has been, at best, suspect." Also set to appear
before the subcommittee is Howard Hyde, a former Northrop
engineer serving a one-year prison sentence for his role in
falsifying tests on a contract for the AV-8B Harrier jet.
Northrop declined to appear, saying it didn't have enough
time to prepare for the hearing. It was unclear if a Boeing
representative would testify.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Reasserts U.S. Won't Negotiate
   With Iraq Till Withdrawal From Kuwait
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush again drew a clear line
against any negotiations to end the showdown over Iraq's
occupation of Kuwait.
   In an occasionally contentious session with
representatives of Arab-American groups, Mr. Bush was pressed
to negotiate with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein as he has with
other world leaders. At one point, Mr. Bush retorted: "No
negotiations -- withdrawal totally from Kuwait."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush said that discussions with Iraq's leaders might
be possible once Iraq fully complies with United Nations
Security Council resolutions demanding unconditional Iraqi
withdrawal. But he reasserted that the U.S. won't "yield one
inch" on its demand for an unconditional withdrawal.
   The president, also pressed about depriving Iraqi children
of food through the U.N. trade embargo on Iraq, declared more
openly than in previous statements that he is willing to let
shipments of food reach Iraq if international relief
organizations supervise their distribution. "We want to get
the food to those that need it," Mr. Bush said, but the U.S.
is "much less interested in feeding Saddam Hussein's army at
this point."
   Meanwhile, in an important indication that one key link in
the trade sanctions may be holding, Iran announced that it
had arrested 29 people for trying to smuggle food into Iraq.
Iran's official news agency said that two groups of smugglers
were handed over Sunday to a court in the Kurdish city of
Sanandaj, 50 miles from the Iraqi border, and that officials
seized rice, flour, sugar, vegetable oil, dates, raisins,
powdered milk and tomato sauce.
   U.S. officials, while maintaining that they expected Iran
to honor the sanctions, have been looking for such tangible
evidence that the country would spurn overtures from Iraq
that it help to circumvent trade sanctions.
   The Iranian announcement came as Syrian President Hafez
Assad, who is sending thousands of troops to Saudi Arabia to
deter further Iraqi moves, extended a visit with Iran for
talks apparently aimed at solidifying Iranian cooperation
with the sanctions.
   Mr. Assad, who met U.S. Secretary of State James Baker
earlier this month in Damascus to coordinate actions against
Iraq, held his third meeting in three days with Iranian
President Hashemi Rafsanjani yesterday. He had been scheduled
to leave after that, but Iran's official news agency said he
is remaining for more talks.
   President Bush's remarks ruling out negotiations with Iraq
matched in tone Baghdad's unyielding declarations made Sunday
asserting that the seizure of Kuwait is permanent and
threatening a widespread Middle East war if Iraq is
economically "strangled." Moreover, the Iraqi news agency
quoted Saddam Hussein yesterday as saying that he would fight
"for 1,000 years" to keep Kuwait.
   Mr. Bush's appearance before Arab-Americans was scheduled
in part so the president could condemn prejudice and acts of
hatred aimed at Arab-Americans. But while the audience
enthusiastically applauded those remarks, some seemed to
question his unbending stance toward Iraq, and Mr. Bush
responded firmly and at times testily.
   When one questioner voiced concern that the U.S. was
pledging to restore an unelected monarchy in Kuwait rather
than bring democracy to that state, Mr. Bush retorted: "The
objective is to see that naked aggression does not pay off,
sir . . . Iraq is no model of democracy, nor was Kuwait. That
isn't the question here -- the question is international law
and respect for one's neighbors." Many in the audience
applauded, indicating support for Mr. Bush's stand.
   Mr. Bush complained bitterly that Saddam Hussein isn't
allowing humanitarian food shipments to Iraq to be
distributed by international relief workers. He asserted that
Iraq's stance, rather than the international sanctions, is
keeping food from thousands of Asian refugees trying to flee
Iraq and Kuwait.
   Separately, the Bush administration continued trying to
persuade Congress to approve the president's request to
forgive almost $7 billion in Egyptian military debts to
reward Egypt for its stand opposing Iraq's occupation of
Kuwait. The request faces opposition. Some lawmakers are
considering inserting in a short-term spending bill a waiver
of an Egyptian debt payment due Oct. 2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hoblitzell, Architect of MNC Financial's
   Rapid Expansion, Abruptly Leaves Firm
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   MNC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Alan P. Hoblitzell Jr., who built up MNC Financial Inc.
from a local bank into a fast-growing super-regional
financial-services company during the 1980s, has abruptly
left the company.
   Mr. Hoblitzell, MNC Financial's chairman and chief
executive officer, announced his decision to leave the
company at a special board meeting he convened Saturday. He
referred to his departure as an early retirement, effective
immediately.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As recently as nine months ago, Mr. Hoblitzell had been
touted as Baltimore's most innovative and pioneering bank
chief. MNC Financial, with $27.5 billion in assets, is
Maryland's largest bank holding company. It continued to be
an aggressive real estate lender in the Baltimore-Washington,
D.C., area even after many other banks in the Northeast
retrenched as the real estate market soured.
   But Mr. Hoblitzell's star faded fast when the company's
real estate problems surfaced earlier this year. Analysts
said rumors began circulating through the city's banking
community that Mr. Hoblitzell's job was on the line after MNC
reported a $74.7 million second-quarter loss.
   Mr. Hoblitzell's successor is Alfred Lerner, a
Cleveland-based multimillionaire who emerged as the company's
largest shareholder when MNC acquired Equitable Bancorp. in
January.
   Several analysts believe Mr. Lerner was responsible for
Mr. Hoblitzell's sudden departure from MNC Financial. The
analysts contend that Mr. Lerner has been increasing his
control over the bank since the Equitable acquisition was
completed.
   John Bailey, an analyst with Ferris Baker Watts in
Washington, D.C., said yesterday's news "was no surprise. It
seems like just a formality." Mr. Bailey noted that in recent
weeks several key MNC managers have been replaced with former
Equitable executives.
   When MNC couldn't raise equity capital in the open market
last month, Mr. Lerner agreed to buy up to 100% of a $180
million convertible preferred stock offering. Mr. Lerner's
8.9% stake in MNC jumps to nearly 25% if he does purchase the
entire preferred issue. The offering is set to close in
November.
   "Since Alfred Lerner said he was going to take the
preferred, the handwriting was on the wall. It was just a
matter of timing," said Nancy Bush, an analyst with Brown
Brothers Harriman in New York. She added that Mr.
Hoblitzell's departure "is disturbing to morale during such a
critical period."
   In a phone interview, Mr. Lerner said it "was not my
preference" to see Mr. Hoblitzell leave MNC Financial. "(Mr.
Hoblitzell) didn't feel he was up to what it would take to
fix this place. He felt it could be done better by someone
who had a more hard-nosed view of the world."
   Mr. Lerner said he "didn't plan to stay in the chief
executive's slot indefinitely." But his immediate strategy is
to help MNC straighten out its real estate problems. That
means he'll spend more time in Baltimore, but he doesn't plan
to move from Cleveland.
   At the end of the second quarter, $522 million or nearly
69% of MNC Financial's nonperforming assets were commercial
real estate loans. The company is trying to sell its MNC
Credit Corp. unit, a commercial finance and leasing operation
with $1.2 billion of assets. A company spokesman said the
sale was needed to lessen the holding company's cash needs.
   Federal regulators are in the midst of completing a review
of MNC's loan portfolio and they could ask the company to
reclassify more loans as nonperforming. Such a move would
require MNC to boost its loan-loss reserves, analysts said.
   Yet, analysts also noted that unlike other banks hurt by
bad real estate loans, MNC Financial has a lucrative
credit-card operation, with sizable earnings that could
provide a cushion during these rough times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Civil Rights Groups Urge
   Rejection of Judge Souter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A major coalition of civil rights
organizations urged the Senate to reject the nomination of
Judge David Souter to the Supreme Court.
   The 180-member Leadership Conference on Civil Rights said
in a two-page statement that Judge Souter hadn't shown "that
he has a commitment to constitutional guarantees of
individual rights and liberties."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A number of women's rights groups and abortion rights
groups, all members of the Leadership Conference, previously
announced their opposition to Judge Souter.
   The Leadership Conference is the most influential civil
rights lobby here, but its opposition isn't likely to signal
real trouble for the nomination. The civil rights coalition
isn't expected to mount the full-scale campaign that it did
in 1987 against the nomination of Robert Bork. The decision
to oppose Judge Souter wasn't made in time for the
confirmation hearings, and the statement in opposition went
virtually unnoticed when released Saturday.
   Moreover, the opposition may be too late to have much
impact. Approval by the 14-member Senate Judiciary Committee,
scheduled to vote Thursday, is nearly ensured. Several
committee members, whose votes against Mr. Bork were crucial,
already have endorsed Judge Souter. These include Democrats
Dennis DeConcini of Arizona and Howell Heflin of Alabama and
Republican Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
   The only senator who has announced opposition so far is
Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), who isn't a member of the
committee. The full Senate is expected to vote on the
nomination next week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Street Trades
   In New Market
   Of Bank Debt
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SB X.OPY BSC CCI BT
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For sale, cheap: bank loans that were made to
some of America's most debt-ridden companies.
   Gung-ho Wall Street traders, who a few years ago created a
market in Brazilian, Mexican and other Third World bank debt,
now are turning their attention to bank loans to leveraged
U.S. companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most of these loans were made to finance leveraged
buy-outs, in which acquisition debt is paid with funds
generated by the acquired company, and other takeovers. The
borrowers range from Ames Department Stores Inc. to Zapata
Corp. Recent market quotes for such bank loans vary from 20
cents to 70 cents for each dollar of face value.
   The traders' opportunity may become commercial banks'
embarrassment. This is because commercial banks generally
value their corporate loans at 100 cents on the dollar,
unless the borrower stops paying interest. Banks seldom mark
down their loan portfolios to market value to reflect any
preliminary deterioration in credit quality, though
regulators recently have been pressing banks to make some
adjustments.
   As loan traders start to price some leveraged-company debt
at big discounts to face value, "That's going to raise
questions about banks' carrying values of loans," James
McDermott, head of bank-stock research at Keefe, Bruyette &amp;
Woods, said. "To the extent that {corporate bank-debt
trading} becomes a viable market, it will contribute to
psychological pressure to mark these loans to market."
   Overall trading in distressed corporate bank loans totals
a modest $100 million a month, dealers estimated. But
"Business is really picking up," said Tom Hendrick, a loan
trader at Continental Illinois Corp.
   On Wall Street, the Salomon Brothers Inc. unit of Salomon
Inc. and Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. recently set up departments to
trade leveraged-company bank loans. They are following in the
steps of the market pioneers Oppenheimer &amp; Co., R.D. Smith &amp;
Co. and the Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. unit of Bear Stearns Cos.
Even some banks, such as Citicorp and Bankers Trust New York
Corp., are building up specialties in trading these loans.
   The potential pool of tradable bank loans is huge. As of
June 30, the 25 largest U.S. banks held $69 billion of what
regulators call "highly leveraged transaction" loans,
according to a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. analyst, Arthur Soder.
Most of these loans were booked in the late 1980s leverage
binge, often with the lure of big upfront fees for the banks
that made them. The loans generally pay interest of 1 1/2
percentage points above the prime lending rate.
   While many of banks' leveraged loans have been made to
relatively healthy companies, such as Time Warner Inc. and
RJR Nabisco Inc., analysts estimate that 5% to 10% are to
companies that have tumbled into financial distress. Some of
the ailing companies have defaulted on their bank debt;
others continue to make interest payments but may face
financial restructurings to sort out their overall debt
obligations.
   As a result, traders say, a two-tier trading market has
developed. Healthy bank loans routinely are swapped among
banks at 100 cents on the dollar, or close to it.
Troubled-company bank loans, however, are increasingly quoted
by Wall Street traders at big discounts to face value. Buyers
of these loans tend to be so-called vulture funds that seek
profits by investing in troubled companies at cut-rate
prices.
   Selling off corporate loans at a discount to face value is
"a fairly new and revolutionary concept for banks," said
Steven Miller, an analyst at Loan Pricing Corp. who edits
"The Loan Investor" newsletter. Both U.S. and overseas
regulators, however, are leaning hard on banks to rein in
their leveraged lending. This has prompted some regional and
foreign banks to take losses on bad loans and get out, Mr.
Miller said.
   Trading distressed bank debt isn't easy. Most loans are
encumbered with phonebook-sized supporting documents, said
Christopher Mackey, an analyst at Halcyon Distressed
Securities Fund. Switching ownership of a loan can take
weeks. Typical transaction sizes are $5 million or $10
million, putting the market out of reach for most individual
investors.
   As is true of any small market, potential sellers and
buyers often are so far apart in their proposed prices that
trades can't occur. When trades do close, Wall Street firms
or other middlemen typically collect fees of 1% of the loan's
face value. This is a much richer haul than ordinary stock
and bond trading provides for middlemen.
   At cheap enough prices, some vulture funds see opportunity
in buying even the diciest bank loans. Halcyon bought some
Zapata bank debt at 35 cents on the dollar earlier this year,
Mr. Mackey said, even though the energy company incurred big
losses in the late 1980s and missed interest payments on its
bonds last year. Zapata's bank debt recently climbed to 60
cents on the dollar, as surging oil prices have brightened
the company's outlook.
   "A lot of people who historically played in junk bonds
might end up in this market," said Joseph Calhoun, a
bank-loan trader at M.J. Whitman &amp; Co., a New York brokerage
firm. Bank debt generally is the most senior claim against a
company, making it most likely to keep some of its value if a
company gets in trouble, Mr. Calhoun said. In contrast,
high-yield junk bonds carry only a subordinate claim on a
company's assets, making them far riskier for investors.
   For banks, the danger is a replay of the same pressures
for portfolio markdowns that occurred a few years ago with
their Third World loans, Keefe Bruyette's Mr. McDermott said.
When trading of less-developed-country loans got started in
the mid-1980s, big commercial banks argued that traders'
prices were far too low. Bankers insisted that market prices
didn't reflect the real "value" of their loans to Argentina,
Brazil and the like.
   But as Third World debt trading grew, Mr. McDermott said,
banks gradually stopped insisting that these loans were
valued at close to 100 cents on the dollar. Starting in 1987,
big U.S. banks began taking loan-loss reserves that
eventually approximated the market's cut-rate prices for such
loans.
   ---
         Some Bank Debt Sells At a Notable Discount
                                                                                                       

 Here are recent indicative price quotes, in cents on the
dollar, for leveraged companies' bank debt.
                                                                                                       

                                            PRICE
                                                                                                       

 Ames Dept. Stores                           65
                                                                                                       

 Circle K                                    50
                                                                                                       

 Integrated Resources                        20
                                                                                                       

 Interco                                     70
                                                                                                       

 Lomas &amp; Nettleton                           58
                                                                                                       

 R.H. Macy                                   85
                                                                                                       

 RJR Nabisco                                 96.85*
                                                                                                       

 Southland                                   75
                                                                                                       

 Time Warner                                 97.5*
                                                                                                       

 Zapata                                      60
                                                                                                       

 *Adjusted for loan-origination fees that are passed on to
buyer.
                                                                                                       

 Source: Loan Pricing Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC News Mulls
   About 25 Layoffs;
   Pauley Signs Pact
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- NBC News may lay off about 25 employees, or
2.5% of its work force, according to a memo from NBC News
President Michael Gartner distributed to the division. No
timetable was set.
   Separately, anchor Jane Pauley signed a new five-year
contract with National Broadcasting Co., a unit of General
Electric Co., and Mr. Gartner said in the memo that her
summer series, "Real Life with Jane Pauley" would return as a
regularly scheduled weekly series. The program, which will
serve as a mid-season replacement for a failing NBC
entertainment series, is likely to return as a half-hour
program, as opposed to the one-hour length in its summer run.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, CBS News said it would begin a nightly
half-hour program at 11:30 p.m., beginning Monday, to be
anchored by correspondents Lesley Stahl and Charles Kuralt
that would compete with ABC News's "Nightline." Unlike
"Nightline," however, the CBS News broadcast, originating in
Washington and New York, will not be a single-topic show.
   CBS faces stiff opposition from its 200-plus affiliates,
however. Only 80% of its affiliates broadcast the current
late-night offerings of such action adventure shows as
"Wiseguy." In comparison, NBC has a 99% clearance rate from
its affiliates for the "Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson."
   Although details of Ms. Pauley's contract couldn't be
determined, individuals within the NBC network said her total
contract could be worth about $7 million.
   In the memo, Mr. Gartner said some employees would be
reassigned to Ms. Pauley's show or an expanded investigative
journalism unit. "Nevertheless," Mr. Gartner wrote, "still
others whose skills don't match those needed for the new
shows or any other shows, perhaps as many as 25, may be laid
off." An NBC News spokeswoman declined to comment.
   NBC News, with an annual operating budget of about $250
million, has about 1,000 employees, the smallest number of
the major broadcast network news divisions. In comparison,
CBS News, a unit of CBS Inc., has about 1,370 employees and
ABC News, a division of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., has about
1,200 employees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Senate Passes Bill Limiting
   Children's TV Show Ads
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate passed legislation limiting the
commercial time during children's television programs.
   The House is expected to pass the compromise bill soon.
The White House has raised First Amendment concerns but
hasn't directly threatened a veto.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The measure would limit advertising during children's
programs to 10 1/2 minutes an hour on weekends and 12 minutes
an hour on weekdays. It also would require broadcasters to
provide programming that addresses children's need for
information and education.
   The compromise worked out by Senate Democrats and House
Republicans would set up the National Endowment for
Children's Educational Television, funded with $2 million in
fiscal 1991, which begins Oct. 1, and $4 million in fiscal
1992. The endowment would provide grants for creating and
producing educational programming, with the Commerce
Department controlling the grants.
   The Senate passed children's TV legislation in July that
would have established the endowment with $10 million in
fiscal 1991. But the House version, which passed later that
month, didn't include the endowment. House Republicans had
argued that the fund should be part of public broadcasting's
authorization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   SWISS ANALYZE NUCLEAR VOTE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Swiss voters in a weekend referendum narrowly
rejected a proposal that the country's five atomic power
plants be dismantled within the next 30 to 40 years, the
Socialist Party, which had backed the proposal, hailed the
vote as marking a "turning point" in the country's energy
policy.
   According to the final official result, 52.9% voted
against the shutdown. The Socialists blamed the narrow
rejection of the shutdown proposal on an expensive publicity
campaign by the utility industry. The Socialists also noted
that 54.6% approved a related draft constitutional amendment
that bars construction or licensing of new reactors until the
year 2000.
   The Swiss government, which had opposed both initiatives,
also voiced satisfaction at the results. It said the vote
proved that most Swiss felt the country can't renounce
nuclear power.
   Environmental activists, noting that Switzerland is a net
exporter of electricity, say that increased energy efficiency
and alternative energies would permit a nuclear shutdown.
                                                                                                       

   LATEST SHORTAGE IN CUBA: PAPER
                                                                                                       

   Cuba, blaming shortages in Soviet supplies of newsprint
and paper pulp, said it was cutting back its national
state-run press by turning two dailies into weeklies and
suspending an armed-forces newspaper. The official newspaper
Granma, representing the views of the Communist Party, would
remain as the only national daily from Monday to Friday, with
a Saturday edition for Havana only.
                                                                                                       

   MORE FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Foreign investment in China rose for the third consecutive
month in July after the decline experienced between January
and April, according to semi-official news reports. The China
News Service reported the country approved 632 new
foreign-investment projects in July with total contracts
valued at around $536 million. Actual investment during the
month totaled $284 million, according to the Ministry of
Foreign Economic Relations and Trade.
                                                                                                       

   CAR SLUMP IN SPAIN
                                                                                                       

   Spanish car sales are seen skidding 10% in 1990. In a
survey of car makers conducted by the magazine Economia,
industry leaders attributed the drop in sales to Spain's
strict credit restrictions, a stiff value-added tax and the
Gulf crisis. "The Persian Gulf crisis has provoked soaring
oil prices and concern that we're heading for a recession . .
. all of which implies a decline in consumption," one auto
official told Economia.
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN'S POLLUTION
                                                                                                       

   The environmental group Greenpeace termed Britain "The
Dirty Man of Europe" and called for policy changes on air,
water and waste. Greenpeace said in a report that in the past
year Britain had made "some green gestures" but that the
nation was still the largest manufacturer of ozone-destroying
chlorofluorocarbons in Europe and faced more legal actions
from the European Community over water and air pollution than
any other country. The report was called "political
pollution" by Environment Secretary Chris Patten, who today
will present a policy document on the environment.
                                                                                                       

   CHILE LIFTS `FIDDLER' BAN
                                                                                                       

   Chile's government lifted a 16-year-old ban on the film
"Fiddler on the Roof," suppressed by the former military
regime of Gen. Augusto Pinochet for alleged Marxist content.
The current civilian government said it lifted the ban
"because the nation has started a time of real implementation
of the principles of democracy and freedom."
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA'S ASBESTOS PROBLEM
                                                                                                       

   Health experts say Australia faces a rising tide of
asbestos-related deaths that will not peak until the first
decade of the next century. The nation already has the
world's highest rate of mesothelioma, a fatal cancer of the
lungs, heart and abdomen caused by inhaling asbestos fibers.
   James Leigh of the Australian Mesothelioma Register says
1,900 people have been diagnosed as having mesothelioma in
the past 10 years, and the incidence of the disease is
growing rapidly. So far this year, 167 people have already
registered, compared with 214 in the whole of 1988 and 270 in
1989.
   "It's been quite a big jump from 1988 to 1989 and the
curve of incidence doesn't predict a flattening off until the
year 2010," Dr. Leigh said.
   "Over the years, millions of (Australians) in many
occupations have been exposed to the asbestos fibers" that
cause mesothelioma, said David Ferguson, one of the country's
leading experts on diseases caused by exposure to asbestos.
"Blue asbestos was used in an estimated 3,000 Australian
products."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Beijing University gave International Olympic Committee
President Juan Antonio Samaranch an honorary professorship.
Mr. Samaranch is in Beijing with other committee members to
assess the city's suitability as a site for the Olympics in
the year 2000. . . . Also in Beijing, the grandson of Mao
Tse-tung is waiting on tables at the Asian Games athletes'
village, a Shanghai newspaper reported. Wang Xiaozhi, 18,
volunteered with classmates from Beijing Foreign Affairs and
Tourism Vocational School, the newspaper said, noting: "Every
time . . . he finishes work, he wipes the tables and windows
of the dining hall. He gains praise from his classmates and
the athletes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Young &amp; Rubicam
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   YOUNG &amp; RUBICAM Inc. (New York) -- Three senior executives
were named to new posts at the Burson-Marsteller division.
Andrew Cooper was named executive vice president for
operations at the consulting and communications concern. Mr.
Cooper, 43 years old, was previously general manager of
Burson-Marsteller's New York unit. James E. Murphy, 54, was
named chairman and chief executive officer of the New York
unit. Mr. Murphy was previously vice chairman, corporate
practice, for world-wide operations. William F. Noonan was
named president and chief operating officer of the New York
unit. Mr. Noonan, 58, was previously president of the
international unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Bank System Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FBS
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- First Bank System Inc. said Darrell G.
Knudson, 53-year-old vice chairman and a director, will
retire Dec. 31, and will, "as available, continue to be an
adviser" to the bank holding company.
   Mr. Knudson was First Bank System's acting chief executive
officer, following the September 1989 resignation of D.H.
Ankeny Jr., until John H. Grundhofer was named chairman and
chief executive last January. Mr. Grundhofer said Mr. Knudson
"had this company moving in the right direction by the time I
got here."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mannesmann Discusses Alliance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.MMW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Mannesmann AG, an engineering
and machinery company, confirmed that it is holding talks
with a number of companies about taking on a partner in "an
alliance or cooperation" for its computer-related operations.
   The weekly news magazine Der Spiegel reported that
Mannesmann is negotiating the sale of all or a majority of
the shares in the computer operations in its Mannesmann
Kienzle G.m.b.H. subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USAir, Air France Plan
   Links Between Businesses
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   U F.AFR EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- USAir and Air France, both laggards in
the trend toward service hookups between domestic and
international carriers, intend to create links between the
U.S. carrier's domestic business and the French carrier's
overseas business.
   As part of a proposed marketing agreement, USAir, a unit
of USAir Group Inc., and Air France said they will offer each
other blocked space for resale on certain international
flights. Starting in the spring, USAir will allocate seats to
Air France on its Philadelphia-Paris flights. In the spring
of 1992, the French state-owned carrier will reciprocate by
providing USAir space on its flights between Paris and
another of USAir's major domestic hubs. That hub has yet to
be selected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other cooperative efforts between the two companies may
involve joint advertising and sales promotions; sharing of
flight codes; cargo development; enhanced automation of seat
selection and advance boarding; and shared terminal
facilities at Paris's Charles de Gaulle Airport when Air
France starts the Philadelphia-Paris service.
   Air France, already a partner in USAir's frequent traveler
program, will now offer the domestic carrier access to about
100 European points through Charles de Gaulle. In the U.S.,
airports served by both companies include New York's John F.
Kennedy, Newark, Boston, Washington Dulles International,
Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago and Houston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Your Bell May Be Ringing Up Revenues Abroad
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   PAC EUROP FREST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- One way to see how detached the phone
companies are becoming from their copper roots is to survey
the global telecommunications steeplechase. Bell Atlantic is
in New Zealand but not in Bermuda. U.S. West is in Hong Kong
but not in Canada. And California's Bell, the Pacific Telesis
Group, is focused on Europe instead of Mexico.
   The awkwardly commodious executive floor at Pacific
Telesis's headquarters tower here has the look of a company
with weight to throw around. The former Pacific Telephone was
in a position to do so, hostile rate commissioners
notwithstanding. Until recently, big banks were similarly
taken with grandiosity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Behind the dark-wood paneling in one corner, however, you
meet a product of the old era who since 1987 has guided this
regional Bell's thrust into competition -- into thin air for
the most part. For PacTel Corp., the less-regulated Telesis
subsidiary that Lee Cox heads, is more than anything else a
wireless-communications company.
   "Most people think of things in decades," says Mr. Cox.
"Here we think of things in centuries. So, if you can say the
20th century was the wired century, where we went all the way
from Alexander Graham Bell to where we are with mobile data,
the next century will be the wireless century.
   "The very unique thing happening in the world right now,
never to happen again probably, is that in Western Europe,
now Eastern Europe, now certain parts of Asia, maybe in the
year 2020 parts of Africa, Latin America and so on, these
wireless franchise licenses are becoming available. Once you
have the license, then you {can} provide any kind of
technology on that piece of the spectrum."
   The Bells battle each other and equally potent foreign
rivals to get those licenses at profitable rates of return.
Cellular-telephone and paging services are big. As yet,
overseas rights account for only about 1% of the Bells'
assets but PacTel is the leader. It has made a few Asian
inroads, mainly in Thailand, but its big reach has been
across the Atlantic.
   In Germany it may have hit the mother lode. It has a 26%
stake in the consortium building a second cellular system
there. Charles Schelke of Smith Barney values it at five
times all of PacTel's other foreign ventures combined. Mr.
Cox calls it "the best opportunity anywhere in the world in
the 1990s."
   Not that it's without challenges. "Parts of Germany will
be hard to do because of the Black Forest and other
topographics to engineer," Mr. Cox notes. "We'll get it done
but it will just be more difficult than some place that's
flat. We put the system in Kuwait that's there now -- I think
it's still there, anyway. That was just the opposite. No
trees to speak of, no deciduous trees particularly, which
create differences in how you tune the system in different
parts of the year. Flat, sand, no bodies of water to reflect
the radio signal." He should have been a travel agent for the
U.S. Army.
   The push for franchises abroad coincides with a sweeping
privatization movement. Mr. Cox ranks Germany, with the
Bundespost now split into three parts and its telecom unit
sold, just behind the U.K. on the liberalization list. "Italy
is probably next," and PacTel is looking into it, Mr. Cox
says. Honorable mentions go to Spain, Portugal and Greece.
   Despite the current economic crisis in eastern Germany, he
says he has "great faith" in its future. Elsewhere in the
former communist bloc, Czechoslovakia is his favorite. Any
prospects in the Soviet Union itself this decade? "Selling
pizza in Red Square, maybe?" he responds. "I'd have to be
sure the current reforms will take hold and grow. Talk about
having a fragile economy]"
   The socialist world is not inviting to this born-again
entrepreneur: "What are the terms they are offering? They'll
all want a telephone infrastructure, because they know that's
a key to a vibrant economy. And they want you to pay for it.
In most cases, they're not willing to give you an equity
interest that matches the equity participation. . . . And
then where do you get your revenue stream? There's not enough
disposable income to give you the kind of rate structure you
need to be successful, so you'd have to underprice your
product and not be profitable for a long period of time till
the economy got good enough to create prices that people
could afford. It's a horrible, vicious circle."
   PacTel also disdains some openings in the West that have
attracted its Bell brothers. It "elected not to participate"
in the selloff of the phone company in New Zealand. In
Australia, Mr. Cox says, the government plans to combine the
local and long-distance services of the state system, after
which "they've offered to create a competitor that would have
as its base a company called Aussat, a long-distance carrier
saddled with $700 million of debt and very little ongoing
revenue. It's not just David against Goliath, it's Pee Wee
Herman vs. Goliath."
   One of the boldest privatization drives may be happening
in Mr. Cox's back yard, in Mexico, but PacTel hasn't bitten.
Shakiness of the current reformist government and its
currency is fretted over.
   In addition to wireless, PacTel Corp. is high on cable
television, which Mr. Cox believes will not soon give ground
to fiber optics in developed cities.
   In the U.K., where it's part of a wireless consortium and
is also permitted to compete in local phone service, PacTel
has 14 cable franchises serving 1.6 million homes. There,
however, it must overcome satellite alternatives as well as a
modest British appetite for, and supply of, program variety.
Across the Irish Sea, the problem is primarily political.
PacTel tried last year to get a cable franchise but Dublin
picked the state phone monopoly.
   Entering the cable market in the U.S. has been no easier.
The regional Bells are blocked from offering programming in
their local service areas, and efforts in Congress to lift
that ban failed this year. But Mr. Cox is aiming for less: He
seeks to bid for cable in other jurisdictions, where he says
no one can justly argue that PacTel has an unfair advantage.
Specifically, he wants to exercise an option in Chicago. He
needs a waiver from Harold Greene, the federal judge who
still lords over the phone companies after the AT&amp;T breakup
in 1984. An appellate court has ordered Judge Greene to
review, using a different economic model, his denial of
applications such as PacTel's in Chicago, and Mr. Cox says
he's confident of approval soon.
   At 49, he has been handed the growth portfolio at Pacific
Telesis. That carries more risk than if he had been elevated
to head Pacific Bell, the company's big utility unit. Mr. Cox
cites seven PacTel units that have been divested in its short
life.
   When he's not echoing consumer confusion over service in
the wake of deregulation, Mr. Cox acknowledges the new
environment is "invigorating." You could argue that with the
Bells now scrambling to best each other for business abroad,
the breakup will prove in the end a boon to the export of
U.S. know-how. If competition is likewise fostered at home,
Americans, too, may be on the receiving end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   L.M. Ericsson Selects
   Jansson as President
   Of Its Biggest Division
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ERIYD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson picked a new
president for its public telecommunications division, part of
a reorganization intended to broaden management control over
the company's rapid international expansion.
   The Swedish concern said Hakan Jansson, currently a senior
executive at the Radio Systems division and formerly head of
research and development for Public Telecommunications, will
return to his old division as its new president on Jan. 1. He
succeeds Jan Stenberg, a lawyer who headed the company's
biggest division since 1985.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stenberg already was a member of Ericsson's executive
committee. Under the planned reorganization, he'll now assume
broader responsibilities stretching across previous
divisional boundaries.
   Ericsson's new chief executive officer, Lars Ramqvist,
wants Mr. Stenberg and the company's chief financial officer
Carl-Wilhelm Ros to take a more direct role in management of
international operations. As a three-member executive
committee, Messrs. Ramqvist, Ros and Stenberg will inherit
reporting responsibilities for local units in Ericsson's 10
biggest markets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Delta Air Warns
   Of Worse Results
   In Fiscal 1st Period
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   DAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Delta Air Lines warned that financial results for the
fiscal first quarter will be "significantly worse" than last
year's record earnings.
   In a brief statement issued by the chief financial
officer, Thomas R. Roeck Jr., the Atlanta airline blamed the
dim outlook on soaring jet fuel prices, which have spiked up
sharply in recent days above the already sizable increase
since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Roeck said the airline is paying 64% more for jet fuel
than it was July 31, or 94 cents a gallon compared with 57
cents. A 5.3% fare increase on Aug. 30 didn't have much of an
effect on revenue in the quarter ending Sunday, Mr. Roeck
said. The airline is set to boost prices a further 4.2% on
Monday.
   Delta's year-earlier quarter, however, would be hard to
beat even without runaway fuel prices and the specter of a
nationwide recession. The airline was propelled to record net
income of $133.1 million, on revenue of $2.17 billion, by the
virtual grounding of rival Eastern Airlines, which also has
an Atlanta hub.
   For almost all of the year-ago quarter, Delta had a near
lock on traffic both in and from Atlanta and much of the
Southeast, while Eastern struggled to rebuild operations.
Eastern is nearly back to the complement of flights it had
before the March 1989 strike.
   A Delta spokesman said the earnings outlook wouldn't
affect the airline's ambitious fleet-expansion program or
result in cut-backs or layoffs. One of the nation's most
financially conservative companies, Delta hasn't furloughed
permanent employees since the 1940s.
   Delta isn't alone in the pessimistic view. Two weeks ago,
AMR Corp.'s chairman and chief executive officer, Robert L.
Crandall, painted a similarly bleak picture for the American
Airlines unit. Mr. Crandall told analysts that he expected to
cut 1,000 jobs at the company through attrition; the company
currently has about 90,000 employees.
   Airline experts say that every one cent-a-gallon increase
adds $160 million to the industry's annual expenses. At that
rate, the industry is expecting a deficit of as much as $1
billion this year.
   Already, other airlines are taking steps to limit the
damage. Pan Am Corp. this past week said it would cut 8.6% of
its work force and slash 1991 capacity by 7.5% and switch to
smaller, fuel-efficient Airbus Industrie A-310 jets from
Boeing Co.'s gas-guzzling 747s on several trans-Atlantic
routes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kuwait Sells Stake
   In Mount Charlotte
   To Brierley Firm
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson and Richard E. Rustin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   U.MTC A.BRY MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The exiled Kuwaiti government, in its first
confirmed sale of shares since the Iraqi invasion, sold a
stake valued at about #60 million ($110.8 million) in British
hotel chain Mount Charlotte Investments PLC to a company
controlled by New Zealand's Sir Ron Brierley.
   The Kuwaiti transaction raised Sir Ron's stake in
Britain's second-biggest hotel operator to 39.9% from 29.8%,
triggering a London Stock Exchange rule requiring that an
investor launch a public tender offer after his stake passes
30%. The New Zealand industrialist promptly launched a #386.6
million bid for the remaining 60.1% of Mount Charlotte shares
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mount Charlotte's board rejected the Brierley bid.
   The sale by the Kuwait Investment Office, the main manager
of the Kuwaiti government-in-exile's $100 billion investment
portfolio, isn't part of a campaign to raise cash, a KIO
spokeswoman said. In the past decade, London-based KIO has
become known as a frequent buyer and seller of stocks. The
Mount Charlotte sale "is in line with our everyday investment
policy and doesn't spark off a spate of (KIO) selling," the
KIO spokeswoman said.
   Since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, London stock
traders have had occasional jitters at the thought that the
Kuwaitis might have to raise cash quickly. But at a news
conference here Friday, Sheik Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, the
Kuwaiti finance minister, indicated his government won't be
selling gold or stocks.
   Instead, he said the $5 billion that the Kuwaitis have
pledged for 1990 alone to support the West's Persian Gulf
operations will come from "liquid assets," cash reserves and
sales of short-term market instruments "in various
currencies." He said about half the money has been raised.
   But he indicated that financial pressures on the Kuwaitis
will continue. Kuwait has a bill of $50 million to $100
million a month for support of its exiled citizens. And
military and economic aid to the West and moderate Arab
nations will continue over the next year or two, he added.
   "I'm not worried about 1990. I worry more about 1991 and
1992," Sheik Ali said. He added that Kuwait is prepared to
contribute to such future aid, but would prefer to see it
done through the International Monetary Fund or other world
bodies, and without the normal obligations that the IMF
requires of a receiving country.
   The KIO declined to discuss details of the Mount Charlotte
sale. But Stuart Mitchell, managing director of a London
subsidiary of Brierley Investments Ltd., said a KIO broker,
Hoare Govett Ltd., initiated the sale talks. The per-share
price for the 88.8 million-share parcel, a 10.1% stake, was
"marginally less" than 73 pence, Mr. Mitchell said. The
Brierley Investments bid for the remaining 60.1% of Mount
Charlotte that it doesn't already own is 73 pence a share.
   Mount Charlotte climbed 11 pence to 70 1/2 pence
yesterday.
   London financial analysts speculated that the Brierley bid
was a formality forced by the stock exchange bid rules,
rather than a serious attempt to buy 100% of the company.
When asked about that speculation, Mr. Mitchell said: "Quite
simply, we made the offer because we are required to under
the City code. We'll be quite relaxed about any level of
acceptance that we get." The City of London is the London
financial community.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Reduces
   Cash Rebates
   On Some Cars
   ---
   Effort to Shore Up Profits
   Will Mean Higher Prices
   On High-Volume Lines
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Co., trying to shore up profits amid
an industrywide sales decline, is raising prices on some of
its highest volume cars by reducing the cash rebates to
consumers.
   Ford cut the rebate on its 1991 Taurus, Sable,
Thunderbird, Cougar, Tempo and Topaz models to $500 from the
previous $750. The rebate on the Ford Crown Victoria was cut
to $500 from $1,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The auto maker also totally eliminated the rebates to
consumers for the purchase of any of its 1990 models.
Instead, Ford said it will offer incentives on those cars to
dealers. Dealers may then use the money to cut the price to
showroom shoppers, boost local advertising or simply to
sweeten their own profits on the vehicles.
   The rebate changes take effect Thursday and are set to run
through Dec. 11.
   The Ford action appears to be a bold, and perhaps risky,
move to staunch the continuing rise in buyer-incentive
outlays, which have hit record levels this year. In the
second quarter, for example, Ford spent an average $1,050 per
vehicle on buyer incentives, compared with only about $600 a
vehicle a year earlier.
   But Ford's move is risky because its two largest
competitors, General Motors Corp. and Toyota Motor Co., have
been particularly aggressive in using incentives recently. GM
is the only Big Three auto maker to avoid a drop in
car-market share this year, and Toyota has a record 8.8%
market share in the first eight months of 1990. Should Ford
wind up losing market share this year, it will be the
company's first such decline since 1986.
   But Ford appears to be more worried by the plunge in its
earnings than by the erosion in its U.S. market share. Partly
because of incentive outlays, Ford's second quarter net
income plunged 45% to $770.7 million, or $1.67 a share. Some
analysts say Ford may post a loss for its U.S. auto
operations in the third quarter, although the company
wouldn't comment on that yesterday.
   A spokesman for GM, traditionally the industry's pricing
leader, said the auto maker will study Ford's pricing move
before it responds, if at all.
   The conflicting desires to boost market share and earnings
have caused Ford to waffle on pricing strategy in recent
months. In July, Ford initially said it would boost base
prices by 4% to 5% on most of its 1991 models. But seven
weeks later the auto maker scaled back many of those
increases to less than 3%.
   Analysts said Ford also could change its mind about its
latest pricing move. The new program "sounds like an
experiment to see what would happen to sales if incentives
weren't as generous," surmised Ronald Glantz, an analyst with
Dean Witter Reynolds in San Francisco. "It's an experiment
that can be quickly ended if sales decline," he added.
   Ford characterized yesterday's move as a step away from
incentives. "We've been saying all along that we would like
to get out of the incentive business, but that just hasn't
happened," a Ford spokesman said. "This could be construed as
a step in that direction."
   Ford's dealers, who criticized direct consumer incentives
as being too complicated, applauded the new program. Dealers
said yesterday's move will simplify the cash-back incentive
programs on the 1991 models, and give dealers a stronger
marketing role in clearing out the 1990s.
   "It's basically an answer to the dealers," said Craig
Kapson, general sales manager of Jordan Ford in Mishawaka,
Ind. "They've made it so that the dealer can negotiate with
the customer."
   The new incentive plan, like the old one, offers discount
finance rates as an alternative to rebates. It's also similar
to the old program in another respect: It doesn't offer any
consumer incentives on Ford's most profitable vehicles. Those
are the Ford Explorer, a four-door Jeep-like vehicle, and the
Lincoln luxury cars. Sales of those vehicles have been
strong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Diamandis, Two Top Aides Quit
   Hachette in a Rift Over Magazines
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Founder Peter Diamandis and two other top
executives of Hachette S.A.'s Diamandis Communications Inc.
abruptly left the magazine publisher in a falling out with
their French parent company.
   Hachette said in a statement yesterday that it would
rename the unit Hachette Magazines. Hachette said that while
Mr. Diamandis's contract does not expire until Dec. 31, it
had been "mutually agreed that his employment would
terminate" yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Diamandis, who was until yesterday president and chief
executive officer of Diamandis Communications Inc., declined
to comment. The 58-year-old executive had said recently that
he wanted to stay with DCI, the magazine company he had
created in October 1987, when he led a leveraged buy-out of
CBS Inc.'s magazine division. Six months after the buy-out,
Mr. Diamandis sold his company for $712 million to Hachette,
making a substantial profit.
   But in recent months, Hachette and Mr. Diamandis clashed
openly over the handling of DCI magazines; Mr. Diamandis said
he felt a personal allegiance to the editors and publishers
of his magazines. Mr. Diamandis and Hachette failed to come
to terms at a board meeting last Tuesday, where Mr. Diamandis
reportedly opposed a planned restructuring that would involve
layoffs and the possible sale of magazine titles.
   Hachette executives didn't return calls, but in a release,
Daniel Filipacchi, vice chairman of Hachette, said the
company was committed to the magazines "while striving to
maximize the company's efficiency and reducing waste." Mr.
Filipacchi will take on Mr. Diamandis's role as chairman and
chief executive of Hachette magazines.
   Also departing yesterday were two other high-ranking
executives who with Mr. Diamandis had formed the management
group that led the buy-out of CBS. They include Robert F.
Spillane, executive vice president of DCI, and Arthur Sukel,
senior vice president and chief financial officer. By
yesterday afternoon, the offices of Messrs. Diamandis,
Spillane and Sukel had been cleaned out and personal items
stored in boxes, according to company insiders. Messrs.
Spillane and Sukel also couldn't be reached.
   DCI publishes 17 magazines and about 50 special, one-time
titles, and has annual revenue of about $600 million.
   Trouble between Hachette and Mr. Diamandis began last
spring, when Hachette forced Mr. Diamandis to put Woman's Day
-- one of the largest-circulation magazines in the U.S. -- on
the auction block. Mr. Diamandis at first strongly opposed
the move, then finally agreed to it. By late July, Woman's
Day had not been sold, and Hachette had been forced to knock
down its price to under $175 million from more than $200
million. But possible buyers reportedly still think the price
is too high, and no sale has materialized.
   Mr. Diamandis was also angered by Hachette's decision
earlier this month to close down Memories magazine, a
news-nostalgia magazine that he had helped create.
   Late yesterday, Hachette moved quickly to take tighter
control of the company. Besides Mr. Filipacchi, who will take
personal control of the magazines unit, all editors will
report to Jean-Louis Ginibre, Hachette senior vice president
and editorial director. David J. Pecker, formerly vice
president and controller of DCI, was named chief operating
officer and chief financial officer of Hachette Magazines.
   The abrupt departure of Mr. Diamandis now raises the
question of how Hachette will treat other top managers,
editors, and publishers at the company, many whom have close
professional and personal allegiances to Mr. Diamandis.
   Mr. Diamandis won many friends by spreading the wealth to
employees through stock options and bonuses. At the time of
the leveraged buy-out, top executives were issued stock
options in DCI, which Mr. Diamandis intended to take public.
When Hachette purchased DCI, it purchased the options of the
executives. Mr. Diamandis made sure that lower rungs of
employees, even secretaries, received stock or at least
one-time payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   IMF to Assist
   Countries Hurt
   By Gulf Crisis
   ---
   Panel Agrees to Lend More
   To Nations That Adopt
   Sound Economic Plans
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund's
policy-making panel agreed the agency should promptly lend
more to countries hurt by the Persian Gulf crisis, provided
they are adopting sound economic adjustment policies of their
own.
   But the panel, the so-called interim committee, said the
increased lending can be done through existing lending
mechanisms, and it didn't recommend any specific new fund for
lending to countries hard-pressed by higher oil prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson, who heads the
interim committee, said the panel's agreement "provides a
framework" for the IMF to provide help "on an expedited
basis."
   IMF managing director Michel Camdessus said that the
increased lending would be evident by early next year. But he
added, "We won't put money down the drain. Help will go to
countries with good adjustment policies."
   Messrs. Wilson and Camdessus spoke at a joint news
conference yesterday after the release of the Interim
Committee's statement, which sets out IMF policy for the
coming months. President Bush is scheduled to address the
opening session of the annual meetings of the full IMF and
World Bank here today.
   The interim committee, which normally convenes prior to
the IMF and World Bank's annual and semiannual meetings,
warned that the recent rise in oil prices "may contribute to
cost-price pressures and moderate growth, particularly in oil
importing countries." It cautioned against attempts to
cushion consumers through subsidies, price controls or higher
wages, and advised that oil prices should be passed on
quickly to consumers.
   The interim committee indicated that the IMF will use
several existing lending mechanisms to help countries damaged
by higher energy costs. It will employ its Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility, from which it lends to the
very poorest countries at subsidized interest rates. It also
will increase standby loans and use of its so-called
compensatory and contingency financing facility.
   The IMF committee hasn't given estimates of the additional
lending it will do, but Mr. Camdessus said he expects the
organization's existing resources to be "adequate" at least
until March 1993, assuming the $65 billion capital increase
recently approved by the organization's members is completed
soon.
   While it praised Saudi Arabia, Japan, the European
Community and Japan for pledging to help severely affected
Mideast countries, the IMF's policy-making body still is
looking to some of the Fund's richer members for further
help. It said that it hoped "all members that are in a
position to do so will collaborate" in this assistance. Last
week, the IMF's managing director discussed the likelihood
that the agency might act as an intermediary between oil-rich
countries and those suffering balance-of-payments
difficulties.
   Treasury Undersecretary for International Affairs David
Mulford is scheduled to head an international meeting
Wednesday to discuss how to coordinate international plans to
lend between $13 billion and $16 billion to Egypt, Turkey and
probably Jordan, three countries most severely affected by
the Persian Gulf crisis.
   The IMF already is producing preliminary estimates of the
damage to the "front-line states." In an internal memorandum,
Jacques de Groote, the IMF's director for Turkey and several
other countries, said the crisis "will cause an annual loss
to Turkey of about $5 billion."
   Mr. de Groote's memo lists measures Turkey has taken since
the crisis. These include big rises in prices for gas and
diesel; higher sales and import taxes; sales of public land
and other revenue-raising efforts. Because of this prompt
action, and with "appropriate" foreign financing, Turkey
"will be able to restore a viable balance of payments
position, reduce inflation, and maintain relatively high real
income growth," Mr. de Groote concludes.
   Despite what Mr. Camdessus called the "mini-oil crisis"
that has followed Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait, the
interim committee -- tracking the statement released Saturday
by the seven major industrialized nations -- said economic
growth is still continuing "albeit at a slower pace."
   It also delivered a strong message calling for completion
of the current round of international trade talks being held
under the world trade treaty, the General Agreement on
Tarriffs and Trade. It said a new accord would strengthen the
world economy and ensure the success of reforms in eastern
Europe and in developing nations.
   Mr. Bush is expected to focus his remarks today on arguing
that there is an urgent need for more progress in the GATT
talks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Hey] You] Get Off My Cloud]
   ----
   By Joe Queenan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   A veteran compiler of unauthorized biographies has just
published a book about the Rolling Stones in which he reveals
that Mick Jagger cares more about money than music, that
Keith Richards has taken a lot of drugs, and that the Stones
exercised poor judgment in hiring the Hell's Angels
motorcycle gang as security guards at their tragic Dec. 6,
1969 concert in Altamont, Calif. One anxiously awaits future
efforts by A.E. Hotchner, in which he will perhaps prove that
Ivan Boesky is a greedy sort, and that Richard III had back
problems.
   "Blown Away: The Rolling Stones and the Death of the
Sixties" (Simon &amp; Schuster, 349 pages, $21.95) is yet another
offering from the smut-and-slime school of pop deconstruction
in which performers who have provided countless hours of
pleasure to hundreds of millions of people are mercilessly
traduced. Or, in this case, re-traduced, since Mr. Hotchner's
cut-and-paste job relies heavily on material that has already
appeared elsewhere. Because the Stones themselves did not
cooperate with the author, he is reduced to dishing up
self-serving flashbacks from banished managers, retired
hangers-on, jettisoned girlfriends, unsuccessful siblings and
lorry drivers who knew the boys way back when. Unimpeachable
sources all.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Needless to say, the most entertaining passages in the
book are the quotes from the Stones themselves, and other
sources. He depicts the Stones as drug-abusing lowlifes who
lucked their way into fame and fortune, and attempts to
indict the entire '60s generation through guilt by
association (the Stones were phonies; you idolized them, so
you were all phonies). Mr. Hotchner clearly believes that the
'60s were a huge farce, and contends that the era of peace,
love and happiness was halted dead in its tracks that fatal
December afternoon in Altamont when four people, including a
black teenager who inadvisedly drew a gun on the Angels,
died.
   Okay, so what else is new? It's generally agreed that the
Altamont debacle put the old kibosh on the '60s, but that
story has been retold a thousand times: in books, magazine
articles and in the film "Gimme Shelter." As for Jagger and
drugs, Richards and drugs, Brian Jones and drugs, an entire
generation and drugs, well, yeah, A.E., a lot of drugs did
get consumed back in the '60s. As P.J. O'Rourke says: If you
can still remember the '60s, you probably weren't part of
them. Or was that one of Bill Bennett's lines?
   Mr. Hotchner manifestly wasn't part of the '60s. Now 70
years old, he made his name digging up dirt on Papa Hemingway
and Doris Day, and probably would have been better off
writing "Fogged In: Mel Torme and the Death of the Forties."
Sad to say, there simply isn't much in this book that a
hundred million rock 'n' roll fans don't already know. The
Beatles' clean-cut image was hoked up? Thanks, A.E., never
would have guessed. Brian Jones may have been murdered? Yeah,
seem to remember having read that somewhere. The Stones
weren't really all that talented as musicians? No, let me
guess what's coming next: Ringo Starr was no Gene Krupa,
right?
   The culturally marooned Hotchner is obsessed with the idea
that Jones, a mildly talented musician who founded the
Stones, was forced out of the band by the less gifted Jagger
and Richards. Again, this is not news; rock fans have known
for 20 years that Jagger and Richards wanted Jones out of the
band, in large measure because his chronic drug abuse
prevented him from performing onstage, whereas Richards's
chronic drug abuse did not. But to call Jones more talented
than Jagger and Richards is idiotic; they were the ones who
wrote the hits that made the Stones the world's greatest rock
'n' roll band.
   Mr. Hotchner's smear job on people who grew up in the
1960s is similarly fatuous. At the end of the book, he runs
down a laundry list of areas where the "Jagger Generation"
(it was actually the Dylan Generation, but never mind)
failed, excoriating kids who went to Woodstock because they
now read The Wall Street Journal, drink vintage wines, and
voted for Reagan and Bush. Well, what'd you expect them to
do: Vote for Dukakis? How many drugs do you think we were
taking back then? And anyway, what about Greenpeace and
recycling and daycare and Ben &amp; Jerry and fresh pasta and all
that other neat stuff?
   In addition to its egregious conceptual flaws, the book is
marred by shoddy reporting. Mr. Hotchner says that after
Altamont the Stones albums became "banal." Well, not exactly:
After Altamont, the Stones released "Sticky Fingers" and
"Exile on Main Street," each a masterpiece. He claims that
over the years Richards's creative spirit dried up. Gee, it
didn't seem to have dried up in the 1987 film tribute to
Chuck Berry ("Hail] Hail] Rock 'n' Roll") that he helped
organize, or in the fistful of hits he co-wrote with Jagger
over the past 20 years (including "Shattered" and "Emotional
Rescue," or in his razor-sharp 1988 solo album "Talk Is
Cheap"). But, then again, talk is cheap.
   These aren't the only errors. Cheltenham, where Jones grew
up, is not a "dreary" English city but a lovely spa town
nestled at the edge of the Cotswolds. And no, though the
Stones did write plenty of songs that kids could dance to,
the quirky "Have You Seen Your Mother, Baby? (Standing in the
Shadows)" was certainly not one of them. These are the sorts
of flubs that the author could have avoided if he'd only
bothered to fact-check his manuscript with any one of, say,
500 million Rolling Stones fans out here. Maybe he didn't
bother because he figured, hey, it's only rock 'n' roll.
Well, it is only rock 'n' roll. But we like it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PS New Mexico
   Ends Attempts
   To Sell Itself
   ----
   By Patricia Ann McKanic and Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   PNM
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Public Service Co. of New Mexico, abandoning attempts to
sell itself, unveiled a business plan that embraces much of
the controversial strategy associated with its former
chairman.
   The beleaguered utility, based in Albuquerque, also said
it ended talks with a group of investors led by Wheeler Peak
Capital Corp. after the two sides failed to reach a
compromise on a confidentiality agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under its new strategic plan, PS New Mexico will pursue
previously untapped markets, use recently approved economic
development rates to market its excess capacity and attempt
to sell all or portions of certain excess power generation
facilities. The company also said its board authorized it to
find more opportunities for selling power outside its service
area.
   "The board is willing to authorize additional expenditures
to increase capacity to reach markets in the west,
particularly California," John Ackerman, president and chief
executive officer of PS New Mexico, said in an interview.
   Like many utilities in the Southwest, PS New Mexico
aggressively overbuilt its capacity in anticipation of the
widely expected Sunbelt boom that never happened. That excess
capacity and an ill-fated diversification effort pushed the
utility to the brink of financial disaster, forcing it to
suspend common dividends, cut its staff by 20% and sell off
non-utility assets. Last spring, it hired Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. to help it decide by summer's end what to do to pull
itself out of its financial morass.
   "Management and Morgan Stanley have conducted a very
thorough analysis of alternatives," Mr. Ackerman said in a
statement. "We believe that the strategic plan presents the
best option available to the company."
   The plan also harkens back to strategies laid out by Jerry
D. Geist who resigned as chairman and president of PS New
Mexico in June, saying he was too closely associated with the
problems that led to the utility's woes. Mr. Geist, architect
of PS New Mexico's diversification efforts, also had
championed marketing power throughout the Southwest.
   The same obstacles the utility faced in selling itself
outright may impede efforts to sell its energy, analysts
said. Foremost among those is the scarceness of buyers,
generally Southwest utility companies, who aren't already
themselves grappling with excess capacity problems.
   In July, Wheeler Peak, an Albuquerque venture-capital
company run by a former PS New Mexico executive, floated the
idea of acquiring the utility for $12 a share and equity in
the continuing company. Its partners in the transaction
included Southwestern Public Service Co., a Southern Union
Co. affiliate, and Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Inc., a unit
of Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.
   PS New Mexico closed yesterday at $9.875, down 37.5 cents,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Pennant Races Go Down to the Wire
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Chicago -- Remember the women's marathon at the L.A.
Olympics? Gabriela Andersen-Scheiss, representing
Switzerland, struggled toward the finish line of the
26-plus-mile run, stopping and starting, listing to one side
and clutching her head. Physicians hovered around her,
anxious to step in and halt the agony. Spectators didn't know
whether to cheer or cry.
   She made it, all right, and after a drink and bite to eat
was perkily giving TV interviews. The image of her travail,
however, is recalled by the three still-undecided Major
League pennant races.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   You well may say that any races are better than none at
all, which seemed to be the prospect on Sept. 1, when
Oakland, Boston, Cincinnati and Pittsburgh enjoyed nicely
padded edges in their divisions. But the only team to stay
prosperous is defending champion Oakland, which controls more
talent than the William Morris Agency.
   The rest are lurching along, Gaby-like. Cincinnati, once a
runaway leader, probably banked the NL West flag by taking a
doubleheader from San Diego on Saturday, but not before
allowing the L.A. Dodgers to threaten. In the AL East, the
Red Sox were so traumatized by the injury loss of Roger
Clemens, a once-every-five-days starting pitcher, on Sept. 4,
that they have dropped 12 of 18 outings since.
   That turned a 6 1/2-game Boston lead into a deficit, which
the lucky beneficiaries -- the Toronto Blue Jays -- have
since done their best to squander. The Jays were one game
ahead at the close of business Sunday as Boston lost its
eighth of the last 11.
   No race, though, has perplexed more than the one in the NL
East. The Pirates and Mets, weekend visitors here, have
played tag all year, with the Bucs mostly staying just out of
the Mets' reach. Every time it looks like one team will
sprint away, it stumbles. Sometimes, both stumble together.
   Take last week. Please. The Mets started it just a
half-game behind Pittsburgh, thanks in part to a two-game
home sweep of the Pirates, but then they dropped two of three
to Philadelphia and three of three to Montreal, the last pair
in a doubleheader against two pitchers named Brian Barnes and
Chris Nabholz who are just up from the minors.
   On Friday, New York stretched its loss streak to five, and
the Buc lead to 3 1/2 games, with a 4-3 loss to the Cubs. The
winning run was scored when Mets' catcher Charlie O'Brien
threw into centerfield trying to catch Jerome Walton stealing
second base. Walton went to third, and scored on a fly ball.
   Saturday it was Pittsburgh's turn to founder; while the
Mets were winning here, they lost to St. Louis, 3-2, with the
tying and winning runs scoring in the eighth inning on three
walks and a wild pitch. Pirate manager Jim Leyland fumed
afterward about "bad concentration." His relief pitching
wasn't so hot, either. "Mirabile dictu," both teams won on
Sunday, leaving the Pirates with a 2 1/2-game lead with nine
games left for them and 10 for the Mets going into Monday
afternoon's Mets-Cubs finale. That was fine with New York
manager Bud Harrelson. Considering the alternatives, "we're
fortunate to be where we are," sighed the old shortstop, over
his sushi (no fooling).
   Before the campaign began, just about everybody with a
typewriter or microphone -- and, of course, most Gothamites
-- thought the Mets would be at the top looking down at this
point, and the fact they aren't is a big reason for the
current perplexity. This gang, after all, has pitching
openers galore in six proven starters -- more than some
entire divisions -- a certified bullpen closer in John
Franco, and enough power to replace Con Ed. But instead of
mighty they've been flighty.
   Consider some stats. The Mets' won-lost mark after Sunday
was 85-67, but they were 34-40 on the road, 31-39 in games
decided by two or fewer runs, 24-31 against lefthanded
starting pitchers and 18-24 on artificial turf. Right after
Harrelson replaced Davey Johnson in the dugout they had a
21-7 June, but they're just 38-36 since the All-Star Game
break.
   Part of the problem is the wooden-Indian defense the New
Yorkers field, especially since losing shortstop Kevin Elster
to shoulder woes. Another, and related, part is a lack of
speed that requires three hits to score a run unless someone
knocks the ball out of the ballpark.
   Finally, there has been the lack of coordination between
"O" and "D" that's at the root of many sad baseball stories.
Remarked Harrelson on Sunday after "Doc" Gooden pitched, and
various guys hit, the Mets to a 7-3 win, on the heels of a
similar, 11-5, outcome Saturday: "It was nice to get good
offense and starting pitching in the same game. It's been
awhile since that happened."
   The weekend unfolded before the usual signatories to the
ABM (Anyone But the Mets) Treaty that greet the New Yorkers
on the road. Some 55,000 showed up in autumnal chill, the
vast majority of them as much anti-Met as pro-Cubbie. "I Love
to Hate the Mets," read one fan's sign Saturday, and on
Sunday a guy went around outside Wrigley Field carrying an
effigy wearing a Mets T-shirt and pins with which to puncture
it. "Stick it to the Mets]" he offered, and many did.
   The Mets, however, stuck it to the Cubbies, especially
starting pitchers Gooden and the seldom-used Ron Darling, and
Darryl Strawberry, the sinewy, but sometimes sluggish,
slugger. Dare-ul homered both Saturday and Sunday, the latter
clout breaking a 0-0 sixth inning to run his season total to
37, along with a team-record 107 runs batted in.
   Better late than never, the Straw declared: "We know this
is it -- we win or we're through." And if they don't, they'll
have some explaining to do.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rodamco Suspends
   Share Redemption
   Amid Big Outflows
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   N.ROD N.ROB N.RLN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rodamco N.V., a $4.5 billion international property
investment fund based in Rotterdam, the Netherlands,
suspended its longstanding policy of redeeming shares in the
face of a massive outflow of funds.
   The move stunned investors, and several Dutch analysts
predicted that Rodamco's share price will fall at least 10%
to 20% as a result. Because Rodamco will no longer buy its
own shares at approximately book value, investors wanting out
will have to sell them at the prevailing stock market price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some analysts said the sudden policy change will hurt the
image of the entire Robeco Group, of which Rodamco is one of
the largest funds. Robeco Group, the biggest independent fund
manager in Europe with the equivalent of nearly $24 billion
under management, has shown lackluster investment results
over the past several years. Meanwhile, executive turnover
has been high at the group amid a reorganization orchestrated
by management consultants McKinsey &amp; Co.
   Rodamco shares were suspended from trading on the
Amsterdam Stock Exchange yesterday and today to give
investors time to digest the news. Andre Mulder, an analyst
at Barclays de Zoete Wedd Nederland, said Rodamco shares
might fall to between 60 guilders and 65 guilders when
trading resumes Wednesday. Rodamco closed Friday at 73.30
guilders.
   Rodamco has "destroyed its image of being a very stable
property fund," Mr. Mulder said. "They will have extreme
difficulty getting investors' confidence back."
   Rodamco officials insisted they had no choice. The fund
has repurchased more than 20% of its shares over the past
nine months at a total cost of about 2.3 billion guilders
($1.29 billion). Investors have been bailing out to take
advantage of higher yields on money market investments, and
many are worried about Rodamco's heavy exposure to the weak
British and U.S. real estate markets, which account for about
70% of the fund's assets.
   The heavy repurchases have cut deeply into Rodamco's cash.
Had the trend continued, the fund said, it would have been
forced either to borrow heavily or sell "a potentially large
number of property investments in difficult markets."
   A Robeco spokesman acknowledged yesterday that the company
could end redemptions at any time for its other main
offerings, the Robeco and Rolinco equity funds and the
Rorento bond fund. But he said such a move was "very
unlikely" given that those funds trade in marketable
securities, which can easily be cashed in on short notice,
unlike real estate.
   Through August, Rodamco produced total returns on an
annual basis of 5.25% over the past two years and 8.31% over
five years, according to Theodoor Gilissen Investment
Research of Amsterdam.
   For Robeco, an international equity fund, the returns were
1.88% over two years, putting it near the bottom among 14
Dutch-based international equity funds tracked by Gilissen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Votrax Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS VOTX
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   VOTRAX Inc. (Farmington Hills, Mich.) -- Larry W.
Jernigan, chief executive officer and president, resigned
from the business-communications-systems maker, effective
Oct. 12. Mr. Jernigan, 46 years old, has been with Votrax
since September 1988. Votrax said he resigned to pursue other
interests and indicated that the departure was amicable. The
company is searching for a successor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stamford Capital
   Dissolves Boutique
   Of Lehman Alumni
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   PA WNEWS AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A fledgling investment boutique of Lehman
Brothers alumni folded, and several top partners joined
another Wall Street firm headed by former Lehman executives.
   The dissolution of Stamford Co. stemmed from a sudden
pullback of capital by its parent, Stamford Capital Group
Inc., amid the deep slump in the investment banking business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Launched last year by Sheldon S. Gordon, former vice
chairman at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., Stamford was
modeled after Wall Street's traditional investment banking
partnerships. But trading losses and a slowdown in merger
activity and other traditional investment banking activities
stung the firm badly.
   The demise of the firm -- its core partners were all
former executives of Lehman Brothers, which was bought by
Shearson in 1984 -- is a vivid reminder of the difficulty
facing Wall Street's investment banking boutiques these days.
   "The real lesson here is that it has to be the right idea
with the right people at the right time," Mr. Gordon said,
adding that he will concentrate now on private investing. "We
had the right idea with the right people, but the timing was
poor."
   Several of Stamford's top partners, meanwhile, have jumped
to another securities firm with strong Lehman ties: Primerica
Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. They include James
Boshart, who was hired at Lehman Brothers 20 years ago by
Lewis Glucksman, who now is a Smith Barney vice chairman. Mr.
Boshart will head Smith Barney's corporate finance
operations.
   Clifford Goldman, Stamford's former chief financial
officer and another former Lehman executive, will become a
managing director supervising Smith Barney's administration.
Mr. Goldman initially will focus on the financial reporting
of the firm's businesses, a Smith Barney spokesman said.
   Another senior Stamford partner, Judah Frankel, will join
Smith Barney as a managing director in its mortgage-backed
securities department. Several other former Lehman executives
have left Stamford in the past several months, as the firm's
fortunes have sagged.
   Meanwhile, some of Stamford's business lines are likely to
be bought soon by senior management as separate entities,
people familiar with the firm said. For example, Stamford's
corporate finance and mergers group, which focused on
companies involving transactions valued at between $15
million and $150 million, is likely to be bought out by a
small group led by Arnold Hoffman, another former Lehman
executive who ran Stamford's middle-market merger activity,
the people said.
   A planned partner in the new entity, to be called Middle
Market Group L.P., is Shearson Lehman Brothers itself.
Shearson's interest stemmed from a joint venture worked out
with Stamford last year, in which each firm received revenue
from certain transactions involving midsized companies.
   A spokesman for Shearson, a unit of American Express Co.,
said, "We'll continue to have an interest in the
middle-market group."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Anyone Who Can Sell Green Eggs
   And Ham Is Worth Listening To
   ----
   By L.A. Winokur
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Add another familiar name to the list of management
mavens: Theodor S. Geisel.
   S as in Seuss. As in Dr. Seuss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The children's author who put "Green Eggs and Ham" on
practically every kid's breakfast plate is being served up as
recommended fare to grown-up managers. Cynthia Eisenhauer,
for one, urges her staff at the Iowa Department of Employment
Services, where she is director, to savor the wisdom in the
86-year-old author's most recent book, "Oh, the Places You'll
Go]"
   Here is one such morsel:
   You have brains in your head.
   You have feet in your shoes.
   You can steer yourself
   any direction you choose.
   "It's inspirational and encourages people to set high
standards and work to achieve them without being
discouraged," exclaims Ms. Eisenhauer.
   Carolyn B. Elman, executive director of the American
Business Women's Association, agrees. She has been pushing
the book to her group's 100,000 members. Unlike many
how-to-succeed books, she contends, "this book lets you know
everyone fails at some time and that you have to pick
yourself up and just go on." Dr. Seuss's prescription:
   Out there things can happen
   and frequently do
   to people as brainy
   and footsy as you.
   And when things start to happen,
   don't worry. Don't stew.
   Just go right along.
   You'll start happening too.
   Nearly 800,000 copies of the book have been sold since it
was released early this year, reports Random House, which is
marketing it "as a book for anyone starting out on a new
adventure in life," says a spokeswoman. Described on its
jacket as a graduation speech for "out-starting upstarts of
all ages," the book has been on the New York Times fiction
best-seller list for more than 30 weeks.
   Like Grinches, some big-name management gurus are giving
their newest colleague the brushoff. "I haven't gotten to it
yet," says Peter Drucker, who suggests he prefers Shakespeare
to Seuss as a management tool.
   What does Dr. Seuss say about all this? "While I had no
intention of speaking directly to managers when I wrote the
book, I'm pleased when readers get something beyond what I
intended."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Corroon &amp; Black
   Holders to Receive
   Special Dividend
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CBL AOC U.WIL
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Corroon &amp; Black Corp. declared a special cash dividend of
$2.50 a share as an enticement to shareholders, who will soon
be voting on the company's merger with London-based Willis
Faber PLC.
   Because Corroon will be filing supplemental proxy
materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
New York-based insurance broker postponed the special
shareholders meeting for voting on the Willis Faber merger
from Friday until Oct. 4. The new proxy material, due to be
mailed to holders tomorrow, will provide details on the
special dividend and other recent events, including Aon
Corp.'s unsolicited $40-a-share, or $840 million, bid for
Corroon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The insurance broker rejected Aon's offer last Tuesday.
Chicago-based Aon withdrew its bid last Friday.
   Robert Cuthbert, Corroon's chief financial officer, said
the special dividend was needed "to facilitate the
transaction." The special dividend would "focus everyone's
attention on the deal" as originally structured, he added.
   When the Willis Faber merger was announced in early June,
it was valued at $34.72 a share, or $712.3 million. Since
then, Willis Faber's share price has dropped, lowering the
deal's total value.
   Corroon's stock jumped several points when the Aon offer
was announced, but it fell back when it appeared that the
Corroon board still favored the Willis Faber merger and Aon
wouldn't pursue a hostile offer. Corroon shares rose 25 cents
to a $29.50 closing in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday.
   The Corroon board declared the special dividend at a board
meeting held Sunday. The special dividend is payable to
Corroon's holders of record on the effective date of the
proposed merger with Willis Faber. The special dividend won't
be paid unless the merger is completed. The special dividend
was also approved by the Willis Faber board.
   Willis Faber shareholders will be voting Friday on the
merger with Corroon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Talking Strategy:
   Choosing a Partner Is a Crucial Task for Entrepreneurs
   ---
   Successful Matches Usually Involve
   Compatible Work Habits and Ethics
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   Like all new business partners, the three who founded
Cimtelligence Corp. five years ago hoped for smooth teamwork.
   But soon they fell into protracted disputes -- and even
shouting matches, says Charles Granville, now president of
the Lexington, Mass., computer-software producer. "It was
destructive for morale and performance," he says. "We
couldn't get anything agreed to." The start-up remained bumpy
for nearly a year -- until one partner left.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unlike the other two partners, this man had worked only in
large corporations, far removed from the fast pace and tight
budget of the start-up. "There were big-company vs.
small-company cultural differences," Mr. Granville says. With
hindsight, Mr. Granville says the former partner, Richard L.
Simon, was a poor match in the first place.
   Mr. Simon says "many other issues" were involved in the
breakup but he agrees the match was poor. "It's important for
a set of partners to have personal and business values that
click," he says.
   In having second thoughts about a business partner, the
Massachusetts entrepreneurs are hardly alone. Steven Berglas,
a Boston psychotherapist, tells of a New England food company
whose two partners "actually got into fistfights."
   Lawyers, psychologists and business consultants all say
problems between small-business partners are common. Indeed,
Lewis Shattuck, president of the Smaller Business Association
of New England, thinks some entrepreneurs avoid partnerships
"because of all the horror stories about partnerships that
don't work."
   But unless an entrepreneur wants to go it alone and has
the necessary money and talents, he or she may have little
choice but to take on a partner. So many businesses get going
only after the creator of a product is paired with a
financial partner that Wilton S. Sogg, a Cleveland lawyer,
has lectured to business classes about "Barney Bright and
Jerry Gold -- the guy with the idea and the guy with the
money." In arranging such partnerships, "the human part is
more important than the legal documents," Mr. Sogg warns.
   Experts say choosing the right partner is one of the most
critical tasks an entrepreneur faces. Successful partners
complement one another, but Mr. Berglas, the psychotherapist,
says many partners vie for control and undercut one another
instead. He tells of a computer-peripherals company run by
two brothers. "Each of them sabotages the other's projects --
it's straight sibling rivalry," he says.
   Andrew Martin, a founder of Smartfoods Inc. -- now a
Marlborough, Mass., unit of PepsiCo Inc. -- says he was on
vacation in 1986 when one of his partners, Ken Meyers,
unexpectedly arranged with investment bankers to oust him as
president and assume the title himself. And a former
Smartfoods distributor, Thomas E. Protheroe of Hartford,
Conn., recalls "a lot of bickering going on" among some of
the founders. (Mr. Meyers, still at Smartfoods, insists there
was an orderly transition that Mr. Martin himself had
invited.)
   Having had problems with partners, some entrepreneurs are
taking steps to avoid a repeat of the troubles in new
relationships. Mr. Martin says he hopes to avoid surprises
and bickering at Simpak Inc. and Annie's Farm Inc., two
current enterprises that he owns along with partners. To
build trust and talk over differences, he says, "I'm making
sure that we're face to face on a totally nonbusiness basis
for at least one week every year. Hopefully, there won't be
any subterfuge and nobody will do anything behind people's
backs."
   Authorities also suggest that prospective partners make
sure their work habits and ethics are compatible. Mr. Sogg,
the lawyer, says he knows one entrepreneur who is "very open
and generous," sharing his knowledge even with potential
competitors, and another who is "very protective of his
business," asking even job applicants to sign secrecy
agreements. "I absolutely wouldn't put them together in a
business deal," Mr. Sogg says.
   In choosing partners, some people prefer old friends.
Daniel R. Case, a founder of Application Techniques Inc., a
computer-software maker in Pepperell, Mass., says he avoided
many problems by going into business with Gary M. Cook, whom
he had known for many years. "When you've had a friend for
years, obviously there's a certain level of compatibility,"
he says.
   Others agree that personality counts. At Advanced
Marketing Systems Corp., a computer-software company in
Westford, Mass., Chairman Jay K. Alperin has gotten along
well with his partner, Kenneth E. Lajoie. "We had to have a
good sense of humor," Mr. Alperin says. "You really can't
have one person holding grudges."
   Partners needn't be close friends, though. Richard Lopata,
a Chicago management consultant, says he had a successful
partnership with Richard E. Petersen for many years. "We
never socialized, we weren't close buddies, but we had a lot
of respect for each other's judgments," Mr. Lopata says.
   Close friends or not, successful partners must establish a
decision-making process that works smoothly. In rare cases
where the partners disagree at Application Techniques, Mr.
Case says, he always defers to Mr. Cook. "I've always
respected his authority," Mr. Case says. "You have to have a
structure in a company."
   A clear agreement on roles helps. One Cleveland
entrepreneur says he brought in three "passive" partners for
his manufacturing company, which needed their money. At
least, they were supposed to be passive. "As time went on,
they became more and more active in trying to impose their
will," he says. At the now-troubled company, "an inordinate
amount of time is consumed dealing with partners, rather than
dealing with the issues," he says.
   Often, it's especially important for partners to
anticipate money-related issues. John C. Rennie, chairman of
Pacer Systems Inc., says he and his partners always agreed on
when -- or whether -- to draw profits from the Billerica,
Mass., electronics company. "I've seen some excellent little
companies blow apart because one guy thought he was building
a comfortable little cash cow, but the others were looking
for explosive growth and capital gains," he says.
   Though many problems can be anticipated and resolved
early, the greatest feat is to find a partner who can cope
with the crisis nobody ever predicted, experts say. Warns Mr.
Sogg, "Something unexpected always happens. It's the ability
to roll with the punches that counts."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Bankruptcies Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian bankruptcies rose 52% to 4,935 in
August from 3,240 a year earlier, the Canadian Consumer and
Corporate Affairs Department said.
   Individual bankruptcies totaled 3,943 and business
bankruptcies 992 in the latest month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first eight months of this year, Canadian
bankruptcies rose 37% to 32,812 from 24,027 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harsco Gets German Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP HSC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Harsco Corp. said its Taylor-Wharton
plant here received a $15 million contract from West Germany
to supply high-pressure steel cylinders to that country.
   Harrisburg-based Harsco supplies products for defense,
industrial, commercial and construction uses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Instrument Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- General Instrument Corp. said it plans to sell
its transportation electronics division as part of a
restructuring and debt-reduction plan.
   In the year ended Feb. 28, the division had sales of about
$40 million. It makes automotive electronic displays. General
Instrument was recently acquired by an investor group led by
Forstmann, Little &amp; Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Pirelli Offer to Merge
   Tire Lines Is Rejected
   By Continental AG
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   I.PIR G.CGU
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HANOVER, West Germany -- Continental AG, the West German
tire and rubber products maker, said it rejected Pirelli
S.p.A.'s offer to merge their world-wide tire businesses "in
its present form," but offered to "negotiate over a future
business cooperation."
   Continental, the world's fourth largest tire maker, just
ahead of No. 5 Pirelli, said its management and advisers have
decided that the Italian company's offer, received about 10
days ago, "isn't in the interests of the company, its
employees, its shareholders or its customers."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pirelli, a Milan-based industrial group, said last week
that its plan for merging its global tire operations into
Continental would give Pirelli majority ownership of
Continental. Pirelli currently directly owns 5% of
Continental's share capital and says it has partners with
whom it jointly controls 51%. A Pirelli spokesman declined to
comment on the Continental announcement.
   Pirelli's main interests are in cables and tires. The tire
manufacturing operations are housed in its Amsterdam-based
Pirelli Tyre Holding N.V.
   Continental officials said the Pirelli proposal calls for
the German company to acquire the assets and liabilities of
Pirelli Tyre Holding for 1.8 billion to 2.2 billion marks
($1.14 billion to $1.39 billion), with the final price yet to
be determined.
   In explaining its rejection, Continental's chairman, Horst
Urban, said Pirelli's price is well above market levels.
Continental officials said they estimate the market value of
Pirelli's world-wide tire assets at roughly 800 million
marks.
   The proposal calls for Continental to issue new shares to
its current holders to raise the cash to cover roughly 50% of
the price. The other half would be financed through fresh
bank borrowings by Continental.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Records: New Stuff From Dylan, the Nevilles, et. al.
   ----
   By Jim Fusilli
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   While artists of lesser stature trumpet their new releases
with hyperbolic fanfare, Bob Dylan continues to write and
record his songs, distribute his albums and move on to the
next project. His latest recording, "Under the Red Sky"
(Columbia), is raw, spontaneous, and by design not very
pretty; its lyrics are cryptic and mature. So it's everything
rock albums aren't today. For that alone, it's a gem.
   Under the guidance of producer Don Was, and aided by Al
Kooper, whose whistling organ licks propelled "Like a Rolling
Stone," among other time-framed classics, Dylan has returned
to his circa 1968 rocking roots, spewing a volley of words
over a pounding band, flinging images against a torrent of
drums, bass and whirling guitars. Close your eyes and there
he is, the shock of curly hair, the sunglasses, the Fender
Stratocaster slung over his shoulder, the leather jacket, the
torn, faded jeans: The more than 20 years it's been since
"Blonde on Blonde" vanish with a listening. Taken with last
year's pensive, Daniel Lanois-produced "Oh Mercy," "Under a
Red Sky" demonstrates that there need be no "new Bob Dylan"
as long as the real thing's still around.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Speaking of Daniel Lanois, in 1989 the producer stepped in
to help the Neville Brothers find their own voice on "Yellow
Moon," the group's most successful record, both commercially
and artistically. This year the Nevilles, sans Lanois, have
taken their sound a step further and the resulting recording,
"Brother's Keeper" (A&amp;M), is their best work. By now,
finally, Aaron Neville is a star and rightfully so:
"Aaronesque" should be an adjective to describe a sweet,
heart-wrenching and perfect vocal performance. The other
Neville vocalists, gruff Art and buoyant Cyril, contribute
quality performances, and the material, as it did on "Yellow
Moon," matches the brothers' talent. Check out the snap and
funk of "Brother Jake" or the plaintive moan of Link Wray's
"Fallin' Rain" and try to come up with a band that's better
at getting an audience to dance and cry within a beat. One
quibble: The Nevilles apparently have jettisoned guitarist
Brian Stoltz, whose work was a high point on both "Yellow
Moon" and Dylan's "Oh Mercy." On the plus side, the song
"Fearless" features the booming voice of Linda Ronstadt, with
whom Aaron Neville had the huge 1989 hit "Don't Know Much."
Ronstadt produced Aaron's forthcoming, much-awaited solo
album.
   If the Neville Brothers aren't America's best band, Living
Colour may very well be. The New York-based quartet is heavy
metal's most defiantly versatile act, and on their new album,
"Time's Up" (Epic), they display their wide range: hard-core
power wailing, a dab of rap, a flicker of jazz, warm
harmonies, and in "Love Rears Its Ugly Head," a witty blues.
Crushing four-square rock is still their metier, however, and
there's plenty of it here, propelled by a ferocious rhythm
section of Muzz Skillings and William Calhoun. Led by the
inventive guitarist Vernon Reid, Living Colour may be too
gifted for its own good, but every cut on "Time's Up" is a
delight. And loud.
   Following 1988's studied "Blue Skies," one might've
expected another flawless rendering of classic,
acoustic-based jazz by the New York vocalist Cassandra
Wilson. Not so. Her latest, "Jumpworld" (JMT Records), may be
a classic, but you won't find the likes of "Shall We Dance"
and "I've Grown Accustomed to His Face" here. "Jumpworld" is
a fierce flood of colors, all drawn from the broad palette of
today's jazz and featuring Wilson's extraordinary voice.
Driving her trio and guest performers Steve Coleman, David
Gilmour, Greg Osby and Lonnie Plaxico, Wilson is dynamic,
adventurous and oh so confident. She proves herself a fine
producer and talented songwriter as well, equally adept at
seductive jazz and ardent funk. Where her gifts will take her
next is anybody's guess.
   "Robert Johnson: The Complete Recordings" (Columbia)
contains every recording ever made by the legendary bluesman.
The 41 tracks -- 29 songs and 12 alternate takes, marvelously
restored by Frank Abbey -- include Johnson's familiar
compositions "Cross Road Blues," "Sweet Home Chicago," "Love
in Vain," "Come in My Kitchen," among others. While it's a
delight to hear Johnson sing his own songs, it's a revelation
to hear his hypnotic guitar playing. In the liner notes, Eric
Clapton calls Johnson the greatest bluesman who ever lived,
and this collection goes a long way to support his claim. The
multirecord set, part of Columbia's "Roots 'n' Blues" series,
is lovingly packaged, and includes a Johnson biography by
Stephen C. LeVere, a bevy of photos -- including one of
Johnson's death certificate; the amorous bluesman was 27
years old when he contracted pneumonia after being poisoned
by a jealous rival -- and the annotated lyrics to each song.
The set is precisely the kind of tribute a master like
Johnson deserves.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bank of Commerce Takeover
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Bank of Commerce Bhd.,
controlled by Malaysia's dominant political party, announced
a proposed takeover and subsequent partial merger with United
Asian Bank Bhd.
   Bank of Commerce said Finance Minister Daim Zainuddin
approved the complex arrangement with UAB, which was taken
over in 1987 by Bank Negara, Malaysia's central bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction would create the fifth-largest locally
incorporated domestic bank in terms of shareholder funds,
amounting to 210.6 million Malaysian dollars (US$78 million),
and the sixth-largest in terms of assets (M$6.8 billion) and
deposits (M$3.9 billion).
   The arrangement effectively would make Bank of Commerce an
investment holding company, among whose primary assets would
be the sharply enlarged domestic banking operations under
UAB.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dataimage Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DATA WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   DATAIMAGE INC. (Glastonbury, Conn.) -- William R. Funk Jr.
resigned from the board, bringing membership to four, at this
maker of parts for image-processing systems. In about two
weeks, Dataimage expects to fill an existing vacancy and to
name a successor to Mr. Funk, who left to pursue other
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Poverty in U.S.
   Is Exaggerated
   By Census
   ----
   By Robert Rector
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tomorrow the U.S. Census Bureau will release its annual
report on poverty in the U.S. The report will claim that
there are some 31 million to 32 million poor Americans, more
than in 1965 when the War on Poverty began. Evidence is
mounting, however, that the Census Bureau's poverty report
dramatically understates the living standards of low-income
Americans, and dramatically overstates the extent of true
poverty.
   The Census Bureau counts as "poor" anyone with "cash
income" less than the official poverty threshold of $12,675
(for a family of four in 1989). But the bureau seriously
undercounts the income of the poor. In fact, the bureau's own
data show that low-income households spend $1.94 for every $1
in "income" they report. And the gap between spending and
income continues to grow larger each year. Something
obviously is amiss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That something is the way the government calculates
income. A key shortcoming in the Census data is that they
disregard assets entirely. Middle-class families that have
suffered a temporary dip in earnings are defined as poor even
if they own a house and have other substantial assets. A
second shortcoming is that the Census ignores almost the
entire welfare system when calculating the "income" of the
poor.
   The non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS),
part of the Library of Congress, shows that -- in constant
dollars -- federal, state and local spending on
"means-tested" programs for low income Americans, rose from
$154 billion in 1980 to an all-time high of $173 billion in
1988, the last year for which comprehensive data are
available. An additional $11 billion in Medicare spending on
poor persons, which was not included in the CRS total, raised
total U.S. welfare spending to around $184 billion in 1988.
   These dollar amounts tell only part of the story. There is
also a large conceptual gap between the "poor" as defined by
Census and what most Americans consider "living in poverty."
   According to the Census Bureau's own data, there are some
22,000 "poor" households that own heated swimming pools or
Jacuzzis. Thirty-eight percent of the persons whom the Census
Bureau identifies as poor own their own homes; 62% of poor
households own a car; 14% own two or more cars. Nearly half
of all poor households have air-conditioning; and 31% have
microwave ovens.
   Without intending to trivialize the misfortune of those
who are truly poor, it's important to note that most "poor"
Americans today are far better housed, better fed and own
more property than was the average U.S. citizen throughout
most of this century.
   In 1988, for example, after adjusting for inflation, the
per-capita expenditures of the lowest income fifth of U.S.
households exceeded the per-capita income of the median
American household in 1955. The average "poor" American lives
in a larger house or apartment than does the average -- not
average non-poor, but average period -- West European. Poor
Americans eat far more meat, are more likely to own cars and
dishwashers and are more likely to have basic modern
amenities such as indoor toilets than is the general West
European population.
   So what do the numbers mean? The Census Bureau informs us
that in 1988 there were 33.3 million people with incomes
below the official poverty line before receiving welfare
benefits. After receipt of welfare, the number of poor
persons dropped to 31.9 million. In other words, according to
Census, $184 billion in welfare spending reduced the number
of "poor" persons by only 1.4 million, a cost of $131,750 per
person.
   This remarkable record is achieved because the Census
disregards the effect of non-cash welfare benefits in
calculating poverty. According to the Census, entire
programs, such as food stamps, public housing, Medicaid,
low-income energy assistance and the Women, Infants and
Children food-assistance program might as well not exist. Of
$184 billion in welfare spending, Census counts only $27
billion as income for poor persons. The missing welfare
spending excluded from the Census poverty reports comes to
$157 billion, or more than $11,000 per poor household.
   An accurate survey of the income, assets, and welfare
benefits of Americans would show far fewer poor people. This
should not lead us, however, to declare victory in the "War
on Poverty."
   Most American adults living today had a parent or
grandparent who was "poor" by current government standards,
when adjusted for inflation. Yet the behavior of these
individuals from earlier generations was middle class, as
were the values they transmitted to their children.
   Many of today's poor are trapped in a "behavioral poverty"
that is far crueler and more pernicious than the material
poverty experienced by earlier generations. The explosion of
welfare spending in the past 25 years has created entire
communities where work is rare, intact families unknown and
dependence on government a way of life passed on from
generation to generation. Individuals who were intended to be
the beneficiaries of the welfare state are instead its
victims.
   Everyone should be justifiably concerned about persons
living in material poverty through no fault of their own. But
the current poverty reports tells us little about real
poverty in the U.S. And by focusing attention solely on
material living standards it distracts attention from the far
more serious issue of "behavioral poverty."
   This is a problem that can't be fixed without a thorough
understanding of the nature and extent of poverty in America
-- a picture the Census Bureau report only blurs.
   ---
   Mr. Rector is welfare and poverty policy analyst at the
Heritage Foundation, in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC, in Civil Suit,
   Alleges Schemes
   By New Jersey Man
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GCN SMRK KREN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
accused a 26-year-old New Jersey man of concocting schemes to
manipulate the prices of three stocks.
   In a civil lawsuit, the SEC said that Kevin Weakland,
Ocean City, N.J., used aliases, fabricated press releases and
falsified SEC filings to push up the prices of General Cinema
Corp., Southmark Corp. and Kings Road Entertainment Inc. The
SEC is seeking to permanently enjoin Mr. Weakland from future
violations of securities law, but isn't seeking disgorgement
of any profit, which appears to be about $9,000. The agency
said Mr. Weakland will be representing himself in the case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Weakland, the sole owner of KLW International Inc.,
couldn't be reached for comment because his phone number is
unlisted. The SEC wouldn't release it.
   The scheme alleged by the SEC offers a glimpse at some
unusual ways of moving stock prices. According to the
complaint, Mr. Weakland bought 1,000 General Cinema shares on
May 9, 1988. About five weeks later, he dummied up a false
press release purportedly issued by a large Texas insurance
company and sent it to the movie company's board and an
entertainment trade paper. He sent the release under the
signature of Ralph J. Ackers, which the SEC said is an alias.
   The release said the insurance company had acquired
1,849,000 shares, or about 4% of General Cinema shares, might
buy another two million and wanted two seats on the General
Cinema board, the SEC said. Then Mr. Weakland sent a letter
to General Cinema, signed by another alias, Kile Johnasen,
saying that Johnasen held 6.1% of General Cinema and was
negotiating for a possible joint tender offer for the
company, the agency said.
   Several days later, Mr. Weakland filed a false 13D
disclosure statement with the SEC, telling the agency of the
Johnasen stake, the SEC said. Later that day, the Dow Jones
News Service ran a story about the filing, helping boost the
price of General Cinema shares. The company responded to the
wire item by releasing a statement questioning the
authenticity of the filing, and the Dow Jones wire ran a
story about General Cinema's reaction.
   The stock price, which had jumped on the original
13D-filing story, slipped back, and Mr. Weakland later sold
his shares at a small profit, the SEC said.
   The SEC said Mr. Weakland made false and misleading
statements about his General Cinema holdings and intentions.
   According to the SEC charges regarding Kings Road, after
Mr. Weakland bought 10,000 shares of the Los Angeles-based
company in January 1988, he wrote to the company's chairman
under the alias Joe Tyler.
   One letter to the company said that Mr. Weakland's firm
had started talks to acquire the shares of several large
Kings Road holders in a "swap buy out" of preferred stock for
common stock, the SEC said. After disclosing terms of the
offer, the letter contended that "by way of this offer we
could have over 51% of the stock or at the very least become
a major stock holder," the agency said.
   Two weeks later, Mr. Weakland filed a 13D with the
commission stating that KLW owned 254,500 shares, or 5% of
Kings Road stock. The filing listed the contact as "Joe Tyler
c/o KLW International Inc." and included Mr. Weakland's home
address and telephone number. Mr. Weakland's position was
eventually sold. The SEC complaint argued that he made false
and misleading statements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saab Awards Jet Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SAA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Swedish automobile and aerospace group
Saab-Scania AB said it awarded a $200 million contract to
British AIM Group PLC for design, manufacture and external
painting of the new Saab 2000 jet aircraft.
   The Saab 2000, currently in development, will go into
operation in 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Why Bad Things Happen to Good Operas
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Omaha, Neb. -- This probably is not a place for people who
don't eat anything with large, moist, soulful eyes. Even so,
Omaha, a town of modest charm with spacious parking lots, has
its attraction. I mean Opera Omaha, now in its 32nd season
and, under Mary Robert's direction, an interesting showcase
for young voices featured in repertoire mixing standards with
unusual works.
   Just recently, for instance, local abattoirs resonated
with the sounds of mostly obscure music as Opera Omaha opened
its fall festival with a typically ambitious program. In
addition to an evening of Kurt Weill, sung by Angelina Reaux
-- in a leg cast after she tripped over one of the town's few
remaining cobblestones -- the company presented Gaetano
Donizetti's opera "Maria Padilla" -- about the
throne-obsessed mistress of Pedro, the Scourge of the Moors
-- and the American premiere of John Casken's "Golem" --
which I think was about the famous mythic man of clay a
medieval rabbi sculpted out of river mud, whispering the name
of God.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I'm not sure though. Each piece exuded mystery of a
different sort. How did a work as unflaggingly melodic as
"Maria Padilla" fail to maintain even a toehold in the
operatic repertoire? How did a talented composer like Mr.
Casken come to write such a dreary little opera? In both
cases, at least some of the blame must go to the librettos.
They are foolish. Donizetti at least battled for a better
libretto, but I don't know what Mr. Casken's excuse could be
-- he wrote most of it.
   Yet there is another reason for "Maria Padilla's" failure
to glitter much beyond the premiere in 1841 at La Scala. As
William Ashbrook writes in his splendid volume on Donizetti's
operas, that was the season Verdi's spectacular house debut
eclipsed all the other events, including "Maria Padilla" -- a
work the scholar describes as "one of Donizetti's richest and
most original scores." Verdi's "Nabucco" pulverized "Maria
Padilla" and the piece kept gathering dust throughout this
century, only showing its fine features in a London
presentation in the 1970s.
   Mr. Ashbrook, who was on hand for Opera Omaha's "Maria
Padilla," seemed disinclined to disagree with his verdict,
and I doubt that many gathered in Witherspoon Concert Hall
thought he should. Attractively staged by the
designer-director John Pascoe, well-paced by John DeMain, the
company's music director, and often impressively sung, this
production made a strong case that "Maria's" musical virtues
far outweigh its dramatic flaws.
   The main problems center on the heroine's bland character
and her troublesome demise. In a pretty tune, Maria describes
a dream she had in which a crown adorned her head. Hardly has
she time to catch her breath, when the future king of Castile
comes hurtling through her balcony, and after an exciting
duet, Maria has moved to his bed and closer to the throne.
Unfortunately, she soon gets an earful from one of opera's
many dreadful fathers, who cannot bear to see her happy and
goes mad to punish her. In one ending, Maria kills herself
when Pedro takes a wife; in another, he dumps the bride and
crowns Maria.
   In Omaha, Maria was stabbed by one of her father's
cronies. This third try at an ending fails to convince,
because Maria has shown no evil traits worth punishing and
the patience of an angel waiting for her father to finish a
mad scene not much shorter than Lucia di Lammermoor's.
   Otherwise, Opera Omaha's inventiveness came out more
persuasively in the production. The Witherspoon auditorium in
the Joslyn Art Museum -- a handsome art deco building from a
time when Omaha's architecture didn't hit you square between
the eyes -- is quite a challenging venue for opera. There is
no pit and the orchestra is on stage behind the singers --
who take their cues from several TV monitors. The sound is
surprisingly good and I wonder if more companies shouldn't
entertain the notion, since it does remove from sight
beatifically lit time-beaters on elevator platforms and,
besides, reduces the sets to a minimum, another good thing in
an era of soulless, glitzy productions.
   Opera Omaha spent $14,000 on the sets and costumes for
"Maria" and "Golem." For the Donizetti, Mr. Pascoe achieved
pretty effects by just moving in a few arches and dropping
gauzy curtains, while letting richly worked costumes do the
rest. Renee Fleming was a radiant-looking Maria in her black
gown sprinkled with diamonds. She has stage presence, and if
she is not yet complete mistress of the ornamented line and
the telling phrase, she nevertheless gave a pleasurable
performance. Ms. Fleming was well-matched by Motti Kaston, as
Pedro, a burly young baritone with a big, lively voice and a
personality to match. Finesse will come later. Hans Gregory
Ashbaker's muscular tenor coped quite successfully with the
father's florid mad scene, and there were fine cameos from
Stella Zambalis and Arturo Valencia as well as solid
contributions from the large and busy chorus.
   "Golem" only required a handful of performers and a small
ensemble of musicians who confronted a score harder to bring
to life than a gob of clay. As the subject for a short opera,
the Golem myth -- much fleshed out in the 19th century when
the poor thing acquired the rabbi's daughter as a love
interest -- would seem promising, with its tension between
master and monster, played out in a Prague eerie with
kabbalistic muttering.
   Mr. Casken turned this into an incomprehensible tale
padded with obscure references to Prometheus, clumsy pointers
to the Holocaust and an annoying lumpen chorus borrowed
(badly) from Brecht. All this was regrettable since Mr.
Casken's music is basically appealing, with its shimering
tonal palette and flickerings of melody. Just how it came to
pass that Mr. Casken should have received for this first dim
venture into opera the prestigious Britten prize for
composition is a puzzle deeper than any imbedded in the
"Zohar."
   The production of Gluck's "Alceste" that opened the Lyric
Opera of Chicago's season was not easy to figure out either.
A nobler subject has rarely touched a composer's heart. Queen
Alceste, hearing from a reliable source -- an oracle -- that
Admetus, her sick husband, will die unless a sacrificial
substitute is found, volunteers herself. He refuses the
gesture; she insists, and only the intercession of the
rambunctious club-swinging Hercules returns her to the world
of the living for a happy end.
   In writing "Alceste," Gluck intentionally stripped his
opera of superfluous vocal ornament and wearisome spectacles,
the better to project intensity of feeling and to etch the
drama. That Alceste can still have the effect Gluck desired
is proved by tapes of the young Maria Callas and Dame Janet
Baker at career's end.
   In Chicago, the emotional impact was zero. Jessye Norman,
usually a communicative artist, often sang flat while
sounding faint at the top. Towering over the prompter's box,
invoking the gods of Styx in one of the most glorious arias
ever written, she brought to mind a tired diva requesting the
check after a disappointing meal. Only at hell's gates did
she sing with her usual expressiveness and secure tone.
   If anything, the staging by Robert Wilson, first seen in
Stuttgart, exacerbated the feeling of distance. Long ago, he
fascinated with his surprising images, finicky lighting,
glacial movements and gibberish-spouting characters that took
us in a freefall into another realm only remotely connected
to the subject at hand.
   Occasionally, a similar magic filtered through "Alceste."
For instance, he presented as visual metaphor for impending
doom, an airborne, slowly twisting, slowly growing cube that
eventually dwarfed the people of Greece, when a conventional
director might have just darkened the lights. More often, the
usual tiresome Wilsonian parade of spastics ever so slowly
crossed the stage. Ms. Norman appeared to have a double for
no reason I could figure out. One Ms. N is enough. Not
knowing how to handle the chorus, Mr. Wilson tucked it away
in the pit, where the musicians were already having a rough
time under Gary Bertini's flaccid baton.
   Anyone who remembered that Gluck's orchestral sonorities
influenced Berlioz was bound to be puzzled by the covered,
colorless sound emanating from the pit.
   The tenor Chris Merritt alone made a strong impression as
Admetus, his bright nasal tones and tense posture conveying
the dying man's hysteria. But for mysterious reasons only the
director can explain, he spent an alarming amount of time
holding up his right hand and staring at it. I wondered
whether he'd adorned it with cues just in case the staging
put him asleep and he needed to find his place in a
performance that seemed to go on till the crack of dawn. Or
was it doom?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, September 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.05% 30 to 44 days; 7.75% 45 to 59 days;
7.85% 60 to 89 days; 7.80% 90 to 119 days; 7.75% 120 to 149
days; 7.70% 150 to 179 days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.13% 60 days; 8.08% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.62% one month; 7.63% two
months; 7.65% three months; 7.70% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.25% one month; 8.25% three months;
8.25% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.14% 30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 7.99%
90 days; 7.99% 120 days; 7.94% 150 days; 7.89% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% one month; 8 3/8%
- 8 1/4% two months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% three months; 8 7/16% -
8 5/16% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8 3/8% - 8
1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 7/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 13.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.38%; Switzerland 9.50%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, September 24, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.32%, 13 weeks; 7.33%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.26%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.19%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.55%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.57%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cray Research Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CYR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CRAY RESEARCH Inc. (Eagan, Minn.) -- Lester T. Davis,
executive vice president of this computer maker's
manufacturing, research and development operation, was named
a director, filling a vacancy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Portman Says Liens
   Result From Delays
   Caused by Contractor
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   A.HOL
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- John Portman said the contractor that built his
San Francisco Fashion Center has delayed payment to several
subcontractors on the job, prompting a slew of liens filed
against Mr. Portman.
   At least 14 liens have been filed against Mr. Portman on
the 800,000-square-foot building by tradesmen and suppliers
who say they haven't been fully paid for their work. Mr.
Portman, who has suspended some debt repayments because of a
cash shortage, is in talks with lenders on restructuring the
collateral on his $2 billion of debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Portman said in a statement that Portman Cos. has paid
all invoices issued to it by the Fashion Center's contractor,
Denver-based Stolte Corp., "promptly and in full." He said
"typical end-of-the-job negotiations for final close-out of
the project," amounting to about $500,000, are expected to be
resolved in the next few weeks.
   In the meantime, Mr. Portman said, because Stolte has
postponed paying some subcontractors, Portman Cos. will issue
all remaining payments jointly to Stolte and the
subcontractor involved in a particular portion of work.
   Jim Jones, Stolte's vice president of finance and
administration, said that Portman Cos. has paid all its bills
to Stolte and that Stolte is in "normal" negotiations with
subcontractors to pay for the large number of change orders
made on the San Francisco project. He said Stolte has yet to
give Portman the building's final bill, which he estimated at
$3 million.
   Stolte's parent company, John Holland Holdings Ltd. of
Australia, is up for sale, and Mr. Jones said that possible
transaction may be having some effect on resolving the bills
of subcontractors. He wouldn't elaborate.
   But Clem Grant, president of Dual Lock Partition Systems
of Beaverton, Ore., one of the lienholders, said, "It's not
normal for us to have to put aside $87,000 and negotiate
after-the-fact for payment on base contract work."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   States Turn to Bans
   To Make Recycling Pay
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WISCONSIN and Massachusetts are the first states to ban
disposal of a broad range of recyclable materials, from
newspapers to plastic containers. The laws adopted this year
are intended to promote investment in recycling plants by
ensuring a steady supply of raw materials. Landfill and
incinerator operators are subject to stiff fines (as much as
$25,000 a day in Massachusetts) if they dispose of materials
covered by the bans.
   The Wisconsin and Massachusetts laws go further than
selective bans in other states covering car batteries, yard
waste, tires or appliances. By 1995, bans in the two states
will encompass metal, glass and plastic containers,
newspaper, cardboard and office paper, while Wisconsin also
covers magazines and foam plastic. Wisconsin seeks to develop
markets for recyclables by requiring 10% recycled content in
plastic containers by 1995 and 45% in newspapers by 2001.
   The waste disposal industry is protesting such broad
disposal bans. The National Solid Wastes Management
Association, a trade group, says bans will flood markets with
tons of recyclables that can't be sold. The group also
complains that enforcement provisions unfairly target waste
handlers, rather than generators.
   Connecticut repealed its disposal ban this year and
adopted a law that spreads responsibility for recycling.
Starting Jan. 1, communities must adopt and enforce laws
requiring residents and businesses to separate recyclables,
while haulers and disposal facilities must inspect waste and
report violators. So far, 11 states and Washington, D.C.,
require separation of recyclables.
                                                                                                       

   Blue Bags Making It
   Easier to Sort Waste
                                                                                                       

   SEVERAL CITIES say they have found a cheaper and more
convenient way to collect cans, bottles and other
recyclables. Residents can mix their recyclables together and
dispose of them in blue trash bags instead of sorting them
into the plastic bins used in most programs.
   Because bagged recyclables are collected by regular
compactor trucks during normal pickups, proponents say the
bags reduce or eliminate the need for expensive new trucks,
additional collection routes and bins. The convenience of
bags could induce more people to recycle, they say.
   Pittsburgh this week began bag-based recycling with 50,000
households, which will use the blue recycling bags. Although
the recyclables still must be sorted at a central facility,
the city estimates it will save $5 million a year. After
sorting, the bags also are to be recycled. A three-month test
showed that compacting recyclables in bags didn't hurt their
resale value. Blue bags are being used or tested in Houston,
Mobile, Ala., Erie, Pa., and elsewhere. "This system is
convenient for everyone and provides recycling at the lowest
possible cost," says Earl Joyner, a Mobile official.
   Environmental groups haven't taken a stand yet on the
bags. They aren't convinced that contamination, such as
broken glass mixing with other recyclables, won't reduce
their value.
                                                                                                       

   Everyday Electric Items
   Are Causing Concern
                                                                                                       

   AMERICANS are increasingly anxious about possible
cancer-causing effects of electromagnetic fields from power
lines and ordinary electric appliances. A recent
Environmental Protection Agency analysis shows there is cause
for concern. The draft report concludes that exposure to low
frequency magnetic fields, commonly given off by residential
distribution lines, household wiring and appliances, is a
"possible, but not a proven, cause of cancer in people."
   The report cited two statistical studies suggesting that
children with higher exposures from residential power lines
are twice as likely to get leukemia and cancers of the
central nervous system. There is little evidence of risk to
adults, except in high-exposure occupations.
   But federal officials and leading academic experts say
there isn't nearly enough evidence yet to justify regulating
electromagnetic field exposures. They want a major expansion
of research.
   Until there are definitive answers, some experts advise
"prudent avoidance." Examples: Move non-digital electric
clocks several feet away from your head at night; don't use
electric blankets; move beds away from the wall where power
lines connect to your house; and, if practical, sit at least
two feet away from personal computers.

   Backers of Methanol
   Focusing on Mileage
                                                                                                       

   METHANOL FUEL would get a big boost as an alternative to
gasoline if Congress requires a lot more miles per gallon in
addition to cleaner air. Derived from natural gas, coal or
even sewage sludge, methanol delivers both, as well as more
power and acceleration.
   Environmental Protection Agency tests show prototype
Toyota and Nissan cars that run on 100% methanol get between
10% and 40% more fuel efficiency, up to 25% more horsepower
and better acceleration. Yet they reduce emissions of
smog-producing hydrocarbons and cancer-causing chemicals by
90%. Even vehicles that run on either gasoline or 85%
methanol produce 5% to 10% gains in economy, with 30% to 50%
less pollution.
   EPA officials say methanol vehicles would meet Senate
proposals for at least 20% higher fuel economy, while
allowing Detroit to continue making popular and profitable
gas-guzzlers. U.S. auto makers will deliver more than 4,000
methanol vehicles for testing by 1993. But these vehicles
probably won't be mass-produced until 1995 or later because
the fuel isn't widely available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Budget Deficit
   Hits $241.72 Billion
   For First 11 Months
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- With just one more month left to be recorded
in the federal fiscal year, the deficit amounted to $241.72
billion, the Treasury said.
   The deficit target for fiscal 1990, which ends Sunday, set
by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law was $100 billion.
In the first 11 months of last year, the deficit totaled
$145.81 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The deficit for the month of August was $52.75 billion,
more than double the $22.15 billion reported in August last
year. Spending in August was increased by about $25 billion
because wage and benefit payments normally made in September
were made early to avoid Labor Day weekend delays, the
Treasury said. As a result, the government may run a modest
surplus in September.
   Revenues in August were $78.49 billion, up 3.1% from
$76.14 billion last August. Outlays were $131.24 billion, up
33.5% from $98.29 billion.
   So far this year, federal receipts totaled $928.59
billion, up 4.2% from last year. Individual income taxes are
4.8% ahead of last year, and Social Security payroll taxes
are 7.2% ahead of last year. But corporate tax receipts are
running 9.2% behind last year's totals, primarily because
profits are down.
   Outlays totaled $1.17 billion in the first 11 months, up
12.8% from last year. The Treasury said the Resolution Trust
Corp., the primary arm of the thrift industry clean-up
operation, has spent $37.78 billion so far this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Plunge Pushing Yields to Highest Levels
   Since March 1989 as Result of Soaring Oil Prices
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI CHL MHC CMB RJR CHH MHS FNM MS NOB MER EUROP FRE
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- U.S. government bond yields rose to their
highest levels since March 1989 as soaring oil prices stung
investors around the world. Long-term Treasury bonds now
yield about 9.2%, up from 9.12% last Friday. Bond prices,
which move in the opposite direction of yields, fell 5/8 of a
point, or $6.25 for each $1,000 face amount. Bond prices also
slumped in Germany and the U.K.
   Traders fear higher oil prices will lead to significantly
higher inflation, the archenemy of fixed-income investments.
Many investors also fear higher inflation will torpedo hopes
for credit-easing moves anytime soon by the Federal Reserve
and other major central banks. Thus, more investors are
shying away from long-term bonds and turning instead to
short-term Treasury bills, noted for safety and security.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're still fighting the same battles: tensions are
escalating in the Middle East, oil prices are up sharply, and
there's no agreement" on how to cut the U.S. government's
huge budget deficit, said Steven Saslow, executive managing
director at Carroll McEntee &amp; McGinley Inc. "So buyers are on
the sidelines." Treasury bills are increasingly popular among
investors, he said, "because money is seeking a safety net,
and the safest instruments are Treasurys."
   Investors are especially leery of bonds and stocks issued
by major New York banks. For example, prices tumbled
yesterday on bonds of Citicorp, Chemical Banking Corp. and
Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
   Fears are widespread that Chase Manhattan Corp.'s recent
dividend cut and its decision to reduce its staff by 5,000
employees could signal troubles at other large banks. Several
traders cited an article in The Wall Street Journal yesterday
that quoted a banking industry executive as saying that a
high-ranking official at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
had told him Chase isn't the weakest of the New York
money-center banks.
   The Fed official was said to be surprised that it was
Chase, and not another bank, that was getting so much
negative attention in the stock market. The official didn't
identify the other bank or explain his criteria for weakness.
Yesterday afternoon, a Fed spokesman said the Fed would have
no comment.
   However, several bond dealers said trading in bank bonds
yesterday was very light, allowing even relatively small
trades to produce large price swings. Some traders also argue
that investors are overreacting to the Chase news, and that
yields on bank bonds already more than compensate investors
for the perceived risks.
   "The rumors in the market today are patently ridiculous,
and I don't think it is responsible to give them any
credence," said Michael Callen, sector executive in charge of
Citibank's wholesale banking division for the U.S. and the
rest of the developed world. "We have a very different
profile than other banks in New York, and we have very
different types of earnings streams." Mr. Callen also
reiterated his comment in yesterday's Wall Street Journal
that "no one around here is talking about a dividend cut."
   Whatever the case, the price of Citicorp's 9.75%
subordinated capital notes, due in 1999, fell about 2 1/4
points to 89 5/8. The yield jumped to 11.65% from 11.15%
Friday.
   Chemical Banking's 9.75% subordinated capital notes, due
in 1999, fell to 75 7/8, down one point from Friday, to yield
14.75%, up from 14.50%. Manufacturers Hanover's 8.50%
subordinated capital notes, due in 1999, now yield 12.70%, up
from 12.50% late Friday.
   However, Chase Manhattan bonds, which have fallen sharply
recently, held steady yesterday even as the company's stock
dropped sharply again.
   Elsewhere in the credit markets, prices of junk bonds,
those issued by companies with low credit ratings or no
ratings at all, fell sharply. Among the hardest hit were
bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc., Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc.,
Ralphs Grocery Co. and Marriott Corp. Traders said the stock
market's sharp drop yesterday unnerved junk-bond investors
already worried that the economy's weakness will hurt
companies struggling to cope with heavy debt burdens.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Investors reacted to higher oil prices by shunning
long-term bonds.
   Among actively traded issues, the government's 30-year
bonds were quoted late yesterday at a price of 95 20/32, down
about 5/8 point. The yield rose to 9.17% from 9.12%.
   Traders say the 9.17% yield late yesterday was the highest
closing level of any day this year and also the highest
closing level on a comparable Treasury issue in at least a
year and a half. Several other long-term issues that are less
actively traded now offer even higher yields than the 30-year
issue. For example, some Treasury bonds now yield about 9
3/8.
   Today, the Treasury will sell new two-year notes. Trading
in the "when-issued" market yesterday, those notes were
quoted at a yield of 8.17%, up from 8.10% Friday. The yield
on the new four-year Treasury notes, to be sold tomorrow,
rose to 8.54% from 8.48%.
   "The market got killed" because Iraqi leader Saddam
Hussein "was rattling sabers," said David Resler, senior vice
president at Nomura Securities International Inc. "A lot of
the movement {in Treasury bond prices} was off of oil and the
heightened uncertainty about what's going on in the Middle
East."
   The Treasury yesterday held its regular weekly sale of new
three-month and sixmonth bills. Here are details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                  13-Week       26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ............ $32,765,965,000 $24,809,290,000
   Accepted bids ...........  $9,239,630,000  $9,205,195,000
   Accepted at low price ...             62%             54%
   Accepted noncompet'ly ...  $1,575,025,000  $1,401,050,000
   Average price (Rate) ....  98.150 (7.32%)  96.294 (7.33%)
   High price (Rate) .......  98.157 (7.29%)  96.309 (7.30%)
   Low price (Rate) ........  98.150 (7.32%)  96.289 (7.34%)
   Coupon equivalent .......           7.56%           7.73%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Sept. 27, 1990. The 13-week bills
mature Dec. 27, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Mar. 28,
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate &amp; Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Corporate bond prices slumped, with junk bonds posting
especially large declines.
   Among the biggest decliners were junk bonds of RJR Nabisco
Inc., Carter Hawley Hale Stores Inc., Ralphs Grocery Co. and
Marriott Corp.
   RJR Nabisco's 17.375% convertible payin-kind debentures,
due in 2009, finished down 1 7/8 points to close at 109 5/8
on the New York Stock Exchange. The other widely-held RJR
issue, the 17% exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures, maturing
in 2007, ended 2 1/8 points lower at 85 3/8. RJR pay-in-kind
bonds pay interest in the form of additional bonds instead of
cash.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds of Carter Hawley Hale continued to
plummet. Carter Hawley's 12.25% senior subordinated notes,
maturing in 1996, finished down six points at 57 while its
12.50% senior subordinated debentures, maturing in 2002,
ended down three points at 51.
   Prices of bonds issued by Carter Hawley and many other
retailers have been hammered in recent weeks by fears that
consumer spending will be light this Christmas because of the
economy's weakness.
   Elsewhere, in the high-yield market, Ralphs Grocery's 14%
senior subordinated debentures, due in 2000, dropped five
points to 77.
   Marriott's 9.125% senior notes, due in 1995, fell five
points to 91, while its 9.375% debentures, due in 2007,
finished down four points at 92 1/2.
   Meanwhile, prices of many investment-grade corporate bonds
also slumped, with some actively traded issues falling about
1/2 point. Larger declines, though, came on bonds of several
large New York banks.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Actively traded municipal bonds posted losses of 1/2 point
to one point in a fairly active session, suffering the same
fate as the other bond markets as oil prices surged.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% bond due 2018
closed one point lower at 95 3/4, boosting the yield to 7.55%
from 7.47% late Friday.
   No sizable municipal issues of more than $50 million were
priced yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage &amp; Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities fell 1/8 to 3/8, also hurt by
soaring oil prices.
   Government National Mortgage Association's 9 1/2%
securities for October delivery fell 1/4 point to 97 21/32,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.'s 9 1/2% gold participation
certificates fell 7/32 to 98 5/32, and Federal National
Mortgage Association's 9 1/2% securities fell 7/32 to 97
31/32.
   In the asset-backed market, Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and
Norwest Investment Services Inc. priced $400 million of
creditcard certificates at 99.9375 to yield 9.11%. The
securities are collateralized with Visa and MasterCard
receivables sold by Norwest Bank Iowa, a unit of Norwest
Corp.
   Separately, Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. has set up a
"special purpose corporation," called Hamilton Funding Corp.,
to finance the purchase of short-term, money market
securities off balance sheet. The maximum size of this
"asset-backed commercial paper program" will be $1.5 billion.
Hamilton yesterday issued just under $200 million of
commercial paper and hopes to issue between $500 million and
$1 billion by Friday.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   German and British government bond prices fell yesterday,
hurt by higher oil prices and fears of additional turmoil in
the Middle East.
   Bonn's 8 1/2% issue due 2000 dropped 0.38 point to 96.19
to yield 9.095%. British government bond prices also ended
lower. Britain's 11 3/4% bonds due 2003/2007 fell 1/2 point
to 99 25/32 to yield 11.76%.
   However, shorter-term British bonds were little changed.
For example, the U.K.'s 12% bonds due 1995 fell only 3/32 of
a point to 99 28/32 to yield 12%. And the 11 3/4% bonds due
1991 were unchanged at 99 1/8 to yield 14.32%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The IMF and World Bank -- Still Needed
   ----
   By John Gutfreund
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN LATAM EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   When Congress finishes hammering out the new budget deal,
it must turn to the issue of funding institutions that have
historically received a great deal of support from the U.S.
-- the so-called Bretton Woods institutions and the
multilateral development banks, including the newly formed
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The
question is, with so many pressing domestic uses for our
scarce capital, why should we spend money on these
institutions?
   The International Monetary Fund was designed to oversee a
system of essentially fixed exchange rates in a world of
relatively closed national capital markets. Today's world,
however, is one of floating exchange rates and increasingly
open capital markets. The largest proportion of lending by
the World Bank has been to state enterprises and public
sector borrowers in developing countries. High fiscal
spending and loss-making state enterprises increasingly are
being perceived as barriers to development, not aids. So are
the Bretton Woods institutions irrelevant today? Have policy
developments and the financial markets passed them by?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   No. Especially in this time of fiscal difficulties and
strains within the world banking system, these institutions
deserve our support and cooperation.
   With the world facing a growing capital shortage, the
challenge for the multilateral financial institutions is to
help design reform programs and to catalyze private financial
markets. In Latin America, free-market-oriented reforms that
have been spurned in the past are now being embraced.
Following the "lost decade" of the 1980s, key Latin American
countries are painfully adopting more stringent fiscal
controls, privatizing loss-making public corporations and
deregulating domestic markets.
   The process is well advanced in both Mexico and Chile;
Venezuela, and more recently, Brazil and Argentina have made
strides toward reform. These countries are now
re-establishing their access to the private capital markets.
For example, the newly privatized Chilean telephone company
recently raised nearly $100 million on the New York Stock
Exchange to finance construction of a million new telephone
lines in that country.
   Developments in the international bond markets are also
encouraging. Pemex, the Mexican oil company, recently raised
funds in the Eurodollar market to improve production
efficiency of offshore oil operations. It is interesting to
note that this Mexican company raised five-year funds at a
rate of 11 5/8% -- comparable to rates of some large American
industrial companies.
   The goal in Central and Eastern Europe is much the same as
in Latin America -- to expand the access of these countries
to the private credit markets. However, the region's
financial situation is becoming more difficult. The Soviet
Union, which has benefited from higher oil prices, has
recently seen its outstanding debt downgraded. Reflecting
investor concern, Soviet loans are now trading at a deep
discount in the secondary market, with the result that Soviet
loan yields are higher than those for Mexican loans.
   The problems of other former Eastern Bloc countries have
been exacerbated by rising oil prices. The growing economic
difficulties of these countries -- and the shift by Comecon
to convertible currency-based trading -- have raised doubts
about their near-term export earnings. Previously, 40% to 60%
of the exports from these countries went to other centrally
planned economies. Consequently, financial support for their
stabilization efforts and seed money will be critical in
order to attract private investment to these countries.
   The transformation taking place in the countries of
Central and Eastern Europe is one for which there is no
textbook to consult. The tasks include enacting fiscal
reforms, legal reforms, and financial reforms; creating free
markets for labor and goods, defining property rights, and
transferring ownership of thousands of companies from the
state to the private sector. Should these reforms be
immediate and total or phased and partial? What should be
done first?
   The Bretton Woods organizations can give invaluable help
in navigating these uncharted waters. In addition to drawing
on the expertise of their own staffs, these institutions are
organizing technical assistance -- as they have in many
countries in the past -- that will allow Central and Eastern
European official institutions and companies access to
experts from all over the world. The new European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development can make significant
contributions as well. It is fitting and logical that the
Soviet Union is now seeking membership in the IMF and the
World Bank -- a move that would complete the Bretton Woods
founders' vision of creating universal institutions.
   During the past 40 years, the U.S. has spent trillions of
dollars to protect its allies in Europe and Asia from the
threat of Communist expansion. Now that it has the
opportunity to help establish free-market economies in the
formerly Communist states, budgetary constraints threaten to
derail it.
   The Bretton Woods institutions enable their members and
contributors to leverage their efforts several times over. To
allow these institutions to languish because of a temporary
budget deficit would be lunacy. I, for one, would rather have
a tax increase than see my country shirk its responsibility
to the world community.
   ---
   Mr. Gutfreund is chairman of Salomon Inc. and a founding
member of the Bretton Woods Committee. Salomon Brothers acts
as an underwriter of World Bank obligations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Convex Computer Signs Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNX ESY
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHARDSON, Texas -- Convex Computer Corp. announced a
three-year, $20 million contract with E-Systems Inc. of
Dallas.
   Convex will supply supercomputer equipment and services to
defense contractor E-Systems for a computer data storage
system called the E-Systems modular automated storage system,
or Emass. Convex C2 supercomputers will act as the main
controllers for Emass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Emass is composed of a Convex supercomputer with magnetic
disks, a robotically controlled magnetic tape storage
subsystem and an operations console. Under the terms of the
agreement, Convex will provide hardware and system software
and will develop special interfaces that will be used with
the storage device.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Worker Count -- A Special Report
   ---
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE 1990 CENSUS reflects restless feet in the nation's
labor force.
   Preliminary population figures, the first census reports
so far, show West Virginia with a 9% drop since 1980, the
largest for a state. As coal mechanization sped on, 143,000
people left the Mountain State by 1989, an earlier report
said. The employment slump ended recently, but "our big
concern now is what a national recession will do" to the
state's jobs, says Edward Merrifield, a state labor research
official.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts warn that steady out-migration from an area can
cause a downward job spiral, deterring new business as the
labor supply dwindles. Industrial states like Michigan,
Illinois and Pennsylvania also lost people, the early 1990
figures suggest. But a combined 7.1 million people migrated
to sunny California, Arizona, Texas and Florida between 1980
and 1989, many taking new service jobs.
   The worker migration means "another union organizing task,
in a more hostile location," complains AFL-CIO economist John
Zalusky.
                                                                                                       

   UNIONS ESCALATE efforts to influence reapportionment in
wake of census.
   The American Federation of Federal, State, County and
Municipal Employees leads a drive to help Democrats control
16 key state legislatures and win hot gubernatorial contests
in California, Texas and Florida Nov. 6. The governors' veto
power will give them a "key role" when state lawmakers start
congressional redistricting in 1991, notes AFL-CIO political
chief John Perkins. "This is when your investment pays
dividends for five elections {through the year 2000}," a Food
Workers official adds.
   Some 45 unions, including auto, steel and communications
workers, teachers and letter carriers, contributed over half
of $5 million raised for the Democrats' five-year "Project
500," and unions "give us the bodies" for polling and
research, a party spokesman says.
                                                                                                       

   SEX, AGE AND SKILL factors loom large for the future work
force.
   The Bureau of Labor Statistics sees an increase of older
workers by 2000. Of men over 54 years old, 68% will be
working, up from 67% in 1988, and of women in the same age
group, 49% will be working, up from 43.5%. But with new
census data, the agency may boost those numbers even further,
showing more oldsters on the job, BLS statistician Howard
Fullerton says. By 2000, the median worker age will rise to
35, and 85% of new workers will be less technically trained
women and minorities, concludes a Purdue University study.
   The census reports will show a sizable widening of the pay
gap between high-school and college graduates, reflecting the
decisions of many to skip college in the 1980s, says
University of Maryland economist Frank Levy.
   That gap rose from a median $2,659 for men and $5,486 for
women, ages 25 to 34, to an inflation-adjusted $9,089 and
$7,812, respectively, from 1979 to 1987.
                                                                                                       

   STATES LOSING JOBS get some advice from Hudson Institute
official William Johnston: Don't try to lure new factories in
this service economy. Instead, "visit {Disney Chairman}
Michael Eisner to see if he wants to locate a theme park" in
the area.
                                                                                                       

   UNDERCOUNTING could fuel legislative moves to boost
immigration quotas by showing an excessive labor shortage,
says National Planning Association economist Richard Belous.
If short counts are concentrated in certain immigrant-heavy,
low-income localities, they could also reduce federal
job-training grants.
                                                                                                       

   DOWN ON THE FARM: They aren't keeping them there. About
3.7 million people were working on more-mechanized farms and
ranches in mid-July, down 3% from the same 1989 week and 19%
from 1980, the Agriculture Department said. But hired hands
are on the rise, supplanting many farm-family workers.
                                                                                                       

   POPULATION AGE CHANGES have a marked effect on
unemployment rates.
   So concludes a new study by Paul Flaim, BLS chief of labor
force statistics. An influx of post-World War II baby boomers
into the job market helped push the jobless rate upward in
the 1960s and 1970s. "Short on skills and work experience,
youths could not readily substitute for older workers," so
employers were less eager to hire them, Mr. Flaim says.
   But maturing and even "graying" of the boomers sparked the
1980s decline in the rate. So did a drop in the number of
teenagers, along with a shrinkage in the size of the work
force. Changing age demographics, not any rise in the demand
for labor, explain a 10-year drop in the jobless rate from
5.9% to 5.3% by 1989, Mr. Flaim argues.
   In the '90s, a further shrinkage of young job seekers is
expected, but many employers will stiffen demands to show
skills.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Noting that no labor-market data will emerge
from the 1990 census until 1992 or later, economist Sar
Levitan muses, "The more advanced the technology, the slower
the data publication." . . . No solace here: For those who
wonder about domestic energy capacity with Iraqi-held oil
shut off, the Census Bureau says oil and gas extraction
employment is down 25% from 1980.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Judge Orders Milken Sentencing Memo
   Released by U.S., With Some Deletions
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal judge ordered the government to
release to the news media today an edited version of its
sentencing memorandum concerning Michael Milken, who is
scheduled to be sentenced next Monday.
   The memorandum, filed in court under seal this month,
contains information about the six securities fraud-related
crimes to which Mr. Milken pleaded guilty in April and a host
of other alleged crimes that the government believes he
committed. The memo, designed to encourage federal Judge
Kimba Wood to impose a stiff sentence on the former Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. junk-bond chief, is more than 200 pages
long.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In her order making the memorandum public, Judge Wood
ordered the government to delete names of unindicted
co-conspirators and of other individuals and entities who
remain under investigation. Judge Wood also ordered
prosecutors to delete the portions of the memo that relate to
Mr. Milken's brother, Lowell Milken.
   Lowell Milken was charged with securities and tax fraud in
an indictment filed last year, but the government agreed to
dismiss all charges against Lowell Milken when his brother
agreed to plead guilty.
   Meanwhile, Michael Milken's lawyers said they would
release their client's own memorandum, which seeks to rebut
many of the government's charges, today. Mr. Milken's
attorneys had sought to bar the release of either of the
memos until the sentencing.
   Lawyers for Mr. Milken argued that early release of the
memos could lead to "improper pressure" on the court. But
Judge Wood said that "delaying release may well prejudice the
ability of the press to understand the substance" of the
government's allegations. She added, "I'm not going to be
influenced by any publicity."
   It appears that the government's memorandum contains much
information that has never been made public. Yesterday
afternoon, lawyers for three "John Does" filed sealed memos
with the court asking that the government refrain from
releasing portions of the government's sentencing memo that
refer to their clients. The identities of the three clients
isn't known, and none of the three law firms has ever
appeared before on documents filed in connection with the
case against Mr. Milken.
   Still unresolved yesterday was whether Judge Wood, in
handing down a sentence, would even consider the allegations
of wrongdoing beyond the crimes to which Mr. Milken pleaded
guilty. If she agrees to the government's request that she
consider the further allegations, Mr. Milken would be
entitled to a hearing in which he could seek to defend
himself. Regardless of whether additional allegations are
considered, the maximum sentence for his crimes is 28 years
in prison. But the sentencing judge has wide discretion
within that limitation.
   One of the six counts to which Mr. Milken pleaded guilty
involves a conspiracy he engaged in with convicted former
stock speculator Ivan Boesky to violate the law. Judge Wood
said that neither the government's nor Mr. Milken's
sentencing memos provided enough information to determine the
extent of the conspiracy without a hearing.
   Arthur Liman, an attorney for Mr. Milken, said he would
submit additional details of Mr. Milken's illegal activities
involving Mr. Boesky by tomorrow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newmont Australia
   Gets Support in Bid
   For BHP Gold Mines
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   A.NEW NEM A.BHG BHP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Newmont Mining Corp. said it agreed to support a
proposal by its 24%-owned Newmont Australia Ltd. to acquire
BHP Gold Mines Ltd. in a stock swap valued at about 475
million Australian dollars (US$394 million).
   Newmont Mining rejected an earlier offer by Poseidon Gold
Ltd., an Australian concern, to acquire the Newmont Australia
shares it doesn't own in a stock swap valued at A$780
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Newmont Australia said its directors and the directors of
BHP agreed to the new proposal and recommended the stock deal
to BHP shareholders.
   Broken Hill Proprietary, an Australian steel, mining and
oil company, holds about 55% of BHP and would hold about 23%
of the merged company if the offer is accepted. Newmont
Mining would hold about 14% of the new company, which would
be renamed, according to Newmont Mining Vice Chairman Richard
Leather.
   "The combined company will be a stronger and more
attractive company with a stronger operating group, stronger
management and stronger prospects," said Mr. Leather.
Acquiring BHP would boost Newmont Australia's 1991 gold
production some 75% to 790,000 ounces from 450,000 ounces, he
said. Combined, the company would have around four million
ounces of gold reserves at its gold mines and another 11
million ounces of resources that it might mine in the future.
BHP and Newmont Australia jointly own the Telfer Gold Mine,
which is expected to produce about 300,000 ounces of gold in
1990.
   In August, Newmont Mining sold nearly half of its shares,
or 20% of the stock outstanding, of Newmont Australia to
Poseidon Gold for A$166 million. At that time, Poseidon
offered to acquire the rest of Newmont Australia stock by
swapping one share of Poseidon stock for every two shares of
Newmont Australia stock. Since then, both Newmont Australia
and Newmont Mining have rejected that offer.
   Newmont Mining said it will continue to explore proposals
to liquidate its holdings in Newmont Australia after the BHP
deal is completed. Newmont Mining has said it is interested
in pursuing other gold prospects in Indonesia and Papua New
Guinea instead of retaining its interest in Australian gold
production.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Carolco To Buy Back
   3.4 Million Shares
   From Its Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES, Calif. -- Carolco Pictures Inc. said it
agreed to buy back about 3.4 million shares from its
chairman, Mario Kassar, for $45 million, or $13 a share --
giving Mr. Kassar a profit of about $11.5 million.
   The purchase price was well above the market price.
Carolco shares closed yesterday at $7.25 each, down 25 cents,
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
company didn't give an explanation for the higher price in
its release. A spokesman declined to elaborate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kassar purchased 11.2 million shares from Andrew
Vajna, the company's former co-chairman, for about $108
million, or $9.60 a share, last November. Based on that
price, Mr. Kassar made a profit of about $11.5 million in his
recent sale of shares to the company.
   The repurchase will leave Mr. Kassar with 15.1 million
shares, or a 57% stake in Carolco, which recently produced
the movie "Total Recall." As part of the agreement, Mr.
Kassar will also receive warrants to acquire 1 million shares
of common at $18.50 a share.
   Carolco said it will convert the 3.4 million repurchased
shares into treasury stock, reducing its common shares
outstanding to about 26.7 million shares from about 30.2
million.
   After buying the shares from Mr. Vajna, Mr. Kassar sold
about 3.85 million shares to four institutional investors at
prices ranging from $10.50 to $11.50 a share.
   Carolco agreed to sell convertible preferred shares to
Canal Plus Productions and Pioneer LDCA for $90 million.
Those preferred shares are convertible into common at $18.50
a share. Carolco had said previously that it will use about
half of the $90 million in proceeds to purchase an
unspecified number of shares from Mr. Kassar but the price
wasn't set until recently.
   Carolco shares traded at a high of $13.75 each last June
of 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Transcisco Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TNIB
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRANSCISCO INDUSTRIES Inc. (San Francisco) -- Ottokarl
Finsterwalder, 54 years old, was named a director of this
transportation concern. The appointment of Mr. Finsterwalder,
managing director of the bank Creditanstalt-Bankverein of
Vienna, increases board membership to six.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   MD GD TXT
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. was given a $69.2
million increase to an Air Force contract for logistics
support for KC-10 aircraft. The company also received a $37
million increase to a Navy contract for T-435 trainers.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bell Helicopter-Textron Inc., a unit of Textron Inc., got
a $62.3 million Army contract for 36 OH-58D production
airframes.
                                                                                                       

   Consolidated Electronic Countermeasures received a $21.7
million increase to a Navy contract for airborne
self-protection jammers.
                                                                                                       

   General Dynamics Land Systems, a division of General
Dynamics Corp., was issued a $21.4 million modification to an
Army contract for material for 315 Abrams tanks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Newly Sensitized
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   The American Library Association is upset that Upper
Pittsgrove Township, N.J., objects to Webster's definition of
intercourse and that Laytonville, Calif., doesn't like the
way Dr. Seuss depicts loggers. Well, in a world in which
we've all been taught to be sensitive to any slight or
offense, no one should be surprised that the "other side"
would join the game.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Ball Corp. Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BLL
</CO>
<IN>
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   MUNCIE, Ind. -- Ball Corp. said its aerospace systems unit
was awarded a $24 million contract to build a thermally
insulated container to cool an instrument on the Advanced
X-ray Astrophysics Facility, which will be launched into
space in 1997.
   The contract was let by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration's Goddard Space Flight Center.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ball makes metal and glass containers, as well as
aerospace and industrial products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Midwifery Is Staging Revival as Demand
   For Prenatal Care, Low-Tech Births Rises
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   The practice of having midwives deliver babies and provide
prenatal care is undergoing a rebirth in the U.S.
   All 50 states long ago legalized the practice of midwifery
by registered nurses operating mostly from hospitals. But
midwives who aren't nurses and largely do deliveries at home
are now seeking legal status.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Montana legalized non-nurse midwives last year, and a
half-dozen states are considering legalization. Washington,
which set up a scholarship fund to train midwives in 1989, is
considering additional funding. And the nonprofit Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has held two
seminars in the past year to promote the profession,
following the World Health Organization's declaration of an
"urgent need" to promote midwifery throughout the U.S.
   Midwives were fairly common in the U.S. until the late
1930s. But medical groups are greeting their resurgence much
as they might welcome pestilence and plague. For years,
doctors have portrayed midwifery as dangerous and dirty,
successfully suppressing the legal use of midwives in all but
11 states.
   "Midwives are retrogressive," says Albert Haverkamp, a
member of the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists' obstetrics committee. In Florida, three of the
state's largest medical groups are battling midwives'
legalization efforts. New York's nurses association is
blanketing legislators with two full-time and 200 volunteer
lobbyists to fight the midwives. And in California, which
made midwifery illegal in 1936, two legalization bills have
been defeated in the past two decades because of intense
lobbying by medical groups.
   Many midwives practice illegally, so experts can only
guess that their total number nationwide is somewhere between
2,000 and 6,000. About 1% of births are midwife-attended, but
that number rises in states where the practice is legal. In
Washington, midwife-attended births soared 50-fold from 1975
to 1988, now representing more than 4.3% of total births.
   Fueling demand for midwives are poor and rural women, but
also many middle-class and affluent professional women who
shun more impersonal, high-tech hospital care. "They want
someone to treat them as an individual, not as a potential
lawsuit waiting to happen," says Joan Remington, a Flagstaff,
Ariz., midwife. "Women are tested to death and begin to think
they are a disaster waiting to happen."
   Demand for midwives is also being driven by the sickly
state of obstetrics. One in eight obstetricians -- hurt by
malpractice insurance costs averaging $38,138 and soaring to
more than $236,000 in some areas -- has simply stopped
delivering babies, according to the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists. One in four won't handle a
high-risk pregnant woman; more than a third won't take
Medicaid patients. Nearly 800 counties, 26% of all counties
nationwide, lack any clinic where women can get prenatal
care. At Los Angeles public hospitals, women sometimes
deliver babies unattended in the hallway.
   In New York, according to a report by the state health
department, seven counties lack any comprehensive prenatal
care for poor women and several have infant mortality rates
that are more than double the national average. But the state
health commissioner, David Axelrod, believes that midwifery
can help solve the problem, and he has lobbied relentlessly
to legalize midwives and use them in hospitals.
   As births continue to inch upward, others also see
midwives as one way to improve the country's relatively high
rate of infant mortality and to extend care to areas doctors
don't cover. The World Health Organization says that in the
European countries that have lower infant mortality rates
than the U.S., midwives are used in an average of 70% of the
births. "We talk about risks, but midwife births have very
good outcomes," says Susan Givens, a policy analyst with the
National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality, which was
set up by Congress.
   Many women who use midwives say they compare the potential
risks of a low-tech birth, often at home, with the hazards of
doctors' relatively routine use of high-tech equipment and
drugs. Most doctors, for example, use electric fetal
monitors. Recent studies show the monitors reduce neonatal
mortality and morbidity, but they require a woman to lie on
her back, canceling the benefits of gravity and preventing
her from walking around, both of which help labor progress.
The position can also constrict certain arteries and reduce
the flow of oxygen to the fetus, leading to fetal distress
and the need for a Caesarean section.
   For whatever reason, the risk of having a Caesarean is
high for women who give birth in U.S. hospitals. One in four
hospital deliveries involves a Caesarean nowadays, compared
with 4% to 12% in Europe, and studies show that the procedure
increases maternal disease, infection and hysterectomies.
Last year, the National Center for Health Statistics found
that the number of Caesareans performed on women hospitalized
for delivery between 1980 and 1987 jumped 48%.
   Still, doctors question the qualifications of many
midwives and the safety of home births. Some states, such as
Washington, require midwives to take a three-year
state-accredited midwifery course and pass a licensing exam.
But in Texas, midwives need only plunk down $5 to become
registered. Montana has a five-hour course on emergency
medicine taught by non-physicians.
   Most worrisome, says Dr. Haverkamp, the obstetrician, is
that two of every 100 of his seemingly low-risk deliveries
develop unforeseen complications requiring an emergency
operation to save the infant or the mother. "There are cases
where you don't have time to get to a hospital," he says. The
umbilical cord might become caught between the infant's head
and the mother's cervix, cutting off oxygen, or the fetus
might not fit through the birth canal, for example.
   "We are being sued out of the profession and creating a
corps of poorly trained individuals to take care of women
instead," Dr. Haverkamp says.
   Robert Keszler, a senior special investigator for
California's state medical board, has investigated 300
midwife-assisted births resulting in dead or brain-damaged
babies, and he believes that almost all of them could have
been avoided.
   He points to the case of Rosalie Tarpening, who was
illegally assisting in a birth two years ago in Turlock,
Calif. The fetus had contracted pneumonia and died in the
womb during labor, which dragged on for three days before Ms.
Tarpening extracted the body. "Anyone who knew anything about
delivering babies would have recognized the problems" and
intervened to save the infant, says Mr. Keszler. Ms.
Tarpening, who eight years earlier was convicted of
practicing medicine without a license, was convicted last
year of second degree murder and sentenced to one year in
jail, five years' probation and a $5,000 fine.
   Midwives counter that such incidents are rare and that
babies die in hospitals, too. Many states that allow midwives
to practice permit them to treat only low-risk women and
require that they have doctor backup available, or even have
doctors screen their patients. They must often carry oxygen
and anti-hemorrhaging drugs. In Arizona, there hasn't been a
maternal death since the state licensed midwives 32 years
ago.
   "We are well trained. We don't do incantations and cross
our fingers as the baby comes out," says Elizabeth Lee, a
Harvard University graduate who took a seven-month training
program and apprenticed for two years before practicing in
Eagle Pass, Texas.
   Justine Clegg, a Dade County, Fla., midwife who uses warm
baths, relaxing music and hot compresses to help women
deliver, says women will employ midwives whether or not they
are legal. In California, midwives have brazenly set up an
association and certification process. Legalization and
licensing, Ms. Clegg says, would ensure competence and a
greater willingness by midwives to turn patients over to a
doctor's care if problems develop.
   Such a system might have helped Teresa Hoeppner of Lytle
Creek, Calif. After three easy deliveries in a hospital, she
opted to have her fourth birth with a midwife. "We thought
having a child at home would be a great experience for us and
our children," she says. "The hospital had been cold; the
nurses were mean and did unnecessary testing." Her midwife
said not to worry when a sonogram disclosed a uterine fibroid
tumor and an excess of fluids, a possible sign of
pregnancy-induced diabetes. But during a birthday party for
one son when she was eight months pregnant, she started to
bleed profusely.
   Doctors say that only a speedy trip to the hospital 30
miles away, seven units of blood and an emergency Caesarean
saved Mrs. Hoeppner's life. She had developed diabetes and
should have been closely monitored in a hospital late in her
pregnancy, they say. Four days later, she buried her fully
formed stillborn daughter. The midwife was fined $250 and
given two years' probation. She has since moved to Oregon,
where midwifery isn't illegal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aztec Manufacturing Co. Talks
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   AZTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Aztec Manufacturing Co. said it is
negotiating to purchase Calvert Co., Jackson, Miss.
   Proposed terms weren't announced. Aztec said completion is
subject to an accord on an asset-purchase plan. Aztec sells
oilfield gear and steel products. Calvert manufactures and
sells bus ducts, which convey electrical current and are
marketed primarily to the power-generation industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   D'Arcy Masius Sets Up Division
   For Licensing Company Logos
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   GM IPG X.TMP WPPGY WNEWS S T F C CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
AIRLINES (AIR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Walk down most any Main Street these days and it's hard to
miss the parade of pedestrian billboards: kids sporting Bart
Simpson regalia, men in Marlboro T-shirts, ladies in Porsche
sunglasses.
   But what you might dismiss as more commercial clutter, ad
agency D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles sees as the next
frontier in advertising revenue. In what DMB&amp;B says is an
industry first, the shop has set up a trademark licensing
division to create in-house a service that often has been
overlooked or is merely an afterthought.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DMB&amp;B says offering the licensing services, in which a
client's corporate logo is emblazoned on just about any kind
of apparel, product or accessory in exchange for a small cut
of the sales, is but one more effort to provide top-drawer
communications services to its clients.
   But the shop, like all other agencies, clearly needs to
come up with new services to help offset declining revenues
as many clients, recession-wary, tighten their ad budgets. As
the licensing business has grown -- world-wide merchandising
revenues now approximate $65 billion, according to the
Licensing Letter -- executives at DMB&amp;B have marked it as a
potential gold mine. It's a business, they say, that Madison
Avenue can't afford to ignore.
   "We think licensing should and will take its place as a
very well-regarded and effective marketing tool," says Bill
Haney, a senior vice president at DMB&amp;B who leads the shop's
licensing group. He calls licensing the "fifth arrow" in the
marketing quiver, following advertising, public relations,
direct mail and sales promotion.
   Traditionally, companies that agree to "license" their
logos hire an independent licensing agent or use an on-staff
executive to find suppliers -- makers of T-shirts or
thermoses, for example -- that will pay them a fee for
permission to make and sell products adorned with a
particular logo. The agent, of course, gets a handsome cut of
the sales.
   Now DMB&amp;B would like to wrest control of their clients'
licensing budgets away from those independent agents and
provide the service on its own, pocketing the fees in the
process.
   Though just in its infancy, DMB&amp;B's new licensing
operation already has one blue-chip client signed up: General
Motors, which has enlisted the agency to supervise licensing
for its Cadillac and Pontiac divisions. The shop is helping
GM slap its logos on everything from driving gloves to toy
cars.
   GM has a huge licensing program, with about 500 separate
licensing agreements. The auto maker had been handling all of
its licensing arrangements in-house, but an increasingly
heavy work load prompted the company to begin a search for an
independent agent about a year before DMB&amp;B first offered to
handle the business.
   "We had already come to the conclusion that to do it right
was really more than we were capable of doing alone," says
Ken Enborg, trademark counsel at GM. "I was excited about
DMB&amp;B picking up the torch."
   DMB&amp;B says it recently struck a joint venture with Bliss
House, an independent licensing agent, and executives there
will work alongside staffers at DMB&amp;B's office in Bloomfield
Hills, Mich. The shop will explain the licensing
opportunities to all of its clients soon and plans to offer
the capability world-wide after the first of the year.
   It's not clear, though, how successful DMB&amp;B or other
agencies that jump onto the licensing bandwagon will be. To
be a big hit, the agency will have to convince some of its
clients to sever relationships with independent agents or
close down in-house operations. Anheuser-Busch, whose
Budweiser brand is handled by DMB&amp;B, directs its own
licensing activities in-house. Another large client, Procter
&amp; Gamble, says it doesn't do much licensing of its
trademarks, anyway.
   Nor are the people that DMB&amp;B would like to put out of
business -- independent agents -- likely to cotton to the
agency's plans. "I don't think it's a natural thing for an ad
agency to be involved in," says a spokeswoman for Licensing
Corp. of America, a Time Warner unit that peddles Bugs Bunny,
Daffy Duck and other Warner cartoon characters, as well as
coordinating licensees for corporate monikers like Burger
King and Pillsbury. "I wish them luck, but it's a highly
specialized trade. Time will tell if they'll be able to make
a go of it."
   ---
   Corporate Ads Set Pace
                                                                                                       

   Spending for corporate advertising continued to outpace
overall ad spending in 1989, according to a study by Public
Relations Journal, a trade magazine.
   Corporate advertising, which generally focuses on the
company rather than specific products, was up 11.5% to nearly
$1.4 billion. Overall ad spending, at $123.9 billion, rose
only 5%.
   Sears Roebuck bumped out American Telephone &amp; Telegraph as
the No. 1 corporate spender, while Ford maintained its No. 2
spot. Chrysler, Campeau and Prudential Insurance rounded out
the top five. AT&amp;T wasn't even in the top 10.
   Much of the gain in corporate ads came from spending on
cable-TV networks, which rose 91%; Sunday magazines, up 86%;
and network radio, up 37%. Those increases reflect a growing
tendency to "narrow-cast" messages, said James Foster, author
of the study and president and chief executive of
Brouillard/LGFE, a WPP Group unit. Corporate ad spending on
outdoor ads and network TV fell.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   BUY-BACK: Interpublic Group, which suspended a stock
buy-back a month ago, said it resumed buying back its common
shares on a regular basis. The company suspended the
repurchase program pending its acquisition of the remainder
of Britain's Lowe Group. Interpublic authorized the buy-back
of up to 5.1 million shares in 1986 as part of a strategy to
"enhance shareholder value," a spokesman said. When the
buy-back was suspended, the company had repurchased about 3.4
million shares. Interpublic has more than 33 million shares
outstanding.
                                                                                                       

   TRUMP SHUTTLE: Trump Organization, New York, pulled its
Trump Shuttle ad account from Scali McCabe Sloves, New York,
and awarded it to Great Scott Advertising, a small New York
shop. Billings were estimated at $8 million to $10 million
when Scali McCabe, a unit of WPP Group, won the business last
year, but the account now is believed to be much smaller.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: James K. Agnew resigned as general manager of
J. Walter Thompson's Los Angeles office "to pursue other
career interests." Mr. Agnew said he had expected to be
assigned an international post, but that an offer never
materialized. Thompson, a WPP Group unit, said Bill Lane,
executive vice president of JWT West, would assume Mr.
Agnew's duties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Back to the Past
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Persian Gulf crisis appears to be calling forth
various public-policy hobgoblins from their tombs. If you
look hard enough, you'll see one long-decaying idea wandering
the floor of the U.S. Senate today. This poor thing, last
seen haunting the 1970s, is called CAFE, or corporate fuel
economy standards. The Senators will vote today on a bill
which mandates that new cars achieve a miraculous average of
40 miles per gallon by the year 2000, up from today's 27.5
mpg standard.
   CAFE, of course, has been trouble since 1975, when it was
created by a Congress determined to save energy by all means
except the right one: lifting price controls. CAFE's first
effect was to drop an unintended windfall on Japanese auto
makers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a sop to the labor unions, Congress limited the ability
of U.S. auto makers to meet the CAFE standards for their
fleets by bringing in small cars from their foreign plants.
So with CAFE forcing the U.S. companies to spend billions to
retool domestically, those clever Japanese -- who had always
made small cars -- naturally got to the "energy-conscious"
consumer first.
   CAFE has had other perverse effects. By raising the cost
of large cars as much as $1,200, it has encouraged car owners
to hang on to their older, dirtier cars. As for energy
savings, the Federal Trade Commission estimates that CAFE has
cost nearly $5 for every gallon of gasoline it has saved.
   The CAFE experience also raises some troubling questions
about some of these ideas whose goodness is somehow never
supposed to be questioned. The fact is that in the name of
energy conservation, the fleet of cars on U.S. highways got
smaller, and there is a growing body of evidence that this
downsizing has cost the lives of some people who had
accidents in the smaller cars.
   Even after massive engine redesigns, auto makers have been
able to comply with CAFE only by downsizing cars by some 500
pounds. The relationship between car size and safety is
pretty straightforward. Recent studies by the Insurance
Institute for Highway Safety show that auto fatalities have
increased as much as 67% because of CAFE. Brookings economist
Robert Crandall concludes that the CAFE-mandated downsizing
of cars is responsible for between 2,200 and 3,900 additional
traffic deaths every year. Mr. Crandall says that raising the
CAFE standard to 40 mpg "would more than double the toll of
the current CAFE level."
   Mandating a 40 mpg standard would force a reduction of at
least 600 pounds in the average car. Harvard Public Health
Professor John Graham says that such a reduction "would be a
setback to automobile safety that is without precedent, more
than wiping out the safety benefits of any single government
regulation in this field."
   This time around, higher CAFE standards are being sold as
a way to counter the potential oil blackmail of Saddam
Hussein. But long after Saddam is gone, they would continue
to hammer an auto industry that can barely keep up with its
competition as it is. We don't doubt that the notion of 40
mpg cars might strike some as a bargain. But why not
legislate 60 mpg or 300 mpg? Or cars that run on sunlight?
   It would not surprise us if the Senate voted for CAFE,
insofar as so many Senators now think that their votes cause
miracles. But CAFE made this promise the last time it
appeared. The problem of fatalities in ever-smaller cars is a
compelling matter. It won't do for the Senate to assume that
someone else out there is going to solve this problem after
they have created it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gold Futures Post Largest Gain in Over 3 Years
   As Mideast Tension Rises and Oil Reaches Highs
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gold futures posted the largest one-day gain
in more than three years as Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
raised Mideast tensions another notch and oil prices boomed
to record highs.
   The most-active December gold contract ended with a gain
of $13.80 an ounce at $408.30, just under the high of the day
of $409. It was the largest one-day gain since April 14,
1987, when the April contract also advanced $13.80 to
$450.90, according to the Commodity Exchange in New York. It
was the first time the December contract was above $400 since
Aug. 24, when it settled at $423.20, the exchange also noted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The gold rally pulled up silver and platinum prices, which
had been laggards in recent trading. December silver rose
12.5 cents an ounce to $4.9950. October platinum was up $8.40
an ounce at $460.70.
   "This is a very uncertain market," said Sharon Ziemian,
vice president of Citibank. "The market is turning on the
perception of Middle Eastern problems and the price of oil,
depending on whatever military problems develop there."
   War jitters were triggered by bellicose statements by
President Hussein over the weekend, and resulted in a record
futures price for crude oil at $39.20 a barrel on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. In Europe, Brent crude was reported
to have traded at $40 a barrel, according to analysts.
   In gold, as a result, there was heavy buying of contracts
that had been previously sold by traders in the expectation
of lower prices, analysts said. As December gold thrust above
$400, the advance was accelerated by waiting buy orders that
were triggered by prices rising through that area, they said.
   One analyst said a contributing factor to the strong rise
was that producers hadn't sold into the rally as has been the
case in recent years, stifling advances. However, he noted,
"If we get another rise of this kind, it will certainly
encourage them to become active sellers."
   Another analyst observed that last week there was some
hope of a diplomatic resolution to the Middle Eastern crisis,
"but those hopes were destroyed by President Hussein's
comments."
   Peter Cardillo, director of commodity research for Jesup
Josephthal &amp; Co., said that gold has a strong technical base
and that December could top $425. That price has been a
strong resistance level as far back as March; since July four
attempts to go above $425 have been unsuccessful. "The
current advance can even go as high as $435 or $440," he
said.
   According to Ken Gettinger, vice president of Union Bank
of Switzerland's New York office, "President Hussein's
comments apparently convinced traders that some kind of
military action is inevitable, with the only question as when
it is going to happen."
   Mr. Gettinger said that along with the record prices in
oil, a sharp drop in the stock market also contributed to
gold's strength.
   "Traders are speculating that the December price might hit
$410, and that there's no telling how high it can go if
there's military action," he said.
   Giving the market a sound underpinning, one analyst said,
was that demand for gold bullion had picked up in Europe for
the first time in a while.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Mounting concern about the size of
the Soviet grain harvest, and rising inflation fears, boosted
futures prices. Harvest delays are continuing in the Soviet
Union because of bureaucratic inefficiencies and shortages of
fuel and tractor spare parts. The delays are causing analysts
to boost their estimates of tens of millions of bushels of
grain that are likely to rot in the fields this season, and
predict that the Soviets will receive some form of export
grants from the U.S. in the near future. Meanwhile, sharply
higher gold and crude oil futures prices rekindled concern
that the inflation rate would rise at a brisker pace than in
recent months. Grain and soybean prices typically advance
during inflationary periods. Wheat futures for December
delivery gained five cents a bushel to close at $2.7525.
December corn futures advanced three cents a bushel to close
at $2.2875 and November soybean futures added two cents a
bushel to close at $6.1350.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices declined. The December contract
ended 3.5 cents a pound lower at 94 cents. According to one
analyst, Brazil, at an International Coffee Organization
meeting in London over the weekend, left the door open for
further negotiation on the restoration of quotas and prices
in the International Coffee Agreement, but wasn't ready to
engage in negotiations now. The agreement expires in
September 1991, and Brazil was agreeable to extension of the
current administrative agreement for one year, the analyst
said. Apparently there were some traders who were harboring
hopes that negotiations might begin on economic clauses of
the agreement and were disappointed when that didn't happen,
according to the analyst. However, she said, this is the
season when roaster demand for green coffee picks up, which
could help prices to level off and even recover somewhat.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices dropped sharply. The
soonest-to-expire October contract, which has no trading
limits, was off by 4.09 cents a pound at one point under
heavy selling before partly recovering to end at 73.70 cents,
down 1.95 cents. The decline was accelerated as the price
dropped below key support levels. The December, March and May
contracts all were down by their daily limit of two cents a
pound at one point. December settled at 71.14 cents, down
1.90 cents. The October contract actually started off with a
gain of 0.25 cent, said Ernest Simon, cotton specialist for
Prudential-Bache, but then the boom in oil prices and the
drop in the stock market created concern that the already
slumping economy could get worse. "This would translate in
fewer textile sales and a drop in demand for cotton," Mr.
Simon said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Stone Container
   Unit to Increase
   Newsprint Prices
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   STO
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- The Stone-Consolidated unit of Stone Container
Corp. said it will raise newsprint prices in the U.S. and
Canada about 5% on Jan. 1, setting the stage for the second
industrywide price boost in seven months.
   Newspaper publishers, mired in an advertising slump,
greeted the announcement with dismay. Publishers and analysts
said they expect other major newsprint producers to follow
Stone's lead, and many said a price increase will probably
stick, at least temporarily, because of labor strife at
newsprint mills in eastern Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stone-Consolidated, Montreal, said it advised customers
that it will raise its eastern U.S. list price for newsprint
by $35 a metric ton, or 5.1%, to $720. A metric ton is equal
to about 2,204.62 pounds. Stone-Consolidated, which markets
all of Chicago-based Stone Container's newsprint production,
announced similar increases for other markets.
   Newsprint consumers aren't in a good position to fight an
increase, because strikes at several mills in eastern Canada
have shut down about 15% of North American newsprint
capacity. Stone-Consolidated's mills aren't on strike.
   "I think there's a good chance that, because of labor
problems, {the increase} will stick in the short term," said
H. Mason Sizemore, president of Seattle Times Co. Homer
Taylor, vice president, supply, at Miami-based Knight-Ridder
Inc., said that the planned price increase "is pretty
brazen," and that "it's going to be an interesting battle"
between publishers and newsprint makers to see whether the
boost goes through.
   A Stone-Consolidated executive denied the company is
trying to take advantage of the strikes to push through an
increase. Citing higher costs and the effects of discounting,
Stone-Consolidated told its customers that the price increase
"is needed to improve unacceptable profit margins."
   Stone-Consolidated said that even after the increase,
newsprint transaction prices, or actual selling prices after
discounts, will still be below 1988 levels. A
Stone-Consolidated executive declined to say what discounts
the company is offering its customers. But people in the
industry said standard discounts from list price now range
from 15% to 18%.
   With advertising revenues flat or heading lower, newspaper
publishers were already unhappy with the June increase that
pushed the eastern U.S. list price of newsprint to $685 a
metric ton from $650. Newsprint accounts for 20% to 30% of a
newspaper's costs, according to analysts and publishers.
   "The newspaper business is very, very bad this year, and
it's going to get worse," said John Morton, an analyst at
Lynch, Jones &amp; Ryan. "According to our calculations, it isn't
going to get better until mid-1991, if then."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Tumble 59.41 Points
   On Economic Worry, Oil Price Rise
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pessimism about the economic outlook and a
sharp jump in oil prices sent stock prices to their lowest
levels in 14 months.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 59.41, or 2.36%, to
2452.97, the fourth consecutive slide and the lowest level
since July 3, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Crude oil for November delivery closed $2.82 higher at
$38.25 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange
yesterday, following new threats of aggression from Iraqi
leader Saddam Hussein.
   Trading wasn't especially heavy on the New York Stock
Exchange, where 162,210,000 shares changed hands. But the
damage to individual stocks was steep. Only 233 stocks
advanced on the Big Board, while 1,423 declined.
   Money managers and traders alike stared grimly at the
indiscriminate selling of some of the year's favorite shares.
So-called recession-proof sectors, such as pollution control,
food and beverages, slid easily into losses as buyers
remained cautious and reluctant. Traders said some money
managers are simply getting out of stocks, not trying to hide
in the "safe" groups any more.
   Waste Management, a favorite this year, was down more than
a point during the session, but late bargain-hunting pared
the issue's loss to 3/4, to 32 3/4. Boeing, another popular
issue, tumbled 2 7/8 to 40 3/8, despite news that a division
of Lufthansa had placed a large order for jets; the stock was
also downgraded by analysts at Lehman Brothers and First
Boston, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Cyclical stocks also took a drubbing. It was an especially
bad day for several metals issues. Copper producer Phelps
Dodge tumbled 4 5/8 to 53 3/4; Reynolds Metals fell 3 7/8 to
63 1/2. Aluminum Co. of America fell 3 3/4 to 63 3/4. Stories
in yesterday's Wall Street Journal and this week's Barron's
magazine note that aluminum prices could drop swiftly if the
world economy continues to weaken. Also, Lehman Brothers and
PaineWebber downgraded the industry group, while aluminum
prices fell on commodity exchanges.
   "There are no places to hide in a bear market," said
Ronald Sloan, executive vice president at Siebel Capital
Management Inc. "The only way to preserve capital is not to
own stocks."
   The widespread selling pushed broader averages to the
lowest levels in 17 months. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index
fell 6.73, or 2.16% to 304.59, the lowest close since April
17, 1989; the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell
3.52, or 2.06%, to 167.51, the lowest close since April 13,
1989.
   Computer-guided sell programs played only a marginal role
in the market's decline. The Big Board's "uptick rule," which
hinders many forms of program trading, kicked into effect
when the Dow industrials were down more than 50 points
shortly before 11 a.m. EDT.
   American Express dropped 2 to 20 3/4 on trading of
slightly more than one million shares. This newspaper
reported yesterday on an effort by American Express to smear
rival banker Edmond Safra.
   Chase Manhattan topped the most-active list, with a 1
5/8-point loss to 11 1/8 on volume of more than five million
shares. On Friday, Chase announced plans to take hefty
third-quarter charges for a restructuring and possible loan
losses and cut its dividend by more than half.
   Among other bank stocks following Chase lower, Citicorp
dropped 1/2 to 15 1/4 on volume of 2.4 million shares and
Chemical Banking fell 1 7/8 to 15 1/8. Bankers Trust slid 2
to 32 1/4, Continental Bank lost 5/8 to 8 1/4, Mellon Bank
lost 7/8 to 18 7/8 and Wells Fargo eased 1 3/8 to 49 7/8.
   UAL fell 8 1/2 to 92 1/4. The United Airlines Pilots
Association asked its members to express their support for
the union-led buy-out effort, in order to counter opposition
by UAL's chairman, Stephen M. Wolf. In a letter to its
members, the union claims that Mr. Wolf has advised the UAL
board that the buy-out isn't supported by rank-and-file union
members.
   The union also indicated that if the buy-out effort fails,
it is prepared to return to the "traditional labor-contract
negotiating table" with the possibility of a strike if its
demands aren't met by top management.
   Computer Associates went down 1/2 to 4 7/8 following a
critical article on the company's founders in Sunday's
edition of the New York Times.
   Corroon &amp; Black added 1/4 to 29 1/2 after declaring a
$2.50-a-share special dividend. The dividend will be payable
15 days after the completion of the company's stock-swap
merger with Willis Faber. On Friday, Aon Corp. withdrew a
$40-a-share offer for Corroon &amp; Black at Corroon &amp; Black's
request.
   American Brands fell 1 3/4 to 66 1/4. A Mississippi jury
is expected to decide shortly whether an American Brands unit
bears any responsibility for the lung-cancer death of a
Lexington, Miss., man in a closely watched case. While most
analysts expect the jury to rule in favor of the company,
product-liability suits have caused short-term volatility in
tobacco stocks in the past.
   Marriott dropped 1 1/2 to 10 7/8, its lowest level in at
least eight years. Lehman Brothers and Wertheim Schroder made
cautious comments on the company yesterday, noting that the
hotel chain holds a sizable real estate portfolio that it
would like to sell. Last Tuesday, Prime Motor Inns filed for
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code, largely as a result of slumping real estate prices.
Prime Motor closed unchanged at 11/16.
   Yesterday's short list of winners was crowded with gold
stocks. Hecla Mining gained 5/8 to 10 3/4; Homestake Mining
rose 1 1/4 to 21 5/8; ASA Ltd. jumped 2 5/8 to 50 1/2; Placer
Dome went up 1 to 18 1/2; Newmont Gold rose 3 1/8 to 46 1/2;
Coeur d'Alene Mines gained 1 to 28 1/2, and Newmont Mining
added 2 1/8 to 44 1/8.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 3.17
to 312.84. Volume totaled 14,050,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   GM Kills the Goose
   After Egging It On
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Regarding your Aug. 29 page-one article "Credibility Gap:
UAW and Big Three Face Mutual Mistrust as Auto Talks Heat Up"
on General Motors Corp.'s actions at the Flint, Mich.,
truck-body parts stamping plant: Can management at that plant
be deemed anything but stupid?
   Management obviously had no conception of the optimum
production rate of its manpower or equipment. It gave its
employees an incentive to maximize production. When the
employees doubled the production rate, according to the
article, and held the labor cost constant, management
rewarded the employees by paying them half as much for
doubled production. Is this not known as killing the goose
that laid the golden egg?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Could this stupidity be why it takes six more man-hours
for GM to produce a car than it does at Japanese plants?
   Ervin E. Frauenhoff
   Former Stamping Press Operator
   Los Angeles
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Prices Hit
   Highest Levels
   In a Decade
   ---
   Some Crudes Soar $3 a Barrel
   In Wake of Iraq's Threat
   Against Mideast Fields
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Panic buying in the wake of Iraqi threats against Middle
East oil fields drove petroleum prices to the highest levels
in a decade.
   The run-up of more than $3 a barrel for some crudes added
to the prospect of inflation, depressed the U.S. stock market
and increased support for tapping into the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only a month after breaking the $30 a barrel mark, several
crudes surged beyond $39 a barrel in trading with the U.S.
futures price reaching $39.20 briefly. Some North Sea oil was
valued at $40 a barrel on European spot markets in late
trading, although details of transactions at those levels
weren't confirmed.
   Even though it dropped back from the high, crude traded on
the New York Mercantile Exchange posted a futures record.
Crude oil for November delivery was up $2.82 a barrel to
settle at $38.25. That was the highest price for this type of
oil, a light low-sulfur crude, since West Texas Intermediate,
the U.S. benchmark, reached $39.80 a barrel in the cash
market in March 1980.
   Fuels reflected the escalation in crude oil prices. In
U.S. futures trading, heating oil and unleaded gasoline for
October delivery rose nearly seven cents a gallon each to
settle at $1.04 a gallon each.
   The oil-price surge followed a weekend statement from
Baghdad by Saddam Hussein that he would strike at Middle East
oil fields before he would let U.S.-led sanctions "strangle"
Iraq. Although the Iraqi president has issued warnings
against a U.S. attack on Iraq, his new remarks were
interpreted as indicating he might strike first.
   Iraq failed in its eight-year war with Iran to halt that
nation's oil flow. Oil and military analysts questioned
whether Iraq could be any more successful in destroying Saudi
Arabia's well-defended installations if it tried.
   Still, Saddam Hussein's statement advanced war fears
another notch and kept alive the possibility of major
disruptions of the flow of oil from the Middle East, which
holds the bulk of the world's reserves. As a result, the new
threats were quickly reflected in higher petroleum prices
around the world as trading opened yesterday.
   "The market is very, very jittery," said Peter Beutel,
director of the energy group at Pegasus Econometric. "People
are afraid we are going to see a war in the Middle East."
   Few oil analysts were bold enough to forecast the
direction of the oil market after the rapid escalation of
recent days. Several suggested that $40 is no longer out of
reach and that $65 may well be the likely target, as some
studies have predicted, if war breaks out.
   Most private and government energy officials continued to
maintain that the industry's supply-demand fundamentals don't
justify the current levels of pricing. Barring an extremely
cold winter or a disruption, oil supplies should be ample,
they said.
   "The market is anticipating an awful lot," said Peter
Gignoux, manager of the international energy desk in London
for Shearson Lehman Brothers. "Without hostilities, we are
totally, fully priced."
   Most oil economists agreed that oil market participants
are clearly reacting to the words of Saddam Hussein. "The
market now is suggesting we are on a war footing," said
Lawrence Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry
Research Foundation, "and a war premium has been built into
the {pricing} system."
   The Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, a non-profit
organization that receives some financing from oil companies,
is a leading supporter of opening up the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to help damp the escalation in oil prices.
Its position is that the artificially high prices damage
economies.
   "We believe it's time to release SPR barrels" to prevent
further deterioration of the U.S. economy, said Mr.
Goldstein.
   Under the law that established the reserve, President Bush
must make a "finding" that there is justification for
commercial releases of oil from the reserve because of an oil
shortage. But proponents of opening the reserve contend that
the evidence of supply restraints won't show up until long
after the shortage has begun.
   A test of the system is planned for next month, however.
Recent legislation approved by Congress to establish a new
target of one billion barrels of oil for the reserve, which
contains slightly under 600 million barrels, would permit
withdrawals, totaling as much as five million barrels, in
such a test.
   "It could have the same psychological effect on the market
that a commercial release would have," Mr. Goldstein said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   BankAmerica and Barclays
   To Link Traveler's Checks
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   BAC BCS AXP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BankAmerica Corp. will join forces with London's Barclays
PLC in an assault on American Express Co.'s grip on the
lucrative traveler's check business.
   The two companies hope the merger will capitalize on
banks' reluctance to sell checks bearing the name of a
competing bank or financial institution -- such as American
Express. And the new operation's combined size could give it
a boost. "It's our intent to challenge for leadership in the
traveler's check business," said Gordon DeLang, senior vice
president of BankAmerica's BA Checque Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But American Express, although its share has slipped, has
long been the dominant player in the market, and many
analysts doubt that the new combination will have much effect
on it. Estimates of American Express's share of the
world-wide market range from 39% to close to 50%. In
addition, American Express checks carry a cachet with
consumers that other companies haven't been able to match.
   American Express issued $24.1 billion in traveler's checks
last year. Mr. DeLang wouldn't disclose BankAmerica's or
Barclay's check sales, but said he expected the Interpayment
venture to do more than $12 billion in sales in 1991.
   BankAmerica, based in San Francisco, said it agreed to
acquire an equity position in Barclays's Interpayment
Services Ltd. unit and to fold its traveler's check
operations into the company, which will then issue both
banks' traveler's checks. Moreover, Interpayment Services
will provide clearing services for other banks who decide to
issue traveler's checks under their own names. The venture
also will issue checks under the brands of BankAmerica, Visa
and MasterCard.
   The deal also could benefit from banks' concerns about
selling American Express checks when they sell Visa or
MasterCard credit cards, said Spencer Nilson, publisher of
Nilson Report, a newsletter on the credit and traveler's
check industry. "The banks don't want (to work with) a
competitor to their credit cards," he said.
   The venture, said Mr. Nilson and other analysts, is a sign
of the times for the traveler's check industry, where profits
are being squeezed as consumers begin to use automated teller
machines as substitutes. World-wide traveler's check sales
will increase about 7% percent this year, to $58.5 billion,
Mr. Nilson said.
   "The business is still profitable but less profitable and
it's growing slower," said Mr. Nilson. "There's going to have
to be more consolidation -- more of this kind of thing."
   By joining forces with Barclays, BankAmerica taps into
Barclays strength in markets such as the U.K. and Canada.
While Bank of America issues only U.S. dollar checks,
Interpayment issues checks in the currencies of countries
such as Great Britain, Germany and France and has reciprocal
agreements with issuers of checks in Australian, New Zealand
and Italian currencies.
   Barclays, the world's largest issuer of Visa checks, will
benefit from BankAmerica's strength in Europe and Asia and
will gain access to BankAmerica's service organization. The
Interpayment joint venture will move its headquarters to New
York from London, Mr. DeLang said. The banks expect to
complete the venture in the fourth quarter of 1990, pending
regulatory approval, he said.
   American Express executives expressed confidence yesterday
that the joint agreement between BankAmerica and Barclays
won't have a significant impact on its traveler's check
revenue.
   According to Michael Goldstein, a senior research analyst
with Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. in New York, American Express
will earn about $120 million in pretax profits this year from
its traveler's check operations, about the same amount it did
in 1989.
   "This is a slow growth business, but as interest rates
rise, it becomes more interesting because of the float," said
Mr. Goldstein. The float -- the period during which the
checks remain uncashed and the issuer has use of the money --
accounts for much of the profits American Express earns from
traveler's checks. "The same thing happened in the early
1980s, when interest rates were high," said Mr. Goldstein.
   Mr. Goldstein noted that many of the opportunist companies
that leaped into the traveler's check industry have since
closed or merged their operations. "I don't think this newest
development is going to hurt American Express in any
measurable way," he said. "American Express has a strong
brand franchise with adequate distribution. It has weathered
challenges in the past, and will probably do so again now."
   Mr. Nilson, the newsletter editor, said consumers aren't
likely to shift check-buying habits because of such mergers.
"It isn't going to change the consumer's perception," he
said.
   ---
   Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed's Stinginess Aggravates the Threat
   Of a Long Recession, Economists Say
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve's steady grip on credit
is reducing any chance of skirting a recession and could
prolong one if it occurs, according to Bush administration
and private economists.
   The Fed's interest-rate policies haven't changed since
midsummer. But economic statistics released since then
suggest the economy is grinding to a halt. Employment growth
is the slowest it has been since the 1982 recession. The
housing and construction industries are in a deepening slump.
Consumers, after borrowing and spending heavily throughout
most of the 1980s, seem to have run out of steam.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Concerns about the economy, and the Fed's reluctance to
ease rates, is also causing the stock market to plummet.
Yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at
2452.97, off 59.41.
   "Recession seems very likely unless something changes very
promptly," says Robert Dederick, chief economist at Northern
Trust Co. in Chicago. An easing of short-term interest rates
by the Fed might prevent or cushion a recession, he said.
   Administration officials express growing frustration at
the Fed's unwillingness to move. Holding interest rates
steady in the face of a weakening economy, they argue,
amounts in effect to a tightening of credit.
   But Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan expresses concern about
rising oil prices, a plummeting bond market and signs of
inflation in areas other than oil. As a result, he continues
to hold credit firm.
   At a meeting late last month, a majority of the members of
the Fed's policy-setting committee leaned in favor of a
modest reduction in rates, according to officials who
attended that meeting. The committee apparently gave Mr.
Greenspan the leeway to make a modest cut in short-term rates
if conditions allowed it.
   But the Fed chairman so far hasn't used that discretionary
authority, causing considerable grumbling among top
administration officials. And in testimony to Congress last
week, Mr. Greenspan gave little reason to expect an easing
soon.
   His tough anti-inflation stance received some moral
support this weekend from the finance ministers and central
bankers of the seven leading industrial nations, who met in
Washington. The group largely rejected the arguments of
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady that lower interest rates
are needed, and instead called for "stability-oriented
monetary policies." Most of the six other nations continue to
grow at a solid pace, and thus face a greater risk of
inflation than recession.
   Some administration officials speculate that Mr. Greenspan
may be delaying any easing move to put pressure on the budget
negotiations between the White House and Congress.
Negotiators are aiming for a budget agreement by the end of
the week.
   Mr. Dederick argues that Fed officials also know that even
if there is a recession, they won't get the blame this time.
"It's not the Fed that shocked the economy," he says, "it's
Saddam Hussein."
   Mr. Greenspan spoke yesterday to the National Association
of Business Economists but gave no clues to his thinking on
current policy.
   Lee Hoskins, president of the Cleveland Federal Reserve
Bank and a voting member of the Fed's policy-making Open
Market Committee, also spoke to the business economists
yesterday and underscored his anti-inflation views. He said
he favors a tight policy that would prevent the price level
from deviating by more than two percentage points from its
base line. "When prices deviate from the base line level, the
Fed should act to bring prices back in line," he said.
   "Critics contend that events like the Persian Gulf
conflict and the consequent oil-price shock make achieving
price stability impossible," he said. "What these critics
fail to recognize is that an economic environment where price
stability is credible and expected is considerably different
than the environment in which we have lived over the past two
decades or so."
   Mr. Hoskins, along with Fed Governor Wayne Angell, opposed
any tilt toward easing at the August meeting of the Fed's
policy committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alcoa Is Expected
   To Form Venture
   With Japanese Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   AA J.KOB
</CO>
<IN>
ALUMINUM (ALU)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Aluminum Co. of America is expected to
announce today a joint venture with a Japanese partner that
will substantially improve the company's presence in the
lucrative but unpenetrated Asian market.
   Specific details were not available, and Alcoa declined
comment. However, a spokesman for Kobe Steel Ltd.'s New York
office confirmed that Kobe had been negotiating with Alcoa.
Kobe is a leading Japanese maker of can sheet and other
fabricated aluminum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Experts say a venture will most likely be for a large
rolling mill, perhaps for automotive applications. A rolling
operation could also give Alcoa a presence in the growing
Japanese aerospace and can industries.
   Aluminum analyst Peter Merner said he expects Alcoa to
make a "significant investment in processing," which would be
the first such investment for Alcoa on a large scale outside
Europe and North America.
   The potential benefit of such a venture for Alcoa, which
has been exporting heavily to Japan, is clear. "The Japanese
container industry is very inefficient, and Japanese rolling
mills are nothing to write home about," said Robin G. Adams,
president of Resource Strategies Inc., a consulting firm.
   For Alcoa, this would be the first in a series of planned
ventures in Asia, Europe and South America. Alcoa Chairman
Paul O'Neill has said he is willing to go where the business
is -- and with soft domestic demand for aluminum in the
automotive and construction industries -- that increasingly
means Europe and Asia. In Japan, auto makers have ambitious
plans to increase aluminum usage in automobiles.
   Alcoa already has joint ventures with Japanese companies
Kasei Ltd. and Moralco Ltd. to make alumina chemicals, and
with Shibazaki Seisakusho Ltd. to make closure mechanisms.
The company has also been competing with Pechiney Corp. of
France to develop products for the Japanese aerospace
industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Watkins-Johnson Co.:
   California Firm Dismisses
   150, or 5% of Work Force
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WJ
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Watkins-Johnson Co. said it dismissed 5% of its work force
to compensate for lower growth in the company's
defense-electronics markets.
   The Palo Alto, Calif., concern said it sent layoff notices
yesterday to 150 employees in plants in California, North
Carolina and Maryland. The company said it will absorb the
cost of the move in its operating costs for the quarter
ending Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Watkins has businesses in defense electronics,
semiconductor equipment and environmental consulting. Its
stock closed at $13, down 37.5 cents, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lyonnaise des Eaux, Dumez
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.SLE F.DUM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Societe Lyonnaise des Eaux, a water treatment
concern, and Dumez S.A., a building company, said
shareholders approved their plan, unveiled in July, to merge
and create a broad-based group capable of offering a full
range of services, essentially to local and national
governments, from water treatment to road building and
urbanism.
   Under the plan, Lyonnaise des Eaux will absorb Dumez
through a 4-for-3 share swap.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockheed's Board
   Votes to Amend
   Poison-Pill Plan
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LK NL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALABASAS, Calif. -- Lockheed Corp., saying it wants to
"address concerns expressed by some of our shareholders,"
softened its poison-pill plan to allow for a specific type of
"qualifying offer" that wouldn't be subject to any of the
plan's anti-takeover measures.
   But at the same time, the defense contractor's board
spurned proposals from financier Harold Simmons to amend or
redeem the pill in a way that would permit one of his
companies, NL Industries Inc., to buy 10 million additional
shares of Lockheed common stock from the employee stock
ownership plan or on the open market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Either of Mr. Simmons's proposals, Lockheed noted, would
effectively lay 35% of the company's stock in the hands of
the Dallas investor, who led an unsuccessful proxy battle for
control of Lockheed earlier this year. Mr. Simmons, through
Houston-based NL, holds a 19.8% stake in Lockheed.
   Under previous terms of the poison pill, known officially
as a shareholder rights plan, provisions diluting a suitor's
stake would be triggered as soon as his investment rose above
20%. Now, under the so-called "chewable pill" that Lockheed
adopted yesterday, the company would suspend those provisions
as long as:
   -- The bid for the company is a fully financed, all-cash
offer for all shares outstanding.
   -- Owners of a majority of the shares outstanding
(excluding the offerer's) accept the bid.
   -- The offerer provides and updates "a written fairness
opinion" from a nationally recognized investment banking
firm.
   -- The offerer commits to a second-step transaction
providing equal treatment of all shareholders on the same
terms and price.
   -- The offer remains open for at least 60 business days.
   The California Public Employees' Retirement System, a
major institutional holder that has encouraged Lockheed to
amend its poision pill, said yesterday that it was encouraged
by the new action. "It looks like they're addressing some
issues that we had raised," said DeWitt Bowman, chief
investment officer for the fund.
   But NL was hardly mollified by the board's move. Instead,
J. Landis Martin, NL's chief executive officer, attacked the
decision about the 10 million shares as confirming "to me
that (management) is afraid to death of losing the ESOP
vote." He declined further comment.
   NL has sued Lockheed in federal court in Los Angeles,
claiming that the employee stock ownership plan, while it's
supposed to be administered by an outside trustee, is really
executing "a creeping, management-led, employee buy-out of
the company." Lockheed counters that the employee stock
ownership plan is run independently and provides
"motivational incentives to a broad base" of employees and
takes advantage of "significant tax and economic benefits."
   In a letter to NL dated yesterday, Lockheed Chairman
Daniel Tellep stated that the board had extensively reviewed
NL's proposals concerning the 10 million shares, but rejected
them unanimously "as contrary to the best interests of
Lockheed and its shareholders." He went on to describe the NL
proposal, which offered to buy shares from the employee stock
ownership plan at $35 each, as "nothing more than an attempt
to acquire control of Lockheed without offering a fair price
to all shareholders."
   "The NL proposal provides no significant economic benefit
to the ESOP or other Lockheed shareholders and could be
economically detrimental to Lockheed," Mr. Tellep said.
"Since last spring's annual meeting, we have met several
times with Mr. Simmons to brief him on our performance and
plans. Clearly, Mr. Simmons recognizes the underlying value
of Lockheed stock, and he is attempting to take advantage of
the current industry and market environment, contrary to the
best interests of other Lockheed shareholders."
   ---
   Jim Bartimo in Dallas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   P&amp;G, Fater Merge Lines Abroad
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Procter &amp; Gamble Co., a consumer products
company, and the privately held Fater group of companies, a
maker of diapers and sanitary napkins that is based in
Pescara, Italy, said they merged their paper products
businesses in Italy, Spain, Portugal and Britain. Terms
weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   FDA Will Now Accept
   Certain Drug Test Data
   From Biodecision Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Pittsburgh laboratory barred from
submitting test data for new generic-drug products to the
Food and Drug Administration may now submit data for certain
tests, according to the agency.
   Biodecision Laboratories, a unit of Biodecision Inc., may
submit drug studies completed since Jan. 11, 1990, an FDA
spokesman said. But he added that studies done before that
date will require an audit by an independent scientific
accounting firm before the FDA will grant approval.
Biodecision currently has about 20 applications pending at
the agency.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FDA suspended all drug approvals involving data from
Biodecision in July, after it found that the lab had
performed faulty tests on 11 generic-drug products prior to
their approval. The tests had been submitted to the FDA as
part of the drug-approval process. Since the company was
founded in 1971, the laboratory has done testing for
virtually every major generic-drug firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Offshore Pipelines Yearly Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   OFP
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Offshore Pipelines Inc. said it expects to
report a net loss of $2.5 million to $3 million, or 60 cents
to 72 cents a share, for the year ended July 31.
   Revenue was about $125 million, according to the marine
construction services concern, which went public in July
1989. It had net of about $3.9 million, or $1.02 a share, on
revenue of about $103.9 million in fiscal 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company attributed the expected loss to the
rescheduling of a significant project to the first quarter of
fiscal 1991 as well as increased interest costs, nonrecurring
relocation expenses and cost overruns on certain projects.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FUJIY
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. Inc. said it will
soon package its film in paper canisters, replacing the
plastic containers now in use. Fuji also said most of its
film will be made from recycled paper.
   Fuji, which is the U.S. marketing unit of Fuji Photo Film
Co. Ltd. of Tokyo, said the new packaging will apply only to
its 35mm film sold in the U.S. The company said the new
canisters, to be made of "moisture-proof" paper developed by
Fuji, are more environmentally sound than plastic.
Environmentalists say plastics create waste-disposal
problems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fuji said the new packaging will be introduced by year
end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Sequester Apocalypse?
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   You're not supposed to mention the word "sequestration" in
polite circles. Gramm-Rudman's forced budget cuts, one is
told, must be avoided at all costs, or else. Or else what?
Will skies darken and locusts multiply?
   The truth is that no one, including the White House, knows
exactly what would happen under Gramm-Rudman. But consider
the possibility that automatic spending cuts would not be the
end of the world. A well-managed sequester might be better
for the economy than the
tax-now-and-we-promise-to-cut-spending-later deal now in the
making.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Administration officials led by Richard Darman have
painted a bleak sequester of airplanes stacked up without
air-traffic controllers and ranchers bankrupted by plants
closed when meat inspectors are furloughed. Maybe the OMB
Director hopes horror will scare up a better deal. But
yesterday the White House announced, "We're not even close on
the spending cut side." And probably further away than that
on the promised enforcement for any deal to guarantee that
spending cuts occur.
   The nation has watched Coach Darman try three yards and a
cloud of dust for weeks. It's time to go to the
bomb-sequestration. With a little effort, we suspect the
people who work for the President can find out for themselves
how much wiggle room there is for Mr. Bush to manage a
non-budget to minimize inconvenience to the public while
maximizing pressure for a worthy budget deal.
   A successful sequester is possible, but it would take some
work. Gramm-Rudman is supposed to cut tens of billions of
dollars equally from defense and domestic programs. Many
entitlement programs are exempt. Mr. Bush told Congress he
will exempt the soldiers now stationed in the Persian Gulf.
So the question is what else Mr. Bush can do to keep
important government functions going.
   For starters, Mr. Bush needs to remember how his
predecessor responded under similar circumstances. The
Democrats have suggested passing a continuing resolution to
buy more time before Gramm-Rudman's cuts go into effect. Mr.
Bush sent word that he'd likely veto a continuing resolution.
If he does, he could use the blueprint provided to President
Reagan for keeping the country running during a "total" fund
cutoff.
   The effects were minor in 1982 because White House
staffers had scoured the statutes to discover the
Anti-Deficiency Act. The act says that no money can be spent
without prior authorization by Congress, a recognition of its
power over the purse. The law, however, also contains a huge
exception, which gives wide discretion to the President.
   The law says that federal workers can continue at their
posts even without funding if their absence would cause
"emergencies involving the safety of human life or the
protection of property." Under this exception, President
Reagan sent home some 500,000 workers, but kept on essential
personnel, including almost the entire Pentagon. Under this
rule, air-traffic controllers and meat inspectors can be
exempt from temporary cutbacks under this rule.
   Even under Gramm-Rudman, Mr. Bush can keep paying military
personnel so long as he promises to deduct the payments from
longer-term Pentagon expenses such as weapons programs.
Gramm-Rudman exempts the entire military from the cuts only
"if a declaration of war by the Congress is in effect."
   The more difficult question is how the exceptions under
the Anti-Deficiency Act would apply with Gramm-Rudman
standing alongside. There is a good case that Mr. Bush could
still exempt federal employees or programs necessary to
protect life or property. The argument would be that this
exception is an inherent constitutional power of the
executive branch, written into law by the Anti-Deficiency Act
and applicable even under Gramm-Rudman.
   Surely the strongest case for inherent temporary spending
authority by a President is during a period of gross
congressional incompetence. Congress has now been in
violation of the Congressional Budget Act since May 15, when
its budget was due. With Congress in its fourth month as a
fugutive from its own budget law, the President can invoke
his constitutional duty to make sure the laws are "faithfully
executed."
   It makes more sense for a President to use whatever powers
he has to fund critical programs than for him, say, to get a
federal prosecutor to indict the congressional leadership for
violating the budget-deadline law.
   It is remarkable that apparently no lawyers at the White
House, OMB or the Justice Department have studied how to make
a sequester manageable. This means no one, including the
President, knows his options.
   Mr. Bush currently has an approval rating of 75%. Sending
home a few hundred thousand bureaucrats could push the figure
toward 90% so long as the relatively few federal workers who
are truly necessary stay on the job. The country might even
get used to a federal budget limited to spending for "the
safety of human life or the protection of property."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Unions'
   Voicing Doubts
   About Buy-Out
   ---
   Pilots Accuse Wolf of Trying
   To Thwart the Takeover;
   Labor Talks Are Possible
   ----
   By Judith Valente and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   With its financing prospects still uncertain, the union
group trying to acquire United Airlines parent UAL Corp.
raised the possibility that the buy-out might fail, forcing
it to resume conventional labor negotiations. The group faces
an Oct. 9 deadline to get financing.
   In a letter to pilots over the weekend, the three top
officers of the United pilots union accused UAL Chairman
Stephen M. Wolf in the strongest terms yet of trying to
thwart the proposed employee buy-out. The pilot leaders also
threatened a strike to obtain higher wages if the takeover
attempt fails.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a rare display of battle-weariness, the union officers
raised the possibility that labor might have to abandon the
buy-out attempt eventually. The 3 1/2-year takeover effort
"has been fatiguing to everyone," the pilots acknowledged.
"Particularly frustrating is how close we have come, and yet,
{employee ownership} remains elusive."
   Although the labor group unveiled terms of a revised bid
to a group of banks last week, prospects that a new offer
will succeed remain dim. UAL's stock price tumbled $8.50 to
$92.25 yesterday in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. The drop reflected in part news of ever-higher oil
prices and tightening credit conditions among major U.S. and
Japanese banks.
   The pilots' letter accused Mr. Wolf, who would lose his
job if the employees succeed, of telling the board that
employee ownership "is not broadly supported" by the union
rank and file. "Unfortunately, some members of the board
believe him," the letter added. The pilots also said an
anonymous anti-takeover, "pro-Wolf" campaign had developed at
certain crew bases.
   The union leaders asked their members to counter that
campaign with letters to the board, expressing support for
the buy-out.
   A spokesman for Mr. Wolf said the chairman hadn't seen the
pilots' letter. However, in a statement, the company cited
"growing concern within the industry and among United
employees about being a highly leveraged carrier in these
uncertain economic times."
   UAL's board is set to meet Thursday and may seek a
progress report on the employee buy-out effort. A UAL
spokeswoman said directors will judge any new bid "on its
merits."
   In their letter, the union leaders warned they will seek
substantial wage increases for pilots through traditional
bargaining methods "if prospects for employee ownership cease
to exist." The leaders said the pilots union will pursue all
avenues to obtain higher wages "up to and including a
strike."
   Such moves could throw UAL into internal chaos at a time
when it is expanding into new markets and, like other
airlines, may need to cut costs as a way of dealing with
substantially higher fuel prices and softening domestic
traffic.
   The unions have pledged more than $2 billion in wage cuts
to fund the employee buy-out. But all bets would be off if
the takeover fails.
   The intensifying union rhetoric reflects the increasing
stakes for the buy-out group as it struggles to put together
a new offer in time for the Oct. 9 deadline. The labor
coalition of pilots, machinists and flight attendants were
unable to obtain financing for a $201-a-share, $4.38 billion
offer last month.
   The group is trying to put together a bid of $175-a-share
in cash and securities for 85% of the shares outstanding,
leaving 15% of the shares in the hands of existing holders.
Takeover stock traders value the offer at less than $160 a
share, or $3.49 billion.
   One person familiar with the effort said the labor group
may also propose a version with a higher price tag, but
without cash. Instead, new debt securities would be issued to
UAL stockholders in an exchange offer.
   UAL's board is said to be split on whether to accept a bid
lower than the $201-a-share offer directors approved under
the threat of a proxy fight in April. The board could argue
that the new offer is insufficient. But in that case, it
risks inciting the unions and shareholders who have taken
substantial losses in the on-again, off-again takeover
attempt.
   It is also unclear whether even a lower offer can be
financed. The unions have asked banks to make commitments for
a $2 billion loan by Oct. 3. In their letter, the pilot
leaders acknowledge that instability in the Middle East is
hampering the buy-out negotiations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kansas City P&amp;L Signs
   Information Accord
   With Kansas G&amp;E
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KLT KGE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Kansas City Power &amp; Light Co. said it
signed a confidentiality agreement with Kansas Gas &amp; Electric
Co, under which Kansas City P&amp;L will be allowed to review
nonpublic information about the Wichita utility.
   Kansas City P&amp;L has launched a $27-a-share, or $857
million offer for Kansas Gas &amp; Electric. Kansas G&amp;E has
called the offer inadequate and legally questionable, and
urged shareholders not to tender their shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kansas G&amp;E also announced in mid-September that it is in
talks over a possible acquisition by a third party, which it
won't identify. At that time, it said that it would provide
similar nonpublic information to Kansas City P&amp;L, subject to
a confidentiality pact.
   Yesterday's announcement marks the completion of that
arrangement. Kansas City P&amp;L said the agreement is a
"desirable first step which we hope will lead to broader
negotiations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Canada to Join
   U.S.-Mexico Bid
   For Trade Zone
   ---
   Talks to Seek to Dismantle
   Barriers to Movement
   Of Goods of 3 Nations
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada has decided to join the U.S. and Mexico
in proposed free-trade negotiations, raising the prospect of
a hemispheric free-trade zone of 360 million people.
   The proposed negotiations are expected to build on the
free-trade agreement that took effect last year and provides
for the gradual removal of trade barriers between the U.S.
and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canadian Trade Minister John Crosbie said yesterday that
the U.S. and Mexico had agreed to Canadian participation in
the talks, which are expected to start next spring. The U.S.
government needs congressional authorization to negotiate
such an agreement.
   Canadian and U.S. trade analysts predict that the
negotiations will be difficult because of the big gap in
living standards between Mexico, on the one hand, and the
U.S. and Canada on the other. "This will be a very
challenging negotiation and an enormous breakthrough if an
agreement is reached," said Robert Hormats, vice president at
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and a former U.S. assistant secretary of
state.
   The U.S. and Canada conduct more bilateral trade than any
other pair of nations, a total of $173 billion in 1989.
Mexico is the U.S.'s third-largest trade partner after Canada
and Japan. In 1989, Mexican-U.S. trade exceeded $51 billion.
Canada's trade with Mexico was a modest $2.5 billion in 1989.
   The Royal Bank of Canada said that because of big
differences in technology and labor costs, a
Mexico-Canada-U.S. trade agreement probably would need a
"substantially longer" transition period than was provided
for in the U.S.-Canada pact. Under that agreement, tariffs
between the two nations are to be eliminated by 1998.
   Some U.S. and Mexican officials have privately expressed
concern that Canadian participation in the negotiations will
slow them down, considering that some issues, such as the
status of migrant Mexican laborers, are of little direct
concern to Canada. Mr. Crosbie, however, said Canada assured
the U.S. and Mexico that there would be "no delay as a result
of our involvement."
   Gordon Ritchie, a trade consultant who was Canada's deputy
chief negotiator on the U.S.-Canadian trade pact, said the
price for direct Canadian participation in the Mexico-U.S.
negotiations "may be unacceptably high, given the modest
economic benefits to be gained." He also said Washington may
be seeking objectives in the talks with Mexico that it didn't
achieve in the U.S.-Canada agreement, such as guarantees
against subsidized trade.
   But major Canadian business organizations have urged the
government to participate in the U.S.-Mexican negotiations.
"It is in Canada's interest to pursue" a three-nation accord
to build on the U.S.-Canada trade pact, the Canadian Chamber
of Commerce said.
   Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari asked the U.S.
late last month to open the trade talks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Northern States Power
   Rating Is Decreased
   On $1.8 Billion Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NSP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the credit
rating on about $1.8 billion of senior debt issued by
Northern States Power Co., citing restrictive state
regulation of the Minneapolis utility.
   The rating service said that the Minnesota Public
Utilities Commission's decision last month to deny a $120.8
million rate increase to Northern States will "constrain the
company's future financial performance." The company was also
ordered to refund a related interim rate increase that took
effect in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chief financial officer James Doudiet said the downgrading
was expected and "consistent with the evaluations of other
agencies." The utility has petitioned the state regulator to
reconsider its decision. In its request for a rehearing, the
utility asked that it be granted a transitional rate increase
to cover identifiable cost increases.
   In denying the rate increase, the Minnesota commission
said Northern States's "overall budgeting process is
seriously deficient in accuracy and credibility."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Medtronic Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MDT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDTRONIC Inc. (Minneapolis) -- Jack W. Schuler, former
president and chief operating officer of Abbott Laboratories,
was elected a director of this biomedical device maker. Mr.
Schuler was forced to resign last year from Abbott, citing
"differences in philosophy" with Abbott's then-chairman and
chief executive officer, Robert A. Schoellhorn. His
resignation set off shock waves in Abbott's executive suite
that earlier this year resulted in the ouster of Mr.
Schoellhorn by the drug maker's board. With the addition,
Medtronic has 12 directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Dow Slumps 59.41 to Year's Low;
   Bond Yields Hit March 1989 Levels
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors, stung again by soaring oil prices,
dumped stocks and bonds, pushing the stock market to its
lowest level in more than a year and bond yields to their
highest levels since March 1989.
   "A doom-and-gloom mentality is pervading Wall Street,"
said Leo Grohowski, head of portfolio management at
Marinvest. "People are looking for the next piece of good
news and are coming up with nothing."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 59.41 points in
moderately active trading to 2452.97, the lowest level since
July 3, 1989, when it closed at 2452.77. Bond prices fell 5/8
of a point, or $6.25 for each $1,000 face amount, and the
yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose to 9.17%.
   Both markets reacted to the surge in prices of oil and
petroleum products. Oil traders, believing military conflict
in the Mideast is becoming more likely, pushed the November
crude oil futures contract to $38.25 a barrel, up $2.82. The
record is $39.80, set March 29, 1980.
   The sell-off in stocks began overseas; in London, share
prices hit a 20-month low.
   "The realization is building for some money managers that
we are headed for a recession," said Ricky Harrington,
director of investment policy at Marion Bass Securities in
Charlotte, N.C. Even blue-chip stocks, which had been holding
up because they supposedly were "recession resistant," were
hit hard.
   Food manufacturer CPC International fell 2 3/8 to 71 5/8;
Chiquita Brands fell 1 1/4 to 24 1/4, and Quaker Oats fell 1
1/8 to 42 3/8. Baxter International, a health-care company,
dropped 7/8 to 22 7/8.
   Harvey Isen, president of Sun America Asset Management,
said many investors are selling stocks in which they have
some remnant of profit, which is precisely what makes many
big growth issues vulnerable. "Clearly the biggest risk is in
the stocks that have not gone down," he says. "I have been
selling the stocks that I believe to be overvalued-drug
stocks, Philip Morris, Pepsi and Waste Management."
   Paul Ehrlichman, vice president at Brandywine Asset
Management, agrees that bear-market-style profit-taking is
plaguing many popular issues. He said many growth stocks are
going down hard for the first time this year, "for no other
reason than that they've held up" so far.
   The selling pressure on stocks isn't likely to vanish
soon. Mr. Grohowski, of Marinvest, said money managers
generally are still raising their portfolios' cash levels,
which are low for a bear market. As of Friday, all-stock
investment funds were 7.3% in cash, according to Indata,
which tracks 1,200 fund managers. In 1982, the cash level was
about 11%, Indata said, and Mr. Grohowski thinks that level
could be achieved again soon.
   "As we approach the end of the third quarter," he said,
"money managers won't mind showing a bit more cash in their
portfolios. In a bull market, money managers are embarrassed
to show they're 5% in cash. Now with the market getting
killed, a client sees 10% cash and says, `Is that all?'"
   Adding to the bearishness is the lack of convincing buy
signals in many sectors. Consumer growth stocks are still
seen as overvalued, and investors are shunning shares of
companies whose businesses are particularly sensitive to the
economy's health. The financial stocks may look cheap, Mr.
Grohowski said, but investors have a "you-go-first attitude.
They want to see a little momentum" upward before jumping in.
   The money managers who don't already own oil stocks figure
it's too late to buy. Many of them think oil supplies will
prove to be adequate and prices won't remain at the current
high levels.
   Andrew Lebow, oil-futures analyst at E.D. &amp; F. Man
International Futures, said the main impetus behind oil's
rise was comments over the weekend by Iraqi leader Saddam
Hussein. Traders were particularly alarmed by his threat to
attack Saudi Arabia and Israel in retaliation for the embargo
against Iraq.
   Already, Mr. Lebow said, "the market psychology had been
changing from hope for a possible peaceful solution to the
expectation of a military solution. But even if Hussein said
nothing, we'd probably see oil prices stay high because of
the change in psychology."
   Oil also affected the dollar, which ended mixed. Traders
sold yen because of Japan's economic vulnerability to
oil-price swings and bought currencies of oil-producing
countries such as Canada and Britain.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices sank. Volume was 162.2 million shares on the
New York Stock Exchange, where declining issues far
outnumbered advancers, 1,432 to 233.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell in moderate trading.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency fell to 1.5590 marks from 1.5785 and rose to 137.35
yen from 136.65 yen Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Philadelphia Electric Co.:
   Company Expects to Take
   A Charge Against Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   PE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Philadelphia Electric Co. said it expects to take a
one-time charge of $249 million, or 70 cents a share, against
third-quarter earnings to reflect the cost of an early
retirement program.
   The utility said that 1,909 of its 11,273 employees, or
73% of those eligible, decided to take early retirement under
the plan, announced this summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 third quarter, Philadelphia Electric reported
net income of about $206 million, or 87 cents a share.
   The company said it expects the retirements to save $75
million a year in salaries and benefits by 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Plunges on Surging Oil Prices;
   Index at Lowest Level Since February '88
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks swooned to their lowest level
since February 1988 as a surge in oil prices intensified
investors' fears of a recession.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index plunged 10.09 to 352.16, a 2.8%
drop, as volume eased to 114.8 million shares from 124.2
million Friday. Declining stocks buried advancers, 1,702 to
446, while 444 stocks fell to new lows and only 14 reached
new highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The pessimism is pretty strong," said Richard Holden,
manager of the OTC department at Alex. Brown &amp; Sons,
Baltimore. Investors sold stocks as prices for crude oil
futures reached a new high, traders said. Adding to
investors' gloom is the lack of progress in resolving the
nation's budget deficit or the conflict in the Mideast. "It
all adds up to a pretty ugly picture," Mr. Holden said,
adding that he doesn't see any indications the market will
stage a major rally.
   It may be the fourth quarter before OTC stocks fall to
their lows for the year, said Merrill Lynch technical analyst
George Constantine. "There's been a tremendous amount of
damage done" to OTC stocks, he said in an interview. A large
number of smaller stocks are lower now than they were in the
fourth quarter of 1987 after the market collapse, he noted.
By the end of August this year, 55% of the stocks traded on
Nasdaq had fallen 30% or more below their highs of last year,
Mr. Constantine said. On the New York Stock Exchange, 45% of
the shares traded there fell a similar amount.
   Because of uncertainties about the economy and about Wall
Street, investors aren't paying the premiums they once did
for fast-growing smaller stocks, Mr. Constantine explained.
However, if the market reaches a low in the fourth quarter,
the stage could be set for a rally in small stocks, he said.
   Corporate stock buy-backs are providing some business for
over-the-counter trading departments, said Robert King, head
of OTC trading for Robinson-Humphery Co. in Atlanta.
   DF Southeastern rose 1/2 to 9 3/8 after the Decatur, Ga.,
thrift announced it will repurchase up to $2.5 million worth
of common stock. The American depositary receipts of
Anangel-American Shipholdings, a Greek shipping company,
added 1/8 to 9 3/4 after announcing a buy-back of up to one
million shares.
   Even the OTC market's jewels were tarnished, as investors
took profits in some of this years's better-performing
stocks.
   Microsoft dropped 2 to 58 1/2; Sun Microsystems fell 1 1/4
to 27 1/4; Reuters Holdings slipped 1 1/2 to 40 1/8; Amgen
tumbled 3/4 to 46 7/8; and New England Critical Care lapsed
7/8 to 21 1/8.
   Apparel stocks swooned after this newspaper reported that
analysts expect the industry to report another quarter of
depressed earnings. G-III Apparel slipped 1 1/2 to 4 1/4 and
Liz Claiborne eased 1 to 24, even though Liz Claiborne is
expected to post decent third-quarter gains. Footwear maker
Nike skidded 1 1/2 to 65 1/2.
   Investors didn't spare the shares of companies that
reported earnings disappointments.
   Qume plunged 4 1/8 to 2 3/4 after the Milpitas, Calif.,
maker of IBM-compatible products said a proposed buy-out of
the company could be in jeopardy. A group led by David S. Lee
said that it will halt its plan to acquire Qume if all of its
conditions can't be met by Sept. 30. Qume also said it
expects to report a loss of about $1.5 million for the second
quarter ended Aug. 31, compared with year-earlier net income
of $3.1 million, which included a one-time gain of about $1.4
million.
   Autoclave Engineers plummeted 2 1/4 to 6 1/2 after the
Erie, Pa., equipment maker reported a loss for the first
quarter ended Aug. 31 of 15 cents a share, compared with
year-earlier net income of 23 cents.
   AST Research slipped 1 7/8 to 16 7/8 after the Irvine,
Calif., maker of personal computer systems unveiled a new
model of one of its products and cut the price of an older
model.
   Collagen tumbled 1 1/4 to 18 5/8. After the market closed,
the Palo Alto, Calif., biomedical concern said it plans to
delay until early next year the spinoff of its Celtrix unit.
   First Interstate of Iowa fell 1 to 4. Late Friday, the Des
Moines, Iowa, commercial bank said it will charge off $2.1
million of commercial real estate and other commerical loans
in the third quarter.
   Two Ohio insurers fell sharply. Cincinnati Financial
dropped 3 to 80 1/2 and Ohio Casualty fell 2 1/2 to 33 3/8.
Analysts attributed the drop in Cincinnati Financial to
worries about the insurer's investment portfolio and to
profit-taking in the strong-performing stock, Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said.
   NovaCare tumbled 2 to 16 3/8 in heavy trading after
Barron's magazine raised questions about an offering of 4.5
million shares planned by the Valley Forge, Pa., provider of
speech therapy services.
   Among the day's few gainers, Immunex rose 1 1/2 to 28 1/4.
The Seattle biotechnology concern said the Food and Drug
Administration approved the use of its granulocyte
macrophage-colony stimulating factor -- an agent which
stimulates the production of white blood cells -- under
certain conditions, for patients with life-threatening
diseases who have no alternative drugs available to them.
   A favorable mention in Barron's boosted the shares of KLA
Instruments 1/8 to 7 3/8. The magazine said earnings should
rebound for the San Jose, Calif., company.
   ---
   Howard Hoffman contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   TWA Workers to Get Back Pay in Ruling
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TWA U.FNT WNEWS BGL BTI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court panel in Chicago cleared the way
for 3,000 Trans World Airlines Inc. employees to collect what
their lawyers say could be "tens of millions of dollars" in
back pay and damages stemming from their termination by the
air carrier after a three-month strike in early 1986.
   TWA violated a Labor Department regulation when, after it
fired the employees, it refused to notify them immediately of
their eligibility for preferred hiring status by other
airlines, the court said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The notification, known as a "designated rights letter,"
was an administrative vehicle used by the department to
implement the Employee Protection Program of the Airline
Deregulation Act of 1978. The employee-protection provided by
the act expired in 1988.
   With the letter, employees could have received
preferential treatment over other candidates for jobs with
other airline companies. TWA didn't send the notification
letter until February 1987.
   Each flight attendant will seek an average of two years'
back pay, to cover the period from May 17, 1986 -- when they
ended the strike and offered to return to work -- till they
were rehired by TWA.
   The Seventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, affirming a
lower court ruling that found TWA liable, remanded the case
to the trial court for a hearing on damages.
   An attorney for TWA, which is based in Mount Kisco, N.Y.,
said the company was reviewing the decision.
   ---
   PARENT INDUSTRIES pleads guilty to racketeering in weapons
case.
   Parent Industries Inc., a holding company owned by James
H. Guerin, filed the plea in federal court in Philadelphia
yesterday, a month after federal prosecutors charged that the
company participated in a scheme to create more than $1
billion in phony weapons contracts.
   Mr. Guerin, who has not been charged with a crime, was the
creator of International Signal &amp; Control Corp., a global
weapons conglomerate based in Lancaster, Pa., that he started
in 1971 as a backyard industry.
   Parent, the holding company for all of Mr. Guerin's
assets, pleaded guilty to padding and falsifying weapons
contracts to inflate the value of International Signal &amp;
Control prior to its sale in 1987 to Ferranti International
PLC, Britain's third-largest defense contractor, for $670
million.
   Under the terms of the agreement, Parent will forfeit at
least $4 million and pay an additional $2.4 million in fines.
Mr. Guerin remains under investigation.
   In a plea memorandum filed by federal prosecutors, Mr.
Guerin is alleged to have "directed the financial fraud." His
attorney in Philadelphia, Joseph A. Tate, said Mr. Guerin and
Parent are cooperating with prosecutors.
   ---
   DENTISTS ARE CONVICTED in unusual price-fixing case.
   Three dentists were convicted in Tucson, Ariz., on charges
of conspiring to raise and fix fee amounts paid by their
patients, the Justice Department said. The case involved the
first criminal antitrust indictments and convictions of
medical practitioners in 50 years, according to Robert Bloch,
the prosecutor who supervised the case.
   The government in recent years has focused increased
attention on alleged antitrust violations in health care.
Previous cases have involved civil infractions related to
such things as hospital mergers. More criminal charges could
emerge from federal grand jury investigations under way in
Boston and in Savannah, Ga.
   The dentists in the Tucson case were found guilty of
conspiring to raise "co-payment" fees charged to members of
four prepaid dental plans. Co-payments are the extra amounts
that plan members must pay for certain non-routine
procedures, such as root-canal work.
   Convicted Sept. 20 in Tucson were Aaron Alston, Ronald
Walker and Richard Meyer. The dentists couldn't be reached
for comment. Stephen Weiss, Dr. Alston's lawyer, said a
motion has been filed requesting the judge to reverse the
jury's verdict "for lack of sufficient evidence." If the
motion is rejected, as typically happens, the three dentists
"in all likelihood would appeal," the lawyer added.
   Mr. Bloch said that the three men convicted were the
central figures in a conspiracy involving more than 30
dentists and affecting 80,000 dental-plan members. The price
collusion began as early as May 1987 and continued until
February of this year, according to the government.
   The defendants face possible prison terms of as much as
three years each, as well as individual fines of hundreds of
thousands of dollars. Sentencing is scheduled for Dec. 17.
   ---
   FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION official passes through revolving
door.
   Terry Calvani, a commissioner for seven years at the FTC
who briefly served as acting chairman during the mid-1980s,
will become a partner in the Washington law office of San
Francisco-based Pillsbury, Madison &amp; Sutro.
   Mr. Calvani, whose term expires today, will begin work at
the 40-lawyer office tomorrow. An expert on antitrust issues,
Mr. Calvani said that he will advise clients on antitrust
matters pending at the FTC, and that he expects to represent
clients before the commission as soon as the law will allow.
In most instances, federal officials are permitted to
represent clients before their former agencies after a
one-year grace period.
   The White House said last week it would nominate Roscoe
Burton Starek, White House deputy director for personnel, to
fill Mr. Calvani's seat. Before going to the White House, the
42-year-old Mr. Starek worked for seven years in various
capacities at the State Department, including the post of
deputy assistant secretary for policy and counterterrorism.
He also held several legal positions on Capitol Hill in the
1970s.
   The post at the FTC requires Senate confirmation.
   ---
   TOBACCO ANTITRUST APPEAL: Brooke Group Ltd., formerly
Liggett Group Inc., sought reinstatement of a $148.8 million
jury award in its predatory price discrimination case against
Brown &amp; Williamson Tobacco Corp. After an eight-month trial,
the jury in Greensboro, N.C., had found that Brown &amp;
Williamson competed illegally in the market for low-priced,
generic cigarettes. Brown &amp; Williamson argued at trial and in
its motions to the judge that its price-cutting benefited,
rather than harmed, competition. Brooke is appealing a
federal trial judge's decision last month overturning the
verdict.
   ---
   BOSTON MERGER: Gaston &amp; Snow, a 305-lawyer corporate firm,
will merge with Csaplar &amp; Bok, which represents institutional
investors, among other clients. All of Csaplar's 17 partners
and 30 associates and staff attorneys are expected to join
Gaston &amp; Snow, effective Oct. 1. The new firm, based in
Boston, will be called Gaston &amp; Snow.
   ---
   Timothy Noah contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Honda Follows
   Lead of U.S.
   On Air Bags
   ----
   By Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM HMC F NSANY TOYOY C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Japanese auto makers, finding themselves in the
rare position of playing catch-up, are jumping aboard the
air-bag bandwagon, hot on the heels of their Detroit rivals.
   The latest convert to air bags is Honda Motor Co., which
yesterday said it will make both driver- and passenger-side
air bags standard on virtually all Honda and Acura models
sold in the U.S. by late 1993. (A few, low-priced, stripped
cars may not have standard air bags, company officials said
late yesterday.) It now appears that air bags, once spurned
by auto makers from Detroit to Tokyo, will be standard
equipment on nearly all the cars sold in the U.S. by the
mid-1990s. For the American market, air bags are becoming a
must-have feature on a par with power brakes or fuel
injection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Honda decided about two months ago to go all-air bags,
Nobuhiko Kawamoto, the company's new president and chief
executive officer, said at a news conference in Detroit. With
that move Honda may leapfrog some competitors, most of whom
currently offer only driver-side air bags. Bags for the
passenger side of the front seat represent a more difficult
engineering proposition, because it's easier to make an air
bag project from the steering wheel than from the dashboard.
   The Honda announcement comes just a month after General
Motors Corp. said it will put driver-side air bags in all its
cars by 1995. Ford Motor Co. says it expects to make driver
and passenger air bags standard in all its U.S. models by the
"mid-1990s." Nissan Motor Corp. says it will have driver-side
and passenger-side air bags in its light trucks and most of
its car models by 1995. And Toyota Motor Corp., the No. 1
Japanese company, will put air bags in its cars as it
redesigns the models over the next few years.
   "We're working toward putting an air bag in all our
vehicles," says Robert McCurry, executive vice president of
Toyota's U.S. sales arm. "We feel long-term the air bag is
the way to go." Toyota also plans to equip its Previa minivan
with air bags, company officials say.
   All this is sweet vindication for Chrysler Corp., which
led the industry by making air bags standard on all its
U.S.-made models last fall. Now, Chrysler is trumpeting its
air-bag leadership in ads that feature testimonials from
Chrysler owners who credit the air bag with saving their
lives in a crash. Chrysler executives also chide their
Japanese rivals for being slow to offer their customers this
technology.
   The major Japanese auto makers have indeed lagged behind
Chrysler in pushing air bags into their cars. Honda, for
example, currently offers standard air bags on only two
models, the $22,600-and-up Acura Legend, and the $60,000
Acura NS-X luxury sports car. GM was little better. Only
about one-seventh of the GM cars sold this year have had air
bags.
   Auto makers have resisted air bags for two big reasons:
cost, and lingering doubts about technology and consumer
acceptance.
   Just last year, GM Chairman Robert C. Stempel (then the
auto maker's president) explained his company's go-slow
approach on air bags by saying they added more than $500 to
the cost of each vehicle. That's why GM outfitted most of its
high-volume, low-priced and mid-priced models with "automatic
seat belts."
   The GM belts were anchored to the door, and wrapped around
the driver as the door closed. Japanese auto makers,
meanwhile, opted for motorized belts. In these systems, the
shoulder strap moved back and forth on a track over the door.
Drivers had to latch a lap belt manually.
   But automatic belts, while less costly, aren't popular
with many consumers. GM's belts, in particular, have become
the target of criticism from safety advocates, who say the
belts are clumsy and too easy to unlatch.
   Moreover, air bags appear to be capturing the imagination
of a public increasingly concerned about safety. "There's
been an extraordinary surge in popular support for air bags
as people have become aware of their benefits," says Chuck
Hurley, vice president of the Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety.
   That surge is partly the result of some highly publicized
incidents in which air bags saved drivers from serious
injury, Mr. Hurley says. One such case is the "Culpeper
crash" in which two air bag-equipped Chryslers collided
head-on near Culpeper, Va., and the drivers walked away
virtually unscathed. Chrysler has featured this case in some
recent advertising.
   There's evidence that the Culpeper crash wasn't a fluke.
In a study of air bag-equipped U.S. government vehicles, the
National Highway Transportation Safety Administration found
that in 167 accidents in which the air bag inflated, all but
14 of the drivers sustained minor injuries or no injuries.
The remaining 14 received "moderate to serious" injuries.
   To be sure, air bags alone can't guarantee a car's
success. Chrysler has the most to gain from the growing
popularity of air bags, since all of its domestically built
cars have them. But the company's U.S. car sales and market
share have been sliding most of this year anyway.
   As for Honda's announcements that it will go Chrysler one
better by offering standard passenger-side air bags, the
Chrysler spokesman says: "They've got to play catch-up. So
they not only play catch-up, they announce they're going to
go ahead. Obviously, {passenger-side air bags} are something
we're working hard on, too."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HONDA MOTOR Co. will make driver- and passenger-side air
bags standard on all cars sold in the U.S. by late 1993. In
yesterday's edition, a company spokesman incorrectly stated
that the stripped-down versions of some models might not have
standard air bags.
   (WSJ Sept. 26, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Clears Bill
   Designed to Protect
   Retirement Plans
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate overwhelmingly approved
legislation aimed at restoring protection of older workers'
retirement benefits.
   The Senate voted 94-1 for the measure, after leading
backers and former opponents worked out a compromise. That
agreement between Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio and David Pryor
of Arkansas, Democrats pushing the bill, and Republicans
Orrin Hatch of Utah and John Heinz of Pennsylvania attempted
to meet employers' concerns that earlier versions would lead
to costly benefit packages and make it difficult for the
employers to offer early retirement to older employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Senior Bush administration officials had recommended that
the president veto an earlier version, but a White House
spokeswoman yesterday said that the administration hadn't
reviewed the compromise and didn't yet have a position on it.
The House hasn't yet moved ahead with its version of the
bill, and employers want to prevent the House from going
beyond the Senate compromise measure in assuring retiree
benefits.
   The Senate compromise measure would bar employers from
discriminating against older workers in providing such
benefits as pensions and disability payments. It eliminates a
provision that would have penalized employers retroactively,
for benefit plans that don't comply with the bill but would
have been in effect before its enactment.
   The agreement also allows employers to avoid
discrimination against older workers by combining benefits,
rather than considering each benefit separately. Non-union
employers would be given 180 days, instead of 60 days, to
comply with the new requirements.
   The legislation is designed to overturn a 1989 Supreme
Court ruling that gave employers wide leeway to restrict
retirement pension and health benefits. The ruling reversed
an appeals court decision that had favored June Betts, who
had to retire at age 61 because of illness after six years as
an Ohio speech pathologist. Because she was over 59, the
state denied disability in accordance with state law.
   The high court decision was one of several rulings that
civil-rights groups said rolled back much of the gains they
had made over the years in winning legal protection for
workers' rights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase Manhattan,
   Two Top Executives
   Are Sued by a Holder
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A shareholder filed a lawsuit against Chase
Manhattan Corp. and its two top executives, accusing them of
making false and misleading statements about the bank's
financial condition in recent months.
   The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, seeks to
be made a class action for all investors who bought Chase
stock between Jan. 17 and Friday, when Chase cut its dividend
50% to 30 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Chase spokesman said the suit is without merit.
   The lawsuit alleges that the company's stock price was
artificially inflated in recent months because of misleading,
optimistic statements by Chase -- starting with the
announcement of a dividend increase Jan. 17.
   It also claims that Chase knew for several months that its
loan-loss reserves were inadequate and that it couldn't
afford to maintain its common-stock dividend. The lawsuit
alleges that Chase intentionally misled investors by
misrepresenting and not disclosing certain information about
the company's loan portfolio.
   "The numerous representations made by defendants
concerning Chase's improved financial condition, the adequacy
of the bank's loan-loss reserves and the projections for
accelerated earnings were materially false and misleading and
not reasonably based," the lawsuit said. "The increase in the
dividend in January 1990 was intended to mislead investors as
to the company's true financial condition."
   Chase, in addition to halving its dividend, announced
Friday that it was setting aside $650 million in the current
quarter as additional reserves against potential losses on
domestic loans, mainly in real estate. The company also is
reducing its 41,000-person staff by 5,000.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Chase closed at $11.125 a share, down $1.625. The
stock was trading at about $32 a share in mid-January, the
start of the period in question in the suit.
   Besides the company, the suit names Willard Butcher,
chairman and chief executive officer, and Thomas Labrecque,
president and chief operating officer. Mr. Butcher will
retire next month, and Mr. Labrecque will succeed him.
   The lawsuit, filed by Israel Margolies of Peoria, Ill.,
seeks unspecified damages. At least three other lawsuits
making the same claims also were filed in federal court
yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Broad Deposit-Insurance Overhaul Bill
   Is Slated by Senate Banking Chairman
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Banking Committee's chairman
plans to introduce today a sweeping deposit-insurance
overhaul bill that would force regulators to restrict risky
operations of weak banks and thrifts before they fail and
pile up big losses that could be handed to taxpayers.
   The proposal from Sen. Donald Riegle would also radically
change the handling of bank bailouts by forbidding federal
regulators to take any action to protect deposits above the
$100,000 insurance limit. Under the "too big to fail" policy,
regulators in recent years have routinely sold failed banks
and thrifts to other institutions in deals that protected all
deposits, even those exceeding $100,000. Many experts say
taming that policy is a key to limiting the government's
deposit-insurance costs in the wake of the savings-and-loan
debacle, expected to cost $150 billion excluding interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Riegle's plan is the most detailed deposit-insurance
revision proposal from a congressional leader, and also
indicates that Capitol Hill, stung by political fallout from
the S&amp;L mess, is growing determined to take major action on
the issue next year. The Treasury Department is expected to
propose broad deposit-insurance changes early next year.
   The Michigan Democrat's proposal, which is similar in some
respects to recommendations made by Federal Reserve Board
Chairman Alan Greenspan and the General Accounting Office,
doesn't lower the $100,000 insurance limit or try to limit
the number of insured accounts an individual can have. Though
some important lawmakers, such as House Banking Committee
Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas), have suggested such
changes, a consensus seems to be emerging that requiring
certain stringent actions against troubled financial
institutions can protect the government without spooking
depositors too much.
   However, depositors would be limited to $100,000 of
insurance coverage per bank or thrift under Mr. Riegle's
bill. Currently, depositors can hold multiple insured
accounts in a single institution through joint accounts and
accounts held in trust for children. But Mr. Riegle would
still allow depositors to have as many insured accounts as
they wished at different institutions.
   Under Sen. Riegle's proposal, a bank or thrift would be
subject to restrictions once it fell below required capital
levels. The institution wouldn't be allowed to pay dividends
-- as many undercapitalized institutions do now -- and would
have to restrict its growth severely. The bank or thrift
would also have to submit an acceptable plan to raise
capital. (Capital is the owners' investment in the
institution, which is drained off before federal deposit
insurance funds are called in.)
   If the institution's capital continued shrinking,
regulators would have to enforce other restrictions on its
activities, and would soon thereafter have to take control of
the institution or document why they didn't take control. The
aim of the plan is to make sure that when institutions do
fail, their losses are minimal.
   The proposal also calls for raising the required level of
capital. Mr. Riegle doesn't specify a higher level, but
rather calls on the regulators to set a new level that would
prevent losses to the deposit-insurance funds for banks and
thrifts. As a further incentive for banks to maintain high
capital, the proposal would also allow the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. to charge higher insurance premiums to banks
with low capital.
   In addition, the plan would require the FDIC to license
and regulate deposit brokers -- firms that place deposits for
customers, usually scouring the country for the highest
interest rate.
   While the FDIC wouldn't be allowed to cover uninsured
depositors beginning in 1995, the bill would continue to
allow the Fed to intervene to protect uninsured depositors if
it believed the financial system could be destabilized.
Despite that loophole, the provision is aimed at forcing
large depositors to be more careful about the quality of the
banks and thrifts in which they place money.
   Meanwhile, Fed Chairman Greenspan sounded a gloomy note
about the banking insurance fund, saying that recent
developments underscores "the pressing need for reform of our
deposit insurance system."
   In a four-page letter to the Senate Banking Committee, Mr.
Greenspan said the banking insurance fund's "reserves will
remain under considerable pressure," even after banks next
year begin paying premiums of 19.5 cents per $100 of
deposits, compared with the current 12 cents per $100.
   Mr. Greenspan cited the banks' move into riskier
real-estate lending recently, saying that growth in capital
hasn't kept pace with growth in risk. Nonperforming assets,
he said, are at historical highs while the insurance fund is
at an all-time low. Moreover, contingent liabilities
associated with bank assets held by the fund could also prove
to be higher than expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ASK Computer Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASKI GM GME
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- ASK Computer Systems Inc. said it
agreed to allow EDS Corp. to market ASK products to EDS'
manufacturing customers.
   Under the agreement, EDS will offer ASK's
management-information systems, ASK said, while ASK customers
will gain access to EDS' services in consulting, systems
planning and systems integration. The pact comes a week after
ASK announced it agreed to sell a 20% stake to EDS, a unit of
General Motors Corp., and a 10% stake to Hewlett-Packard Co.
in order to finance its acquisition of software maker Ingress
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Institutions'
   Losses Narrowed
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Losses at the nation's savings and loan
institutions narrowed to $196 million in the second quarter
from $374 million in the first quarter, but the East Coast's
real estate slump continues to cast a shadow over the
industry, regulators said.
   Industrywide results also indicate that more thrifts than
previously thought could need some form of government
assistance, as earnings fell sharply for a group of thrifts
that had been healthy a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This industry is still under siege," said James Barth,
economist at the Auburn University and previously the
government's chief thrift economist.
   Timothy Ryan, the director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, said yesterday that his agency is considering
which of the nation's 2,452 thrifts not under government
management might be "segregated" into a special group to be
supervised closely by his agency. Such a plan would allow the
government's overstrained bailout agency, the Resolution
Trust Corp., to shepherd its cash for the very worst S&amp;Ls and
ignore unprofitable but marginally capitalized institutions
for now. "We're looking now at who to take out," Mr. Ryan
said.
   In the past, such strategies have proven catastrophic, as
thrifts that were given time to reverse losses simply wracked
up more. Regulators considering the plan now, however, say
they would restrict those institutions from any growth. The
plan hasn't yet gained final approval.
   Overall results also don't include the government-held
S&amp;Ls, which are under supervision of the RTC. If they were
included, losses would be substantially larger. The bailout
agency will report those results separately.
   But results do include those S&amp;Ls already "bailed out,"
and receiving hefty government assistance. Sixty-one
institutions, many of which struck government assistance
agreements in 1988, received $852 million in aid during the
second quarter. Still, 25 of the 61 thrifts don't meet
current capital requirements. If the results of those
institutions were excluded, the industry's overall loss would
have been $315 million.
   Regulators currently divide privately held thrifts into
four groups, according to profitability. The most alarming
news in the second quarter was how steeply earnings for the
674 "second-tier" thrifts tumbled. This tier contains
relatively healthy thrifts that meet, or are expected to
meet, capital requirements.
   Earnings for that group fell to $31 million from $195
million in the first quarter. For the second quarter of 1989,
they posted earnings of $296 million. Moreover, that group
reported an operating loss of $45.9 million for the latest
quarter, while reporting $101 million in gains on sales of
assets. Regulators attributed the overall decline of the
group to real estate woes.
   This group's health is significant, in that it hasn't been
expected to require government aid. "Their margins just
aren't there," said Bert Ely, an industry consultant in
Alexandria, Va. "These are troubled institutions who aren't
supposed to be."
   The real estate market particularly hurt the industry on
the East Coast, with the Northeast region reporting $93.1
million in net losses, and the Southeast region reporting
$117.4 million in net losses. There were strong earnings,
however, in the Central region, which posted $143.8 million
in earnings, and the West, which reported $50 million in
profit.
   Industrywide, S&amp;Ls continued to brace itself for the real
estate slump, taking a $1.78 billion provision for loan
losses.
   The first-quarter loss was restated from the previously
announced $271 million. The regulators cited a new method of
collecting data.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Soldiers
   Face `Iraqi' Force
   Here in the Mojave
   ---
   In These Desert War Games,
   U.S. Troops Usually Lose;
   Lessons From Vietnam
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   FORT IRWIN, Calif. -- South of Death Valley, the good guys
usually die young.
   Here, on the sun-scorched sands of the Army's most
desolate base, American soldiers meet the enemy, or "Opfor."
This is the resident 177th Armored Brigade, specially trained
to play the role of a battle-hardened, Soviet-schooled
adversary -- like the Iraqis. It's the only training most
Army troops get in desert warfare before hitting the ground
in the Middle East. Casualties are high, though usually not
for the Opposition Force brigade which is so used to
practicing together that it nearly always wins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This morning, snaking through the shadows of the stark
brown hills, an American armored task force runs smack into
an Opfor enemy ambush. A U.S. M-1 tank commander puts out a
desperate radio call to comrades he fears are being
annihilated: "Zulu-Nine-Six to any living element." One of
the war game observers can't resist breaking into the
distress call. "You're in charge, Bart," he jokes.
   Since this training center opened in 1981, nearly 400,000
troops from around the country have challenged the Opposition
Force in games considered the ultimate nonviolent test of
desert fighting. Many visiting units, exposed to few other
combat exercises, treat the three weeks here as the
centerpiece of their year. The Opfor serves as "an
Olympic-quality sparring partner," teaching trainees by their
mistakes and hammering in skills usable on a real
battlefield, says Col. James Patrick O'Neal, commander of the
2,200 armored and infantry troops of the 177th.
   Maintaining cadres skilled in enemy tactics has been a
favored Pentagon training method since the Vietnam War, which
revealed the price of not knowing enough about an opponent's
approach to combat. The Air Force Red Flag program and the
Navy Top Gun school also use resident teams that fight
Soviet-style in games with U.S. forces.
   Today's exercise is particularly relished by Opfor
Specialist Russ Helms, who wears the bad guy's traditional
black hat (in this case, a beret). From his tank, made in the
U.S. but modified to resemble a Soviet T-72, he is especially
intent on punishing the current visitors, the Second Brigade
of the Fifth Infantry Division based at Fort Polk, La. "It's
my old unit, and they've been dying like flies," he says
gleefully.
   As in all mock combat, reality is relative: Fort Irwin
commanders give these games about a 75% reality rating. In a
Persian Gulf battle, troops wouldn't have to worry about
running their tanks over threatened desert tortoises. Here,
they are instructed to go around them.
   Bullets and shells are simulated by the "multiple
integrated laser engagement system," a $40 million electronic
network tying battles to a computer in a central building
popularly known as the Death Star. Every element in the
battle -- tanks, helicopters, individual soldiers -- is
equipped with a laser and a receiver that register kills and
set off a flashing yellow light or beeping device to mark
them.
   Tear gas or smoke replaces deadly chemical agents like
those in Iraq's arsenal -- though troops still must sweat out
simulated attacks wearing cumbersome suits and masks. To
reduce possible real injuries, like tanks running into each
other, the Army limits the number of exercises at night and
in the most stifling afternoon heat. (While temperatures at
times reach 120 degrees, the dry Mojave Desert lacks the
drenching humidity of the Persian Gulf.) And shortly before
the Gulf crisis erupted, Air Force fighter support was cut
for cost reasons.
   Still, says Rand Corp. researcher Martin Goldsmith, who
has studied the Fort Irwin games extensively, "I have never
heard of a training center that tries to replicate the
battlefield to this extent." And Gen. Colin Powell, chairman
of the joint chiefs of staff, said recently he believes
American soldiers can survive an Iraqi chemical weapons
attack because of the training many received on this remote,
1,000-square-mile reservation, midway between Los Angeles and
Las Vegas.
   All well and good. But could troops trained for only three
weeks in Southern California survive an engagement with
battle-tested Iraqi troops in the Arabian desert?
   On the almost lunar-appearing battlefield here -- a much
rockier landscape than the drifting Saudi sands -- the
Louisianans seem to have the Mideast crisis on their minds.
Before the battle began at daybreak, the Fort Polk brigade
commander, Col. Robert Coffey, had hoped his troops might win
a rare victory, spurred by the realization that their next
encounter could be real. "The soldiers are concerned. They
read the papers," he says.
   And as the fighting continues this day, it seems Col.
Coffey may be right.
   The ambushed American task force isn't in quite the sorry
shape initially thought. Half its numbers -- held up for a
time by simulated mines that close distant Bicycle Lake Pass
-- now are following the trail of flashing lights on the
"dead" U.S. armor that has gone before. The force covers its
approach with smokescreens along the windswept base of the
Tiefort Mountains, until it joins the ambushed troops.
   Viewed from a nearby hill, battle seems a muffled chaos,
with lots of smoke and bursts from the tank-mounted
pyrotechnics simulating cannon fire.
   Facing a reinforced adversary, the Opfor tanks quickly
withdraw from forward lines they have set up according to
Soviet combat doctrine. In pulling back to join their main
force, several are hit and destroyed.
   When the battle is finally called off at 1 p.m., data
compiled in the Death Star cheers Col. Coffey. "It was a
clear win," he says proudly. He believes it could have been a
rout had fighter-plane support been available to him. One
lesson learned, though: how complicated things get when the
battlefield becomes "dirty," or contaminated by chemical
weapons. His troops all have had to wear
anti-chemical-warfare gear much of the day, because it was
unclear where the enemy had launched its simulated chemical
attack and when it ended. All this is duly noted in the
stacks of analytical videotapes and computer printouts to be
dispensed to him after the training.
   The day's fighting claims nearly half the Opposition
Force. Found resting atop his tank, waiting for the detailed
battle review to be announced, Cpl. Charles Ellery of the
Opfor seems surprised the Louisianans did so well. "Artillery
got us," he shouts to a passing observer. Cpl. Ellery says he
dies "about 50% of the time." Opfor Specialist Helms, who had
been eager to take on his old unit, "died" in the battle too.
   Col. Coffey's toll is considered extremely good: Of 1,600
troops sent into combat, several hundred are killed or
wounded, and 19 of 35 tanks and 18 of 28 personnel carriers
are lost. It's a far cry from earlier battles at Fort Irwin,
when the brigade was cut to pieces.
   The military knows, though, that heroics under simulated
fire may not be carried over into actual battle. "If they
were handing out congressional medals around here," a saying
at the National Training Center goes, "there would be 12 a
day."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   POM UNM CAT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caterpillar Financial Services Corp., shelf offering of up
to $600 million in debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Potomac Electric Power Co., offering of $350 million in
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Unum Corp., shelf offering of $250 million of unsecured
debt securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chile, Banks Reach
   Pact on Rescheduling
   $1.8 Billion in Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- After just a few days of negotiations, Chile
and its commercial bankers tentatively agreed to a proposed
$1.8 billion debt rescheduling, and the nation said it soon
will issue $320 million of bonds with the help of some of its
major bank creditors.
   Chile, which in recent years has had the strongest
economic growth in Latin America, hasn't borrowed in
international credit markets in recent years but is trying to
return to those markets now after several years of reform and
strong export-led growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Because of its good economic performance, the nation has
been lauded by many foreign bankers and economists. "We've
been listening to the financial markets saying that Chile
belongs to a different category" than other heavily indebted
developing nations, said the nation's finance minister,
Alejandro Foxley.
   The proposed rescheduling agreement was reached between
Chile and a representative committee of banks. The agreement,
which still has to be ratified by the nation's bank creditors
around the world, would extend $1.8 billion of debt principal
payments for four years and continue an arrangement under
which Chile pays interest once a year instead of twice a
year. The $320 million Chile expects to raise would help the
nation meet its financing needs over the next three years,
Mr. Foxley said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   AIDS Researcher Finds Early Evidence
   Vaccine May Stimulate Protective Cells
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CELI ALBM
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A researcher who has taken an unorthodox approach to
developing an AIDS vaccine reported early evidence that the
technique could stimulate certain protective "killer" cells
of the immune system.
   Allan L. Goldstein, a biochemist at George Washington
University and the lead author of the report, said the
approach indicates a role in vaccine development for
so-called core proteins, which are found inside the virus
that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By contrast, most experimental vaccines have been based on
proteins from the outer envelope of the virus. In either
case, the hope is to use noninfectious protein fragments to
trick the body into mustering an immunological defense
against infection.
   Because envelope proteins vary subtly among different
strains of the virus, researchers are still trying to
determine which protein fragments are both immutable and
capable of inducing a strong defense. Core proteins are less
mutable, but comparatively little investigation has been done
into their defense-inducing capacity.
   The latest work by Mr. Goldstein's team, reported in the
current issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, centered on a synthetic peptide, called HGP-30,
that is identical to a portion of a core protein of the AIDS
virus. The HGP-30 vaccine is produced by Viral Technologies
Inc., a joint venture of Cel-Sci Corp., Alexandria, Va., and
Alpha 1 Biomedicals Inc., Washington. Mr. Goldstein is the
founder of Alpha 1.
   The researchers found that blood drawn from nine persons
infected with the AIDS virus contained killer cells that
attacked a laboratory cell line coated with HGP-30. They
concluded that the killer cells, of a type known as CD-8
positive lymphocytes, zeroed in on HGP-30 because those
lymphocytes had been sensitized by the core protein. The
inference is that HGP-30, used as a vaccine, might prompt a
similar response.
   Collaborating with the George Washington group in the
report were researchers from Universite Pierre et Marie
Curie, Paris, and the National Cancer Institute, Bethesda,
Md.
   In an interview, Mr. Goldstein argued that if a useful
vaccine is ultimately developed, it may incorporate pieces of
both core and envelope proteins. "None of us can say for sure
that any of the approaches being taken will by itself become
an effective vaccine," he said.
   He said a protective response in the body to a core
protein would presumably attack cells infected with the virus
rather than the virus itself. He noted reports that core
proteins show up on the surface of infected cells and thus
could act as targets for killer cells. Within the free virus,
however, core proteins don't present themselves as targets
since they lie under the viral envelope.
   Mr. Goldstein added that researchers in London have found
higher counts of CD-8 positive lymphocytes in four persons
inoculated with HGP-30 during safety trials. None of the four
is infected with the AIDS virus. Three others haven't shown
higher counts, but they received lower doses of HGP-30.
   The location of the human trials of HGP-30 in London is
one indication of the slowness with which the core-protein
approach has been tried in the U.S. The George Washington
group has yet to win approval for human trials from the Food
and Drug Administration, though safety trials of HGP-30 in
people are scheduled to begin in California this fall under
the auspices of a state program that doesn't require FDA
clearance.
   Dani P. Bolognesi, an AIDS vaccine researcher at Duke
University, cautioned that most experimental evidence to date
"screams for envelope" protein fragments as a constituent of
an AIDS vaccine. But, he said, "that doesn't mean you
couldn't add core {protein} to the vaccine and do better," if
more evidence in favor of core proteins develops.
   Core proteins are attracting somewhat wider interest. This
month, for example, MicroGeneSys Inc. said it is beginning
human safety trials of a vaccine based on a core protein,
though not the one on which HGP-30 is based. MicroGeneSys, a
closely held West Haven, Conn., company, already is testing
in people a vaccine based on an envelope protein. The company
says that researchers plan eventually to test core and
envelope proteins in combination.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP ITT FRE NOB U.PO NAB F.CLC BNI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ITT Corp. -- $150 million of 8 3/4% notes due Oct. 1,
1992, priced at 99.919 to yield 8.795%. The non-callable
notes were priced at a spread of 63 basis points above the
Treasury's two-year when-issued note. Rated single-A-2 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co.
   Burlington Northern Railroad Co. -- $118 million two-part
issue of pass-through certificates. The first part, about $68
million of 9.81% certificates maturing March 26, 2004, was
priced at par. The issue has an average life of about 9.7
years. The second part, about $50 million of 10.13%
certificates due March 26, 2010, also was priced at par. The
issue has an average life of about 17.3 years. Rated
double-A-3 by Moody's and single-A-plus by S&amp;P, the issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Commercial Credit Corp. -- $100 million of 9 1/8% notes
due Oct. 1, 1993, priced at par. The non-callable notes were
priced at 78 basis points above the Treasury's three-year
note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $500.2 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in eight classes by Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. The offering, Series FHLMC Gold 1009, is backed
by Freddie Mac 9 1/2% gold participation certificates. The
offering consists of three fixed-rate classes, one
floating-rate class, two inverse-floating-rate classes, one
interestonly class and a residual. The collateral has a
weighted average coupon rate of 10.125% and weighted average
remaining term to maturity of 29.75 years. Further details
weren't immediately available.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $500 million of Remic
mortgage securities offered in 21 classes by First Boston
Corp. The offering, Series FHLMC Gold 1010, is backed by
Freddie Mac 9% gold participation certificates. The offering
consists of seven PAC (planned amortization class) classes,
five VADM (very accurately determined maturities) classes,
five fixed-rate classes, one principal-only class and a small
interest-only class, among others. The collateral has a
weighted average coupon rate of 9.75% and weighted average
remaining term to maturity of 29.50 years. Other details
weren't immediately available.
   Collateralized Mortgage Obligation Trust 64 -- $500
million of Remic mortgage securities offered in 11 classes by
Salomon Brothers Inc. The offering is backed by Government
National Mortgage Association 9% securities with a weighted
average coupon rate of 9% and weighted average remaining term
to maturity of 26.33 years. Among classes for which details
were available, spreads ranged from 60 basis points above
three-year Treasury notes for securities with an average life
of 3.6 years to 140 basis points above 30-year Treasury bonds
for securities with an average life of 19.5 years. There is
an optional redemption at par when 5% of the bonds remain
outstanding.
                                                                                                       

                       ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Norwest Master Trust Series B -- $400 million of 9.05%
credit-card certificates priced at 99.9375 to yield 9.11%
through Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and Norwest Investment Services
Inc. The yield is 75 basis points over the yield on
three-year Treasury notes. The securities are collateralized
with Visa and MasterCard receivables sold by Norwest Bank
Iowa, a unit of Norwest Corp. A triple-A rating from Moody's
and S&amp;P is expected, based on the quality of the underlying
loans and a letter of credit from Union Bank of Switzerland
covering 12% of the deal. Expected maturity is March 15,
1994. Legal final maturity is Sept. 15, 1995. The securities
have a three-year average life.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Bradford &amp; Bingley Building Society (U.K.) -- #150 million
of floating-rate notes due October 1997 via Credit Suisse
First Boston Ltd. Interest at three-month London interbank
offered rate plus eight basis points, fixed reoffer price
99.80 (issue price par). Fees 24 basis points.
   Peninsular &amp; Orient Steam Navigation Co. (U.K.) -- 100
million Australian dollars of 14.8% Eurobonds due Oct. 11,
1995, at issue price 102 via Samuel Montagu &amp; Co. Fees 2.
   National Australia Bank Ltd. (Australia) -- A$60 million
of 14% Eurobonds due Oct. 18, 1994, at issue price 101 3/4
via Dresdner Bank AG. Fees 1 3/4.
   Credit Local de France (France) -- $100 million of
floating-rate notes due Oct. 12, 1997, priced at par, paying
6.25 basis points below six-month Libor via Credit Lyonnais
Euro-Securities Ltd. Fees 0.10.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time, Cable Concern
   To Operate Systems
   For Hungarian TV
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc. and United International
Holdings Inc., eager to break into the Eastern European cable
television market, said they formed a joint venture to
operate cable television systems in Hungary.
   Company officials would not disclose the level of
investment. This is the first tie-up between Denver-based
United International, which operates several cable television
systems in Europe, and Time Warner, one of the world's
biggest media and entertainment companies. United
International is also the largest franchisee of Blockbuster
Video stores in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman for Time Warner said the joint venture,
which seeks to develop and operate cable systems as well as
provide programming services, has been approved by the
Hungarian government. Time Warner will focus on developing
programming, while United International will supervise the
technical side of improving Hungary's cable systems. Planning
for the project is expected to be completed by early
December, with new programs scheduled to be launched in early
1991.
   Time Warner officials said it chose Hungary because the
television market is relatively well-developed, as are the
financial and legal institutions. Moreover, with some 400,000
to 500,000 Hungarians already tuning into cable television,
officials of both companies are optimistic about the market
for new cable programs. United International said it has been
exploring the Hungarian cable market for more than a year and
already has some agreements with local cable systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plan on Holdings
   Of Money Funds
   Sparks Argument
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX MCIC MHS C AXP
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The mutual fund industry, Wall Street and corporate
America are unhappy with a Securities and Exchange Commission
plan to restrict what the nation's $450 billion of
money-market funds can hold.
   The argument centers on an SEC proposal that, in an effort
to make the funds supersafe, would limit fund holdings of
less than top-grade debt to 5% of the total. Furthermore,
debt by a single issuer could make up no more than 1% of a
fund's holdings. The restrictions would prevent the money
funds from buying as much corporate commercial paper as they
do now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Current rules allow the funds -- considered by most
investors to be tantamount to bank accounts -- to hold any
amount of debt rated in the top two categories with
maturities of less than one year. There are a few other
caveats, but money funds typically have loaded up with the
paper to boost yields.
   The SEC proposal came on the heels of defaults by several
large issuers of commercial paper, which are short-term notes
issued by companies and underwritten by Wall Street firms.
The comment period for the proposal is to expire today, and
the SEC is expected to vote on the measure in the next few
months.
   But the plan appears to annoy just about everybody.
Corporate America, the big issuers of commercial paper, is
concerned that the cost of raising money will jump after a
large buyer of the paper is restricted in its moves.
Currently, commercial paper accounts for about 52% of the
money invested in taxable money-market mutual funds,
according to the Donoghue Organization, a money-fund research
and information firm based in Holliston, Mass. The firm
doesn't track how many funds are holding less than
top-quality paper.
   Time Warner Inc., in a comment letter, said it would be
directly affected by the proposal. "Companies such as Time
Warner Inc. would be unfairly penalized with a loss of a
valuable liquidity source and higher rates on our available
liquidity," the company wrote.
   Similar comments came in from MCI Communications Corp.,
Marriott Corp. and Chrysler Financial Corp.
   Wall Street wasn't tickled either. Representatives of
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. met
with SEC commissioners and staffers to express concern that
the agency would be hurting the commercial paper market, an
SEC official said. Goldman Sachs declined to comment and
Shearson officials couldn't be reached.
   But the mutual fund industry trade group has a different
objection to the SEC's plan -- it thinks the measure is too
lenient. In its comment letter to the SEC, the Investment
Company Institute said that "past experience indicates that
(securities other than top-rated) may undergo rapid quality
deterioration and therefore may involve risks inappropriate
for funds seeking to maintain a stable net asset value."
   Instead, the ICI proposes allowing funds to include a
higher percentage (10%) of "split paper" -- that is
commercial paper that has received the top rating from one
agency and a lower rating from another. "This proposal would
allow money market funds to continue to have a fairly high
level of flexibility while significantly reducing risk,"
wrote Matthew Fink, the group's general counsel.
   Acting director Gene Gohlke of the SEC's investment
management group said he wasn't sure what the commission
might do to resolve the differences between the two camps.
   But the decision is likely to affect some funds greatly.
Milwaukee-based Strong-Corneliuson Capital Management Inc.,
whose $818 million money-market fund is 67% in commercial
paper rated less than top grade, says it isn't taking a
position on the plan.
   Vanguard Group, a Valley Forge, Pa., mutual fund,
generally supported the SEC proposal. "We're all for
tightening up the rules a bit and taking a conservative
stance to protect shareholders' principal," said Jeremy
Duffield, a senior vice president.
   T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. thinks the SEC proposal goes
too far on credit quality. "We want to be able to buy A2-P2
paper, though not right now," said Theodore Wiese, executive
vice president of the Prime Reserve Fund. "We pay credit
analysts a lot of money, we think they add some value."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                            Week Ended:
                                        Sep. 21,    Sep. 14,
                                          1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a ..... 7.96        7.88
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) ... 8.06        7.97
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b .......... 8.18        8.12
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ............... 8.09        7.99
   Treasury bills (one year)-c .......... 7.77        7.75
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ........ 8.25        8.24
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ......... 8.52        8.47
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c .......... 8.92        8.84
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ........... 9.06        8.97
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, September 19,
1990 and Wednesday, September 12, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted
for constant maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thankless Task:
   Tough Young Clients
   Generate Tough Cases
   For a Public Defender
   ---
   Philadelphia's Richard Bank
   Tries to Get Them Help
   Rather Than Jail Terms
   ---
   Courts Mete Out `Heavy Hits'
   ----
   By John Wagner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Sitting in the cluttered office he shares
with two other public defenders, Richard Bank thumbs through
current case files stacked on his lap: A burglar accused of
shooting a woman point-blank in the chest. A mother who has
confessed to killing her baby, stuffing it into a trash bag
and burying it in a city park. A habitual car thief accused
of shooting a nine-year-old while joy-riding on a stolen
motorcycle.
   Many of his clients have committed heinous crimes. Most
have several prior convictions -- some more than a dozen
previous arrests. One other thing they have in common: All
have yet to reach age 18.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I only get the worst of the worst," says Mr. Bank with a
touch of pride. A balding, bearded man with a baritone voice,
wire-rim glasses and a bow tie, Mr. Bank has volunteered for
this assignment in the juvenile special-defense unit after 17
years as a public defender. In exchange for a lighter
caseload, he and the other three attorneys in the unit take
on the most violent juveniles.
   In these times of family breakdown, child abuse, cocaine
wars and vicious street crime, defending violent youths has
become a poignant and often thankless job. It can drain the
public defender's spirit. Lately, America's justice-system
pendulum has swung sharply away from rehabilitative ideals
and toward harsher punishment. As the stakes for the youths
have risen, so has the toll on the defenders themselves.
   A look at Mr. Bank's caseload shows how he tries to make a
difference. But it also underlines the frustration of working
with juveniles on whom the rest of society has already given
up.
   Mr. Bank, a 48-year-old graduate of Villanova law school,
spent most of his career handling some of Philadelphia's most
grisly adult criminal cases. But in the late 1970s, he
supervised the defender association's juvenile unit. Then, he
says, the juvenile court was truer to its mission.
   Since its inception at the beginning of the century,
America's juvenile-court system has been guided by the notion
that youthful offenders should be treated and rehabilitated,
not punished and stigmatized as criminals. (In most states,
juveniles become adults at age 18; in others, the cutoff age
is 16; a few use 19.)
   Court vocabulary reflects this belief in rehabilitation:
Youths are said to be "adjudicated delinquent" rather than
found guilty. They are "placed" in rehabilitative programs
and "youth development centers" rather than sentenced to
prison.
   But here and in other large U.S. cities, the idea of
emphasizing the child's needs has been overshadowed by less
lofty but more attainable goals: locking up young offenders
and keeping them off the streets as long as possible. "If a
kid shows a nasty, violent streak, forget the rehabilitation,
we're going to go with the punishment," says Philadelphia
District Attorney Ronald Castille. "A kid murdering or raping
is not a kid being a kid."
   Although the number of juveniles arrested over the past
five years here has dropped significantly, the total placed
in corrective institutions has skyrocketed, from 695 in 1984
to a record 2,227 last year. Most of Pennsylvania's juvenile
facilities are full beyond stated capacity.
   Last year, the DA's office also succeeded in certifying a
record number of Philadelphia's juveniles as adults and
transferring their cases to the city's already-swamped
criminal courts. The trend reflects a growing sentiment that
the few "hard-core" juvenile offenders who could be "saved"
don't justify the additional resources being wasted on many
more who seem destined for a life of crime. The cost of
placing a repeat offender in a secure juvenile institution
exceeds $50,000 a year.
   "It's just not worth it to give them another chance," says
James McDermott, chief of the DA's juvenile habitual offender
unit here, one of 13 such units across the country originally
funded by Justice Department grants to prosecute repeat
juvenile offenders more rigorously.
   A decade ago, combat between prosecutors and defenders in
juvenile court was less intense. If a youth had multiple
charges brought against him for a single crime, the defender
would often plead his client guilty on all counts, even if he
could win an acquittal on some, Mr. Bank says. The goal was
to get help for the youth, and the slate would be wiped clean
when he became an adult. Now, Mr. Bank says, that objective
has taken a back seat to resisting prosecutorial efforts to
"pile on" juvenile adjudications for use in later adult
sentencings.
   Most juveniles whose cases fall into Mr. Bank's lap are
kids who have exhausted the resources of the juvenile justice
system and are on the brink of prison. He tries to get them
one more chance.
   Jamall Rickmon, a short, muscular youth, had had plenty of
chances to turn his life around before his latest case was
given to Mr. Bank. Since his first arrest at age eight,
Jamall had spent most of his life in rehabilitative
institutions but still managed to rack up a dozen arrests.
After his latest crimes, at age 17, he was found by a
family-court judge to be "not amenable to treatment" by the
juvenile system and was certified as an adult.
   Jamall had driven a stolen getaway car in a $36,000
jewelry heist. With police tailing him at high speed, he ran
a red light and broadsided a car carrying two college
students. The passenger, a 25-year-old woman, suffered a
fractured neck, a broken pelvis, broken ribs and a severed
ear. The 23-year-old driver suffered two broken legs, a
ruptured neck artery and a severed ear that surgeons later
reattached.
   At the advice of Mr. Bank, Jamall pleaded guilty at his
arraignment, waiving his right to a jury trial and placing
himself at the mercy of Judge Legrome Davis. Moments into
Jamall's sentencing hearing, Mr. Bank found an opening.
   The public defender told the judge that Jamall Rickmon had
had, in fact, only two juvenile felony adjudications since
turning 14, not five as the court-prepared pre-sentencing
report said. That difference could affect the length of
Jamall's sentence. Mr. Bank contended that the other three
offenses really belonged to James Rickmon, who, upon arrest,
often gave police his older brother's name. If granted
another day, Mr. Bank said, he could prove that the court had
erred.
   The next morning Marion Rickmon, Jamall's 71-year-old
grandmother, arrived in Courtroom 738 early and sat in the
second row of chairs, her wrinkled hands folded and clinging
to crumpled Kleenex, her face locked in a pout.
   Mr. Bank wanted to see Jamall get a two- or three-year
sentence at Camp Hill, a county prison with a program in
industrial skills. That way, he said, his client could learn
a trade and how to read. According to his pre-sentencing
report, Jamall couldn't read "even the smallest words."
   Shortly before Judge Davis took the bench, a court officer
handed Mr. Bank Jamall's juvenile file, a two-inch-thick
collection of dog-eared psychological evaluations,
juvenile-institution progress reports and probation-officer
recommendations dating back to his first arrest a decade
earlier. Mr. Bank and his social worker frantically pored
through it, trying to reconstruct the pasts of his client and
15-year-old James.
   By the time Jamall's case was called, about 10 minutes
later, Mr. Bank was able to assert confidently that the list
of his client's prior felony adjudications should show two,
not five. "Fine," Judge Davis said. The judge then asked the
district attorney in the case whether he wanted to dispute
"this one narrow issue." The DA declined.
   Then, Jamall took what public defenders call a "heavy
hit." Ignoring the state sentencing guidelines around which
Mr. Bank had constructed his arguments, Judge Davis sentenced
Jamall to 30 years in the state penitentiary. He will be
eligible for parole in a decade.
   "I'll be dead before you get out," Mrs. Rickmon whispered
to her grandson.
   "There goes Jamall Rickmon," said an exasperated Mr. Bank
as he left the courtroom. Sure, he felt bad for the victims
in the other car, he said, but this sentence wouldn't help
them. It was typical of the "primal urge of exacting revenge"
that dominates the courts today, Mr. Bank contended. Mr. Bank
sees Jamall Rickmon himself as a victim, a "brain-damaged kid
the system had failed." His IQ has been tested at 74, and a
psychologist said he showed signs of brain damage.
   Jamall never had a family life. He didn't know his
father's name and had never seen him. He and his three
siblings, all by different fathers, were reared by his
grandmother, who lived on welfare. His mother was never
around, he told a social worker. "She not have time for me,"
he said. "Don't know why." Mr. Bank, as a father, expresses
little sympathy for such parents.
   Jamall often skipped school, and he flunked several
grades. In response to a social worker's question this year,
he said he thought George Washington was the current U.S.
president. He is very impressionable. "Prison will be the
college of crime for him," Mr. Bank predicts.
   But the defender usually tries to keep a client from being
certified as an adult so he can get the services provided to
juvenile offenders. Even if the penalty is no stiffer, "as a
pointy-headed liberal, I know he needs more help than the
adult system can give him," Mr. Bank says.
   Much of Mr. Bank's work is driven by values going back to
the beginning of his career, when he was protesting the
Vietnam war and handling cases for the Central Committee of
Conscientious Objectors. Though he concedes the public has a
right to be protected from the behavior of some of his
clients, he feels society is reaping what it has sown. He
decries the deterioration of social programs and says that if
the government provided a guaranteed income to its poor, many
of his young clients wouldn't resort to selling drugs.
   "My clients are dyssocialized," he says. "They don't know
what's expected of them. They've never met anybody who wakes
up with an alarm clock every morning."
   Many have fathers in prison and mothers on drugs, or have
been abused. One client was in a child-pornography film.
Another, at age three, was taught by his father to fire a
machine gun. And most, though only 16 or 17 years old, have
fathered children.
   At Jamall's sentencing, his 16-year-old girlfriend and
their year-old baby are present. During a recess in the
courtroom, Jamall Jr., wearing a diaper, gym shorts and a
Bart Simpson tank top, runs to the bench where his father
sits. Jamall cradles his son between his knees -- his hands
are cuffed behind his back -- leans forward and tries to make
eye contact with him.
   Fifteen minutes later, when Jamall is sentenced, his
girlfriend starts sobbing, then screaming, before she and her
baby are led out of the courtroom.
   "I get immune to wailing girlfriends," Mr. Bank says on
the walk back to his office. "If you don't keep your distance
in this job, you just go crazy. You see so much cruelty." Mr.
Banks says he has developed an "aesthetic distance" that
allows him to fight his young clients' legal battles without
becoming emotionally involved in their personal struggles.
   Still, he often offers fatherly advice. He sent a "hot
rodder" magazine to a client named James, a graffiti artist
now in state custody, hoping he would put his artistic skills
to better use: pin-striping cars.
   When Mr. Bank first met James, the youth had already
compiled more than 20 arrests, mostly for burglaries and
escapes from juvenile detention centers. While in one of
them, he engaged in "brief sexual activities" in return for
cigarettes, according to a report from the institution.
Considering James's background, Mr. Bank says, his behavior
isn't surprising: His father frequently beat him up, and his
mother had a history of having sex with young children and
supplying them with drugs, according to a psychological
report on her son. "As a young child, James huddled in the
corner while his mother had group sex," Mr. Bank says with
disgust.
   Back in his office after a "heavy hit" sentencing of a
client certified as an adult, Mr. Bank kicks off his shoes
and slouches in his chair, almost forgetting that he also has
a case in family court that morning. His client, Joseph, is
being considered for discharge after 18 months in an
institution for sexual offenders.
   At age 17, Joseph tried to rape a younger girl on a
downtown street in broad daylight. Prosecutors got him
certified as an adult, but were reversed when the results of
a psychological examination revealed Joseph's background.
   At age three, Joseph saw his mother commit suicide by
jumping from a high-rise building. His father was an
alcoholic whom Joseph rarely met. After the suicide, the
authorities placed Joseph with his mother's paramour, who
abused him "physically, emotionally and sexually," according
to his case file. At seven, Joseph was taken from the
paramour and put in a home with his stepmother and her eight
other children. He often ran away from there, including once
to New York for nearly three weeks when he was 11.
   On arriving at the courtroom, Mr. Bank discovers that the
public defender assigned to the room has already handled his
client's hearing. Joseph has been discharged from the
institution.
   "I'm doing great on the cases I'm not here for," Mr. Bank
says wryly. "I'm like the kiss of death."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Consolidated Freightways Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CNF WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONSOLIDATED FREIGHTWAYS Inc. (Menlo Park, Calif.) -- G.
Robert Evans and Robert D. Rogers were named board directors
of this transportation concern. Mr. Evans, 59 years old, is
president and chief executive officer of Corporate Finance
Associates Illinois Inc. in St. Charles, Ill. Mr. Rogers, 63
years old, is president and chief executive officer of Texas
Industries Inc. in Dallas. The two fill vacancies on the
13-member board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Family S&amp;L Ex-Aide
   Enters Innocent Plea
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Oliver A. Trigg, former chairman of Family
Savings &amp; Loan Association, pleaded innocent in federal court
here to charges that he defrauded the thrift in a complex
scheme to take control of Family using Family's own money.
   Mr. Trigg was indicted by a federal grand jury this month
and charged with 15 counts of conspiracy, bank fraud, money
laundering, false statements and tax fraud. If convicted, he
faces a maximum of 94 years in prison and a $1 million fine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the indictment, Mr. Trigg, while serving as
chairman but holding no equity in the thrift, arranged for
Family to lend $2.5 million to a third party to develop a
real-estate property. Then $1,240,000 of the money allegedly
was laundered into Mr. Trigg's personal bank account and used
to buy 51% of Family.
   Mr. Trigg attracted local media attention in August 1987
when he acquired control of the Los Angeles-based thrift,
partly because with assets of more than $140 million, Family
was one of the nation's largest black-owned S&amp;Ls. Family is
still in operation after OFC Inc., based in Washington, D.C.,
acquired control in January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Clears Up to 10% Rise
   In International Air Fares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Transportation Department, as
expected, approved passenger fare increases of 5% to 10% on
overseas flights, starting Oct. 1. Most international fares
would increase 7%.
   The department yesterday said it was sanctioning the
increases because the airline industry is facing rising jet
fuel prices, prompted by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A government official said the increases aren't unlawful
or injurious to competition.
   Unlike on domestic routes, carriers must get government
approval before they can raise or lower international fares,
which are regulated mostly by bilateral agreements. The
increases are awaiting government approval from other
countries.
   Carriers are turning to fare increases as a way of
generating extra revenue at a time when the higher cost of
fuel is prompting layoffs, fleet reductions and lower
earnings forecasts.
   The department approved a 7% fare increase on most
international fares. On flights within Europe, ticket prices
will rise 5%. It sanctioned a 6% boost on fares to Ireland
and the United Kingdom and an 8% increase on flights from
Canada. One of the increases allowed is a 10% rise on flights
from Greece.
   The increases will last for six months to cover fuel
costs. The department can allow extensions or other fare
increases after these have expired.
   A war risk surcharge was also approved for flights mostly
in the Middle East. The carriers may determine the terms of
the surcharges. In addition, cargo rates will be increased 6%
to 10% starting Oct. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Postpones Trading
   In Options on Japan Index
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange delayed today's
scheduled start of options trading on its Japan Index of 210
stocks.
   "We have regulatory clearance. We are just smoothing out
some last-minute details," a spokeswoman for the Amex said,
declining to be specific. The Amex said it will announce
another launch date today. The trading is designed to allow
investors to bet on the direction of Japan's stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, the two big Chicago commodity exchanges this
week are launching vehicles of their own for betting on the
Japanese market.
   The Chicago Mercantile Exchange today is to introduce
futures and options on the Nikkei Index of 225 Tokyo stocks.
And the Chicago Board of Trade plans to trade in futures and
options on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Index of more than 1,200
stocks, starting Thursday night and continuing thereafter in
day and night trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maryland, Lottery Agency
   Discriminated, U.S. Alleges
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department filed a civil rights
lawsuit against Maryland and its lottery agency, charging
that a state minority-hiring program discriminated against
white men.
   The suit, filed in federal court in Baltimore, alleged
that the lottery agency violated the Civil Rights Act of 1964
by refusing to consider white male applicants for four jobs.
Maryland officials couldn't be reached to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department didn't specify in its filing what
type of jobs were covered by the minority-hiring program. The
complaint accused Maryland of "refusing to hire on the basis
of their race and sex qualified white males."
   The department said in its suit that the federal Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission "found reasonable cause to
believe the charge was true," attempted unsuccessfully to
reach a settlement, and finally referred the matter to the
Justice Department's Civil Rights Division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Matsushita Explores Purchase of MCA
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Richard Turner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MC MCA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Japan's Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., one of the
world's largest consumer-electronics manufacturers, is in
talks with MCA Inc. regarding a possible acquisition of the
U.S. entertainment giant for $80 to $90 a share, or a range
of about $6.7 billion to $7.5 billion, people familiar with
the talks said.
   The transaction would easily surpass Sony Corp.'s
acquisition last year of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.
for $5 billion, and would be sure to stir more questions
about Japanese control of American assets. Columbia, like
MCA, produces films and television shows. But MCA is also
involved in areas ranging from publishing and theme parks to
management of Yosemite National Park facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MCA, parent of Universal Studios, has, like other media
and entertainment concerns, taken a beating on Wall Street
recently. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, it closed at $34.50, down 50 cents.
   The individuals with knowledge of the talks requested
anonymity and said it is far from certain that a deal will
materialize. They added that many barriers, such as
regulatory problems, remain. Unlike Columbia, for instance,
MCA owns a giant independent television station, WWOR in
Secaucus, N.J., which an overseas company would be prevented
from owning. But if it buys MCA, Matsushita, which had sales
in the year ended March 31 of about $44.4 billion, would be
following Sony in melding a vast "hardware" empire with
entertainment "software." Matsushita's brand names include
Panasonic, Technics and Quasar.
   The people familiar with the Matsushita talks said that
Michael Ovitz, the powerful head of talent agency Creative
Artists Agency Inc., is advising Matsushita in the talks. Mr.
Ovitz served as an adviser to Sony in its purchase of
Columbia, and Columbia at one point tried to recruit Mr.
Ovitz to run the studio. However the two sides couldn't agree
on terms. Rumors that Mr. Ovitz has since been interested in
leading an acquisition attempt for MCA have been circulating
in Hollywood for months.
   An assistant to Mr. Ovitz said he was traveling and
unreachable. MCA President Sidney J. Sheinberg didn't return
phone calls and a secretary in his office said the company
wouldn't comment on rumors. In Japan, a Matsushita spokesman
said he didn't have any immediate comment.
   MCA has long been the subject of speculation that it would
merge with another company, such as Paramount Communications
Inc., or be acquired. But MCA has backed away from merger
talks before, notably with RCA Corp. before it was acquired
by General Electric Co. The talks stumbled, partly over
management questions.
   MCA's longtime chairman, Lew Wasserman, owns about 7% of
the shares and with other officers has voting control over an
additional 11.6%. If MCA does agree to a transaction with
Matsushita, it's always possible that another bidder might
try to make a run at the company, much as Paramount's failed
attempt to bust up the merger of Time Inc. and Warner
Communications Inc.
   Any transaction would have to have the blessing of Mr.
Wasserman, 77 years old. The people with knowledge of the
talks said that that unlike Sony, which put in new management
after buying Columbia, Matsushita wants to keep MCA
management in place. Where Mr. Ovitz would fit in, if at all,
under such a scenario, is unclear.
   Despite mounting industry concerns over the growing
foreign control of U.S. entertainment companies, one
executive who knows Mr. Wasserman believes he might be
receptive to a Matsushita bid because he has become
increasingly convinced of the advantages of global reach and
might. "He really believes that to survive in the next
century, you will have to be a monumental-size company," the
executive added.
   Entertainment industry observers say that Matsushita has
been looking for a U.S. entertainment acquisition for some
time, and like Sony, looked at both Columbia and at MGM/UA
Communications Co.
   In MCA, Matsushita would be acquiring an entertainment
empire with interests in motion pictures, television, theme
parks, book publishing through Putnam Publishing Group, real
estate and movie theaters through its 49% interest in
Cineplex Odeon Corp. Its film library is one of Hollywood's
largest and most valuable, containing not only Universal
Pictures' own films such as "Jaws" and "E.T. The
Extra-Terrestrial," but Paramount's pre-1948 library and a
host of TV series. With assets like these, analysts in the
past have estimated the asset value of the company at $100 a
share.
   Mr. Wasserman, the elder statesman of Hollywood for years,
helped build up the company from a small booking agency
started by Chicago opthamologist Jules Stein. Though Mr.
Sheinberg runs the company on a day-to-day basis, Mr.
Wasserman remains actively involved. Analysts have speculated
for years whether Mr. Wasserman would sell the company, and
the stock was subject to the same morbid "death watch" as
other companies that have aging chairmen. When Mr. Wasserman
entered the hospital for surgery in 1987, the stock shot up
from $49 a share to $62.
   MCA has an agreement with Nippon Steel to explore theme
park ventures in Japan, and a co-venture with British-based
Rank Organisation to explore a theme park in England or
France to add to its $650 million Universal Studios Florida,
which opened in Orlando last June, and its older studio tour
adjacent to MCA headquarters in Universal City, Calif.
Although the park has been plagued with malfunctioning rides
and resulting bad publicity in its first few months, analysts
believe it will be profitable in the long run.
   Matsushita has indirectly made a small foray into
Hollywood already through its 51%-owned Victor Co. of Japan
unit (known as JVC), which last year agreed to invest $100
million in a joint venture it formed with Hollywood producer
Lawrence Gordon, to develop, produce and finance motion
pictures.
   Executives, lawyers and bankers have been shuttling back
and forth between Hollywood and Tokyo recently as a growing
number of Japanese firms express interest in investing in the
movie business. Earlier this month, for example, Walt Disney
Co. formed a $100 million joint venture to market and produce
movies with Interscope Communications and Nomura Babcock &amp;
Brown, which is 80%-owned by Tokyo-based Nomura Securities.
   Although Sony Corp. is better known to Americans and
Europeans, Osaka-based Matsushita has sales more than double
Sony's. It has 42,000 employees to Sony's 17,000.
   While Sony has always enjoyed a reputation for creativity,
Matsushita's forte has been manufacturing skills. In Japan,
where Sony is seen as an upstart post-World War II company,
Matsushita is a big player in the business establishment. Its
founder, the late Konosuke Matsushita, was one of Japan's
corporate folk heroes, and its domestic marketing power is
formidable. It has a retail network of some 25,000 stores.
   Unlike Sony, which pioneered such products as the Walkman,
Matsushita has virtually no innovations to its name. It got
ahead playing to a prototypically sort of Japanese strength:
Anything anyone else makes, Matsushita can make better -- and
cheaper. In fact, Japanese used to jokingly refer to the
company as Maneshita, or copycat. If, a year after Sony's
acquisition of Columbia, Matsushita buys MCA, the Maneshita
joke might be heard again.
   But if Columbia is a good fit for Sony, a similar logic
would make MCA a good fit for Matsushita. Video equipment
generally accounts for about a fifth of Matsushita's sales,
and VCRs in particular account for 48% of the sales of JVC.
   MCA would also fit in with Matsushita's
internationalization drive. Labor shortages in Japan and a
protectionist backlash in the U.S. and Europe are pushing
Matsushita, along with many other Japanese companies, to
shift production overseas.
   Matsushita grinds out steady but unspectacular earnings
increases year after year. Its net income in the fiscal year
ended March 31 was 235.56 billion yen ($1.74 billion), an
increase of 10.4% over the previous year. But the company
hasn't made any flashy acquisitions or announced any bold new
strategies.
   Like many Japanese, Matsushita executives profess to be
squeamish about the takeover game. "I don't like the word
M&amp;A; it implies the buying and selling of companies," a top
Matsushita official said recently. If Matsushita makes an
acquisition, it would do it for some nonfinancial reason,
such as obtaining technology, the official said.
   ---
   Urban C. Lehner in Tokyo contributed to this article.
   ---
               Players in a Possible Merger
                                                                                                       

   MCA Has `Software'
                                                                                                       

   Contribution to 1989 revenue of $3.4 billion
                                                                                                       

   Movies, TV ...................... 51%
   Records ......................... 23%
   Spencer Gifts ...................  8%
   Putnam/Berkley Books ............  6%
   Broadcasting/Cable ..............  5%
   Other ...........................  7%
                                                                                                       

   Matsushita Has `Hardware'
                                                                                                       

   Contribution to fiscal 1990 revenue of $44.4 billion
                                                                                                       

   Video equipment ................. 27%
   Audio equipment .................  9%
   Consumer appliances ............. 13%
   Industrial ...................... 23%
   Electronic components ........... 13%
   Other ........................... 15%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Bernstein Gets Burned Betting
   Clients' Funds on Financial Stocks
   ----
   By Linda Sandler and James A. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR HAL SLB SPC CMB BKB CI C DEC U I
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
BANKS (BNK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In the world of money managers, Sanford C.
Bernstein is considered a class act. But after taking big,
risky bets with its clients' money, Bernstein now is near the
bottom of its class.
   A year ago, the big New York money-management firm, which
runs about $9.5 billion of stock portfolios, was coming off a
winning streak. Then, in typically bold fashion, it gambled
two-thirds or more of clients' money on a rebound of cyclical
companies that are highly dependent on the economy's fortunes
-- raising its stakes massively in financial, technology and
auto stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the rebound was delayed and the bets didn't work out.
   In the 12 months through August, Bernstein's stock
portfolios have fallen by 23.4% and were a stunning 18.4
percentage points behind the market, measured by Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-stock index. The carnage is continuing. And
contrary to Bernstein's proud claim that over time it outruns
the pack, over five years it actually is trailing the market.
   "We are willing to make bets," says Lewis Sanders,
Bernstein's president. The 43-year-old executive, in
shirtsleeves and with ruffled hair, added: "If you want to be
in the top 5% of money managers, you have to be willing to be
in the bottom 5%, too."
   But it can be dangerous to bet the ranch on companies that
are especially vulnerable when the economy falters.
Bernstein's performance in recent years looks like a yo-yo.
And the firm will have to rebound fast to get even.
   "They have made some grand strategy bets that have not
worked out," says George Keane, who runs the Common Fund,
which recently pulled an $80 million stock account from
Bernstein.
   Bernstein's biggest, diciest bet in the past year: It
raised its stakes in financial stocks, which then were
demolished by huge industry losses on real-estate loans; now
the banking industry faces more dividend cuts. An awesome 36%
of Bernstein's stock holdings, or about $3.4 billion, consist
of shares such as Security Pacific, Chase Manhattan, Bank of
Boston and Cigna. Its financial holdings in the past year
have lost 35% or more of their value.
   Over time, Bernstein aims to stay three or four percentage
points ahead of the market. But only clients that have been
with the firm for nine or 10 years have seen such results.
   Five years is the timespan that many pension officers look
at when they hire or fire managers. And even before this
year's big setback, Bernstein's stock picks for the five
years through 1989 lagged the market by almost two percentage
points.
   Not good, some pension officers say, for a firm that
charges premium fees equal to 1% of investments, double those
of some top-line managers.
   Yesterday, Mr. Sanders told 300 pension-fund clients at
Bernstein's annual investment conference that Bernstein will
make a comeback. But four disenchanted clients have flown the
coop in the past year, including the Common Fund; others are
restive.
   Bernstein managers "are having a particularly tough time,"
says LeRoy Gilbertson, chief investment officer of the North
Dakota State Investment Board, a Bernstein client. "It's
starting to concern us." Over five years, Bernstein ranks in
the bottom 40% of managers with similar investment styles, he
says; over 12 months, Bernstein is among the bottom 15% or
so.
   Bernstein is a "value investor;" it loads up on stocks
after they get clobbered and seem cheap in light of what
Bernstein analysts think the companies can earn in the
future. Unfortunately, Bernstein analysts in the past year
didn't foresee that banking and computer companies would get
cheaper and cheaper as the economy weakened. And Bernstein
didn't hedge its bets by buying many stocks that might hold
up if bank and computer stocks didn't.
   Such concentrated bets by value investors, says Carmine
Grigoli, a First Boston investment strategist, amount to "a
winner-takes-all style that makes me a bit uncomfortable."
   Some 12% of Bernstein's stock portfolio is in autos; 17%
is in computers. It is saddled with 16.7 million Chrysler
shares bought at 17 that closed at 10 3/8 yesterday; 6.2
million shares of Digital Equipment, 5.8 million of USAir
Group and many other big losers.
   Meanwhile, Bernstein in recent months dumped millions of
shares of Halliburton, Schlumberger and other energy
companies -- just before the Mideast crisis carried them
aloft.
   "My concern is their concentration in financials and that
they have held them and aren't cutting back," says Richard
Gagliardi of Allegheny Power System's pension fund. "When do
you say, `Maybe I made a mistake'?"
   Still, Mr. Gagliardi considers Bernstein an "outstanding"
manager. "We're not going to abandon ship now," he says.
Bernstein lavishes attention on clients and this pays off in
loyalty, consultants say.
   "If we'd understood the magnitude of the real-estate
recession, we'd have bought bank stocks more slowly," says
Bernstein's Mr. Sanders. A hands-on manager, he was familiar
with every Bernstein stock trade he was asked about.
   Bernstein paid 24 for Bank of Boston, which was at 8
yesterday. First Interstate Bancorp, bought at 51, was at 23
3/4.
   Of course, many smart people bought bank stocks too early,
though they weren't generally running pension money. New York
investor Thomas Tisch also has big losses on Bank of Boston,
though Mr. Sanders says he didn't consult the Tisch family on
this investment.
   With some analysts predicting many more troubled months
for banks, there are worries that Bernstein might have to
unload part of its bank holdings of almost $2 billion, though
Mr. Sanders says that's unlikely.
   During the interview, he didn't speak of bank stocks going
down; he said their "value spread" had widened a lot, making
Bernstein's bank investments "among the most compelling
values in the market." Banks are boosting capital, cutting
costs and raising their "earnings power," Mr. Sanders says.
Chrysler will come back, too, he adds. "People are
exaggerating their vulnerability" to foreign competition.
   "A year ago, we were at our peak and ahead of the market
for any timespan you could pick," Mr. Sanders says. "We've
been down before, and we'll be ahead of the pack again." In
the mid-1980s, Bernstein also made a big bet on cyclical
stocks. After enduring two bad years, it roared ahead in 1987
and 1988.
   But now, with $9.5 billion of stocks, "their flexibility
in implementing and changing strategies is somewhat limited,"
says Common Fund's Mr. Keane.
   Bernstein compounded its problems by "averaging down" --
Wall Street jargon for raising stakes in stocks as they
crater. A year ago, Bernstein had fat profits on bank stocks
bought after the October 1987 market crash. It began selling
bank shares, but then the stocks started falling as banks'
real-estate problems surfaced.
   "Bank stocks got cheap again, so we rebuilt our
positions," Mr. Sanders says. Bernstein hedged its risk by
investing in 19 banking companies in different states, he
argues.
   Some big Bernstein clients are philosophical. "Over time,
our experience is that they add value," says Neil Darling of
Chevron's pension fund. "They tend to be a little early" in
taking positions, he adds, "but they spring back."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Sterling Climbs and the Yen Plummets
   As Iraq's Threat Pushes Up Oil Price
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The pound rose and the yen fell as the
currency markets reacted to a jump in oil prices.
   The dollar gained against its Japanese counterpart but
fell against other major currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In late New York trading, sterling was quoted at $1.8810,
up almost four cents from $1.8435 late Friday in New York.
The dollar was changing hands at 137.35 yen, up from 136.65
yen in New York late Friday.
   The U.S. currency was also quoted at 1.5590 marks and
1.2978 Swiss francs, down from 1.5785 marks and 1.3190
francs.
   In Tokyo early Tuesday, the dollar was trading at 136.52
yen, down from 137.33 yen at the close there Friday, the last
day markets were open in Japan.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5565
marks, down from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.5764 marks.
   On Monday, the markets paid more attention to news from
the Middle East than to a statement issued over the weekend
by the Group of Seven -- the financial leaders of the seven
major industrialized nations. Currency prices followed oil
prices, which soared after Iraqi President Saddam Hussein
threatened to attack Israel and bomb Saudi Arabian oil fields
unless the United Nations embargo against Iraq is lifted.
   The benchmark crude-oil futures contract on the New York
Mercantile Exchange rose above $39 a barrel before closing at
$38.25 a barrel, up $2.82 on the day.
   Because of its oil fields in the North Sea, Britain is a
net exporter of oil, though a small one. Japan, on the other
hand, imports 95% of its petroleum needs and is considered
the most vulnerable among major nations to higher oil prices.
   The pound is called a petrocurrency or a petroneutral
currency and generally moves in the same direction as oil
prices, while the yen is tagged a petrodependent currency and
moves against oil prices. Direct trading between the two
units is being called the "petro cross," because it is the
most sensitive to oil markets. The pound shot up to 258.36
yen in New York yesterday from 251.91 yen Friday.
   Reflecting the nervousness of global investors, the price
of gold jumped. Gold is generally seen as a haven for
investors in times of turmoil. On the Commodity Exchange in
New York, gold for current delivery rose $13.60 an ounce to
$403 an ounce. Estimated volume was a heavy five million
ounces.
   Stock markets suffered around the world, with New York's
Dow Jones Industrial Average shedding 59.41 points, or about
2.4%, to 2452.97 -- its lowest level since July 3, 1989.
   Meanwhile, the G-7 seemed to give dollar sellers the
go-ahead after its meeting Saturday in Washington, but the
market was overloaded with other influences and didn't really
take the officials up on it.
   In their concluding statement, the financial authorities
of Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, the U.S. and West
Germany said that, following the yen's appreciation since
their last meeting, exchange rates are now "broadly in line
with continued adjustment of external imbalances."
   The yen has gained 7.4% against the dollar since July,
when the G-7 met in Houston. In theory, a strong yen would
help close the U.S. trade gap with Japan because it makes
Japanese goods more expensive.
   Initially, the G-7 statement moved some market
participants to sell dollars from their homes. Although the
Tokyo markets were closed in celebration of Autumnal Equinox
Day, other Asia-Pacific dealers said they were surprisingly
busy.
   "What we're seeing is New Yorkers calling on a Sunday
afternoon wanting to sell dollars," an Auckland dealer said.
   But the dollar's downward momentum was broken in New York
when French Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy told
reporters in Washington that the G-7 "would have to consult
and decide what to do" if the dollar continued declining.
   However, most of the market's attention was focused on oil
prices and yen cross trading. The Japanese currency fell as
investors sought to cover long, or overbought, yen positions.
These investors had bet on a G-7 statement even more
supportive of the yen's appreciation than what they got, and
they hadn't foreseen the leap in oil prices.
   The pound, meanwhile, rode into the session on a raft of
short, or oversold, positions after its decline of more than
three cents Friday. Dealers looking to take profits on that
decline found excuses even before oil prices took off.
   During the weekend, U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer John
Major ruled out an early interest-rate cut. Yesterday, the
British government reported the U.K. trade deficit for August
at #1.1 billion, below expectations of a #1.4 billion
shortfall.
   The dollar ended European dealings broadly weaker. Action
was thin early in the day because of the holiday in Japan.
But traders said dollar selling accelerated in the European
afternoon, when U.S. markets opened.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at
$401.35 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tobacco-Liability
   Plaintiff Wins;
   No Award Is Made
   ----
   By Alix M. Freedman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Jurors in a closely watched tobacco-liability
case found in favor of the plaintiff but didn't award any
damages.
   The decision, reached in Oxford, Miss., appeared to signal
a victory for American Brands Inc. The case was widely
predicted by tobacco experts to be favorable for the
plaintiff. However, as of late last night, people familiar
with the trial said that Judge Eugene Bogen hadn't dismissed
the jury, indicating that the 9-3 verdict in favor of the
plaintiff wasn't final.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nathan H. Horton, a housing contractor, died of lung
cancer in 1987. His family charged American Tobacco with
"marketing a defective and unreasonably dangerous product."
   American Tobacco, a unit of American Brands, has denied
any responsibility for Mr. Horton's death, but the case
raised hopes among anti-smoking forces. Mississippi state law
is more favorable to plaintiffs than most other states. Under
its so-called comparative-negligence law, the jury could have
awarded damages to the Horton family even if it had found the
tobacco company bore only 1% of the responsibility for Mr.
Horton's death.
   "What jurors are saying is that they didn't like what
tobacco companies did but they don't think smokers deserve to
be paid for what they did," said Victor Schwartz, a
tobacco-liability expert at the firm of Crowell &amp; Moring, of
Washington, D.C. "There is no psychological negative in this
for the industry -- the only negative is when they have to
pay." Mr. Schwartz added that "if ever the plaintiffs were
going to win it was this one" because the liberal Mississippi
law was favorable to plaintiffs.
   But Edward Popper, associate professor of marketing at
Bryant College, Smithfield, R.I., and a plaintiff's witness,
said, "For the jury to have found for the plaintiff, they had
to determine the product was unreasonably unsafe and that to
some extent Mr. Horton was unaware of that."
   American Brands, which has been under a gag order, said it
couldn't comment on the outcome of the case. The plaintiff's
attorneys couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Opposition to Aid
   For Afghan Rebels
   Is Stirring in House
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is facing
significant new opposition from the House Intelligence and
Appropriations committees over continued funding for U.S.
covert aid to anti-government forces in Afghanistan.
   The deteriorating support was disclosed yesterday in a
closed-door meeting of the House Appropriations defense
subcommittee, whose bipartisan leadership initially
recommended that no additional aid be provided in the fiscal
year beginning Oct. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Supporters of the program were able to postpone a final
decision. Separately, however, the full House Intelligence
Committee has already imposed its own restrictions as part of
the fiscal 1991 budget for the Central Intelligence Agency.
   Details of the intelligence-authorization bill, approved
by the panel earlier this month, remain secret. According to
intelligence sources yesterday, the measure provides
approximately $300 million to continue the program near its
current level. But contrary to prior reports, half would be
withheld for six months and be subject to a second vote of
approval by the committee.
   The Senate Intelligence Committee has approved its own
combination of cuts and restrictions on the program, but the
House action may prove more significant as a measure of the
changing mood in Congress.
   Although the same Appropriations subcommittee took the
lead only last year in providing $280 million in new aid for
the Afghan resistance, senior members now are increasingly
concerned about the direction of U.S. policy and the cost of
the prolonged war. During the long Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan, few lawmakers challenged the aid program, but
since Moscow withdrew its troops last year, there has been a
new focus on the internal, tribal divisions in the resistance
itself.
   Within the Appropriations Committee, there has been
mounting concern too about evidence of resistance commanders
participating in or sanctioning narcotics trafficking in the
region. In this regard, findings prepared by the
investigative staff of the committee appears to have had an
impact on the leadership, and according to sources, weakened
the Republican support as well.
   The administration has sought to buy time while pursuing
diplomatic initiatives, but within the State Department there
also is impatience with the resistance. Senate Appropriations
Committee Chairman Robert Byrd retains immense leverage to
protect some continued funding, but those critical of the
funding now include traditional allies of the powerful West
Virginia Democrat. "The net effect of what the Senate and
House committees have done is a clear signal that the
Intelligence committees are restive," said one intelligence
source. "They are going to come out with some restrictions or
cut."
   Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha (D., Pa.) and
Pennsylvania Rep. Joseph McDade, the ranking Republican,
refused to comment last night. But the deliberations on
Afghanistan came as the panel began drafting an underlying
fiscal 1991 appropriations bill funding both the Pentagon and
intelligence agencies.
   Among other accounts, the panel tentatively approved troop
cuts more than twice the size initially proposed by the
administration but still far smaller than what had previously
been voted by both houses. The decision to restore personnel
represents a response to the current crisis in the Mideast.
The reductions voted by the House subcommittee are in the
range of 77,000 to 80,000 troops -- or nearly 50,000 fewer
than proposed by the House Armed Services Committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Maxwell Communication Corp.:
   Berlitz Plans to Sell Stake
   Of 20% in Japanese Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTZ U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER &amp; HOUSEHOLD SERVICES, LAWN CARE, TAX PREPARATION (CSV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Berlitz International Inc. said it signed a letter of
intent to sell a 20% stake in its profitable Japanese
subsidiary to Fukutake Publishing Co., a large educational
publishing company in Japan for $25.7 million.
   The companies also agreed to make a public offering in
Japan of the subsidiary "as soon as practicable."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Berlitz International said proceeds from the sale will be
used to reduce debt and fund an expansion throughout Asia.
Berlitz officials couldn't be reached for further comment.
   Berlitz International is a language instruction company
with 276 schools around the world, 52 of which are in Japan.
The company is 56%-owned by Macmillan Inc., a subsidiary of
Britain's Maxwell Communication Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Binding Corp.:
   Company to Buy VeloBind
   In $50 Million Transaction
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GBND VBND
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Binding Corp., Northbrook, Ill., intends to
acquire VeloBind Inc. for $50 million, or $9.77 a share, the
companies said.
   VeloBind's stock crept up recently before the Fremont,
Calif., maker of office binding systems acknowledged it was
in merger talks. The stock price jumped $1.125 a share in
over-the-counter trading to $7.50 on Friday, Sept. 14. The
following Monday, when VeloBind disclosed it was in merger
discussions with an unidentified company, the stock advanced
another $1.125, to $8.625. It closed yesterday at $8.75, off
25 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed merger, expected to be completed by Dec. 28,
needs the approval of VeloBind shareholders and government
regulators. Proposed terms call for General Binding, a maker
and marketer of business machines and related supplies, to
buy all of VeloBind's shares outstanding and options to
purchase shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Weintraub Entertainment Group:
   Founder and Chief Resigns,
   Gets Accord With Warner
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Jerry Weintraub joined the exodus of employees from
Weintraub Entertainment Group, which earlier this month
sought bankruptcy-law protection from creditors.
   Mr. Weintraub, the 52-year-old founder and majority
shareholder of the ailing entertainment concern, resigned as
chairman and chief executive officer. It wasn't clear what
his future involvement with the private Los Angeles company
would be.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Concurrent with Mr. Weintraub's resignation, Warner
Brothers said he will produce movies for the Burbank, Calif.,
film studio under a "major long-term agreement." A spokesman
for the Time Warner Inc. unit said details of the agreement
weren't available.
   Mr. Weintraub's assistant at Weintraub Entertainment
directed questions about his successor to Kenneth Kleinberg,
president and chief operating officer. Mr. Kleinberg didn't
return telephone calls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Consolidated Capital Equities:
   ConCap Equities to Succeed
   Firm as Managing Partner
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Consolidated Capital Equities Corp., Dallas, said ConCap
Equities Inc. has been elected to succeed it as managing
general partner of seven public real estate limited
partnerships.
   ConCap Equities Inc. is affiliated with four regional
property management companies: R&amp;B Enterprises, Hayman Co.,
Metroplex Inc. and Horn-Barlow Cos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The four companies will collectively manage over 150
residential and commercial properties for ConCap's
partnerships. The seven limited partnerships electing ConCap
are: Consolidated Capital Properties and Consolidated Capital
Properties II through VII.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Helene Curtis Industries Inc.:
   Net on Ongoing Operations
   Fell 47% in Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HC
</CO>
<IN>
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Helene Curtis Industries Inc., citing costs of product
introductions, particularly the slower-than-expected
launching of its Finesse line in West Germany, said earnings
from continuing operations dropped 47% to $3.5 million, or 38
cents a share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 31.
   Net income fell to $2.1 million, or 23 cents a share, from
$6.6 million, or 71 cents a share, a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the quarter, the personal-care products company took a
charge of 15 cents a share arising from the sale of its
beauty-supply distribution business. It said that business
accounted for $45 million in sales and a loss of $600,000, or
seven cents a share, in the lastest fiscal year. The
company's sales and earnings were adjusted to reflect the
sale.
   Net sales from continuing operations jumped 22% to $228.8
million. The company, based in Chicago, said its consumer
business remains strong, led by such product launches as the
introduction of Degree anti-perspirant in the U.S. and the
Salon Selectives brand in Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- News Corp.:
   Company Unveils Details
   Of Capital Restructuring
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   News Corp. disclosed details of a planned restructuring of
its share capital, aimed at fueling its expansion while
keeping the company firmly under the control of its chief
executive officer, Rupert Murdoch.
   Directors are asking shareholders to approve a proposal to
alter the Sydney, Australia, company's authorized share
capital to create a three-tiered structure. That structure
would be composed of common stock, preferred limited-voting
ordinary shares, and nonvoting ordinary shares. Currently,
the company has only full-voting ordinary shares on issue and
preference shares, issued through subsidiaries, that are
redeemable, nonvoting and basically debt instruments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   News Corp.'s directors said they don't want to issue more
ordinary shares because it "might have the effect of
diluting" the Murdoch family's 45% controlling interest.
   If shareholders approve the plan at the company's annual
meeting next month -- a prospect made more likely because Mr.
Murdoch's family can vote its stake -- News Corp. directors
said they will make a free scrip issue to existing
shareholders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   How Taxes and Costs Prey on Nest Eggs
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   A penny saved is a penny earned?
   It may look that way, based on the long-term total-return
numbers for stocks, bonds and Treasury bills. These numbers,
often cited by Wall Street marketers, suggest that investors
with diversified portfolios stay comfortably ahead of
inflation over the long haul.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But don't bet on it. Revising the numbers to account for
taxes and for modest transaction costs shows how difficult it
is to preserve real wealth -- let alone make money -- by
saving and investing.
   "It totally ruins the portfolio to be a taxable individual
investor," says Laurence Siegel, managing director of
Ibbotson Associates Inc., a Chicago-based investment research
firm.
   For instance, the unadulterated Ibbotson numbers show that
over 64 years, 1926 through 1989, stocks generated an average
compound annual return of 10.31%. That compares with 4.55%
for long-term government bonds and 3.61% for Treasury bills.
   Looked at in terms of dollars and cents, $1 put into the
stock market on Dec. 31, 1925, would have grown to $534.46 by
Dec. 31, 1989, the Ibbotson data show. A dollar invested in
long-term government bonds, meanwhile, would have appreciated
only to $17.30, and $1 in Treasury bills would have grown to
$9.67.
   That, at least, is the way it looks on paper. But in the
real world, where individual investors have to contend with
transaction costs, taxes and inflation, the results are a lot
less impressive. Even modest bites out of an investor's
return make huge differences in the amount of wealth
accumulated over time.
   For purposes of its study, Ibbotson assumed annual
transaction and management costs equal to 0.5 percentage
point on stocks and bonds. That's about the size of the gap
between annual returns on no-load index mutual funds and on
the benchmark stock and bond indexes they track. Overall
costs would be much greater for most nonindex mutual funds or
for managed accounts. The cost estimate for Treasury bills
was 0.25 percentage point a year, in line with money market
investments.
   Those modest charges, however, would reduce the wealth
accumulated by stock and bond investors by about one-third
over the 64-year period. They would cost Treasury bill
investors about 14%.
   Then there are taxes. Here, the real blow for investors
isn't the currently hotly debated levy on capital gains, but
ordinary income taxes on interest and dividends. Although top
tax rates have frequently been much higher, just applying the
current 28% federal rate to dividends over the past 64 years
would have hacked 36% off the end value of the stock
portfolio, thanks to compounding. Taking all this into
account, at the end of 64 years the investor of $1 would have
just $161.55, even without the tax on capital gains.
   Obviously, the damage is even worse on high-yield stocks,
whose dividends are high relative to their prices. "Tilting
your portfolio toward high-dividend stocks never works," says
Ibbotson's Mr. Siegel.
   "High and low-dividend stocks have historically had the
same total return," which includes price changes as well as
dividends, he says. "But if your dividends are taxed, it
always works best to go with low-dividend stocks," which get
a bigger portion of their return through price changes, he
says.
   That's because taxes on capital gains can be deferred
until the investor actually takes profits and sells the
stock. This not only favors low-yield growth stocks but also
gives stocks in general a slight tax advantage over bonds and
Treasury bills. Bond and money-market investors can't defer
taxes, because their returns come from interest payments,
which are taxed as they come.
   "Deferring taxes isn't as good as avoiding them, but it's
better than `pay as you go' -- and the longer you can defer,
the better," says Mr. Siegel.
   For example, subtracting capital gains taxes at today's
28% rate shrinks the stock portfolio's end value to $113.40
if gains are realized only once in 20 years. A shorter-term
investor who turns the portfolio over every five years does
worse, ending up with $87.62.
   If the investor lives in a high-tax area -- such as New
York City, where the total income tax burden can run about
38% -- the damage can be stunning. Taxes on dividends alone
would wipe out 43% of a stock investor's wealth, and capital
gains taxes paid every 20 years would take a further 9%,
leaving $74.17 at the end of 64 years. Heavy traders, who
realize the portfolio's gains every five years, would end up
with just $52.13 after being taxed at 38%.
   What's more, "today's tax rates are among the lowest
ever," says Mr. Siegel. "You have to look before World War II
to find lower rates -- and income taxes are likely to go up
in the future, damaging investors' portfolios more than these
numbers indicate."
   Treasury bonds and bills do offer some tax relief to
individuals in high-tax areas, as interest on them is exempt
from state and local taxes. And most municipal bonds are
totally tax free.
   The woes of being a taxable individual investor become
especially graphic when inflation is taken into account.
   Stocks, it turns out, are the only investment that
reliably defended investors' wealth in the long run. That was
true over the 1926-89 period as well as in the shorter
1970-89 period -- which included some of the biggest bull and
bear markets in history. Owners of bonds and Treasury bills
actually lost money in real, or inflation-adjusted, terms in
both periods.
   In broad terms, the numbers reinforce the accepted
investment wisdom: Investors should skew their taxable
portfolios heavily toward stocks and should practice a
long-term buy-and-hold strategy. Such a strategy not only
helps insulate the portfolio from the stock market's
volatility but also minimizes taxes and costs.
   Individuals also should make maximum use of tax-favored
vehicles such as individual retirement accounts, which defer
taxes on interest, dividends and capital gains -- even though
these accounts are no longer fully deductible at higher
income levels.
   Of course, the past isn't necessarily prologue to the
future. Some analysts see bonds offering particularly good
value these days, which suggests they may provide better
returns for the risk than stocks right now.
   In the long term, "stocks are always and everywhere the
place to be, but . . . my guess is that stock and bond
returns are going to get closer together in the next three or
four years, even on an after-tax basis, than they've been in
the postwar period," says Charles Clough, chief investment
strategist at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
   ---
                   Diminishing Returns
                                                                                                       

   Value at the end of each period of $1 invested at the
beginning of the period.
                                                                                                       

   INVESTMENT                      1926-89       1970-89
                                                                                                       

   STOCKS
                                                                                                       

     Market return*                $534.46        $8.90
     Return after costs**           354.98         7.82
     Return after income taxes***   161.55         6.26
     Return after
       capital gains taxes#         113.40         5.48
     Return after inflation          16.10         1.63
                                                                                                       

   LONG-TERM BONDS
                                                                                                       

     Market return*                 $17.30        $5.61
     Return after costs**            11.47         4.66

     Return after inflation           0.69         0.87
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS
                                                                                                       

     Market return*                  $9.67        $4.32
     Return after costs**             8.29         4.12
     Return after income taxes***     5.20         2.80
     Return after inflation           0.73         0.83
                                                                                                       

   *Price changes plus reinvested dividends for stocks and
reinvested interest for bonds and T-bills
   **Transaction and management costs of 0.5 percentage point
a year for stocks and bonds, 0.25 percentage point a year for
T-bills
   ***Income taxes paid each year at 28% federal rate; state
and local income taxes, if any, would further reduce returns
   #Capital gains realized once every 20 years and taxed at
28% federal rate; state and local taxes, if any, would
further reduce returns
                                                                                                       

   Source: Ibbotson Associates Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chrysler Corp.:
   Firm to Recall Certain Cars
   From 1987, the EPA Says
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chrysler Corp. is recalling 106,000 of its 1987 cars to
reduce excessive carbon-monoxide exhaust, the Environmental
Protection Agency said.
   The affected models are the Plymouth Caravelle and
Reliant; Dodge Aries, Daytona, 600 and Lancer; Chrysler New
Yorker, LeBaron, LeBaron GTS and Town and Country Wagon. All
have 2.5-liter, fuel-injected engines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cars emit excessive amounts of carbon monoxide in their
exhaust as a result of incomplete fuel combustion. Too much
carbon monoxide in the air reduces the amount of available
oxygen, a situation particularly harmful to people with lung
disease or anemia.
   Chrysler agreed to the recall after the EPA discovered the
problem during testing. The company is notifying only car
owners who haven't already had their fuel injectors replaced
under warranty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Attempts to Assist Farmers in Poland
   Work Only to Impoverish Them More
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NASIELSK, Poland -- As the Poles shucked off communism
last year, meat disappeared from the shops and grain stopped
flowing into the silos. Solidarity's nervous new governors
shouted for help, and an ecstatic West responded. Food came
pouring in by the shipload.
   Politically, the aid gave comforting proof that the West
was on Poland's side. Economically, viewed with a year's
hindsight, it has contributed as well to a grain glut, a
storage crisis, an export barrier -- and to the first
compromise of principle by the free-marketeers trying to
steer their nation toward capitalism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Poland's economic managers had sworn to kick the subsidy
habit that did the communists in. But as prices ran free and
demand turned to dust, surpluses soon swamped a market
already swelling with $570 million of Western wheat, butter,
cheese, beef and pork. The state's mills and dairies, their
sales shot, began to go broke, and to drag the whole food
economy with them.
   This summer, the economists had to relent and save
Poland's rickety old food processors with subsidies.
   "The new government didn't understand agriculture," says
Gregory Vaut, an American who does. "The West had no
independent assessments. They trusted the government and sent
in the food."
   Mr. Vaut, who runs a two-year-old agency called the
Foundation for the Development of Polish Agriculture, was
here to watch the aid stream in. Only this summer did other
Westerners schooled in generosity's dangers arrive to inspect
the damage. "Poland didn't need it," says one.
   Aleksander Zareba already knew that. He grows wheat, oats
and rye on 300 acres near this village in Poland's
midsection. For acreage, he stands out among the 15 million
Poles who live off the land. For anger, he's lost in the
crowd.
   "We are impoverished compared with last year," he says, in
the chill of his farmhouse sitting room. His harvest is in.
"Poland isn't threatened with hunger. It's threatened by a
lack of sales. It's embarrassing for our government; they
extended their hand for grain. But our best way out is to
export. Some countries in the world do need food."
   Neither the politicians nor the economists imagined a year
ago that democracy would hand farmers such a raw deal. After
resisting collectivization for 40 years, agriculture had the
biggest reserve of private entrepreneurs in a nation betting
its future on private enterprise. And it was the farmers,
withholding grain last year, who helped carry Solidarity to
power.
   But that was an economic act, meant to drive prices up,
not a political one to bring communism down. As aid rushed in
to fill the food gap and Solidarity freed the market, farmers
got no solace.
   Prices of everything they need, from seeds to screws,
multiplied 20 times in a year of speeding inflation. Retail
food prices did much the same. Yet the farmers lost out:
Prices for their produce at the farm gate rose just 40%.
   "Consumers paid too much and farmers got too little," says
Mr. Vaut, the U.S. expert. "In the middle was the state-owned
food-processing machine."
   And it was breaking down. Still monopolies, they reacted
in character. Suppliers jacked up prices while processors
bought low from farmers and sold high to everyone else.
   Poles literally tightened their belts and began to eat
less protein. Unsold milk, butter and cheese clotted the
dairies, which couldn't afford credit and ran out of cash. So
farmers slaughtered cows, creating a meat glut. Some dotty
bureaucrat compounded it by importing 213,000 tins of Dutch
luncheon meat. And the food aid rolled on in.
   The Soviets, kopekless, quit buying potatoes. Vodka demand
fell as cagey Poles piped Western liquor through a tax
loophole. Outcome: potato glut. Then came sugar beets. Then
grain.
   As wheat sprouted in spring, last year's crop, plus a
donated mountain from the West, still hogged half of Poland's
silos. With their capital in storage, the mills had no money
to buy this year's crop and no place to put it. They
threatened to shut their gates. That's when the farmers bared
their teeth.
   They blocked roads all over the nation in July and
occupied the Agriculture Ministry under the noses of a World
Bank mission. Backed by Rural Solidarity, they demanded
guaranteed minimum prices and soft loans. Only after the
minister resigned (it has taken two months to replace him)
did the government cave in.
   "The budget had to intervene," says Mieczyslaw Stelmach,
who filled in all summer as acting minister. Farmers didn't
get price guarantees. They did get $47 million in loans and
$90 million for an agency to prop up prices. Dairies got $82
million to modernize. And mills got $73 million in soft
credit to keep their gates open. "We had to put out fires
with subsidies," Mr. Stelmach says.
   For the free-marketeers, it was a letdown. "Short-run
concern for keeping farmers off the streets can cloud our
long-term goals," says one of their advisers. But the
International Monetary Fund, bane of the subsidizers, isn't
worried. "Pressure on the Poles is unbearable," a foreign
expert says. "It's hard to stay pure."
   Farmers were content, temporarily, to have mimicked the
outside world in expensive relief for agriculture.
"Intervention is popular everywhere," says Piotr Dabrowski,
Rural Solidarity's spokesman. "It's a canon of contemporary
capitalism." Millers were content, too; for the moment, their
monopoly was safe.
   "We survived some difficult months," says Janusz Fota in
his office at Mill No. 1 in the town of Ciechanow. The sound
of steady grinding floats in from across the courtyard. "If
we didn't get this credit, we couldn't buy grain. Now our
dealings with the bank are good. They don't run much risk,
and it's good for the company."
   But far from perfect. The deputy director's door opens and
the director, Marek Sialkowski, comes in looking troubled
after a tour of his county. "Full warehouses," he says.
   The ability to buy grain hasn't given mills the power to
sell flour; Poles still eat less bread. So the surplus keeps
building. The agricultural monopolies, rotten to their
communist cores, still see no need to change their ways --
and the farmers are growing restive again.
   "The only solution," says Mr. Dabrowski, "is a big
export."
   Unfortunately, the prospect doesn't overjoy Poland's
angels in the West. Most of their aid has stopped showering
down, ending the moral ban against exporting similar stuff,
and the U.S. may rethink a promise to send a further 200,000
tons of feed corn. But with crops good almost everywhere and
the Soviets sidelined, the world's trough is already full.
   The European Community slapped down a Polish attempt in
July to export some cheap butter. With French farmers
hijacking British lamb trucks and blaming Eastern Europe for
low prices, Polish meat hasn't got a chance. And wheat?
   An EC bureaucrat bristles when asked. "This will cause us
problems," she says. "It will cause us to doubt whether we
will send any more food to Poland."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Lufthansa AG:
   Carrier's Charter Unit Places
   Order for 17 Boeing Aircraft
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   G.LHA BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lufthansa AG's charter airline unit said it placed a firm
order for 17 new aircraft valued at over 2 billion German
marks ($1.27 billion) from Boeing Co. Specific terms of the
transaction weren't disclosed.
   Condor Flugdienst G.m.b.H. said the acquisition of nine
Boeing 757-200 aircraft and eight long-range 767-300 planes
is Condor's largest order to date. A company spokesman said
the purchase is in line with the airline's fleet expansion
and overhaul program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Condor currently operates a fleet of 22 aircraft, of which
three are from McDonnell Douglas Corp., three are from Airbus
Industrie, while seven are Boeing 757-200s and nine are
Boeing 737-300 aircraft.
   The spokesman said Lufthansa, a 51% state-owned West
German flag carrier, will acquire Condor's Airbus planes next
year as Boeing replacements arrive. Condor will take delivery
of the new aircraft through the middle of 1995.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Emerson Electric Co.:
   Board Votes to Spin Off
   Firm's Defense Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EMR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Emerson Electric Co., St. Louis, said its board approved a
plan to spin off its defense operations as a company to be
known as Esco Electronics Corp.
   Under the planned distribution, Emerson holders of record
as of Oct. 5 will receive one Esco share for each 20 shares
of Emerson. The company said the Securities and Exchange
Commission cleared the spinoff. The Esco shares will be
treated as a taxable distribution, it said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales for the latest fiscal year of the units that will
comprise Esco totaled about $600 million, or 8% of Emerson's
overall sales. Pretax earnings were about $15 million, or
1.5% of the parent's overall pre-tax profit, Emerson said.
   Emerson also said it won't be suspended from competing for
U.S. government contracts. In May, Emerson pleaded guilty in
federal court in St. Louis to inflating cost proposals on
certain military contracts, agreeing to pay $14 million.
Since the settlement, the company's status as a potential
bidder had been under review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Jose Maria Aristrain S.A.:
   Steelmaker Won't Sell Stake
   To Banesto and British Steel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BST E.BCE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Jose Maria Aristrain S.A., a family-owned Spanish
steelmaker, canceled an agreement to sell 80% of its shares
to Banco Espanol de Credito's industrial holding company and
to British Steel PLC for about 40 billion pesetas ($407
million).
   Acquisition of the Aristrain stake would have converted
the holding company of Banco Espanol, which is known as
Banesto, into one of Spain's leading nongovernment-owned
steel companies. It also would have given British Steel an
important foothold in the Spanish market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Banesto official said the company will seek ways of
collaborating with British Steel.
   Aristrain officials weren't immediately available for
comment, and British Steel declined to make a statement.
   Under the accord, reached in July after months of
conflicting reports about the sale, Industrial &amp; Financiera
de Banesto S.A. -- 76%-owned by Banesto -- and British Steel
were each to have acquired 40% of Aristrain. The Aristrain
family was to have retained a 20% stake, half of which was to
be sold eventually to Spanish state-owned steelmaker Empresa
Nacional de Siderurgica S.A., or Ensidesa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Silver Lining:
   Natural Gas Reserves
   Help Unocal Benefit
   From Mideast Crisis
   ---
   Profit Is Rising Despite Lack
   Of Sizable Oil Production;
   Shale Project Grinds On
   ---
   Burden From 80's: Big Debt
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALTON SEA, Calif. -- A flier circulating among employees
at the Unocal Corp. geothermal plant here pictures the
facility opposite a battle tank, a gun and an oil barrel and
proclaims: "There is an alternative."
   With the Mideast crisis shaking oil markets, "this here
should be Unocal's new ad campaign," drawls Olin
Whitescarver, veteran manager of the company's operations in
this desert valley.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project to convert steamy brine from deep within the
Earth to electricity is one of the "crown jewels" that Unocal
Chairman Richard J. Stegemeier likes to discuss. The
operation, which only recently turned profitable, helps make
this midsized oil company the world's leading producer of
geothermal energy.
   Unocal's two other "crown jewels" are its huge natural-gas
reserves, which are already enhancing its short-term profit
outlook, and an experimental oil-shale business, which could
yield major long-term benefits if a continuing oil crisis
spurs demand for alternative fuels. Unocal thus is one of the
oil companies that stand to benefit from the upheaval in the
Mideast, even though it isn't one of those with huge
petroleum reserves.
   But despite aggressive new management devoted to
strengthening Unocal's niche in the industry, the nation's
13th-largest oil company remains haunted by a legacy of the
1980s: the huge $6.1 billion debt load Unocal built up as it
defeated a hostile bid from T. Boone Pickens.
   "We had to mortgage our future," grouses Mr. Stegemeier,
arguing that without that debt Unocal might now have nearly
twice its current 800-million-barrel oil reserves. "Every day
as we walked into the office, we had to write a symbolic
check for $2 million just to cover the interest," he says.
These days, writing that symbolic check, which now is down to
$1 million, "is still painful."
   Unocal has paid heavily to remain independent. To slash
its debt to today's approximately $4 billion, it has had to
close a Beaumont, Texas, refinery that had accounted for a
quarter of its crude-oil processing capacity. It also has
formed a joint venture to run its Midwest refining and
marketing operations, disposed of some Canadian and Norwegian
assets and even sold its headquarters building on the edge of
downtown Los Angeles.
   In addition, Unocal has nearly halved its capital spending
in the past five years. That cutback creates the prospect
that it will soon have to pour hundreds of millions of
dollars into refinery improvements and other efforts to catch
up with competitors that lead in developing less-polluting
gasolines. And Unocal remains hampered in overhauling its
old-fashioned marketing, which critics say makes Unocal
vulnerable to financially stronger companies such as its
hometown rival, Atlantic Richfield Co.
   While competitors emphasize self-service pumps, which by
saving labor help hold down gasoline prices, Unocal sticks
with the same service-oriented, premium-priced appeal it used
when a 1949 TV commercial showed a young Marilyn Monroe
tooling up to a Union Oil station in her sports car and
cooing to the eager attendant to put oil "in Cynthia's little
tummy."
   With survival in the post-Pickens era apparently assured,
Mr. Stegemeier faces what he concedes is "the more difficult
part: positioning ourselves for growth in the '90s."
   Changing strategies suits the 62-year-old executive far
better than it did his iron-willed predecessor, Fred L.
Hartley, the engineer who ruled the company for nearly a
quarter-century before retiring in 1988. Mr. Hartley, now 73,
shaped Unocal's commitment to geothermal energy and shale oil
-- a program that wags labeled "Hartley's Folly" because
shale oil is so much more expensive than conventional crude.
Mr. Hartley was also seen as unbending when asset sales and
other wrenching moves might have been prudent.
   The contrast between old and new is striking. Mr. Hartley,
who loosed an acerbic wit on all who dared question his
authority, dismissed securities analysts as "peons" and told
dividend-starved shareholders that the company knew better
ways to spend money. Mr. Stegemeier projects an image of
corporate affability, certainly to shareholders; he cheered
them with a 40% dividend increase and a 2-for-1 stock split
last November. He gives managers considerable leeway to make
decisions and can laugh at himself. At an interview, he
greets a reporter with a mouthful of candy and apologizes
impishly.
   Moreover, Unocal "has been completely turned around in
terms of substantive focus since he took over," says Bernard
Picchi, an analyst at Salomon Brothers.
   Much of the Stegemeier plan hinges on developing Unocal's
natural-gas reserves of more than six trillion cubic feet --
equal to more than a billion barrels of oil.
   Unocal's U.S. gas position, which is second only to that
of Occidental Petroleum Corp. in percentage of total company
reserves, is especially strong in the Gulf of Mexico. While
battling Mr. Pickens, Unocal bundled its properties there
into a separate, publicly traded Union Exploration
partnership, which subsequently was converted into a
corporation. Lately, Unocal has had "the lowest finding costs
and best reserve replacement of any major oil company" in the
gulf, says Frederick P. Leuffer, a C.J. Lawrence analyst.
   Unocal also turned to natural gas for its first big
acquisition since the Pickens battle: the $336 million
purchase of a Gulf Coast exploration and production company,
Prairie Holding Co.
   Some analysts remain skeptical about gas demand. "Don't go
overboard counting on natural gas," warns Marc Cohen of
Kidder Peabody. "If my reading is correct, nationwide there
is only about 160,000 barrels a day of consumption that could
readily be converted from oil to natural gas." But Unocal and
others expect natural-gas prices to rise this winter, after
falling this summer to the lowest levels in nearly 10 years,
though they will lag well behind fuel oil, the nearest
alternative. "We now have a window of opportunity to develop
our reserves and bring them to market rather quickly," says
John F. Imle Jr., senior vice president for energy resources.
   Industry experts predict that if crude-oil prices hold at
current levels, natural gas will surge to more than $2 per
thousand cubic feet from about $1.50 now. Figuring that every
10-cent increase in gas prices yields a seven-cent rise in
Unocal's per-share earnings, some analysts have recently
increased their 1990 earnings estimate by nearly a third, to
about $1.50 a share. Unocal earned $260 million, or $1.11 a
share, on $11.35 billion of revenue last year. In New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Unocal's stock
closed at $33.50, down 12 1/2 cents on the day.
   Geothermal's role in Unocal's future is much smaller. The
company has reserves equal to about 216 million barrels of
oil -- a quarter of its crude reserves -- and geothermal
accounted for a mere $188 million of sales last year.
   Acquired in 1965, the geothermal business took off after
gasoline price increases during the 1973 oil embargo made
alternative fuels viable. The geothermal operations now
extend to northern and southern California, the Philippines
and Indonesia, and Unocal plans to spend several hundred
million dollars over the next several years for further
exploration and development along the Pacific Rim's geologic
"ring of fire." Says Mr. Imle, "World tensions caused by oil
availability can only improve the outlook for geothermal."
   Its limitations, though, are important. Not transportable
like oil, geothermal energy is restricted to a few regions
where the plates of the Earth's crust join to create the
right subterranean conditions. Even there, the steam isn't in
unlimited supply. Production from Unocal's largest and oldest
geothermal project, in the Geysers field north of San
Francisco, declined recently as the underground pressure
pushing the steam out of the ground fell.
   Geothermal generating costs also raise a substantial
problem. While most power costs 4.5 cents to 7.5 cents per
kilowatt hour, Unocal's Salton Sea facility charges as much
as 9.5 cents to provide electricity for SCEcorp's Southern
California Edison.
   Oil shale fever peaked in the late 1970s, when experts
were predicting $100-a-barrel crude oil by the year 2000. Mr.
Hartley, who had written a college thesis on shale
development, poured more than $1 billion into producing
synthetic crude from shale. But Unocal's Parachute Creek,
Colo., plant, beset with technical problems for years, never
came close to making economic sense. After Mr. Hartley
retired, company officials considered closing it.
   Now Unocal remains committed to the shale project, which
produces oil for $40 a barrel, because of a federal
price-support contract that could total $400 million by 1996.
That contract allowed Unocal to show modest positive cash
flow from shale operations earlier this year, though it
suffered losses again in the second quarter. Unocal has been
quietly courting outside investors for the project, including
Japan National Oil Co.
   Although the promise of shale oil has never been
fulfilled, Unocal gains a patriotic aura by keeping the
project alive. The Western U.S. has at least 600 billion
barrels of recoverable shale reserves, roughly equal to the
proven reserves of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. The U.S. "could face a new decade of price shocks
and supply disruptions," Mr. Stegemeier said a year ago in
what now sounds like a prophetic speech. "America's oil-shale
reserves would then become an abundant, economically
competitive energy alternative."
   But Unocal won't invest heavily on shale in the wake of
Iraq's Kuwait invasion. Still smarting from the 1986
crude-price collapse, which caught the whole industry off
guard, its executives say they don't count on prices staying
high. "We don't want to get caught spending money we may not
get," cautions Claude Brinegar, the chief financial officer
and a former U.S. transportation secretary.
   Yet Unocal has pushed ahead with exploration. It kept
reserves stable through most of the 1980s, at more than 1.9
billion barrels of oil and oil equivalents. Last year,
according to C.J. Lawrence's Mr. Leuffer, Unocal was the only
one of 17 major domestic oil companies that on a worldwide
basis "fully replaced production from new discoveries,
extensions and enhanced recovery." In fact, he adds, it
replaced 142% of world-wide reserves, excluding acquisitions
and revised estimates of the oil that can be recovered from
given fields.
   The company's push into new technology is one reason. At
the Hartley Research Center, a campus-like compound in Orange
County, Calif., scientists work on computerized
three-dimensional seismic mapping systems that have allowed
Unocal to tap small sand reservoirs in Thailand. And on
Platform Irene, in the Pacific waters north of Santa Barbara,
Unocal is using the world's longest single horizontal well to
improve recovery. The $3.5 million well costs more than twice
as much as a vertical well, "but that's economically more
viable than building a new platform," says field
superintendent C.B. Beauchamp.
   Increasingly, Unocal is taking a risky road by exploring
and producing overseas. Currently in Thailand, Indonesia,
Burma, Syria and the Netherlands, it may soon look in
Vietnam, the Soviet Union and other countries long off-limits
to Western investment. The returns could be significant
because finding a few large fields could make Unocal an oil
giant.
   "Petroleum geology has to guide our exploration, not
politics," Mr. Stegemeier says. "If we let politics guide us,
we'd be drilling for oil in Switzerland."
   Unocal's marketing, hampered by low budgets, is an
acknowledged weak spot. The company relies on its wits to
develop relatively inexpensive publicity campaigns. When
Arco, Chevron and Shell undertook expensive reformulations of
their gasolines this year to cut pollution, Unocal countered
by offering to pay $700 apiece to buy 8,300 smog-belching old
cars in the Los Angeles area and scrap them. The $10 million
plan includes free emission checks for older cars and a small
fleet of Unocal trucks that cruise freeways and help stranded
motorists.
   But the car-crushing campaign is mostly a stalling tactic.
One California state agency is voting late this week on
standards to force companies to develop cleaner gasolines by
1993; another agency seeks refinery improvements in the Los
Angeles area that could cost Unocal hundreds of millions of
dollars.
   Environmental issues have long plagued Unocal, certainly
since the 1969 platform blowout that spilled thousands of
barrels of oil into Santa Barbara Channel. Unocal literature
calls that mishap "the major event that helped coalesce
environmental-protection groups into a powerful lobby." The
company's current environmental program wins praise from
regulators, though. California's South Coast Air Quality
Management District donated $100,000 to the auto-scrapping
campaign.
   But at a recent news conference on the environment, Unocal
executives displaying a flattened white Maverick for TV
cameras were chided about Unocal's raising pump prices so
quickly after Iraq invaded Kuwait. Unocal was a likely target
because of the higher prices at full-service stations. "We
look for the carriage trade," Mr. Stegemeier says.
   Unocal's marketing approach, however, may soon go the way
of the buggy whip. Full-service is a graying market, some
analysts say, and "with consumers very conscious of the
run-up in prices and conservation in vogue, initially you'd
expect to see a preference for lower-priced gasolines,"
analyst Mr. Leuffer says. He believes Unocal's market share
could dip for a while.
   So Unocal executives are looking more closely at switching
to self-service and even convenience stores similar to those
pioneered by Arco. Refining and marketing must "adapt to the
demands of the '90s," says Roger Beach, Unocal's senior vice
president in charge of those areas.
   With Unocal emphasizing moves to remain competitive, it
dismisses the takeover rumors that continue to dog it. Mr.
Stegemeier says Unocal "hasn't been for sale for 100 years,
and we have no intent of putting the company up for sale. We
believe the things we've done to restructure the company will
keep us independent."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hills Warns Global Trade Negotiations
   Could Collapse Over Farm Subsidy Issue
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Trade Representative Carla Hills warned that
the current negotiations on a new set of global trade accords
could collapse if the U.S. and its trading partners can't
agree on how to handle agricultural subsidies and other
issues.
   Mrs. Hills told the House Energy and Commerce Committee
that the European Community's continued refusal to accept
broader cuts in farm subsidies will place the talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade "in jeopardy." The EC
has offered to reduce some of its domestic farm-support
programs but has resisted U.S. demands to scale down import
barriers and export subsidies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Hills also said that the latest attempt to draft a
GATT consensus for limiting nonagricultural subsidies falls
short of what the U.S. is seeking. And another proposed
accord on lowering barriers to investment flows is bogged
down because some developing countries want to limit foreign
ownership of major industries and to require foreign
investors to export a portion of their production so that the
countries can obtain dollars, Mrs. Hills reported.
   Mrs. Hills also acknowledged a lack of progress in
negotiating an accord on trade in services like
telecommunications, transportation and financing. The U.S.
already has presented 40 proposals for such an agreement, but
so far other GATT members haven't responded, she said.
   The U.S. was the original proponent of a services accord,
but it hurt its own cause by withdrawing coastal shipping and
civilian aviation from the negotiations at the request of the
U.S. industries. U.S. telecommunications companies, moreover,
have objected to including basic carrier services in the GATT
talks and opening the U.S. market to further foreign
competition while many European governments still retain
monopolies.
   The GATT is in the final leg of a four-year effort to
draft new rules covering services, investments, patents and
copyrights, textiles and other trade matters.
   Rep. John Dingell (D. Mich.), chairman of the House panel,
expressed strong doubt about the prospects for a
well-balanced accord. "The negotiating posture of our trading
partners is so unbending and unfair across the board that the
best outcome for the U.S. may be no new agreement at all," he
said.
   The U.S.-EC stalemate over farm subsidies has been evident
for some time, but Mrs. Hills said the part of the talks
dealing with agriculture are at a "crucial stage," with all
GATT members required to submit their final proposals by Oct.
15.
   "Agriculture is the top -- and, in some instances, the
only -- priority for many agricultural exporting nations,"
she said. "Without fundamental agricultural reform, they will
simply walk out."
   Mrs. Hill's tough rhetoric evidently was intended to put
more pressure on GATT members. She said there has been some
progress in the talks, which cover 15 separate areas. She
also reported evidence of increasing flexibility on the part
of India, which used to be an adamant foe of many U.S. trade
initiatives.
   There still could be time for a broad consensus by early
December, when trade ministers of nearly 100 GATT member
countries are scheduled to meet in Brussels to review results
of the talks. Mrs. Hills warned, however, that the U.S.
"won't unilaterally disarm," or abandon its positions, in
order to obtain an agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Diceon Electronics Inc.:
   Losses for Fourth Quarter
   And Fiscal 1990 Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DICN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED TECHNOLOGY (DTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Diceon Electronics Inc. said it will have losses in its
fourth quarter and year ending Saturday, including a $5
million charge related to consolidation of facilities and
work force reductions.
   In fiscal 1989, the Irvine, Calif., maker of electronic
circuit boards had a loss of $2.3 million, or 39 cents a
share, on sales of $118.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Diceon said it plans to eliminate about 225 jobs, or 15%
of its 1,500 employees, by year end. It also plans to halve
its Chatsworth, Calif., production space to about 35,000
square feet.
   Diceon said it has been consolidating its facilities in
San Jose, Calif., since its acquisition of privately held NTI
last year. Diceon expects to keep about 95,000 square feet of
production space in that area after closing several
buildings.
   A Diceon spokesman said the company has been hurt by
excess capacity and is "downsizing to become more efficient."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries:
   Holding in Dutch Concern,
   Center Parcs, Lifted to 80%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   U.SCT N.CEN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Scottish &amp; Newcastle Breweries PLC of Edinburgh, Scotland,
a brewing and leisure concern, said it raised its stake in
the Dutch leisure concern Center Parcs N.V. to 80% of the
ordinary shares outstanding.
   The two companies said last week that they were in talks
that could lead to Scottish &amp; Newcastle's buying all the
Center Parcs shares that it didn't already own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The purchases last Friday involved 747,146, or 5.2%, of
Center Parcs's ordinary shares, and 39.1% of its 5.75%
sterling convertible subordinated bonds and 4.2% of its 3.75%
guilder convertible subordinated bonds. Scottish &amp; Newcastle
said its holding of all classes of Center Parcs securities
now stands at 70%, up from 60.3%. The price paid for the
additional stake wasn't disclosed. Last Thursday, the
companies said Scottish &amp; Newcastle would pay about #180
million ($332.3 million) to acquire the balance of Center
Parcs.
   Though the initial terms of Scottish &amp; Newcastle's
friendly stake last year included a three-year standstill
pact, Center Parcs said last week that it would benefit from
being a Scottish &amp; Newcastle unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Foersaekringsbolaget SPP:
   Accord Is Set to Increase
   Gota Voting Stake to 48%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Foersaekringsbolaget SPP of Sweden, a big mutual insurer,
said it agreed to raise its voting stake in Gota AB, a
financial services concern, to 48% from 4% in a transaction
valued at 4.6 billion Swedish kronor ($794.4 million).
   The move continues the recently intensified consolidation
of bank ownership in Scandinavia. SPP would be the first
Swedish insurer to wrest a major stake in a bank, as Gota has
securities trading and financial units but its crown jewel is
Gotabanken, Sweden's fourth-biggest bank. The sellers are
Proventus AB, a Swedish investment company that owns 29.8% of
Gota, and Kansallis Osake Pankki, Finland's biggest bank,
which holds a 14.4% voting stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SPP officials said the proposed link with Gota would
provide the distribution clout needed to increase sales of
SPP insurance and investment products. Insurance coverage for
individuals, especially so-called unit-linked policies
recently introduced in Sweden, is expected to become the
fastest growing and most competitive corner of financial
services in coming years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pinault S.A.:
   Bid Made to Acquire Rest
   Of CFAO in Stock Swap
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pinault S.A., a wood and paper concern, unveiled a
friendly bid for the 67% of Cie. Francaise d'Afrique
Occidentale it doesn't already own in a share swap that
values all of the distribution and trading company's common
at about 6.04 billion French francs ($1.14 billion).
   Francois Pinault, chairman of both French concerns, said
the move is aimed at building an international industrial and
services group focused on distribution, services such as
equipment leasing, Pinault's core wood holdings and CFAO's
international trading arm. He said the combined concern would
have 1990 revenue of about 32 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the merger bid, Pinault will offer six of its shares
for every five CFAO shares outstanding. That parity
represents a 37% premium over the last price quoted for CFAO,
before both issues were suspended yesterday, pending the bid.
   After payments to minority interests in 1989, Pinault
earned 584 million francs on revenue of 10.19 billion francs,
and CFAO earned 302 million francs on revenue of 31.185
billion francs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   STOCKS AND BONDS PLUNGED as oil prices soared to their
highest levels in a decade in reaction to hostile Iraqi
remarks. The Dow Jones industrials fell 59.41 points to
2452.97, their lowest point in 14 months. The 30-year
Treasury bond lost more than half a point, boosting its yield
to 9.17%, its highest since March 1989. Some crude prices
rose more than $3 a barrel, with several briefly surpassing
$40. Gold futures posted their sharpest one-day gain in three
years. London stocks sank to 20-month lows.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MCA is talking with Matsushita about a possible
acquisition of the U.S. entertainment company by the Japanese
electronics giant for between $6.7 billion and $7.5 billion.
   ---
   Thousands of federal workers will be furloughed starting
next week under Bush administration plans unless a
last-minute budget pact is reached.
   ---
   The Fed's steady credit stance is reducing any chance of
avoiding a recession and could prolong one if it occurs,
according to some economists.
   ---
   Ford cut rebates to buyers of some of its most popular
cars. The move could be risky in light of aggressive use of
incentives by Toyota and GM.
                                                                                                       

   Toyota is running short of cars to sell, which is expected
to limit the company's gain in U.S. market share.
   ---
   The IMF should lend more money soon to nations hurt by the
Gulf crisis, provided they adopt sound economic policies, an
IMF panel concluded.
   ---
   Canada agreed to join the U.S. and Mexico in talks on a
free-trade pact. Separately, U.S. trade envoy Hills warned
that global trade negotiations could collapse over farm
subsidies.
   ---
   UAL's pilot leaders raised the possibility that the
unions' buy-out effort might fail, forcing a resumption of
conventional labor negotiations. The company's stock fell
$8.50 a share.
   ---
   Banking regulators would be forced to restrict risky
operations of weak banks and thrifts before they fail, under
a bill to be introduced by the Senate Banking panel chairman.
   ---
   An SEC plan to restrict money-market funds' purchases of
commercial paper that is below top grade faces opposition in
many quarters.
   ---
   Honda plans to make two air bags standard by late 1993 on
all its cars sold in the U.S. The move follows similar steps
by American auto makers.
   ---
   Hachette's Diamandis unit is losing its top three
officials, including founder Peter Diamandis, over
differences with the French parent firm.
   ---
   BankAmerica and Barclays are merging their traveler's
check operations in an assault on American Express, the
market's dominant player.
   ---
   Rodamco stunned holders of the Dutch investment fund by
suspending its policy of redeeming shares.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 162,210,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2452.97, off 59.41; transportation 841.90, off 34.76;
utilities 199.76, off 1.95.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3303.37,
off 12.63.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.54, off 0.21;
spot index 129.95, up 0.43.
   Dollar: 137.35 yen, up 0.70; 1.5590 marks, off 0.0195.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Qume Corp.:
   Stock Falls 60% Amid Fear
   Acquisition Might Collapse
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QUME FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Qume Corp.'s stock fell 60% yesterday after the company
said it was advised that an investor group may terminate its
planned acquisition of Qume if conditions aren't met by
Sunday.
   Qume closed at $2.75, down $4.125, in national
over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Milpitas, Calif., computer-equipment maker in June
agreed to be acquired for $86 million by a group led by Qume
Chairman David S. Lee and Wearne Brothers Ltd. of Singapore.
One condition for the merger, Qume said, was that the Taiwan
Stock Exchange Index not decline 50% or more between the time
of the merger agreement and the deal's closing. Such a
decline has occurred, Qume said.
   The company said it will hold a stockholders meeting
Thursday and, if the merger is approved, will prepare to
close the deal so that the acquisition can occur if the
Taiwan stock market recovers sufficiently.
   Qume also said it expects to report a loss of about $1.5
million for the quarter ended Aug. 31 on revenue of about $53
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nelson, Head of Norton,
   Replaced by Saint Gobain
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS F.STG X.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WORCESTER, Mass. -- John M. Nelson, the longtime
president, chief executive officer and chairman of Norton Co.
who said the acquisition by the Cie de Saint Gobain S.A.
would not result in layoffs, was replaced yesterday by the
French industrial giant.
   Mr. Nelson, who helped steer the company away from the
hostile bidder BTR PLC in favor of Saint Gobain, will become
a consultant to Norton, a maker of abrasives, plastics,
ceramics and chemical-process products. The company had 1989
revenue of $1.53 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His successor will be Michel L. Besson, who has been vice
chairman, president and chief executive officer of
CertainTeed Corp. in Valley Forge, Pa. That company, acquired
by Saint Gobain in 1987, is a maker of building products.
   Mr. Besson will now run both CertainTeed and Norton for
Saint Gobain, according to the spokesman.
   Mr. Nelson could not be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOVIET PARLIAMENT GAVE Gorbachev major new
presidential powers.
   Following weeks of legislative debate over how to
transform the country's economy, the Soviet leader won the
right to issue decrees in almost every aspect of economic and
social life until early 1992, so as to personally direct the
transition to a market-based economy. Among the areas covered
by his new powers are property, wages, prices, the national
budget, the financial system, and law and order. In addition,
a new committee was set up to devise a compromise economic
program from three proposals by Oct. 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Protesters gathered outside the Kremlin to condemn the
expanded powers, with one group shouting, "The people don't
trust Gorbachev."
   ---
   THE PRESIDENT DREW a clear line against negotiations with
Saddam Hussein.
   Speaking with a group of Arab-American leaders, Bush
replied, "No negotiations -- withdrawal totally from Kuwait,"
when pressed concerning talks with the Iraqi leader. The
president said the U.S. won't "yield one inch" on its demand
for an unconditional pullout. Meanwhile, in an indication
that one link in the U.N. trade sanctions is holding, Iran
arrested 29 people for trying to smuggle food into Iraq.
Syria's Assad was in Tehran, hoping to solidify Iran's
cooperation with sanctions.
   France's Mitterrand denounced the Iraqi government at the
U.N., while Saddam Hussein promised to fight "for 1,000
years" to retain Kuwait.
   ---
   BUSH PRAISED de Klerk for "dramatic progress" toward
abolishing apartheid.
   After a meeting with Pretoria's leader at the White House,
Bush said, "Clearly, the time has come to encourage and
assist the emerging new South Africa." In addition, Bush
vowed that the U.S. won't impose new conditions for lifting
the economic sanctions imposed in 1986 against South Africa.
He also stressed that all political groups in South Africa
have a responsibility to "support the process of peaceful
transition."
   In South Africa, black leader Mandela's wife was charged
with kidnapping and assault in connection with a 1988
incident in which a teen-ager died.
   ---
   Jurors in Oxford, Miss., found in favor of the plaintiff
in a closely watched tobacco-liability case, but no damages
were awarded. The decision appeared to signal a victory for
American Brands Inc., but people familiar with the trial said
that the judge hadn't dismissed the jury, indicating that the
9-3 verdict wasn't final.
   ---
   East Germany withdrew from the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact in
preparation for the scheduled Oct. 3 unification of Germany,
which will be a member of NATO. In Bonn, West Germany's
president signed a 1,000-page unity treaty that was approved
last week by legislators of the two Germanys.
   ---
   Jury selection began in the trial of Cincinnati's
Contemporary Arts Museum and its director, who face obscenity
charges for exhibiting works by photographer Robert
Mapplethorpe. The museum could be fined up to $10,000 if
found guilty. Its director, Dennis Barrie, could be
imprisoned for up to a year and fined $2,000.
   ---
   Philippine communist rebels scrapped a cease-fire with
Aquino's government and right-wing army insurgents again
threatened a coup. The guerrillas accused the president of
secretly forging a deal with Washington to ensure the
continued presence of U.S. military bases in the country.
   ---
   The Soviet Union gave the International Red Cross copies
of documents captured at the end of World War II containing
names of 400,000 people who died or were interned in Nazi
camps. An American Red Cross center in Baltimore will
disseminate the data.
   ---
   A researcher reported evidence that his unorthodox
approach to developing an AIDS vaccine could stimulate
certain protective "killer" cells of the immune system. He
said the technique indicates a role in vaccine development
for so-called core proteins found inside the virus that
causes AIDS.
   ---
   Zambia's Kaunda bowed to opposition demands and said he
would clear the way for multiparty elections, effectively
ending nearly two decades of one-party rule. In a policy
switch, the president said he was recommending constitutional
amendments allowing other parties to enter next year's
parliamentary and presidential elections.
   ---
   Angola's leftist government resumed peace talks in
Portugal with U.S.-backed rebels, and American and Soviet
observers were on hand to help unblock an impasse in efforts
to end 15 years of war.
   ---
   Cambodia's prime minister agreed to resume talks with
three guerrilla groups after they made a concession on the
formation of a transitional governing council, a guerrilla
official said. He said a second meeting would be set up as
soon as Hun Sen formally aannounces his willingness to meet.
   ---
   The leader of Bulgaria's ruling party quit amid pressure
from progressives, mounting social tensions and a national
economic crisis. Alexander Lilov, chairman of the Socialist
Party, said he was stepping down in favor of a "more
pragmatic" leader.
   ---
   Liberian rebel Charles Taylor said he would organize
nationwide general elections for Oct. 10, but an official
with a West African peacekeeping force scoffed at the
proposal, saying the five-nation group would press on with
its plan to install an interim government of prominent
Liberians.
   ---
   Died: Lewis "Bud" Maytag Jr., 64, former chairman and
chief executive officer of National Airlines, Sunday, in
Colorado Springs, Colo., of cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Micron Technology Inc.:
   Fiscal Fourth-Quarter Net
   Declined 81% on Flat Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCRN
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Micron Technology Inc., still suffering the effects of a
drastic drop in chip prices, reported that net income in its
fiscal fourth-quarter fell 81% on nearly flat sales.
   But profit increased for the second consecutive quarter,
as the chip company continued to emerge from two quarters of
near-zero net income. Micron said net for the quarter ended
Aug. 30 was $3 million, or eight cents a share, compared with
net income of $16 million, or 42 cents a share, in the
year-ago quarter. Fourth-quarter sales were $105.3 million,
up from $103 million last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, which depends heavily on
sales of memory chips, has been hard hit by competition in
those chips, especially from Japanese and Korean makers. The
company's net slid to $14,000 in its second quarter ended
March 1 before rebounding to $1.8 million in its third
quarter.
   Net income for the year ended Aug. 30 was $4.9 million, or
13 cents a share, compared with $106.1 million, or $2.85 a
share a year earlier. Sales were down to $333.3 million from
$446.4 million last year.
   Micron's stock closed at $7.375, down 37.5 cents, in
national over-the-counter trading. The announcements were
made after the close of trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Westwood One, Infinity
   Sign Pact on Radio Stations
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WONE INFTA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES, Calif. -- Westwood One Inc. said it signed an
agreement with New York-based Infinity Broadcasting Corp. to
bring on 14 of Infinity's 17 radio stations in the top U.S.
radio markets as Westwood One affiliates.
   Terms were't disclosed. William Battison, Westwood One's
president and chief financial officer, said the affiliation
will give the company a wider audience for its programming
and allow it to sell its commercials at a greater premium.
"This will clearly add significant audience in the youth
demographic, and it will help our programming business," he
said. Norman Pattiz, Westwood One's chairman and chief
executive officer, noted that the agreement "assures that we
will continue to have strong and predictable ratings growth."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Infinity stations -- eight of which are located in the
top 10 radio markets in the country -- are WXRK-FM and
WZRC-AM in New York; KROQ-FM in Los Angeles; WBCN-FM in
Boston; WJJD-AM and WJMK-FM in Chicago; WYSP-FM in
Philadelphia; KOME-FM in San Francisco/San Jose; WOMC-FM in
Detroit; WJFK-FM in Washington, D.C.; WQYK-AM and FM in
Tampa, Fla.; and WLIF-AM and FM in Baltimore.
   The Infinity stations will become affiliates of either the
Westwood Mutual Broadcasting System, the Westwood NBC Radio
Network, the Westwood One News &amp; Entertainment Radio Network,
or the Source, Westwood One's young-adult network. Westwood
one is the nation's largest distributor of radio programming
and the second-largest radio network.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Who's All Wet on Wetlands Issue?
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 27 editorial "EPA v. Private Property" was very
timely for us here in Chatham County, Ga. Under the new
guidelines for wetlands determination, it has been estimated
that 85% of the undeveloped land in Chatham is now wetlands.
Consequently, use of this land has come to a screeching halt.
There have been numerous meetings with the government
agencies concerned and they have come up only with evasive
replies.
   I own a tract of land that was originally granted by King
George II in 1758. The only restrictions in the grant are
that "all White Pine trees if any . . . and . . . one Tenth
part of Mines of Silver and Gold" are reserved for the King
and his heirs. Also, certain developments must take place in
a given time frame. This includes that for "every fifty Acres
. . . do Clear and drain three Acres of Swamp or sunken
ground or drain three Acres of Marsh if any such contained
herein. . . ."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Our forefathers threw off this yoke of oppression and
tyranny for freedom and rule by the people. Now this new
government has declared 95% of my land as wetlands coming
under its jurisdiction and control. I may do nothing in this
area without applying for permission, at which time the
government will decide what I may or may not do and how it is
to be done, if at all.
   There is now in this county a backlog of more than 3,000
requests before the government for wetland permits, delaying
infrastructure projects, economic development efforts and use
of property by private citizens. Comparing these current
rules and regulations with those of the oppressive king, I am
starting to wonder if we really do have more freedom than
before. Was our Revolution really a success or did we just
trade one House of Lords for another?
   By the way, there are no white pine trees on the land and
I'm still looking for the silver and gold.
   William I. Stemwell Jr.
   Savannah, Ga.
   ---
   In addition to your usual ranting and raving about
environmental regulation, your editorial proclaims that
"private property rights lead to a cleaner environment
because they imply individual responsibility." Has it
occurred to you that the unchecked exercise of "private
property rights" led to many of the thousands of abandoned
toxic-waste sites now being addressed by the federal
Superfund law and similar state statues?
   Also, please describe something desirable about the
relentless assertion of "private property rights" now
ravaging the South American rain forests.
   And please note that "hoi polloi" is not correctly
proceeded by the article "the."
   J.B. Ruhl
   Austin, Texas
   ---
   In your Aug. 20 editorial "Whose Wetlands Mistake?" you
have tried to characterize the federal wetlands regulatory
program on the basis of a single event. If prosecutors played
fast and loose with John Pozsgai, who was convicted of
turning a wetland into a dump, then Mr. Pozsgai should be
granted relief and the prosecutors curbed. That's not
editorial material. Your statement that this is an example of
arrogance on the part of the environmental community is, and
it's wrong.
   The environmental community's use of the full weight of
the law is a cornerstone available to all members of our
society. Your condemnation of its use by the environmental
community is unworthy of a paper of your stature. The
national abuse of wetlands and its serious adverse
consequences to public health, welfare and safety have been
well documented. If your staff is among those who still
believe that environmental concerns are an exercise in
exaggeration, I recommend an assignment to Eastern Europe or
China to see firsthand, as I have, the human misery brought
about by that mind-set.
   Joseph S. Larson
   Professor and Director
   Environmental Institute
   University of Massachusetts at Amherst
   Amherst, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Price of Calls
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA T
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. said it
will lower the price of calls to Canada from the U.S. under
its "Reach Out World" plan by 10%, beginning Oct. 5.
   The company said the reduction is pending regulatory
approval. Each call will cost 18 cents per minute for the
first 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, the price will be reduced
an additional 5%. The plan applies to calls made between 5
p.m. and 8 a.m. each weekday and all weekend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rails Lobby Against Budget Provision
   Raising Taxes to Fund Retirement Plan
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES UNP
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The rail industry is lobbying furiously to scrap a
little-noted paragraph in both Democratic and Republican
budget proposals that would cost railroads and their
employees at least $400 million over the next five years.
   Almost lost in the politics of the budget negotiations is
the proposal, which would substantially boost the taxes paid
to fund retirement benefits for rail workers. The Bush
administration has proposed the higher payments to help
reduce what it estimates to be a $34 billion unfunded
liability.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Supporters of the budget proposal want the rail industry
to step up rail retirement contributions to reduce the risk
that the federal government would eventually have to bail out
the fund. But railroads say the higher taxes aren't needed
because the retirement fund is financially healthy.
   The "fund doesn't need the money," said Richard Briggs,
executive vice president of the Association of American
Railroads, a trade group. But budget negotiators are "trying
to raise the tax as a gimmick to reduce the deficit."
   Drew Lewis, former Transportation secretary who is
chairman of Union Pacific Corp., has fired off letters to a
half dozen congressional and administration budget
negotiators calling the tax unfair and unnecessary. Mr. Lewis
was co-chairman of a blue-ribbon commission created by
Congress in 1988 to find ways to cut the federal budget
deficit. Smaller railroads say they would be hit particularly
hard. David Hughes, president of Bangor &amp; Aroostook Railroad
in Bangor, Maine, said he would have to cut capital spending
10% to pay the higher taxes.
   Rail labor is also lobbying against the higher taxes,
which will "make it that much more difficult for us to get
any wage and cost-of-living increases out of the railroads,"
said Fred Hardin, president of the United Transportation
Union.
   The Commission on Railroad Retirement Reform, created in
1987 to review the fund's financial health, said in a report
issued Friday that the fund is financially sound in the
intermediate term and isn't likely to experience cash-flow
difficulties in the next 20-25 years. However, the commission
suggested that Congress consider transferring new railroad
employees to Social Security and setting up private pension
funds for them.
   Railroad workers aren't protected by Social Security but
are covered by the railroad retirement fund. The federally
administered system provides railroad retirees with one layer
of benefits equivalent to Social Security payments and a
second layer that more closely resembles a private pension
plan. Last year the railroad industry and its employees
contributed $2.3 billion to fund the second layer of benefits
for some 980,000 beneficiaries.
   The federal Office of Management and Budget is trying to
raise those taxes that fund the second layer of benefits. OMB
officials declined to comment.
   Controversy isn't anything new to the fund. Last month
auditors for the Railroad Retirement Board's inspector
general found under-reporting of payroll taxes by some
railroad companies. Critics long have said the fund faces
potential problems as the number of railroad workers dwindles
and leaves fewer workers to pay the benefits of retirees. The
retirement fund currently covers more than 300,000 active
employees.
   In February, President Bush proposed several changes that
the OMB said would save $42,850,000 in fiscal 1991. These
included altering the cost-of-living adjustment formula,
freezing cost-of-living adjustments on rail pensions for one
year and limiting railroad retirement benefits available to
married couples who both worked for railroads.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   EMC Corp. to Post
   Third-Quarter Profit,
   Sees Strong 4th Period
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EMC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- EMC Corp. will report a third-quarter profit
compared with a year-earlier loss, and expects "strong
growth" in sales and earnings in the fourth quarter, Chairman
Richard J. Egan said.
   Mr. Egan also said that a new computer disk storage
technology EMC will introduce today "could add as much as
$100 million" to revenue next year. The new data storage
product is designed for mainframe computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If his forecast pans out, EMC would witness a reversal of
two years of annual losses. In the most recent quarter, ended
June 30, the company had net income of $2 million, or eight
cents a share, on revenue of $42.7 million. In the year-ago
second quarter, net income was $124,000, or one cent a share,
on revenue of $34.6 million.
   Mr. Egan says he expects third-quarter net income to be
flat or "slightly ahead of" second-quarter results. In the
1989 third quarter, the Hopkinton, Mass., company reported a
net loss of $3.6 million, or 16 cents a share, on revenue of
$92 million.
   Mr. Egan said gross margins have improved so far this year
and that cost controls remain in place. He added that
analysts' revenue estimate of $170 million to $180 million
this year are "reasonable." In 1989, EMC reported revenue of
$132.3 million.
   The disk technology, known as RAID, or redundant arrays of
inexpensive disks, combines a solid-state memory cache with
dozens of small, high-capacity hard-disk drives. The arrays
are smaller, use less power, and are less expensive than
mainframe disk drives in use today. International Business
Machines Corp., which dominates the mainframe market, also is
working on the technology.
   Mr. Egan says EMC will beat IBM to market when EMC begins
volume shipment of RAID drives early next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   HILTON HOTELS Corp. (Beverly Hills, Calif.) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it is reviewing for possible
downgrade ratings on about $175 million of Hilton Hotels debt
and the commercial paper rating of Hilton's Hotel Waldorf
Astoria Corp. subsidiary. Moody's said it is concerned that
softness in Hilton's hotel and casino businesses could result
in reduced debt protection measurements over the intermediate
term. Those concerns are deepened by the company's plan to
buy back up to six million shares of its common stock, the
rating agency said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Horn &amp; Hardart Co.
   Picks Catalog Chief
   As Its New President
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   HOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Horn &amp; Hardart Co., having largely refocused
to become primarily a direct marketer through catalogs, will
name Jack E. Rosenfeld president and chief executive officer.
   The 52-year-old Mr. Rosenfeld, who heads the company's
Hanover Cos. catalog operations, succeeds Donald Schupak, 47,
who took the three top posts at Horn &amp; Hardart two years ago.
Prior to that, Mr. Schupak had been Horn &amp; Hardart's vice
chairman, responsible for directing Hanover. He will remain
as chairman for an interim period and will be a company
consultant for three years thereafter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Mr. Schupak, Horn &amp; Hardart has been selling its
restaurant and real estate holdings to focus on Hanover,
which markets a range of goods through 22 catalogs. Recently,
Horn &amp; Hardart completed the sale of its Bojangles fast-food
chain to a group including Sienna Holdings, a Los Angeles
investment firm.
   For 1990, Mr. Schupak forecasts Hanover will show more
than $20 million of operating profit and $500 million of
sales, indicating a doubling of sales and tripling of
earnings from two years ago. Horn &amp; Hardart as a whole
reported a loss for the first half of 1990 of $5.7 million,
or 41 cents a share, on revenue of $314.3 million.
   Still to come in the restructuring, Mr. Schupak says, is a
refinancing of $17 million of 11% debt and repayment or
refinancing of $60 million of increasing-rate debt, currently
at 10.5%. Both issues are due in October 1991. And the
company must sell the last of its land and restaurant
holdings, including some New York real estate and restaurants
and the 80-unit West Coast restaurant chain International
King's Table.
   Mr. Rosenfeld says Hanover probably will reduce the number
of its catalogs slightly, although he wasn't specific.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   `Dick Tracy' Video
   Is Slated for Rentals
   Prior to Christmas
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- Walt Disney Co.'s home video unit will
release "Dick Tracy" about one week before Christmas, priced
for the rental market at $94.95, according to individuals
close to the situation.
   But in a twist, Disney will then provide extensive
marketing support to retailers who want to slash prices and
sell the used tapes to consumers about a month later.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The "rent and sell" program reflects Disney's ambivalence
about whether "Dick Tracy" is more suited to the rental or
sale markets. Last summer, video distributors said the film
seemed a shoo-in to be priced at $20 to $25 for sale directly
to consumers. It appeared to have all the attributes for
"sell-through" -- big box office success, appeal to children,
music, a distinctive visual style attractive to collectors --
and Disney executives were reported to have decided to
release it in November as a sell-through title.
   But "Dick Tracy" ran out of gas in theaters after the $100
million mark, while an earlier Disney release, "Pretty
Woman," continued to win audiences all summer long. Disney
market research showed that "Pretty Woman" was the strongest
potential film for sell-through, especially to younger women.
   "Pretty Woman" will join Disney's animated films "Peter
Pan" and "The Little Mermaid" in stores during the Christmas
buying season. Disney officials are said to feel the market
will be too glutted for another major sell-through title,
especially when other companies are releasing "Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles," "Total Recall" and other films.
   Furthermore, Disney preferred not to wait until next year
because its marketing campaign for "Dick Tracy" is losing
voltage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Gorbachev Powers Boosted
   In Effort to Alter Economy
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A19
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet parliament, after weeks of debate
over how to transform the nation's beleaguered economy,
handed Mikhail Gorbachev substantial new presidential powers
and postponed a decision on the exact shape of economic
change.
   President Gorbachev won the right to issue decrees in
almost every aspect of economic and social life until March
31, 1992, giving him power to direct the transition to a
market economy. A new committee to be led by Mr. Gorbachev
and comprising economic experts and national and republican
political leaders, is charged with devising by Oct. 15 a
compromise program from three proposals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By granting greater powers, the parliament -- unable to
reach its own decision on changes -- effectively shifted
responsibility to Mr. Gorbachev's shoulders. And the
"conciliation committee" averts a confrontation with Prime
Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov.
   But the moves could end up causing more problems. "Today
we won a chance to reach a compromise," said Deputy Prime
Minister Leonid Abalkin. But "honestly, I'm not satisfied
because this amounts to marking time. Sooner or later we have
to act."
   The slowing of economic change puts the central government
in conflict with the republics that are making their own
economic changes, in particular the Russian Federation, which
has approved the most radical program for its territory.
   The new presidential powers aroused anger in the 15
republics, which are increasingly restive about independence.
   "All of this is done to protect the government apparatus
as it is," said Nikolai Kutsenko, a Ukrainian representative.
"I can tell you that in the Ukraine we won't let the powers
of this president be greater than our own."
   Russian Federation deputies held an emergency meeting last
night to evaluate the situation, according to Interfax news
agency. The Presidium of the Russian parliament on Saturday
denounced the idea of broader presidential powers, which Mr.
Gorbachev on Friday hinted could include control over
republican governments. Russia called the idea "inadmissible"
and threatened to do whatever was necessary to protect its
own sovereignty.
   The relationship between the republics and the central
government is one of the most pressing problems facing the
Soviet government, and a crucial element in the debate over
economic change. For two weeks, the parliament has wrestled
with three proposals to transfer the nation to a market
economy. The proposals share some elements, but differ on
such key points as whether the republics or the central
government are to hold decisive power, the starting point for
change, and the pace of transformation.
   Parliamentary debate has centered on the economic
nitty-gritty while a political battle raged behind the
scenes. In the media and on the streets, supporters of
radical change demanded the resignation of Mr. Ryzhkov, who
proposes more moderate changes. Mr. Ryzhkov said he would
resign rather than implement a program he disagreed with.
   But by Friday afternoon, economics was no longer the
subject of the debate. Politics had taken over. The question
no longer was whether to have price rises, but who should
have power, and the parliament failed to make its scheduled
choice of one of the economic plans.
   Yesterday, Mr. Gorbachev urged the parliament to "cast
aside political ambition and proceed from reality." In a
series of speeches, he alternated between pleading and
intimidating the representatives into approving his favored
proposals.
   During a recess, Mr. Gorbachev huddled with the authors of
the various plans in an attempt to resolve the deadlock. The
upshot: Stanislav Shatalin, author of the most radical
proposal -- which had seemed to be gaining favor -- returned
to the hall chastened.
   Mr. Shatalin explained to the members why he kept
insisting that they choose his program alone in a short
speech during which he often turned around to address Mr.
Gorbachev, who waved him off.
   By the afternoon, Mr. Gorbachev was calling on the
deputies "not to yield to primitive passions." He asked
directly to be granted the new powers. The proposal was
approved 305 to 41.
   Several proponents of radical change, including Leningrad
Mayor Anatoli Sobchak, tried to add amendments that would
curtail the president's powers, but all were defeated.
   Whether the new powers will amount to anything in practice
remains to be seen. Mr. Gorbachev already has considerable
constitutional power to issue decrees. Yet, few of some 18
decrees he has issued so far have been seriously implemented.
   Supporters of the new powers argue that the lack of change
is the reason additional powers are needed. The institution
of president, in existence here only since February, has few
supporting structures in place. "The president hasn't been
the real main figure," said Fyodr Burlatsky, editor of the
liberal weekly Literaturnaya Gazeta. "This is only a step in
the institutionalization of presidential power."
   But some republican representatives worry that
presidential powers without U.S.-style checks and balances
could lead to a dangerous monopoly of control. "We need
strong power but we need it on the level of republics," said
Yuri Kakn, an Estonian representative. "I fear this
{presidential power} because it could become a dictatorship."
   Political analysts say the key to resolving both the
questions of power and economic change will be to find a
consensus between the republics and the center. If such a
consensus isn't reached quickly, writes Stepan Kiselyev in
the daily Komsomolskaya Pravda, any economic program "risks
remaining in history as no more than a literary monument to
the epoch of the disintegration of the empire."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   U.K. Shares Tumble to 20-Month Low
   Despite Better-Than-Expected Data
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA EUROP JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   London share prices closed lower, tumbling to 20-month
lows despite the disclosure of better-than-expected U.K.
economic data.
   The Tokyo market was closed for a holiday Monday. In early
trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues fell
339.05 points to 23438.78.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although volume in London looked healthier, traders said
that the increase mainly reflected activity in second-line,
or "beta," stocks that inflated figures in the main market.
   The U.K. economic figures helped the cash market: The data
showed that the current account narrowed to #1.128 billion
deficit ($2.08 billion), from a revised #1.68 billion deficit
in July and a #2.29 billion deficit in August 1989. But when
the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 September futures
contract failed to respond in kind, the underlying market
began to tumble.
   Traders said yesterday was a "locals market" in futures
trading, where dealers were operating on their own behalf,
and institutional investors stayed away.
   Further aggravating the London market, Wall Street opened
down and continued to drift lower for the remainder of the
London session.
   The FT-SE 100 Share Index fell 35.2 points to 1990.3. The
day's high of 2018.4 came late morning, after the disclosure
of the economic data. The market is now at its lowest level
since Jan. 26, 1989, when it closed at 1959.8.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index closed down 26.9 points
at 1510.4. Volume was 500.3 million shares, off from 553.7
million shares Friday.
   In the futures markets, the September FT-SE 100 index
contract was trading at 1977, down from Friday's close of
2025.
   Overall volume figures were boosted as much as 180 million
shares by trade in second-liner Mount Charlotte, the property
and hotel group that has received a takeover bid from New
Zealand financier Ron Brierley and his investment group
Brierley Investments Ltd. Brierley said it bought a 10.1%
stake in Mount Charlotte from the Kuwait Investment Office.
Mount Charlotte shares climbed 11 pence to 70 1/2 pence.
   Oil prices continued to climb, while oil-sector share
prices were mixed. Enterprise Oil gained 3 pence to 662
pence, but British Petroleum fell 4 1/2 pence to 364 pence.
Shell, which went ex-dividend, dropped 8 pence to 479 pence.
Traders said the oil sector might have finally reached its
peak.
   Property group Hammerson fell 21 pence to 544 pence
following market rumors that its Dutch owner Rodamco was
disposing of the company to cover cash needs. Rodamco said it
wasn't planning any such disposals, however.
   Cadbury Schweppes, which said it is in talks with a German
mineral water maker, fell 6 pence to 305 pence.
   Prudential Corp., a U.K. insurance group, is selling its
Belgian subsidiary that no longer fits into long-term plans.
The shares closed 5 1/2 pence lower at 194 pence.
   Also in the insurance sector, Commercial Union said its
European division signed a distribution agreement with an
Italian merchant bank. The shares fell 5 pence to 408 pence.
   Also, stocks closed lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich,
Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Madrid; unchanged in
Milan. South African gold stocks closed higher.
   And shares ended lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore,
Taipei, Manila, and Wellington, and up in Seoul.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                               % This
                         Sep 21      Sep 20      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ................    287.6       288.0     -11.5
 Britain .............    595.7       593.1     -17.4
 Canada ..............    361.2       363.4     -16.5
 Japan ...............    985.7       980.4     -40.4
 France ..............    429.6       430.4     -24.2
 Germany .............    229.2       235.2     -19.7
 Hong Kong ...........   2121.5      2166.2     + 1.2
 Switzerland .........    177.3       177.7     -19.7
 Australia ...........    292.9       297.7     -11.6
 World index .........    445.3       446.5     -21.5
   ---
                 Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

 ISSUE (COUNTRY)                           CLOSE     %CHG
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Northern Star Holdings (Australia)...      0.01   + 99.9
 Hokuetsu Paper Mills (Japan) ........    842.0    + 17.1
 Beverly Enterprises (U.S.) ..........      6.25   + 16.3
 Engelhard Corp. (U.S.) ..............     21.875  + 13.6
 Center Parcs (Australia) ............     78.8    + 11.3
 Queensland Cement (Australia) .......      3.5    + 11.1
 Bank Boston (U.S.) ..................    8.375    +  9.8
 Manor Care (U.S.) ...................   14.0      +  9.8
 Westfield Holdings (Australia) ......    2.45     +  8.9
 Data General (U.S.) .................    6.25     +  8.7
                                                                                                       

                        LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Prime Motor Inns (U.S.) .............    0.688    - 50.0
 Amper (Spain) .......................  980.0      - 38.4
 Norcros England .....................    0.77     - 37.9
 Cultor II Free (Finland) ............   44.0      - 35.3
 Saatchi and Saatchi (England) .......    0.31     - 34.0
 Jones (David) (Australia) ...........    4.35     - 31.6
 Carter Hawley Hale Store (U.S.) .....    2.25     - 30.8
 Datapoint Corp. (U.S.) ..............    0.875    - 30.0
 Interchase Corp. (Australia) ........    0.05     - 28.6
 Campeau (Canada) ....................    0.98     - 26.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Investors Sue Over
   Unocal's Conversion
   Of Union Exploration
</HL>
<DATE>
09/25/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Three investors filed suit against Unocal
Corp. over the recent conversion of its Union Exploration
Partners Ltd. to a corporation, claiming that investors are
losing income and substantial tax benefits as a result.
   Unocal has said the newly created Union Exploration Corp.
will pay a yearly corporate dividend, fully taxable, of only
40 cents a unit. In 1989, unit holders got $1.8188 per unit,
the lawsuit says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unocal spokesmen couldn't be reached yesterday evening to
comment on the suit, which seeks class action status and
unspecified damages. Unocal said in June that it was
converting the partnership to a corporation, effective Aug.
1, because of recent tax law revisions and "the improving
climate for investments in domestic oil and gas exploration
and development."
   Unocal created the partnership in 1985 to hold its
gas-rich properties in the Gulf of Mexico as part of its
takeover defense against raider T. Boone Pickens. Unocal and
its Union Oil Co. of California subsidiary held a controlling
95% stake and sold the rest for $22 a unit to the public,
primarily small investors who wanted a steady stream of
tax-deferred cash payments. In the weeks after Unocal
announced the conversion, the market value of the partnership
units fell to less than $12 a unit from $18.25.
   In the lawsuit, filed in federal court here, investors
Thomas Farber, Louis Cohen and Harold Browner allege that
Unocal failed to disclose in documents issued in connection
with the conversion that the original partnership agreement
required consent of holders of 98% of the units for any such
a conversion. The company allegedly has said it didn't need
approval from the public unitholders for the change, the suit
claims.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chase Manhattan Cuts Dividend, Staff
   Presaging More Bad News in Banking
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB BKB CHL MHC CCI BT BK CBK
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For some big investors in the stock of Chase
Manhattan Corp. the good old days were a week before last
when the giant bank holding company assured them the dividend
was safe.
   It wasn't. On Friday, breaking a hallowed tradition among
New York City money-center banks, Chase sharply cut its
dividend. For the third quarter, shareholders will receive
only 30 cents a share instead of the usual payout of 62
cents. The action stemmed from Chase's decision to set aside
in the current quarter more than $650 million as additional
reserves against potential losses on domestic loans, mostly
in real estate. The company also decided to reduce its staff
by 5,000 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chase's decision to cut the dividend came only last
Tuesday, after new projections on the performance of the
banking company's loan portfolio. Richard Boyle, a Chase vice
chairman and the bank's senior credit officer, laid out the
case for the $650 million reserve at a meeting with the
company's highest executives in the early afternoon on the
17th floor at Chase Manhattan Plaza near Wall Street.
   Chase's decisions seem to presage additional bad news --
but not disaster -- for the nation's banking system.
Increases in loan-loss reserves by other banks were seen
probable in light of Chase's.
   "This will certainly pave the way for other banks to get
aggressive with real estate by the end of the year," said
James McDermott, head of research at Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods,
a New York investment banking firm. He and others noted that
regulators would welcome dividend cuts, and are not only
concerned about falling real estate prices but also are
urging banks to strengthen their capital structure. One
analyst said he would not be surprised to see another money
center bank cut its dividend by year's end and two or three
do so next year.
   Securities analysts and shareholders were surprised by the
size of Chase's retrenchment. Both the increase in reserves
and the reduction in staff were twice what had been expected.
Chase's stock, already trading at only a third of its 52-week
high, fell by $1 a share to close at $12.75 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Share prices on other big New
York banks also fell. The group as a whole lost about $1
billion, or about 5%, of its market value, in Friday's
trading.
   Other banks also shrank their dividend payouts Friday or
may do so in coming months. Midlantic Banks, one of New
Jersey's largest, cut its dividend; Southeast Bancorp, a
Florida giant, eliminated its dividend entirely. Analysts
expect the Bank of Boston to reduce or eliminate the dividend
Thursday; the bank declined to comment. Some other banks in
the Northeast and an increasing number in the Southeast are
considered candidates for dividend cuts and increases in
loan-loss reserves.
   Tempted by huge fees and fat interest rates, commercial
banks in the 1980s aggressively increased their lending on
commercial real estate. Now they are paying the price as the
real-estate market deteriorates in one state after another.
   "This reflects the kind of time we are in," said Arthur F.
Ryan, the driving force, Chase insiders say, behind the tough
action. He will become president and chief operating officer
and Thomas G. Labrecque will become chairman and chief
executive officer next month. Willard C. Butcher, now chief
executive, is retiring a year ahead of schedule.
   As for the New York money-center banks, Chase isn't the
weakest, according to a banking executive who said he was
told so last Friday morning by a top official at the New York
Federal Reserve Bank. The Fed official was said to be
surprised that it was Chase and not another bank getting so
much negative attention in the stock market. He didn't name
the other bank or cite his criteria for weakness, the banking
executive said.
   Securities analysts say they are hardpressed to figure out
which, if any, of the big New York banks might need more
attention. They say exclusive of Third World debt, Chemical
Banking Corp.'s Chemical Bank and Manufacturers Hanover
already have loan-loss reserves as high, as a percentage of
assets, as Chase's new level. Moreover, both banks have
reduced their staffs by thousands in the past few years,
while Chase is only now adopting such belt-tightening in
earnest.
   A $700 million increase in Citicorp's loan-loss reserves
would raise its level to Chase's 1.8% of assets. But Citibank
hardly seems a candidate for such a large increase because of
its conservatism. It has customarily written off problem
loans earlier than other New York banks. Hence its remaining
loans seem "cleaner," in banking parlance, and less likely to
sour.
   For now, Citicorp believes its level of caution is about
right. "No one around here is talking about a dividend cut,"
said Michael A. Callen, group executive in charge of
Citibank's wholesale banking division for the U.S. and the
rest of the developed world. He added: "I don't think we will
have change in the pattern of reserving and write-offs that's
in place; I think we've got a hold on it."
   A Comptroller of the Currency examination of Citibank's
loans is under way. Mr. McDermott said he anticipates no
surprises, "though that risk is present." A number of banks
in the Northeast have been forced to increase reserves after
examiners found loans they considered risky.
   Rather than take a big one-time hit like Chase is taking,
Citicorp is spreading the adjustments to its books over time.
Reserves and write-offs in the first two quarters were
increased at the rate of about $600 million a year, a trend
Mr. Callen sees continuing because, he said, "I don't think
1990 will see the end of this."
   To reflect the downturn in the corporate banking business,
his division began "right-sizing," as he put it, two months
ago. That, he said, is aimed at reducing the division's $2.5
billion annual expense budget by $250 million to $300 million
a year. Mr. Callen said he could not estimate how many of the
15,000 jobs on the payroll would be eliminated.
   After Friday's stock-price decline of 87.5 cents a share
to $15.75, Citicorp's shares yield more than 11%, not as
lofty as Chemical's 16% yield or Manufacturers Hanover's
14.26%. Higher yields are considered less secure. "A number
of the New York banks are trading down as if investors expect
the dividends to be cut," said Thomas Hanley, an analyst for
Salomon Brothers. Chase shares, which had been yielding more
than 17%, will yield 9.41% at the new dividend rate based on
Friday's closing stock price.
   Executives of other banks were quick to point to the
differences between their institutions and Chase. John
McGillicuddy, chairman of Manufacturers Hanover, said his
bank has one-fifth the real estate exposure of Chase. "We
sure as heck don't see anything down the road to change the
dividend," he said. "It's hard for me to figure why our stock
is getting hammered." His bank declared its normal dividend
last week.
   Loans to finance highly leveraged corporate transactions
could explain the market's concern. Investors fear these
loans will create big new problems. Bankers Trust New York
Corp. also has a large exposure in that sector. But investors
may be overconcerned. Bank lenders usually take precedence
even over bondholders in corporate defaults, and are even
better protected by collateral than they are in real estate
lending. "It would take an Apocalypse Now to burn into that
{protection}" said Mr. McDermott.
   Even so far as real estate is concerned, to assume that
all big banks are in the same boat as Chase involves "a
danger in extrapolating," said J. Carter Bacot, chairman of
The Bank of New York Corp. Its dividend yield is 10.34%, and
Mr. Bacot said the dividend is "well-covered" by earnings.
Chase's wasn't, because of large additions to reserves over
much of the past year.
   At Chicago's Continental Illinois Bank &amp; Trust Co., with
fewer than half the 13,000 employees it had in 1984 when it
went bankrupt, Thomas Theobald, chairman, said staff cutbacks
like Chase's will become more widespread in banking because
of overcapacity. In the second quarter his bank announced a
12% cut in payroll to 5,700 employees. As for the need to cut
Continental's dividend, now at a rate yielding 11.27%, he
said, "We have no reason to believe that's a necesssity."
Charles Sanford, chairman of Bankers Trust Co., New York,
said he felt his bank's reserves were "adequate, and I don't
see anything wrong with our dividend, which we declared last
week." Thanks to record profit in the first half, Bankers
Trust's stock has held up better than most banks and now
yields a relatively modest 6.8%.
   For Chase Manhattan, Friday's lengthy news announcement
was humbling. Besides cutting the dividend, the bank is
shrinking its presence in world banking, a presence that set
former Chase chairman David Rockefeller as an international
banking figure and which Mr. Butcher remained loyal to beyond
its economic justification. Citibank now remains the only
U.S. bank committed to global banking on a large scale.
   Roughly 1,600 of Chase's 5,000-person payroll cut will
come from overseas, mainly Brazil, and from converting
full-service branches in Europe to representative offices. Of
the other staff cuts, 1,600 people in the U.S., mostly New
York, opted for voluntary retirement and left last week. The
remaining 1,800 cuts also will be in the U.S., again mostly
New York, where employees will be let go or be part of a sold
division. Prior to the reduction, Chase had 41,000 employees.
   Despite the cutbacks, Chase remains a U.S. powerhouse. It
also keeps a foot, at least, in nearly every major city in
the developed world. And most important, analysts say, it
isn't a critically troubled bank. If anything, its ability to
take such a big hit and still declare its capital ratios in
compliance with 1992 standards is a sign of underlying
strength, they say.
   "The rumor-mongering can stop now," Mr. McDermott said of
speculation about the depth of Chase's problems over the past
week or so. Though Wall Street was taken aback by Chase's
news, Mr. Hanley said he "applauds" it. "If they had come in
directly in line with expectations there might have been more
credence that it would get worse soon," he said.
   Rodgin Cohen, whose banking law practice for Sullivan &amp;
Cromwell keeps him intimate with bank finances, said, "It is
inconceivable to me that Chase would become another
Continental," referring to that bank's 1984 problems. Chase's
asset mix is much less risky and its funding base is "much
deeper and broader," he said.
   Indeed, the lion's share of Chase's $80 billion in funding
needs are met by retail banking customers, a group
Continental sorely lacked at the height of its problems.
Moreover, other sources of Chase funds -- money market funds,
other banks and corporations with spare cash -- showed no
evidence of cold feet in the hours following Friday's
announcement.
   Helping to bolster confidence was the prediction by
Chase's new management team, which takes over in October,
that the fourth quarter would show a profit of at least $140
million. In contrast, the third quarter will show a pretax
loss of about $625 million, Chase said, as a result of the
loan provision and a $350 million expense for the staff
reduction and other restructuring.
   By taking such a large dose of medicine at once, Chase
also positions itself to strengthen its capital in future
quarters. It said that in the fourth quarter it will set
aside between $170 million and $200 million, lower than each
of the first two quarters of this year. "That will build up
equity capital quickly," said Frank DeSantis, of PaineWebber.
Chase said that after posting its financial figures,
tier-one, or equity, capital will be just above the 4% of
risk-adjusted assets called for under the 1992 international
standard.
   Chase has about $4.2 billion in equity now. Cutting the
dividend will save more than $25 million per quarter. The
restructuring and staff reductions are aimed at increasing
profits by saving $300 million in expenses annually.
   Chase also said it might sell assets in addition to the
sale of its Frankfurt, West Germany, office building, which
netted a third-quarter gain of $117 million. Other analysts
see Chase selling its leasing operation, which has 1,000
employees and more than $2 billion in assets, and selling
loan assets as securities, to raise capital levels.
   The big if, for Chase and the banking system as a whole,
is how far and fast the real estate decline will go. For now,
analysts say, Chase has put its portfolio of loans under the
microscope and adequately reserved for the foreseeable
future. The wild card is what the portfolio might look like
two, three or four quarters from now.
   Even after the shock wears off of Friday's news, investors
are likely to be wary of Chase's stock. "This is a company
that has a big surprise annually," said one analyst. Another
noted that Chase officials had talked glowingly of 1990
earnings on an investor road-show last fall to sell $600
million of stock. They also promised expense reductions that
didn't materialize in the first half and infuriated many of
the buyers of the new stock issue by diluting the stock
further through a new dividend reinvestment plan, he said.
   "Investor credibility is very low for Chase. It will take
a while coming back," said Mr. McDermott.
   Mr. Boyle and his group had spent last Monday and the
weekend immediately preceding it totaling and double-checking
Chase's loan portfolio, including nearly $10 billion in
commercial real estate loans. A U.S. Comptroller's
examination had already been the determining factor in a $225
million loan-loss reserve in the quarter ended June 30. Since
then, "There was no question that there was further
deterioration in Northeast real estate, including the New
York metropolitan area," said Mr. Ryan. In its news release,
Chase said it would write off $65 million in commercial real
estate loans in the third quarter, up from $15 million and
$21 million, respectively, in the first two quarters.
   "We looked into the foreseeable future and took every
significant project on a low, medium and high likelihood of
whether we were going to lose money and how much," Mr. Boyle
said. In the end it was a "judgment call," he added,
especially since nailing down a property's fair-market value
for accounting purposes is elusive in the current market.
   A team led by Mr. Ryan was giving much the same scrutiny
to each of Chase's business operations and finding where to
make staff cuts. The 15-person group had met weekly for the
past several months, with small subsets getting together
nightly while dining on pizzas and the like.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900925-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900925-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Business (A Special Report): Rankings
   ---
   The World's 100 Largest Banks
</HL>
<DATE>
09/21/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE R29
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ranked by assets as determined by Worldscope; figures are
based on each company's 1989 fiscal-year results.
   (In millions of U.S. dollars at Dec. 31, 1989, exchange
rates; percentage change based on home currency)
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

     Rank                     Change
  ----------                  From                  Net
  1989   1988     Assets      1988     Capital     Income
                                                                                                       

   Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank (Japan)
   1       1      $357,396     17%    $15,793      $1,385
                                                                                                       

   Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank* (Japan)
   2      12       350,526     12      20,594         915
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Bank (Japan)
   3       2       346,679     20      20,631       1,446
                                                                                                       

   Fuji Bank (Japan)
   4       3       335,967     18      22,288       1,268
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Bank (Japan)
   5       4       324,378     17      17,681       1,207
                                                                                                       

   Sanwa Bank (Japan)
   6       5       321,858     20      16,022       1,129
                                                                                                       

   Industrial Bank of Japan
   7       6       246,793     14     127,560         582
                                                                                                       

   Credit Agricole (France)
   8      18       242,452     33      35,131         782
                                                                                                       

   Banque Nationale de Paris (France)
   9      10       231,903     12      19,321         591
                                                                                                       

   Citicorp (U.S.)
  10       9       227,037     11      34,066         498
                                                                                                       

   Norinchukin Bank (Japan)
  11       7       223,840     11      37,797         284
                                                                                                       

   Credit Lyonnais (France)
  12      14       211,127     13      17,600         542
                                                                                                       

   Tokai Bank (Japan)
  13       8       207,509     12      12,516         445
                                                                                                       

   Barclays
  14      13       205,972     23      16,768         730
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Bank (W. Germany)
  15      19       202,681     13      35,984         778
                                                                                                       

   Mitsubishi Trust &amp; Banking** (Japan)
  16      11       196,808     16       8,934         566
                                                                                                       

   Mitsui Trust &amp; Banking** (Japan)
  17      17       190,144     14       4,335         473
                                                                                                       

   National Westminster Bank (U.K.)
  18      15       187,529     36      16,631         376
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Tokyo (Japan)
  19      22       182,225     29      48,158         422
                                                                                                       

   Sumitomo Trust &amp; Banking** (Japan)
  20      16       182,189     18       5,666         551
                                                                                                       

   Societe General (France)
  21      23       176,121      8      16,106         616
                                                                                                       

   Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan
  22      21       168,495     17      97,821         368
                                                                                                       

   Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking** (Japan)
  23      24       157,833     12       6,280         425
                                                                                                       

   Cencep (France)
  24      --       153,020      5       7,443         485
                                                                                                       

   Dresdner Bank (W. Germany)
  25      26       147,437      8      47,286         373
                                                                                                       

   Daiwa Bank** (Japan)
  26      27       144,770     15       4,583         272
                                                                                                       

   Paribas (France)
  27      27       138,931      9      18,777         362
                                                                                                       

   Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking (Hong Kong)
  28      29       132,960     17      14,135         612
                                                                                                       

   Groupe Suez (France)
  29      63       125,401     77      46,104         703
                                                                                                       

   Toyo Trust &amp; Banking**(Japan)
  30      28       124,760     11       2,783         330
                                                                                                       

   Bank of China (China)
  31      34       115,328     19      10,162       1,072
                                                                                                       

   Union Bank of Switzerland
  32      31       112,933      5      18,496         585
                                                                                                       

   Commerzbank (W. Germany)
  33      35       112,598      6      16,946         332
                                                                                                       

   Nippon Credit Bank (Japan)
  34      30       109,552     15      61,349         265
                                                                                                       

   Deutsche Genossenschaft (W. Germany)
  35      58       109,359     40      19,413         162
                                                                                                       

   Istituto Bancarrio San Paolo (Italy)
  36      51       107,800     28      16,584         517
                                                                                                       

   Chase Manhattan (U.S.)
  37      37       106,347     11      11,333        -665
                                                                                                       

   Swiss Bank (Switzerland)
  38      33       105,269      5      21,911         486
                                                                                                       

   Westdeutsche Landesbank (W. Germany)
  39      40       104,314      7      23,788         203
                                                                                                       

   Bayerische Vereinsbank (W. Germany)
  40      42       102,233      7      37,607         165
                                                                                                       

   Banca Nazionale del Lavoro (Italy)
  41      43       101,151     12       6,849        -190
                                                                                                       

   Midland Bank (U.K.)
  42      36       100,841     12       9,008        -353
                                                                                                       

   BankAmerica (U.S.)
  43      39        97,231      4       9,609         820
                                                                                                       

   Kyowa Bank (Japan)
  44      32        96,204      7       5,519         251
                                                                                                       

   Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank (Netherlands)
  45      49        94,191    -14      17,703         445
                                                                                                       

   Lloyds Bank (U.K.)
  46      38        92,873     25       8,089        -946
                                                                                                       

   Bayerische Landesbank (W. Germany)
  47      60        90,990      9      38,291          71
                                                                                                       

   Algemene Bank Nederland (Netherlands)
  48      46        90,765      2      16,905         367
                                                                                                       

   Rabobank (Netherlands)
  49      52        90,370     11      15,762         471
                                                                                                       

   Bayerische Hypo-Bank (W. Germany)
  50      56        90,005     13      34,692         164
                                                                                                       

   Royal Bank of Canada (Canada)
  51      47        89,769      3       6,969         457
                                                                                                       

   Credit Suisse (Switzerland)
  52      57        89,127      6      19,718         508
                                                                                                       

   Banca Commerciale Italiana (Italy)
  53      67        89,922     37       4,288         340
                                                                                                       

   Saitama Bank (Japan)
  54      44        88,793     17       6,982         202
                                                                                                       

   J.P. Morgan (U.S.)
  55      50        87,628      6       9,185      -1,275
                                                                                                       

   Banco do Brazil (Brazlil)
  56      48        86,004      0       7,357         125
                                                                                                       

   NMB Postbank Grep (Netherlands)
  57      94        84,524      0      11,915         345
                                                                                                       

   Shoko Chukin Bank (Japan)
  58      41        83,528      5      61,872          66
                                                                                                       

   Security Pacific (U.S.)
  59      53        83,119      8      11,243         741
                                                                                                       

   Cariplo (Italy)
  60      81        82,406     22       4,599         212
                                                                                                       

   Zenshinren Bank (Japan)
  61      45        79,602      6       1,579         207
                                                                                                       

   Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
  62      59        79,571      6       5,753         389
                                                                                                       

   Westpac Banking Corporation (Australia)
  63      62        77,467     28      10,441         625
                                                                                                       

   Chuo Trust &amp; Banking** (Japan)
  64      55        76,677      5         797          97
                                                                                                       

   Monte dei Paschi di Siena (Italy)
  65      70        75,974     19       5,266         181
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Yokohama (Japan)
  66      54        75,436     13       3,769         141
                                                                                                       

   Groupe CIC (France)
  67      68        74,867     13       8,220         178
                                                                                                       

   Bank Melli Iran (Iran)
  68      69        74,777     17         356           4
                                                                                                       

   Credito Italiano (Italy)
  69      77        74,296     32       2,792         234
                                                                                                       

   Chemical Banking (U.S.)
  70      64        70,891      6       6,675        -482
                                                                                                       

   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (W. Germany)
  71      --        69,515     13      38,074          81
                                                                                                       

   Hokkaido Takushoku (Japan)
  72      61        69,336     11       3,668         130
                                                                                                       

   Banco Bilbao Vizcaya (Spain)
  73      72        68,991      8       6,360         882
                                                                                                       

   Generale Bank Group (Belgium)
  74      71        68,523      4       3,242          72
                                                                                                       

   Norddeutsche Landesbank (W. Germany)
  75      73        68,252      6      15,377          50
                                                                                                       

   Banco di Napoli (Italy)
  76      76        66,131     14       1,666          82
                                                                                                       

   NCNB (U.S.)
  77      --        65,770    123       4,427         447
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Montreal (Canada)
  78      66        65,749      1       4,420          44
                                                                                                       

   Groupe des Banques Populaires (France)
  79      78        64,825     10       7,714         221
                                                                                                       

   Banco di Roma (Italy)
  80      79        64,710     15       2,297         127
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Nova Scotia (Canada)
  81      74        63,182      6       4,506         192
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturers Hanover (U.S.)
  82      65        59,509     -9       6,781        -588
                                                                                                       

   Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (Sweden)
  83      86        58,669     26      16,910         169
                                                                                                       

   First Interstate (U.S.)
  84      75        58,699      1       6,058        -152
                                                                                                       

   Banque Bruxelles Lambert (Belgium)
  85      85        55,901     11       2,155         138
                                                                                                       

   Australia &amp; New Zealand Banking (Australia)
  86      84        54,929     21      11,855         409
                                                                                                       

   Bankers Trust New York (U.S.)
  87      80        54,395     -1       4,821        -987
                                                                                                       

   Chiba Bank (Japan)
  88      82        53,773     23       2,023         110
                                                                                                       

   Credit Foncier de France (France)
  89      83        53,235      2      29,747          93
                                                                                                       

   National Australia Bank (Australia)
  90      90        52,126     27       8,075         618
                                                                                                       

   Nordbanken (Sweden)
  91      --        50,244     29      10,218         114
                                                                                                       

   Hokuriku Bank (Japan)
  92      88        49,877     24       1,816         113
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Seoul (South Korea)
  93      --        48,922     24       3,783          89
                                                                                                       

   Wells Fargo (U.S.)
  94      87        48,526      5       5,402         601
                                                                                                       

   Toronto Dominion Bank (Canada)
  95      92        48,416      6       4,313         600
                                                                                                       

   Raiffeisen Banking Grup (Austria)
  96     100        47,590     10       6,250         N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Bank of New York (U.S.)
  97      89        47,467      4       3,715          51
                                                                                                       

   First Chicago (U.S.)
  98      93        47,040      8       4,043         359
                                                                                                       

   Joyo Bank (Japan)
  99      91        46,960     21       1,676         120
                                                                                                       

   Rafidain Bank (Iraq)
 100      --        46,793    -14       2,997       1,560
                                                                                                       

   *Estimated combined results of Mitsui Bank and Taiyo Kobe
Bank
   **Excludes custody assets and investment trusts
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: For comparative purposes, assets are calculated
without customer acceptances and loan-loss reserves;
operational trust assets of Japanese trust banks are added to
consolidated assets if they are presented separately. Capital
includes long-term debt, non-equity reserves, minority
interest and shareholders' equity; may include short-term
debt when not able to separate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
