<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   The NBA's Best Team
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Richfield, Ohio -- His team had just beaten the Cleveland
Cavaliers here Saturday night, giving them a heady 27-3
record for the still-young National Basketball Association
season, but Rick Adelman didn't want to get ahead of himself.
   "Yeah, the wins are great, but we know we've got a long
way to go before the playoffs," declared the coach of the
Portland Trail Blazers. "We've got to keep our minds on the
game at hand, not on goals we've set for five or six months
from now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He allowed, though, that it's been a nice ride so far.
"Streaks like the one we're having don't happen very often
even to very good teams, so we'd better enjoy it while we
can," he said. "If you're not having fun when you're winning,
you'd better get out of the game."
   For better or worse, the Portlanders had scant time to
savor their success, because they had to pack their blazers
and hit the trail to Milwaukee for a Sunday night contest.
That would make four games in four different cities in five
nights, a not-untypical NBA road trip. If the pro-hoops
mercenaries could convert their frequent-flier miles to cash,
they'd be able to buy the airlines. They'd probably do a good
job with takeoffs and landings, and they'd certainly install
seats with more leg room.
   No one, however, anticipated the flight the Blazers have
been on for the past two months. Last season's NBA runnersup
to the Detroit Pistons, they began the campaign modestly
enough, with a one-point victory over Houston at home. They
won their next 10 games by an average of 17 points, lost one,
and then won eight more in succession.
   They've won at home (15-1) and on the road (12-2 through
Saturday). They've beaten such leggy steppers as the Pistons,
L.A. Lakers and Chicago Bulls, and the also-rans. Their
record after Saturday was three games better than that of the
next-best team, the resurgent Boston Celtics, and, with the
schedule more than one-third over, they led the league's
Pacific division by 7 1/2 games.
   Perhaps most remarkably, the Blazers have done it without
placing a man in the league's top 10 in such individual
measures as scoring, rebounding, assists, steals or blocked
shots. This is a gang that spreads both the wealth and the
work. After 30 games, seven Portland players had scored more
than 300 points, and six had more than 100 rebounds.
   "We all play defense, we all hit the boards and we all
pass the ball. And I don't mean just the starters, I mean all
the guys who play," says Clyde "The Glide" Drexler, a
6-foot-7 guard who's both All-Pro and All-Nickname, and is
the Blazers' brightest star. "You hear about some teams
having specialists, or role-players, but not us. Everybody
plays all the roles."
   Lenny Wilkens, whose Cleveland team was the party of the
second part on Saturday, had a similar assessment. "They're
deep, they're fast, and they play together well," said the
coach. "They're the best team in basketball now, and if they
stay healthy there's no reason they can't end the season that
way."
   A bare two seasons ago, the Blazers were part of the NBA
pack, a 39-43 bunch that had some dash but little else. Then
Adelman, an ex-Blazer player known for an even keel, took
charge as coach near that campaign's end, and the next year
management traded for veteran rebounder Buck Williams to
supplement holdover starters Drexler, guard Terry Porter,
forward Jerome Kersey and center Kevin Duckworth. The combo
clicked, and the 1989-90 Blazers added 20 regular-season wins
to their year-earlier total.
   This season's key addition, via trade, is veteran guard
Danny Ainge. He was dealt away (to Sacramento) when the
Celtics embarked on a back-court youth movement a couple of
years ago, but his vintage whine has gone down nicely in the
Great Northwest. He and 6-foot-10 Cliff Robinson, a maturing
second-year man, have given the Blazers the bench strength
they previously lacked.
   Several other factors have contributed to Portland's fast
start. A schedule that allowed them to play 11 of their first
15 games at home was one, and good luck with injuries was
another. None of the top-seven players had missed a game
through Saturday, although Kersey broke that string by
straining a calf muscle against the Cavs and may be out for
two weeks.
   Finally, there's been a carryover from last year's
success. "In winning our conference, and getting to the
finals, we proved to ourselves we were for real," says
Drexler. "The guys couldn't wait for training camp to open.
Everybody showed up early, in shape, and ready to go. We knew
good things would happen if we went about it right."
   Portland's effort against Cleveland on Saturday mirrored
what it has been doing all season. Seven Blazers scored in
double figures in the 120-114 win, led by Drexler's 28, and
nine of the 10 who participated grabbed rebounds. Against a
team whose main strength is its inside players, especially
Larry Nance and Brad Daughtery, the Blazers assaulted the
hoop with their usual elan, outscoring the home team 66-46
"in the paint."
   Cleveland, 11-17 in the won-lost column going in, has been
plagued with injuries, and performed without two of its best
players, guard Mark Price and forward John Williams. On top
of that, guard Craig Ehlo was caught punching Duckworth (in
retaliation for an elbow shot the officials missed) and was
ejected in the first quarter.
   Nonetheless, the Cavs put up a brave fight before a
rainy-night throng of 17,000, and trailed by just three
points -- 112-109 -- with slightly over two minutes left.
   But then the Blazers pulled away, with everyone on the
floor helping. Porter's dash to the hoop set up a short
jump-shot basket by Duckworth, after which Porter hit a
19-footer of his own. Ainge corraled a loose ball. Williams
got a rebound and fed Drexler, who waited until two seconds
remained on the shot clock -- and 20 seconds on the game
clock -- before banking in a clinching three-pointer.
   "Three pointers aren't my usual thing, but if I'm gonna
shoot 'em, I guess this is the year for it," grinned The
Glide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Asian Banks Continue to Show Strength
   ---
   But Competition, Slower
   Growth Clouds Outlook
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   As banks in many parts of the world struggle with big
loan-loss provisions and declining profits, banks in much of
Asia continue to show strong earnings and even are expanding.
But they, too, may soon face a shakeout.
   Earnings of domestic banks in the newly industrialized and
rapidly industrializing countries of Asia remain relatively
robust. And partly because they concentrate on domestic
business, which is underpinned by strong economic growth,
these banks aren't facing the crisis now hobbling their
counterparts in industrialized countries, where sluggish
economies are pinching business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Further ahead, though, the Asian outlook clouds. "Overall,
banking is not going to be a very profitable business in the
next few years," says Philippe F. Delhaise, general manager
of Capital Information Services, an Asia-based rating agency.
   Asian banking markets aren't uniform: Regulations vary
greatly, and in most countries there is a wide gap between a
few dominant banks and many smaller institutions. But
generally, increased competition is narrowing profit margins,
and slower economic growth may expose problem loans just when
Asian banks need to start improving their balance sheets to
meet new international capital rules set by the Bank for
International Settlements.
   Thus, some analysts say, some banks won't be able to
survive the next few years, making an eventual consolidation
in Asia's banking industry likely. "With slower growth
anticipated and tighter monetary policy, you have to look at
the banks in the region with caution," says Robert Rountree,
managing director of ChinTung Research Ltd. of Hong Kong.
   Prospects for banks in many of Asia's rapidly growing
nations aren't nearly as bleak as they are in the U.S. and
Japan. Many Asian banks, like Asian economies, will continue
to outperform the rest of the world, though economic growth
in the region will likely slow in 1991.
   Even the battered Philippine economy is forecast to grow
2.8% next year, while growth in other countries in the region
is expected to range from 3.5% to nearly 9%.
   In Malaysia, growth next year is projected at between 8%
and 8.5%, after a projected 10% expansion this year. "Banks
(in Malaysia) are poised to benefit from the broad-based
growth of the economy," says James Bax, research director for
Baring Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
   Continued economic growth also may help support Asian
property markets, though some analysts are concerned that
loans made to finance property purchases at inflated prices
may sour now that certain markets have topped out.
   Some real estate loans are likely to falter, analysts say.
But rapid growth and speculation have pushed land prices in
regional capitals so high that even if prices soften, they
likely will remain above levels of a couple of years ago.
   Many Asian banks also benefit by focusing on their
domestic markets. Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp. -- Asia's
largest non-Japanese bank -- is the exception. In the past
decade, it launched a massive global expansion that is now
costing dearly; the bank reported a 21% drop in profit for
the first half of 1990 because of losses on its operations in
Australia and the U.S. and on its 14.9% stake in Britain's
Midland Bank PLC. Those losses dwarfed a strong performance
closer to home; analysts say Hongkong Bank continued to
profit handsomely in Asia during the period.
   Some analysts say the best protection Asian banks have is
that many already went through a crisis in the mid-1980s,
when several regional economies suffered recessions. Those
hard times helped to clear banks' balance sheets of some bad
loans and cleaned up the books of borrowers.
   In recent years, corporations in the region have made
increasing use of equity markets to raise capital, rather
than straight borrowings. That has left both creditors and
borrowers better off than they were at the start of the
1980s.
   Still, higher interest rates and an unexpected credit
crunch resulting from an abrupt retreat by Japanese banks may
slow economic growth more than analysts are now forecasting,
raising myriad questions about the health of Asian banks.
   For one, analysts aren't sure of the credit quality of
some loans. Although banks were able to remove some bad loans
from their books in the mid-1980s, credit demand soared in
recent years, and once again, some major bank borrowers have
become highly leveraged, these analysts say.
   The personal character of traditional banking
relationships in Asia frequently means that banks make loans
to their longtime customers without completely understanding
or ascertaining how the money will be used. In many cases, it
has been used to speculate in stock and property markets, at
least until share prices began to slide this year. Added to
that, accounting practices in some countries are relatively
lax, making it more difficult for banks to know when loans
are souring.
   Tighter credit conditions are also a problem. Interest
rates around the region are rising. "Higher interest rates
will put pressure on (profit) margins as growth in loan
demand slows," says William R. Ebsworth, director of research
for Fidelity Investments Management (H.K.) Ltd.
   Competition among Asian banks in their domestic markets is
also taking a toll. Profit margins from retail banking --
long a major source of cheap funding for banks -- are
shrinking. Consumers are no longer content to deposit their
money at meager interest rates. That is forcing banks to
modernize by spending a lot to introduce new technology and
working to expand fee-based business.
   The changes brought on by competition heighten the gulf
between the few dominant banks in most Asian countries and
the many smaller ones. In Thailand, for example, the four
largest banks control 68% of assets in the banking system.
   "If one of the big banks has a couple of projects go bust,
they can withstand it, but if a smaller bank has two or three
projects go belly-up, it will have a dramatic impact on their
profitability," says a foreign analyst in Bangkok.
   Governments around the region are keeping a protective eye
on their banks and aren't likely to allow any major
collapses. They may, however, shepherd weaker banks into
mergers. Just last month, the Indonesian government rescued
Bank Umum Majapahit Jaya, a small, private bank, and is now
seeking new investors for it.
   Jakarta's action may be the start of a period of
consolidation in Indonesia's banking sector. Deregulation has
spawned hefty increases in business volume and profits,
though the process also has created worries about the
stability of the country's financial system. The creation of
nearly 50 new domestic banks in the past two years has
resulted in intense competition for professional staff. Some
rapidly growing banks could find their portfolios containing
poor assets stemming from their hurry to dispense credit
without proper evaluation.
   In Indonesia, shaky accounting practices make it difficult
to assess banks. This worry was highlighted in September by a
scandal at P.T. Bank Duta, the nation's fifth-largest private
bank. The entire board and management were replaced and the
bank eventually announced it had suffered foreign-exchange
trading losses of $420 million. But those losses didn't show
up in the first accounts published by the bank after the loss
was disclosed. Foreign bankers reckon that if such problems
can occur at Bank Duta, there may be serious problems at
other banks.
   The many analysts who predict a regionwide banking
consolidation say that though the end result will be fewer
banks, they will be better capitalized than before. Larger
banks in the region are likely to survive any shakeout and
become even stronger, analysts say. "There will be fewer,
better-capitalized banks," says a banking analyst in Hong
Kong. "We will definitely see that in the U.S., and we will
see that in Asia."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Offer for MCA
   Is Completed
   By Matsushita
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   MC MCA PL VCR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. completed its $6.59
billion tender offer for MCA Inc., accomplishing the year's
largest acquisition and the biggest takeover yet of an
American company by a Japanese one.
   By receiving about 97% of MCA's outstanding shares, the
consumer electronics giant becomes the majority shareholder.
A technical merger is expected to be achieved within two
weeks, after various legal filings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since a buy-out agreement was announced Nov. 26, attorneys
for the two companies were able to plow smoothly through
various government approvals and legal challenges. Completing
the tender offer by the end of the year allows the merger to
be treated as a 1990 taxable event. MCA holders who tendered
their shares by last Friday, Dec. 28, will be able to declare
their capital gains for this year even though their payment
checks will be dated Jan. 3.
   Merger talks began late last summer, and endured only two
rocky moments. One was when the news broke in late September,
which dismayed the Japanese and "threw the process into chaos
for two weeks," recalls a principal. Later, during a furious
Thanksgiving week of negotiations, talks nearly broke down
over the price. Matsushita was persuaded to raise its bid to
$66 a share plus equity in a spunoff TV station, WWOR of
Secaucus, N.J., thought to be worth about $5 per MCA share.
This final price was still less than MCA, based in Universal
City, Calif., is said to have expected two months before.
   Five shareholder suits were filed in state court in
Delaware and Los Angeles, charging that MCA management
accepted an unsatisfactory price in order to entrench
management. These lawsuits were tentatively settled, the
plaintiffs receiving attorneys' fees and a loosening of
anti-takeover provisions regarding the TV station, which is
expected to be sold. Shares of the station, called Pinelands
Inc., begin trading today on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Another suit in federal court in Los Angeles charges that
MCA Chairman Lew Wasserman's payout from the acquisition
violates federal securities laws mandating equal treatment
for all shareholders. Mr. Wasserman is to receive preferred
stock rather than cash from Matsushita because many of his
nearly five million shares were acquired at a low-cost basis
and would have been subject to severe capital gains taxes.
U.S. District Court Judge Manuel Real denied a motion for
summary judgment Friday, refusing to grant a preliminary
injunction to block the merger. The suit, now seeking
damages, is still pending.
   Also on Friday, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia
refused to block the merger as requested by an antitrust suit
filed in federal court in Phoenix by Go-Video Inc., of
Scottsdale, Ariz. A shareholder suit filed in federal court
in New York was dismissed: That suit charged that the buy-out
violated the constitutional rights of American citizens by
allowing foreign ownership of a U.S. media company.
   All in all, no serious obstacles arose to consummating the
transaction. By its own admission, Matsushita was nervous
about a political uproar over a Japanese takeover of a famous
American movie studio. But reaction was muted. Politicians in
Washington seemed distracted by events in the Persian Gulf,
and few were willing to challenge MCA Chairman Lew
Wasserman's wishes. MCA was in many ways Mr. Wasserman's own
company -- he had built it for 54 years -- and he has
powerful political connections. MCA and Matsushita assembled
a host of Washington insiders to lobby for the transaction.
   Similarly, because of the high price and again perhaps
because of a reluctance to take on Mr. Wasserman, no other
companies joined in bidding for MCA or criticized the
transaction too vocally.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Agrees to Freeze
   Stealth Bomber Production
   ---
   Plan Is to Spend $4.1 Billion
   To Build, Test 15 Aircraft
   Already Approved for '91
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Abandoning plans to build additional B-2 Stealth bombers
in 1991, the Air Force instead plans to spend $4.1 billion to
continue assembling and testing only those aircraft already
approved for production.
   The freezing of production at the current level of 15
planes, which is expected to be announced by the Pentagon
shortly, gives B-2 opponents an important political advantage
and increases chances that Congress will permanently cut off
production money for the imperiled bomber during Pentagon
budget debates this spring. The decision is especially
damaging to champions of the bat-shaped bomber in the Senate,
who fought intensely during the summer and fall to save the
program by hammering out compromise language and ensuring
that there would be funds to continue expanding the fleet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House voted to bar production of any new planes, and
Rep. Ron Dellums (D., Calif.) and other senior members of the
House Armed Services Committee have threatened to file suit
if the Pentagon crosses that line. Now, Air Force Secretary
Donald Rice has decided to accept the House position and
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney is expected to formally approve
the scaled-back production next month.
   While a big chunk of the $4.1 billion approved by Congress
for the current fiscal year will be eaten up by cost overruns
on previously authorized B-2s, prime contractor Northrop
Corp. is trying to play down the significance of the
anticipated lapse in production funding. The company
emphasized that immediate cutbacks in its work force won't be
necessary beacause the assembly line already is working at
reduced speed and can rely on a multibillion-dollar cushion
of previously authorized planes. Oliver Boileau, president
and general manager of Northrop's B-2 division, likens the
effect to "a rubber band {that} just stretches" the
production timetable.
   But at the same time, company officials acknowledged that
they are preparing for a do-or-die debate on the B-2. To try
to show that an $850-million-a-copy Stealth bomber remains
relevant in the post-Cold War world, they have come up with a
new presentation to Congress and other groups that stresses
how valuable it would be against Iraqi troops.
   The White House originally requested more money for the
B-2 than any other weapons system in fiscal 1991, and it
threatened to veto any defense spending bill that didn't
include production money for new planes. Barely two weeks
ago, some industry insiders were convinced that position
would prevail. But after consulting with the new Air Force
chief of staff and the general who has been named to take
over as the head of the Strategic Air Command, Mr. Rice
decided to throw in the towel on providing seed money for
additional planes in the current fiscal year.
   For any manufacturer trying to pin down cost and hiring
schedules, the questions surrounding the B-2 make long-term
planning nearly impossible. "I've never seen a period of
greater uncertainty than we have now," said C.G. King,
executive vice president of Boeing Co.'s military airplanes
division, a major B-2 subcontractor. "It's awfully difficult
to plan."
   The B-2 now accounts for more than half of Northrop's
revenue, and building a fleet of 75 B-2s would cost well over
$65 billion. Still, many analysts believe that Northrop and
its B-2 subcontractors would be better off if the Stealth
program were killed outright, rather than dribbling out one
or two planes a year. Cancellation would entitle Northrop to
receive large termination payments, even though it could take
several years to collect them.
   Besides mounting problems with the B-2, Northrop faces
cancellation of another of its major defense programs. There
is widespread talk in the Pentagon that the Northop-built
Tacit Rainbow radar-destroying missile, which has performed
poorly in tests, will be killed as part of the
administration's fiscal 1992 budget request.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Units
   In U.S. Post Net
   In a Turnaround
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC T.CMP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Campeau Corp.'s two U.S. retailing
subsidiaries, Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied
Stores Corp., reported combined net income of $3.9 million
for November, compared with a loss in the previous month.
   The monthly profit was the first by the two units since
they filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors under the
federal Bankruptcy Code last January. Analysts said the
turnaround increases the chances the units could show a
profit for the fiscal fourth quarter ending Feb. 2. Campeau
is a real estate and retailing concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the federal bankruptcy court in
Cincinnati, Federated reported net income of $1.7 million for
the four weeks ended Dec. 1 and Allied had earnings of $2.2
million. The results, which compared with a combined loss of
$23.7 million for the four weeks ended Nov. 3, don't include
costs related to the bankruptcy-law case. The companies
didn't disclose year-earlier figures.
   Revenue at both units were up from the previous month,
reflecting a pickup in sales in the pre-Christmas shopping
season. Federated's revenue rose 27% to $459 million from
$362 million. Allied had revenue of $275.4 million, up 49%
from $184.4 million.
   Still, the November revenues lagged behind year-earlier
levels, mainly because of a slowdown in consumer demand, the
companies said.
   "It is no secret that this year's Christmas selling season
was difficult for us, as it was for most retailers," said
Allen Questrom, chairman and chief executive officer of
Federated and Allied.
   But Mr. Questrom said he was encouraged by a continued
rise in gross profit margins at both units. He also said the
amount of cash available at Dec. 1, including investments,
unpurchased receivables and working capital facilities,
exceeded the expectations of the company and its bank
lenders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Leading Index
   Of Economy
   Declines 1.2%
   ---
   November Drop Was Fifth
   In a Row in New Signal
   Of Recessionary Trend
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's main economic forecasting
gauge declined for the fifth consecutive month in November,
in yet another sign that the economy is headed into a
recession.
   "The economy has been flattened by everyone's reaction to
world events," said Charles Renfro, chief economist with
Alphametrics, an economic forecasting concern in Bala Cynwyd,
Pa. Iraq's invasion of Kuwait appears to have sparked a
sudden downward spiral in consumer confidence, which is
rippling through the economy, although some analysts believe
the economy was weakening before the August invasion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index of leading indicators -- a collection of
statistics intended to predict economic activity in the
months ahead -- dropped 1.2% in November after a revised
slide of 1.3% in October and a 0.8% fall in September, the
Commerce Department said. The October decline was reported
last month as 1.2%.
   Since World War II, the index has turned down, on average,
nine months before the beginning of a recession. But it
sometimes also has predicted recessions that didn't ensue. In
fact, the November decline marked the greatest number of
consecutive decreases since the index fell for six
consecutive months in mid-1984. No recession followed those
earlier signals.
   The index has been declining sporadically since the middle
of last year, with a brief show of strength early last
summer. Most economists now believe the economy is in a
recession -- generally defined as two consecutive quarters of
decline in output of goods and services -- but there is wide
disagreement about when it started and how deep and lengthy
it will be.
   Eight of the 11 components of the leading indicators
declined in November. The biggest negative factors were
falling manufacturers' orders for consumer goods, a decrease
in materials prices that respond quickly to supply and demand
(this component doesn't include oil prices), and an increase
in manufacturers' unfilled orders.
   The three gauges that indicated a positive trend were
rising stock prices, an increase in delays of deliveries of
supplies (which indicates increased demand), and a slight
rebound in the index of consumer expectations. The consumer
index, based on surveys, fell steeply from 79.3 in May to
50.9 in October. It rose last month to 52.8.
   The department's index of coincident indicators, which is
supposed to track the current pace of economic activity,
dropped 1.1% in November after an identical tumble in
October.
   ---
                   LEADING INDICATORS
                                                                                                       

   Here are the net contributions of the components of the
Commerce Department's index of leading indicators. After
various adjustments they produced a 1.3% decline in the index
for October and a 1.2% decline for November.
                                                                                                       

                                         Nov.    Oct.
                                         1990    1990
                                                                                                       

   Workweek ..........................   -.15    -.22
   Unemployment claims ...............   -.21    -.23
   Orders for consumer goods .........   -.34     .07
   Slower deliveries .................    .08    -.07
   Plant and equipment orders ........   -.23     .02
   Building permits ..................   -.05    -.21
   Durable order backlog .............   -.26     .03
   Materials prices ..................   -.30    -.14
   Stock prices ......................    .14    -.15
   Money supply ......................   -.13    -.19
   Consumer expectations .............    .07    -.29
                                                                                                       

   The seasonally adjusted index numbers (1982=100) for
November, and the change from October, are:
                                                                                                       

   Index of leading indicators ....... 139.7    -1.2
   Index of coincident indicators .... 130.3    -1.1
   Index of lagging indicators ....... 117.9    -0.8
                                                                                                       

   The ratio of coincident to lagging indicators was 1.1,
unchanged from the previous month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Feuding Firms Cram Courts, Study Says
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Crowds may be clogging the civil federal courts, but don't
blame just the lawyers. Instead, try roomfuls of contentious
corporate types.
   That's the message of two law professors from the
University of Wisconsin who recently completed a study of
business litigation in federal civil courts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Advocates of tort, or liability, reform insist that the
overburdened justice system has been caused by overeager
lawyers flooding the courts with product-liability and other
cases brought against corporations by individuals. But
professors Marc Galanter and Joel Rogers argue that the blame
has been misplaced. The boom in corporate litigation --
complaints brought by businesses against each other -- has
been virtually ignored, they say.
   "There is a tremendous resistance to this idea. It just
goes against the picture of the world {tort reformers} have
built up," says Mr. Galanter, a well-known expert on
litigation trends.
   The study concludes that companies are resorting to
litigation to solve problems they traditionally negotiated
informally. For example, the study reports that contract
cases between corporations in federal court grew to 6,277 in
1986 from 518 in 1971, an increase of 1,112%. The researchers
found there were sharp increases in litigation between firms
and any entity they came into contact with, including
suppliers, distributors, creditors, competitors, customers
and the government.
   Suits involving misleading advertising, claims of civil
racketeering, bankruptcy law and intellectual property rights
also have increased sharply, the study says.
   The two law professors claim:
   -- Contract disputes have displaced torts (suits alleging
wrongful action) as the most frequently filed civil suits in
federal courts. Between 1960 and 1988, the number of contract
cases filed each year jumped 232%, as tort litigation rose
128%.
   -- Businesses now pay more than individuals do for
litigation and other law-related expenses, and corporate
expenditures on legal services have recently grown at twice
the rate of what individuals are spending. And corporate law
firms emphasize litigation over routine business, more than
ever before.
   -- Businesses are more often suing each other than
individuals or government.
   -- Large law firms serving corporate clients have grown
faster than any other segment of the legal profession. The
in-house legal staffs of corporations have grown
correspondingly.
   Mr. Galanter found a receptive audience when he presented
his findings in November at the annual meeting of the
American Corporate Counsel Association, a national
organization of in-house lawyers, in San Francisco. Lawrence
A. Salibra II, the chairman of the group's litigation
committee, says that companies too often rely on litigation
to solve what are essentially management problems.
   "The business community is overdependent on lawyers," says
Mr. Salibra, senior litigation counsel for Alcan Aluminum
Corp., in Cleveland. "They can take a problem, pass it on to
lawyers and forget about it -- at least for the short term."
   Other in-house lawyers say businesses have come to think
of litigation as a management strategy. "If you couldn't
negotiate, you can sue," says Carl Liggio, general counsel
for the accounting firm of Ernst &amp; Young. He adds that
long-term business relationships are no longer as important
as they used to be. "You had a much more closed business
society," says Mr. Liggio of Ernst &amp; Young. "There was an
old-boy network. If there was a problem, you didn't put the
dispute out in the public domain."
   But Mr. Galanter goes beyond the notion that managers have
abdicated too much of their responsibility to lawyers. The
study attributes the surge in business litigation to a host
of economic factors such as product specialization,
heightened competition and the increased complexity of
business transactions.
   The study is likely to stoke an already heated debate
among legal scholars over what accounts for the litigation
boom. Mr. Galanter's critics concede that there has been a
surge in businesses suing each other. But they contend that
is only part of a larger increase in litigation brought on by
liberal changes in court procedures and the expansion of
damage and liability theories that have made it easier -- and
potentially more lucrative -- to sue.
   These critics see the growth of litigation in general as a
crisis that has overburdened courts and victimized
businesses. They have primarily blamed avaricious lawyers and
indulgent judges.
   "We've grown more and more permissive about who can go to
court," complains Peter Huber, a critic of Mr. Galanter and
author of "Liability: The Legal Revolution and Its
Consequences."
   Critics also fault the new study for analyzing only
federal court trends. In their study, Messrs. Galanter and
Rogers argue that "there is a substantial amount of business
disputing in state courts as well," but that no aggregate
data exist to make the comparison.
   Others also say that Mr. Galanter's study misses the
point: Tort litigation, they claim, has still been disastrous
for business. He "may be right" that too many businessmen are
suing each other, says Frank McFadden, a former federal judge
and general counsel for manufacturer Blount Inc., of
Montgomery, Ala. "But that's not the real issue in tort
reform. It's the result and the impact that tort litigation
has on industry. The cost of defending the product is so
great that many companies have just stopped manufacturing. .
. ."
   Even so, "it seems clear that business has a much greater
capacity for litigation than it did 20 years ago and that a
rising number of business disputes are not being resolved by
the parties themselves but are being brought to courts,"
concludes Mr. Galanter.
   Adds Mr. Salibra: "When I brought the first lawsuit by
Alcan against another business in a breach-of-contract case,
it was like a major emotional experience. It used to be
considered sacrilegious. . . . It's commonplace now."
   ---
                Rising Business Litigation
                                                                                                       

   Contracts -- Cases in federal district courts more than
tripled to 44,027 in 1988 from 13,268 in 1960.
                                                                                                       

   Intellectual property -- Cases nearly quadrupled to 6,059
in 1988 from 1,585 in 1961.
                                                                                                       

   Misleading advertising claims -- From 1946 to 1976, 16 ad
cases were filed by rival firms under the Lahham Act. From
1980 to 1984, 49 such cases were filed.
                                                                                                       

   Bankruptcy -- Business bankruptcy filings under Chapter 11
quadrupled to 23,675 in 1987 from 5,557 in 1979.
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Marc Galanter and Joel Rogers
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury offerings are tentatively
scheduled for sale this week, according to Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                           TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $20 billion in three and six-month bills.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   More Courts Find State Constitutions
   Offer Wider Protection of Civil Liberties
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When the Supreme Court ruled last April that
Oregon could prohibit religious use of the drug peyote, civil
liberties lawyers warned that the decision would erode
religious freedom.
   But while dire predictions may be warranted about the
decision's effect on First Amendment freedoms, the impact may
be limited by an important, continuing trend in
constitutional law: reliance on state constitutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last month, the Minnesota Supreme Court ruled that its own
state constitution provides greater protection for religious
freedom than does the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution. As a result, the Minnesota court declined to
require the Amish community to comply with a state law that
they almost surely would have had to obey under the reasoning
of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision last spring.
   This is just one illustration of one of the most
significant developments in modern constitutional law. With
increasing frequency, state courts are deciding that their
state constitutions afford greater protection to many civil
liberties than the U.S. Supreme Court's interpretation of the
federal Constitution. More than 500 state supreme court
decisions have followed this trend, about three-fourths of
them in the last decade.
   This development first came to public attention in 1977,
when the Harvard Law Review published a speech by
then-Supreme Court Justice William Brennan suggesting that
civil-liberties lawyers might look to state constitutions,
especially as the high court grows reluctant to give
expansive readings to the U.S. Constitution.
   Under this approach, subsequently validated by the Supreme
Court, the high court's interpretations of the U.S.
Constitution are a floor, not a ceiling. State courts can't
provide less protection for civil liberties than the U.S.
Constitution guarantees, but they may provide more.
   The Minnesota case shows how this approach works. Police
officials gave traffic tickets to members of the Amish
community who refused to display "slow-moving vehicle"
reflectors on the back of their horse-drawn buggies. The
Amish asked a state court to throw out the tickets. They
argued that displaying the yellow, orange and red reflector
triangles would violate their religious beliefs, which
require them to remain separate from the modern world and to
avoid "worldly symbols."
   In 1989, the Minnesota Supreme Court said enforcing the
reflector law against the Amish violated the First Amendment
guarantee of "free exercise" of religion, which the U.S.
Supreme Court had interpreted to mean that states should try
to accommodate religious practices.
   Then, last April, in an opinion written by Justice Antonin
Scalia, the U.S. Supreme Court said states may enforce laws
that are generally applicable to everyone -- without making
exceptions for religious groups. The justices upheld Oregon's
criminal ban on use of peyote in ceremonies of the Native
American Church. Experts said this was a major change in
course for the high court, although Justice Scalia said his
ruling was more limited than that.
   Minnesota had appealed the Amish case to the U.S. Supreme
Court, and a few days after the peyote decision, the justices
told the Minnesota court to reconsider its Amish ruling.
   When the Minnesota court took a new look at the case,
however, the judges decided they didn't need the U.S.
Constitution at all. Instead, they concluded that Article I,
Section 16 of the Minnesota Constitution, adopted in 1858,
provides "a broad protection for religious freedom." The
reflector law violated the state constitutional rights of the
Amish, the Minnesota court said. The state's safety concerns
could be satisfied by the Amish using reflector tape and red
lanterns, which the religious order said wouldn't violate its
beliefs.
   There is a poignancy to the use of the approach signaled
by Justice Brennan in the Amish case. Justice Brennan, who
retired in July, wrote the U.S. Supreme Court's landmark 1963
decision that was all but overruled by Justice Scalia's April
opinion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equifax, Telecredit
   Stock Swap Approved
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EFX TCRD
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Equifax Inc. and Telecredit Inc. said
shareholders of both companies approved Equifax's acquisition
of Telecredit in a stock swap valued at $513 million.
   The merger makes Telecredit a wholly owned subsidiary of
Equifax through a tax-free exchange of 2.86 shares of Equifax
for each share of Telecredit. That number was raised from
2.69 in November to compensate for a decline in Equifax stock
value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Equifax provides services such as insurance information
reporting, credit verification and direct-mail marketing
assistance. The company said Lee Ault will remain chief
executive officer of Telecredit, which is based in Los
Angeles. The company's main operations are in Tampa, Fla.,
and its primary services are check authorization and
credit-card processing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Why We Don't Vote -- Or Say `Thank You'
   ----
   By Stephen Knack
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   Voter turnout is supposed to be an indicator of the
public's support for democratic institutions, so the
declining voter turnout in American elections has raised deep
concern. The most commonly advanced explanation for the
decline in voter turnout is that voters have been
disillusioned by Vietnam and Watergate, the rise of PACs and
negative campaigning. This explanation is almost certainly
wrong. Analyses of election survey data collected by the
University of Michigan's Survey Research Center show that
respondents with high levels of political cynicism and low
trust in government vote at nearly the same rate as
respondents with high trust and low cynicism.
   So why don't Americans vote? Instead of viewing the issue
of voter turnout in a narrowly political context, think of
voting as just one particular type of socially cooperative
behavior. What all of these types of behavior have in common
is a conflict for the individual between the course of action
that would be beneficial to every member of the group of
which the individual is a part and the narrow self-interest
of the individual himself. Individuals can be taught to
identify their interest with that of the group as a whole,
and this can lead to beneficial outcomes for everybody. But
that teaching seems not to be working any longer, because
socially cooperative behavior generally has been declining in
the U.S. over the past 30 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1960, 63% of eligible voters cast ballots in the
presidential election. That figure fell steadily to 50% in
the 1988 election. The 36.4% turnout in the 1990
congressional elections matched the record low in 1986.
   At the same time, fewer Americans are bothering to become
informed citizens. Daily newspaper readership fell to 51% of
adults in 1988 from 73% in 1967. The combined Nielsen rating
of the three major networks' evening news programs is down by
about 25% from its levels of 10 years ago. The increasing
popularity of cable news programs accounts for only a small
fraction of network news' decline.
   The response rate to the Census fell to about 63% in 1990
from about 75% in 1980. There is a near perfect match between
Census responsiveness and voting: States with the lowest
rates of cooperation with the Census also had the lowest
turnouts.
   Survey researchers at the Michigan Survey Center and
elsewhere report a gradual rise over the past few decades in
the number of subjects contacted who refuse to be
interviewed. There is good evidence that these nonrespondents
tend to be nonvoters also.
   Crime is obviously uncooperative behavior. And crime rates
are sharply up from their levels of 30 years ago. It also
turns out that at both the state and the neighborhood level,
the higher the crime rate the lower the voter turnout rate.
   The Higher Education Research Institute at the University
of California at Los Angeles has conducted nationwide surveys
of college freshmen since 1966. The percentage of students
admitting to cheating on exams has risen steadily to 36.6% in
1988 from 20.6% in 1966.
   Controlling for income, tax inducements and other
variables, charitable contributions have trended downward
since 1948 -- a drop that has accelerated in more recent
years.
   Similarly, income tax compliance has fallen since
estimates were first compiled by the IRS in 1963.
   Americans are becoming more mistrustful of their
fellow-citizens. Since 1964, surveys have asked respondents
whether they believe that "most people can be trusted" or,
alternatively, that "you can't be too careful in dealing with
people." In all three polls conducted in the 1960s that asked
this question, at least 53% of respondents agreed that people
were generally trustworthy. In the 17 surveys conducted since
1970, the figure reached as high as 51% only once (in 1976),
and has often dipped into the upper thirties.
   Finally, the fall in voter turnout is consistent with
widespread impressions of a decline in "common" courtesy,
more frequent violations of driver etiquette and even with an
observed increase in the self-glorification of college and
professional athletes. In all of these instances, individuals
are choosing courses of action that are in their own
self-interest (narrowly defined) over actions that benefit
all the members of society.
   People act in the interests of society as a whole
surprisingly often, motivated both by "internal" sanctions
such as guilt, and "external" sanctions such as ostracism. A
recent study by Tom Tyler of Northwestern University argues
that compliance even with criminal law is influenced more by
feelings of obligation and by peer disapproval than by the
fear of prison. While many explanations could conceivably be
offered to account for the downward trend in each individual
form of cooperative behavior, a theory that focused on the
weakening of the "internal" and "external" sanctions that
control selfish behavior would explain a lot with a little.
   Although voter participation has always been lower among
those lacking an interest in politics or a sense of civic
obligation, the decline in turnout since 1960 has been
especially large among this group. This pattern is exactly
what would be expected if voting is a response to pressures
from family, neighbors and community institutions such as
churches. People who vote primarily because of the
expectations of others will be the first to drop out of the
electorate when the expectations of others begin to matter
less.
   And there is evidence that Americans are less susceptible
to the pressures of others than they used to be. Surveys
indicate, for example, that Americans feel slightly less
obliged to vote than they did in 1960 -- a response that came
as a considerable surprise to political scientists, because
of the sizable gains during the past 30 years in the
population's average years of education, with which civic
duty measures are closely associated. A 1989 study by People
for the American Way found the diminishing sense of civic
obligation to be most pronounced among young people.
   As fewer Americans live in the town in which they grew up,
people seem (insofar as it can be measured) to be spending
less time socializing with their parents, siblings and
neighbors. Church membership declined to 65% in 1988 from 73%
in 1965, and church attendance has similarly fallen.
   Census figures also show a rise in the number of single
adults: 37.3% of all adults in 1988, up from 26.8% in 1965.
Married people, like churchgoers and people who interact a
lot with their neighbors, are found in virtually all studies
to vote at significantly higher rates than unmarried people
of the same age and income.
   Fewer than 5% of contemporary American families include at
least one extra adult in the house -- such as a grandparent,
aunt or uncle -- compared to about one-half of families early
in the century. To the extent that bequest motives influence
personal savings decisions, a weakening of intergenerational
family ties is consistent with the recent plunge in the
savings rate to record lows.
   The proportion of one-parent families more than doubled to
23.1% of families with children in 1988 from 11.1% in 1970.
In 1960 only 18.6% of married mothers with children under 6
worked outside the home; this figure had increased to 57.1%
by 1988. For married mothers with children between 6 and 17,
the labor force participation rate rose to 72.5% from 39%
over the same period.
   James Coleman of the University of Chicago has argued that
increasing urbanization and high mobility rates may impede
the internalization of cooperative norms by children. A
child's misbehavior as an adult is less able to harm the
family's interests than in an earlier era, when children
often lived their entire lives in the same small communities
they were raised in.
   Predictions of a rebound in civic mindedness are thus both
misguided and naive. The belief that civic involvement is
cyclical, as Arthur Schlesinger and others have argued, has
little to support it, either theoretically or empirically.
   The view that trends in cooperative behavior merely
reflect autonomously changing tastes and preferences -- as if
the subject were dress lengths -- appears less plausible year
by year. In spite of periodic attempts in the media to
proclaim an end to the era of selfishness -- see Newsweek's
Jan. 4, 1988, cover story "The End of Greed" -- there are few
signs of improvement in any of the indicators of civic
mindedness.
   ---
   Mr. Knack is a doctoral candidate in economics at the
University of Maryland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UtiliCorp Unit Wins Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   UCU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- UtiliCorp United said Kansas
regulators granted its Kansas Public Service a $1.1 million,
or 7.5%, annual increase in gas rates.
   The utility holding company had sought a $1.6 million, or
11%, increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Holiday Notice
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal will not be published Tuesday, New
Year's Day. Today's edition is one section.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   George Melloan is on vacation. His Global View column will
return next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   China's Leaders
   Approve a Plan
   For Next 5 Years
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- China's leaders approved a vague Five-Year Plan
that offers few changes or surprises but gives them a good
deal of leeway to manage the economy.
   The plan was announced yesterday after a six-day Communist
Party plenum in Beijing involving 584 senior party members.
The main thrust of the 1991-95 guidelines is to retain
current economic reforms while looking for ways to keep most
economic activity under government control. But the plan also
will hold in reserve some more-radical reform tools for use
should emergencies arise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The economic blueprint reflects Beijing's continued
concern with maintaining stability in a country undermined by
widespread unemployment, growing income disparities and a
draining dependence on state subsidies. Moreover, Beijing
hardliners have encountered strong resistance to a full-scale
economic retrenchment in several pre-plenum meetings.
   While conservative leaders might have wanted to turn the
clock back on economic reform or find ways to reconcile
Marxism with a market economy, the instinct for
self-preservation has won out.
   A statement after the plenum said China's future depended
on the "universal truth of Marxism." But it also said reforms
in "prices, finance, taxation, banking, planning, investment
and labor and wages . . . should center around the goal of
establishing a new economic system."
   The details of the documents that party leaders approved,
including a 10-year blueprint for longer-term goals similar
to those of the Five-Year Plan, weren't publicized. Some
information will be made public when China's rubber-stamp
parliament, the National People's Congress, approves the plan
in March. The Five-Year Plan isn't as crucial to China's
economy as it used to be. After a decade of reform, much of
China's economy operates outside the plan, and its chief
function is to allocate credit and approve major construction
projects -- not allot materials and set output levels, as it
once did.
   Based on bits of information that trickle through, China
seems headed for much of the same. Foreign investment will be
welcomed, but the government will continue to be more
selective. Top priorities are needed technology and factories
making products currently imported.
   In a widely expected change, the central government's
construction money, as well as infrastructure loans provided
by foreign countries and world development organizations,
will be aimed at central China -- the provinces bordering the
Yangtze River and its gateway, Shanghai. The idea is to bring
prosperity from the coast into China's heartland and ease
income disparities. The 1985-90 plan emphasized southern
China and five special economic zones, and their prosperity
has far outpaced the rest of the country.
   The most troublesome issues, which sparked fierce debate
and delayed the party plenum for several months, remain
mostly unresolved. The provinces and the central government
haven't agreed on a new tax structure. Currently, all taxes
are collected by local officials, and payments are fixed
amounts set by contract. Thus, tax revenues don't rise as the
economy grows and most of the money is siphoned off before it
reaches Beijing, which faces a $14 billion budget deficit
this year.
   It also appears that no innovative methods were devised
for ending China's addiction to subsidies to citizens in the
form of cheap rent, food and transportation and to
state-owned corporations to keep them afloat.
   The party has set the vague goal of reducing price
subsidies over time if opportune circumstances arise. Since
they ordered troops to fire on demonstrators in Beijing in
June 1989, China's leaders have been consumed by fears of
instability -- so no radical price reforms are planned.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hadson Energy Acquires Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HERC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY -- Hadson Energy Resources Corp. said it
acquired Baruch-Foster Corp. for $16.9 million.
   The energy concern said Dallas-based Baruch-Foster adds an
estimated 2.3 million barrels of oil and 9.5 billion cubic
feet of gas to its reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   NASD Set
   To Propose
   Uptick Rule
   ---
   Association Asserts
   Companies Want It
   Citing Fear of Shorts
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
OTC GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (OTC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The self-regulatory body for the
over-the-counter stock market is considering imposing a new
rule designed to make it tougher for bearish investors to
spark a big sell-off in an OTC stock.
   The National Association of Securities Dealers today is
mailing out requests for public comment on whether to impose
the new curb, known as an "uptick rule."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Already in place on the competing New York and American
stock exchanges, uptick rules are designed to curb abuses of
short-selling -- the practice of betting that a stock's price
will fall rather than rise. Short-sellers borrow stock and
immediately sell it, hoping to profit later when they
purchase cheaper shares to return to the lender.
   Critics of short-selling have long charged that the
bad-news bears can trigger a price avalanche by selling
heavily just as prices are falling. Under an uptick rule,
short-selling is forbidden except at moments when the last
previous trade in a stock was higher -- that is, made on an
uptick.
   "We are getting a growing number of requests from
companies and investors" for an uptick rule or similar test,
says NASD President Joseph R. Hardiman. "They have the
perception -- and I suggest it is just that -- that it's
easier to sell short a Nasdaq-listed security than a
comparable exchange-listed security." Nasdaq is the
computerized market that handles OTC trades.
   "We have lost some companies to the exchanges this year
because of the absence of a comparable uptick test," Mr.
Hardiman adds, declining to name those companies. Nearly 75
companies defected to the exchanges from Nasdaq this year,
less than 2% of all Nasdaq companies and about the same rate
as last year.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission first imposed an
uptick rule on the major exchanges in 1938 following public
outcry over stock-price swoons of the Depression era. This
year, regulators have faced renewed pressure to monitor
short-selling, as bank stocks among others have become
popular targets. The total amount of stock sold short on the
two major exchanges and Nasdaq hit record levels this fall,
reflecting widespread gloom about the economy and the Mideast
crisis.
   The NASD's move comes as both the SEC and lawmakers are
dusting off proposals to control short-selling abuses. Next
month, the SEC staff will present the full commission with a
year-old suggestion that short-sellers be required to
publicly disclose short positions of 5% or more of a
company's common shares outstanding, said Richard Ketchum,
director of the SEC's division of market regulation.
   A draft bill embracing a similar provision is expected to
be introduced in the next session of Congress by Rep. Doug
Barnard (D., Ga.), and prompted the SEC review, Mr. Ketchum
said. The Association of Publicly Traded Companies, a
Washington trade group of smaller companies, has actively
lobbied for the disclosure requirement. Mr. Ketchum, however,
noted that he has previously questioned whether such a
restriction would be effective enough to justify the expense
of implementing it.
   Investors, company officials, regulators and traders are
divided on whether further requlation of short-sellers would
discourage some professionals from ganging up on OTC stocks.
   An uptick rule "would prevent people from unmercifully
banging a stock down, which creates its own version of panic
among regular holders," said John LaPorte, manager of T. Rowe
Price Associates' New Horizons Fund of Baltimore. "I'm happy
to hear it's going to be considered."
   Others, however, question how effective the limit has been
on exchange-listed shares. "The general consensus indicates
that the uptick rule really doesn't prevent (abusive)
shorting," said John Guion, president of the Association of
Publicly Traded Companies. A 1976 SEC staff study of the
so-called "tick test" concluded that it was costly and
ineffective.
   "Its most important benefit would be to keep the exchanges
from beating Nasdaq over the head with the fact that they
have an uptick rule and Nasdaq doesn't," Mr. Guion added.
   Two companies that now trade on the New York Stock
Exchange say they haven't seen any noticeable change in the
heavy short-selling of their stocks since they left Nasdaq.
   "It didn't seem to make much of a difference for us," says
a spokeswoman for L.A. Gear, which reported a short position
of more than 6.2 million shares in mid-December -- more than
one-third of the shares of the athletic-footwear maker. The
short position in L.A. Gear dropped more than 22% within six
months after the company's 1989 listing on the New York
exchange, but resumed climbing this year as the company's
1990 earnings fell below the previous year's. At Friday's
close of 13 5/8, down 3/4, L.A. Gear is trading at less than
a third of the 50 3/8 peak reached in June.
   Golden Valley Microwave, which made headlines starting in
1988 as one of the most popular short-selling targets in the
OTC market, still attracts bears. "If you look at the
activity and the short position, it's actually greater now
than it was a couple of years ago," says a spokesman for the
Minneapolis maker of microwave-oven foods. Since it peaked at
25 7/8 in June, Golden Valley's stock has toppled to Friday's
close of 10 1/4, down 3/8, as the company warned of flat
earnings.
   Traders, who have no love for increased regulation and who
earn commissions from the shorts' trades, aren't lobbying for
any uptick rule for the OTC market. "It wouldn't make a
difference," says E.E. "Buzz" Geduld, president of Herzog,
Heine &amp; Geduld in New York. "People still short stocks on the
New York exchange" even with its uptick rule, he says.
   The nation's largest short-selling pool is increasingly
active in exchange-listed stocks, says Joseph Feshbach, who
oversees the nearly $1 billion pool of short positions for
Stockbridge Partners of Palo Alto, Calif. "We're short a lot
of exchange-listed stocks now and it hasn't made one bit of
difference," he said.
   Mr. Feshbach conceded that an uptick rule would limit the
number of transactions his firm could execute on the OTC
market. But he questioned whether the rule could be easily
implemented. Unlike the auction-type market or the exchanges,
where orders are funneled to one specialist and result in
single "last" trades, the OTC market consists of multiple
negotiations among dealers.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks edged higher in moderately active
year-end trading.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index inched up 0.15 to 371.20, a
0.04% gain, but ended the week 0.6% lower. Trading
accelerated Friday to 132.3 million shares from 102.7 million
Thursday. Declining issues outpaced advancers, 994 to 874.
   The OTC's most active issues were mixed. MCI
Communications, the day's most active stock, eased 1/4 to 18
3/4, Sun Microsystems fell 1/4 to 21 7/8, United Healthcare
slipped 1/8 to 23 and Apple Computer declined 1/2 to 43.
   CoreStates Financial, the day's second most active stock,
closed unchanged at 31 5/8; Oracle Systems rose 3/8 to 8 and
Intel added 7/8 to 37 7/8.
   VeloBind skidded 2 1/8 to 7. The U.S. Department of
Justice confirmed that it will ask a federal court to block
General Binding's proposed $9.77-a-share acquisition of
VeloBind, on antitrust grounds. VeloBind is a Fremont,
Calif., maker of book and document binding equipment and
General Binding, which fell 1 to 15, is a Northbrook, Ill.,
maker of business machines and supplies.
   Great Lakes Bancorp slipped 1 1/2 to 8. The Ann Arbor,
Mich., savings bank said that it plans to add between $15
million and $18 million to its reserves and to separately
write off a portion of its good will. As a result, the thrift
said that it expects to report a fourth-quarter loss and a
loss for the year.
   Applied Biosystems jumped 2 to 11 1/4. Merrill Lynch
biotechnology analyst Stuart Weisbrod upgraded his
intermediate-term investment opinion on the Foster City,
Calif., biotechnology company to "above average" from
"neutral," citing the increased demand he expects for the
company's instruments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Look Deeper: Fear
   Of Drugs Is Still High
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   Your Nov. 19 page-one article about drugs and public
opinion revealed the persistence of the drug crisis but
understated Americans' resolve to confront the problem.
   You described a "falloff in public concern about drugs"
and cited evidence from a Wall Street Journal/NBC poll. But
you should be careful in references to opinion polls. When
someone is surveyed, they are usually asked two kinds of
questions. One is open-ended, asking the respondent to list
what he or she thinks are the most critical issues facing the
nation. The other kind of question is more structured, asking
respondents to rate a list of issues on a scale, for example,
from "unimportant" to "crucial." Answers to the open-ended
questions can change week to week, depending on current
events. Answers to the rating-type questions provide a more
accurate picture of people's long-term concerns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Gordon Black, the pollster your reporter
interviewed, people's responses to the structured questions
about drugs "haven't changed at all." Americans consistently
rate drugs as a crucial issue that will require long-term
attention by government. However, if someone were asked today
to state the most important issue facing the nation, he most
likely would say the Persian Gulf crisis or the impending
recession. In other words, the drug crisis is no less
important to Americans that it was a year ago. There simply
are a greater number of critical issues today.
   I agree that as crises recede from the middle class, they
often become "ghettoized," as you call it, and fall from
public view. As acceptance and casual use of drugs decrease,
we run the risk of complacency with the current state of
anti-drug efforts. But the drop-off in drug acceptance has
not just occurred among the white middle class. Mr. Black
maintains that African-Americans and Hispanics have changed
their attitudes as much, if not more, than white Americans.
The drug crisis hinges on the ever-increasing number of
hard-core addicts of all classes and races.
   Drugs directly affect a number of issues, such as crime,
AIDS and health care, that Americans rank high in importance.
References to opinion polls often do not show the
interrelatedness of these topics and therefore fail to reveal
the extent of people's concern.
   Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D., N.Y.)
   Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Passing Up a Killing
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   After reading your Nov. 15 article "Paramount Unit Shelves
a Novel on Serial Killer," I felt a sense of relief. It is
quite refreshing to hear that there are responsible
executives who put public interest and taste before the
almighty dollar.
   Kathleen Edwards
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Griffith, Ind.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Las Vegas Confronts Economic Crunch
   As Rapid Expansion Bumps Into Slump
   ----
   By Neil Barsky and Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Las Vegas, Nev., the fastest growing city in the nation,
faces an economic squeeze.
   The city's ambitious development plans are coming to
fruition just as the regional economy is beginning to slow.
Even as the city's gambling industry is adding thousands of
new hotel rooms, many casinos have been laying off workers.
And just as thousands of new homes are ready to go on the
market, housing sales are falling.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Las Vegas is an accident waiting to happen," says David
Shulman, a Salomon Brothers economist who tracks real estate
markets. "The only reason Las Vegas has been booming is
because it was on the periphery of Southern California. Now,
that's stopped and things are bound to change."
   Exciting new projects and aggressive marketing could help
the casinos goose their gambling numbers for a while --
barring a shooting war in the Mideast that plays havoc with
fuel supplies. But the same can't be said in the housing
industry, where out-of-state wealth has fueled growth over
the past decade.
   As a city that thrived on the free-spending ways of
others, Las Vegas was made for the 1980s. It grew up during
those years from a purely gambling town to a destination
resort attracting families and conventioneers. While gamblers
spent money wildly, builders transformed the Las Vegas
valley's dirt roads, rock and sand into a carpet of housing
developments, man-made ponds and golf courses. Jobs, crisp
desert air and the cheap cost of living lured immigrants from
around the country, and the population nearly doubled, to
780,000 residents from fewer than 450,000.
   "We are now a mature and diverse community that just
doesn't have the same reliance on casino gaming as it once
did," boasts Don Haze, a commercial real estate broker who
opened a Coldwell Banker commercial leasing office in 1981.
   But a lengthy downturn could undo some of the
image-building that Las Vegas underwent in the 1980s. "You
must remember that the people who have been successful in
this town have always had their feet on the gas pedal," says
R. Keith Schwer, of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas's
Center for Business and Economic Research. When the city was
hit by the recession of 1981, tourism spending grew a little
less than 1%, though visitor volume posted a slight decline.
"The movers and shakers have not been conditioned to deal
with great economic downturns," Mr. Schwer says.
   The recession in the early '80s spurred city leaders to
mount a campaign to help Las Vegas break out of its
dependency on the casino industry. In 1983, the Nevada state
Legislature passed a law permitting interstate banking that
led Citibank to move its credit card distribution center to
Las Vegas. Today, 2,000 people work there. By contrast, the
city's huge new Mirage casino employs about 7,000.
   But almost no major companies have followed Citibank's
lead. The Nevada Development Authority estimates that in the
past two years only 3,103 new jobs were created by private
sector firms either expanding or moving into Nevada. As a
result, experts say, the economy still lacks the diversity
that would help it weather another prolonged downturn.
   Still, Las Vegas isn't Phoenix, and there haven't been any
billion-dollar thrift seizures or distressed land sales yet.
Even the most pessimistic economists expect Nevada's
population growth to remain healthy. What's more, the
national credit crunch has saved developers from building
projects with no prospect of success.
   "What we need to do now is take a few deep breaths," says
Donald Snyder, chairman and chief executive of First
Interstate Bank of Nevada, a unit of First Interstate Bancorp
and Nevada's biggest bank.
   Las Vegas does have excesses that are uniquely its own.
Huge new Disney-like facilities such as the 3,000-room Mirage
and the 4,000-room Excalibur have forced the industry into a
Darwinian struggle in which older, undercapitalized
facilities are falling behind more modern competitors.
   "The strong will survive," says Golden Nugget's chairman,
Stephen Wynn, whose $710 million Mirage continues to lure
crowds from neighboring casinos. "But I am worried about some
of our competitors. You can't just build boxes, rent out the
rooms and get by anymore."
   Size is no indicator of success, either.
   Bally Manufacturing Corp., one of the nation's biggest
gambling companies, has defaulted on its casino debt, and it
has trimmed its staff by 600 workers. Other big names have
also hit cold streaks. At Hilton Hotels Corp., high-roller
competition from the Mirage and Caesars Palace has cut into
operating profit, which fell 50% in the third quarter. Now
Hilton, Nevada's biggest employer, plans to trim operating
costs -- and staff -- in Las Vegas by about 8%. Altogether,
that means layoffs of more than 500.
   Other once-proud Las Vegas names have been tarnished by
closings and bankruptcy filings. The Landmark hotel and
casino shut its doors earlier this year; the Aladdin has
filed for bankruptcy protection and is slated for auction.
Meanwhile, aging casinos like the Dunes and the Stardust have
struggled to keep pace.
   And even before the town has recovered from the one-two
punch of the Excalibur and Mirage, the industry faces another
challenge from MGM Grand Inc.'s Kirk Kerkorian, who has vowed
to forge ahead with plans for a 5,000-room megafacility. Add
to that the Riviera's 1,600-room new wing, the Stardust's
additional 1,200 rooms and dozens of other projects on the
boards, and further fallout appears certain.
   "It's what I call the rule of 500," says Alan Pomerantz, a
real estate attorney with Weil, Gotshal &amp; Manges in New York
City. "If a city projects a need for 500 hotel rooms, then
500 developers will build 500 hotels each with 500 rooms."
   The rule of 500 appears to apply to residential
developers, as well. While the twin engines of Las Vegas's
housing growth -- the casino industry and the spillover from
the California market -- are beginning to sputter, housing
starts continue to climb. Over the next year, builders have
applied for permits to put up more than 49,000 housing units
in Clark County, which includes Las Vegas.
   Tight credit could keep as many as 30% from being built,
says Glen Barton of the Meyers Group, a market research
company based in Los Angeles. But that would still leave
34,000 new homes and apartments to absorb.
   Economists cite another disturbing trend in Las Vegas's
growth pattern: A full 8.1% of all payroll workers are in the
construction sector, suggesting that there aren't enough
indigenous industries to pick up the slack once things quiet
down.
   And home buying has begun to taper off. According to the
Meyers Group, the number of home sales in the third quarter
dropped 27.3% from a year earlier, while the inventory of
unsold homes was up 15.4%.
   Consider the case of Leon Cohen, a 75-year-old former real
estate broker from Encino, Calif. He cashed in on the
California real estate boom last year and moved to the
serenity of the Nevada desert, where he lives in Del Webb
Corp.'s Sun City, a planned community. As a retiree and
former Californian, Mr. Cohen is the type of resident Las
Vegas planners dreamed of when they imagined an economy freed
from the cyclical whims of the gambling industry.
   But there may not be many Leon Cohens left. "With the
California real estate market going down, I'm sure I couldn't
have made my deal today," he says. "I was lucky things went
so well in California when they did."
   Some development companies are betting that any slowdown
will be brief and are plunging ahead with ambitious projects.
One is a 25-village city-within-a-city called Summerlin,
developed by Howard Hughes Properties. Designed on 39 square
miles of property, the project won't be completed until early
next century. Construction has already begun on Lake Las
Vegas, a $3.5 billion project bankrolled by the Bass brothers
on 2,200 desert acres.
   "We all know there'll be a slowdown here, just like
there's going to be one everywhere," says Coldwell Banker's
Mr. Haze. "But they used to say that when California got a
cold, Las Vegas got pneumonia. Now I think when California
gets its cold, we just might only get a case of sniffles."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New York Convention-Site Inquiry Is Set
   ---
   City Looks at Possible Union Payoffs,
   Mob Influence at Javits Center
   ----
   By Stanley Penn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Jacob K. Javits Convention Center offers
trade-show exhibitors a chance to tap the nation's largest
marketplace. Owned and operated by a New York state
authority, it attracts three million visitors a year.
   But businesses find that displaying their wares at the
center can be a profit-draining ordeal. They complain of
rising theft of merchandise and of unions' power to impose
restrictive work rules that drive up costs. To circumvent the
union restrictions, some contractors that exhibitors use may
feel forced to resort to illegal payoffs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The unions' grip on the Javits exhibition business could
be eased, however, by a criminal investigation quietly
launched recently by Manhattan District Attorney Robert
Morgenthau. He is inquiring into whether union officials at
Javits are taking illegal payoffs from trade-show contractors
to guarantee labor peace and circumvent the costly work
rules.
   Investigators also are trying to determine how much
influence the mob wields at the center, which is the site of
the 1992 Democratic Party convention, and whether
contractors, in the interest of labor harmony, hire "ghosts,"
or people who collect pay but don't work.
   The trade-show contractors, most of whom are retained by
the exhibitors, hire carpenters to install the booths,
Teamsters to unload the freight, and exposition workers to
move the freight to the booths. The electricians, who supply
the power lines and connect equipment to outlets, are
employed by a contractor retained by Javits. The exhibitors
are billed by the contractors for labor charges incurred.
   Two large contractors say their payroll records have been
subpoenaed. Michael Cherkasky, chief of the district
attorney's rackets bureau, says, "We're not commenting on a
pending investigation."
   Although Javits enjoys a high 83% occupancy rate, at least
one trade show already has abandoned the center. The National
Shoe Fair, with 1,200 exhibitors, is moving to Chicago's
McCormick Place. The shoe fair's last show at Javits was last
August when labor costs and rental rates for the Javits show
totaled $1 million, according to Edward Launzel, show
manager. Labor-rental rates at McCormick Place will be an
estimated 15% less. "It costs too much to be in New York,"
Mr. Launzel says, noting that street crime and steep hotel
and restaurant rates also figured in the decision to abandon
New York.
   Michael Hough, operator of A/E/C Systems, a trade-show
management company in Newington, Conn., sounded out
exhibitors about the New York and Chicago trade show centers.
Mr. Hough says: "Our exhibitor surveys have said, `Chicago is
bad, but New York is even worse. Please don't take the show
to New York.'"
   Four key unions service Javits Center: Teamsters Local
807, Exposition Workers 829, the New York City District
Council of Carpenters and Electrical Workers Local 3.
   "We're aware of the investigation," says John Hohmann, the
Teamster local's secretary-treasurer. "But there's no problem
as far as any official of 807 is concerned. We enforce the
contract we have." The exposition and electrical workers
unions failed to respond to repeated requests for comment.
   In September, the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan
filed a civil racketeering suit against the 30,000-member
District Council of Carpenters, asserting that the labor
group is controlled by the Genovese crime family. The
complaint, charging that "illegal payoffs have become
virtually a way of life in the New York carpentry industry,"
seeks to replace District Council officers with a
court-appointed trusteeship. The carpenters council has
denounced the federal charges as baseless and hadn't any
comment on the Morgenthau investigation.
   Whether union officials are taking payoffs to bend the
work rules isn't known. What's clear is that Javits
exhibitors believe the work rules are cutting into their
profits.
   Says a computer-software exhibitor: "I had a small booth
in 1988 that I could have set up myself in an hour and a
half. Instead, I had to have three men -- two to set it up
and one to hang a picture, clean the booth, and stand around
and run errands. These extra labor costs -- you have to make
it up in sales."
   A wristwatch exhibitor describes his problems with the
electricians. "It takes just a couple of minutes to plug an
extension cord from the showcase into an outlet," the
exhibitor says. "Yet the union says I must hire an
electrician for it. At the February and June shows this year,
I paid for an electrician, though I wasn't happy about it. At
the September show, I plugged it in myself -- the night
before the show opened. The union guy came by, saw my
showcase lights were on, and asked who switched me on. I
didn't answer. He looked at the (electrical) box and said it
didn't look like the union did it. I didn't say anything.
Next morning, I came in an hour before the show opened. My
electricity was off. So I paid. Then a strange thing
happened. At the end of the show, they gave me back the
money. Was it because I bitched? I don't know."
   Tony Calanca, vice president of operations for Cahners
Exposition Group, a trade-show organizer based in Stamford,
Conn., points to low productivity. "We had a customer at one
of our computer shows who had a booth in New York and
Chicago. In Chicago, it took 50% of the electrical hours to
set up the same booth as it took" at Javits, Mr. Calanca
says.
   Labor rates at Javits, with few exceptions, are the
highest in the industry. Rates for electricians are $78.50 an
hour (straight time), compared with Las Vegas' $62, Chicago's
$55, the Los Angeles area's $45, and Atlanta's $28, according
to Tradeshow Week, an industry publication, in a survey. (The
rates include workers' wages and benefits and contractors'
profit and expenses.)
   Javits Center officials are aware of exhibitors' gripes.
Benjamin C. La Rosa, vice president of operations and labor
management, says Sol Chaikin, Javits' chairman and acting
president and the onetime president of the International
Ladies Garment Workers Union, recently met with more than 50
union officials to discuss productivity and employee honesty.
"Chaikin said, `We're in a competitive world, and we need
your help to stay competitive,'" Mr. La Rosa says.
   Marcello Svedese, former financial secretary for New York
Carpenters Local 17, says in a court affidavit that mob
associates receive carpenters' union jobs at Javits. The
jobs, he says, involve easy work at overtime rates and offer
the "opportunity to make even more money by shaking down
exhibitors, theft, and other rackets." The Svedese affidavit
is filed with the federal complaint against the Carpenters
District Council.
   Ralph Coppola, a Genovese Family associate, wields great
power at Javits Center as chief steward for the Carpenters
District Council, according to the federal complaint and the
Svedese affidavit. By controlling job assignments, the
complaint says, the district council can saddle employers
with disruptive and unskilled workers, raising the threat of
costly delays.
   Federal documents accompanying the complaint say Mr.
Coppola was imprisoned in New York for arson for nearly two
years and was paroled in March 1987. In November 1988, he was
appointed chief steward by Paschal McGuinness, district
council president. Mr. McGuinness, a defendant in the federal
complaint, didn't do anything wrong, according to the
carpenters union. Mr. Coppola, who isn't a defendant,
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Investigators are seeking evidence on whether the mob is
involved in the increased number of thefts at Javits.
   Early last month, two members of the Exposition Workers
were arrested on charges of theft and possession of $23,000
of crystal and glassware taken from gift shows at Javits. One
of the defendants confided to an informant "that he can
easily steal at any time from (Javits), and that he has
committed a number of thefts of freight and merchandise,"
says the felony complaint, filed in Manhattan criminal court.
   The police department's 10th Precinct, which has
jurisdiction over Javits, says exhibitors reported 115 felony
thefts in the first nine months, a 13% rise from 102 thefts
in the 1989 period. The value of the merchandise stolen in
the 1990 period declined, however, to $639,161 from
$1,234,559 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Agencies Give
   Legal Matters
   New Emphasis
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Advertising executives are out of work in record numbers,
thanks to the recession plaguing the media business. But amid
the flying pink slips, one area appears less vulnerable: the
legal department.
   Many ad officials say lawyers are the hottest commodity on
Madison Avenue. New attention is being given to legal
matters, they say, in large part because of a more aggressive
Federal Trade Commission. Crucial legal issues these days
involve the advertising production process and whether
agencies can properly substantiate the claims made in ads.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this month, for the first time in many years, the
FTC charged an ad agency for its part in what the FTC called
deceptive advertising. Before that, ad officials were shaken
by the Volvo disaster, in which Scali, McCabe, Sloves
resigned a $40 million account after it was found that an ad
created by Scali was rigged to make a Volvo look
indestructible.
   Ad lawyers say the increased business is coming largely
from small and midsized agencies looking to outside counsel
for advice on an as-needed basis. Douglas Wood, a partner at
Hall, Dickler, Lawler, Kent &amp; Friedman, says the number of
agencies it serves is up significantly from a year ago, with
a big increase coming from small agencies outside New York.
The firm, one of the largest law firms specializing in ad
law, now services about 150 shops. Another firm, Winston &amp;
Strawn, just over a month ago set up a division in New York
for advertising agency clients. "We think there's room for
building" clients on the ad law front, says Len Orkin, a
partner there.
   Most of the very largest agencies already have a number of
attorneys on staff. Leo Burnett, for example, has eight
lawyers devoting their full time to ad law issues. Young &amp;
Rubicam has seven. But a big chunk of those lawyers' time is
spent dealing with corporate matters, not with matters
pertaining to the production of commercials. Some ad
officials expect those lawyers to start concentrating more of
their efforts on ad-review issues.
   Regulations governing advertising haven't changed. But
lawyers say the ad industry relaxed during the Reagan
administration, when the industry was largely left alone to
regulate itself. Under the Bush administration, things have
changed. FTC Chairwoman Janet Steiger has made it clear that
agencies -- in certain circumstances -- will be held
responsible for their part in allegedly deceptive
advertising.
   In its first major action, the FTC recently charged Lewis
Galoob Toys and its agency, Towne, Silverstein, Rotter of New
York. The FTC said Galoob ads misrepresented the performance
of several toys. The company and the ad agency didn't admit
any wrongdoing but signed consent agreements and pledged to
avoid making deceptive ad claims in the future.
   Some industry officials worry that ad agencies aren't
prepared for the new aggressiveness at the FTC. In an unusual
warning to member agencies, the American Advertising
Federation recently sent out an alert that trouble is ahead
if agencies aren't well-counseled or aware of the situations
that could involve them in FTC proceedings. "The industry
needs to be aware that the FTC has these rules and they're
going to enforce them," says Wally Snyder, executive vice
president at the trade group.
   Says Rosemary Nelson, a lawyer at Young &amp; Rubicam who
heads a group of ad-industry lawyers: "I think we're going to
be more sensitive to the fact that we are now going to have
to deal with a more active FTC. We're going to have to focus
on that more." She insists, though, that a new sensitivity
doesn't mean that agencies have been lax on such matters in
the past. "Even during the period when it was less regulated,
I don't think we had our guard down," she says.
   Hall Dickler's Mr. Wood says, though, that many agencies
don't know exactly what legal requirements exist on their end
of the commercial production process. Agencies are calling
more than ever to find out what kind of substantiation data
they need to avoid problems, he says.
   Executives at Scali have said they didn't do anything
wrong in the Volvo case, but the incident has scared other
agency executives into implementing tighter controls over the
ad production process. "Certainly, those two cases {Volvo and
Lewis Galoob} are sobering ways to end the year from a legal
standpoint," Mr. Wood says. "But it really has opened the
eyes of many advertising executives who weren't key players
in the old era of an activist FTC."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Gates Rubber Co. named the Omaha, Neb.,
office of Bozell to handle its $1 million trade advertising
account. The Denver company, a subsidiary of Gates Corp.,
makes rubber products for automotive and industrial uses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Financial Titans
   Of Japan Adopt
   Cuddly Symbols
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's financial behemoths may look scary to
foreign competitors, but at home they show a different face.
   At the main entrance of the Industrial Bank of Japan
Ltd.'s austere, wedgeshaped headquarters in Tokyo,
stone-faced security guards stand toe-to-toe with
three-foot-tall Kewpie dolls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plump, rosy-faced cherubs with swirled topknots and
ambiguous gender beam cheerfully at passers-by from mounted
glass boxes. They're an odd match for the hard-driving
lender, the world's seventh-largest bank in terms of assets.
"We use Kewpie because it's cute," says Hiroyuki Komiya,
manager of the bank's public relations section, explaining
how the dolls help Industrial Bank promote its fixed-interest
savings products.
   Unlike big financial companies of Western nations, which
spend millions of dollars on advertisements calculated to
project images of prudence and sobriety, Japan's banks,
securities brokers and insurance companies like to keep
things light.
   Among the other distinguished celebrities who represent
the giants of Japanese finance: Mickey and Minnie Mouse,
occasional spokesmice for Mitsubishi Bank; the Little Prince,
the official mascot of the world's biggest brokerage firm,
Nomura Securities Co.; Pee Wee Herman, ringmaster of a kooky
children's television show and commercial standard-bearer for
Wako Securities Co.; and Bugs Bunny, who tells television
viewers what's up at Aizawa Securities Co.
   Robert Wilk, managing director of Infoplan, a marketing
research arm of McCann-Erickson Hakuhodo Inc., says: "The
basic object of these campaigns is to add some warmth to the
institution. It's not as silly as it seems."
   Mammoth Mitsui Taiyo-Kobe Bank Co., the world's
second-largest, is represented by British storybook character
Paddington Bear. The bear's furry visage turns up on
depositors' passbooks, as well as the barrage of posters,
calendars, handkerchiefs and coin banks Mitsui Taiyo-Kobe
hands out to savers as gifts.
   Of course, cuddly isn't everything. A few smaller Japanese
institutions seem willing to settle for silly. Earlier this
year, Wako Securities, a medium-sized securities firm, began
airing 30-second TV spots starring Pee Wee Herman. In the
commercials, a bow-tie-clad Mr. Herman careens madly across
the screen in a midget-sized car, crooning to the melody of
"Old McDonald Had a Farm." "Pee Wee Herman having fun]
Ee-ai-ee-ai-oo]" he intones in his trademark nasal whine.
   Wako's wackier image also has made it easier to recruit
new employees -- a big bonus in a nation where the lack of
manpower is acute. Prospective hires seem to like the idea of
working at "Pee Wee's company," a Wako official says.
   In theory, what works for Japanese financial institutions
should work for foreign firms, too, Japanese advertising
experts say. But so far Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., the only foreign
securities firm with a retailing operation in Japan, seems
reluctant to adopt the marketing techniques of local rivals.
The Japanese unit sticks to the logo of the bull used in the
U.S.
   "I don't know if the image of the bull means the same here
as it does in the United States," worries Toru Ichikawa,
manager for public affairs at Merrill's Tokyo office. In
fact, he confides, most Japanese investors see the creature
as "just a big farm animal," and some of them even may think
the bull suggests "something that is slow or stupid."
   Recently, a few of Japan's financial giants have tried to
lend their advertising campaigns a bit more sophistication.
Recently Daiwa Securities Co., flubbed its attempt to launch
a campaign using Nobel Prize-winning American economist Harry
Markowitz, an adviser to the company.
   Soon after Prof. Markowitz was named as one of this year's
Nobel recipients, Daiwa took out newspaper ads boasting,
"We've got Nobel Prize-winning intelligence ready to work for
you." Prof. Markowitz was irked by the ads and a
mistranslated newspaper report that suggested -- incorrectly,
Daiwa officials say -- the Japanese broker had named a new
investment product the "Nobel Fund."
   While collecting his prize in Stockholm, Prof. Markowitz
announced that he would not renew his contract with the
powerful brokerage firm, in part, he said, because its
advertisements were "not sufficiently tasteful."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Sunbelt Official
   Agrees to Plead
   Guilty to Charge
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The Justice Department said that Jerry W.
Peeples, the former president of the defunct Sunbelt Savings
Association of Texas, agreed to plead guilty to a charge of
causing a false statement to be made to the Federal Election
Commission.
   In a one-count criminal information filed in federal court
here, the government alleged that in July 1985 Mr. Peeples
caused the treasurer of the East Texas First Political Action
Committee to report a $1,000 contribution as being
voluntarily made by an individual. In fact, the information
charges, the money came from Sunbelt. Mr. Peeples faces a
maximum penalty of five years imprisonment and a $250,000
fine. Neither Mr. Peeples nor his attorney could be reached
for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the plea agreement filed with the court Friday
stipulates that Mr. Peeples, who has been working recently as
an accountant in Dallas, won't face charges relating to his
actions at Sunbelt as long as he fulfills the terms of the
agreement.
   Just last week, Edwin T. McBirney III agreed to plead
guilty to bank fraud and three other federal criminal charges
stemming from his role at Sunbelt, one of the more
spectacular Texas thrift collapses. Mr. McBirney's
cooperation was much prized by prosecutors because of his
extensive dealings with other thrifts and their executives
during the four years that he was chairman and chief
executive officer of Sunbelt Savings.
   In that time, Sunbelt made 145 loans totaling $523.3
million to directors, officers and shareholders of other
thrifts, according to thrift regulators, who tallied
Sunbelt's total losses at more than $2 billion. The thrift
was declared insolvent and merged in August 1988 with seven
other Texas thrifts into a new entity, Sunbelt Savings FSB.
   In a separate Texas thrift case, a federal court jury in
Dallas on Friday acquitted Bob R. Franks, a former director
of the defunct Metroplex Federal Savings Association, and his
onetime lawyer, Earl Rutledge of Hurst.
   The two men had been indicted in May on charges related to
the misuse of loan proceeds from Metroplex and charges that
they attempted to hamper the grand jury investigation of the
loan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Magma Power Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MGMA JPM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGMA POWER Co., San Diego, said J.P. Morgan &amp; Co., a New
York-based banking company, exercised a warrant to buy one
million shares of Magma common stock for $14 each, or $14
million. The operator of geothermal power plants issued the
warrant to Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York in 1987 in
connection with a financing agreement. The warrant was to
have expired today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern California Gas Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PET
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The California Public Utilities Commission
granted authority to Southern California Gas Co. to increase
its rates by $166 million effective Jan. 1.
   The average residential customer bill will increase by
about 6%, the regulators said. Southern California Gas is a
unit of Los Angeles-based Pacific Enterprises.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   Temperature Tantrum
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   We who dwell in the Northland
   Know all that winter brings:
   The white snowfall and rosy cheeks
   And the bracing wind that sings.
   Those who live in the Southland
   Miss all this in their mellow milieu,
   So do we envy our Southern friends?
   You bet your life we do]
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Domestic Choices
                                                                                                       

   Homeowners, face it: You have to be handy with a saw, a
hammer, a screwdriver -- or a checkbook.
   -- Robert Orben.
   ---
   Heavenly Advice
                                                                                                       

   The best thing you can say about a flying saucer is "no
comet."
   -- John Drybred.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Hangover: a toot ache.
   -- Mort Friedman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Union Camp, Chase Packaging
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 26
</SO>
<CO>
   UCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   WAYNE, N.J. -- Union Camp Corp., a paper, packaging and
chemicals concern, said it acquired all of the common and
preferred shares of Chase Packaging Corp., an Old Greenwich,
Conn., paper and plastic bag maker, for about $86 million,
after Chase shareholders approved the sale.
   Union Camp said the Chase acquisition will give the
company total bag sales of more than $500 million a year.
Union Camp had 1989 sales of $2.8 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Sergeant Died
   With Her Boots On
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   When Col. Antoine Lecerf of the French Foreign Legion
(page one, Nov. 13) says a woman would never don the famous
"kepi blanc" of a legionnaire, he is probably too late. If
P.C. Wren (author of "Beau Geste") is to be believed, one
did.
   Wren's book "The Wages of Virtue" contains an incident
involving a woman who served in the French Foreign Legion.
Criticized that this was absurd, Wren offered to accompany
the critic to North Africa and show him the tombstone, with
its official epitaph, of the female legionnaire. She was a
European woman who served for many years in the spahis, as a
cavalry trooper, and rose to the rank of sergeant. Only after
she died in battle was it discovered she was a woman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Elizabeth M. Weber
   Schenectady, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Philippines' GNP Rises 3.1%
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11A
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (IEI)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- The Philippine gross national
product (GNP) managed to grow at a slower pace of 3.1% during
the year, according to advanced estimates reported Friday by
the National Economic Development Authority.
   This compares with 5.7% growth in 1989 and 6.58% in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A series of natural calamities -- severe drought, an
earthquake and typhoons -- the Persian Gulf crisis and a
wider budget deficit pulled down the country's economic
performance, the agency said.
   The GNP measures the value of a country's output of goods
and services.
   The agency's advanced estimates placed personal
consumption at a higher growth of 6.2%, compared with 5.7% a
year earlier. Government consumption slacked to 3.7%, from
6.2%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caribbean Select in Chapter 11
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   CSEL
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND CITY, Fla. -- Caribbean Select Inc. said it has
filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The citrus company said it will file a
plan of reorganization within a short time that will provide
for the payment of creditors and the resolution of disputed
claims.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   French Consumer Prices Fall
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (IEI)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's consumer-price index fell 0.2% in
November from October, the National Statistics Institute
reported.
   The decline follows a rise of 0.5% in October and leaves
the year-to-year inflation rate at 3.6%, down from 3.9% in
October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The index, which is based on 1980 equaling 100, stood at
186.4, down from 186.7 in October and 180.0 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IBM Telecommunications Hub
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- International Business Machines
Corp. plans to establish a major telecommunications
networking hub for the Asia-Pacific region in Australia.
   The move would see the Armonk, N.Y., computer company
double its existing Sydney-based networking capacity over the
next two years. Regional hubs provide a secure and
cost-effective way for international companies to channel
their business data, computer communications and telephone
traffic throughout a region and around the world.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Inter Federal Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IFED WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   INTER FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (Chattanooga, Tenn.) -- W.
Allan Jones, 38 years old, owner of Credit Bureau Services
Inc. of Cleveland, Tenn., was elected to the board of this
savings bank, replacing Steve A. McKenzie, who resigned last
June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oklahoma, Where the Wavy Hair
   Gets to Be an Unusually Big Affair
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS CCB LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY -- Television newsman Jack Bowen claimed his
ex-employer had pulled the rug out from over him.
   When KWTV Channel 9 took Mr. Bowen off the air in June
after a stalemate on his contract, the deposed anchorman went
shopping for a new job. He also went shopping for new clothes
and a new toupee. The CBS affiliate refused to reimburse its
former anchor for his $994.67 tab, so he sued in small-claims
court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not one to split hairs, county judge Charles Humble noted
that Mr. Bowen's contract hadn't yet expired, so the station
must honor its contractual allowances for his hair and
clothes, even though he wore them to cross the street to
rival KOCO-TV, the ABC affiliate.
   So it goes in the nation's 40th largest television market,
where the industry is often as entertaining as its broadcast
fare. Puffed up by the 1970s booms in oil and gas and
broadcast television, Oklahoma City now has six commercial
stations. But with the economy in the ditch since 1982,
competition has been fierce over on-air personalities,
slogans and even charity drives.
   Like most of these clashes, the Bowen affair produced
considerable smoke and dust but little progress. Mr. Bowen
was back where he started, at the station that employed him
for 13 years before KWTV wooed him away in 1987. KWTV rehired
the anchor Mr. Bowen replaced then.
   Both sides managed to stay cool at first. Mr. Bowen
shelved his plans to sue KWTV for bad-faith bargaining. For
its part, the station held its fire after KOCO aired
advertisements urging viewers to "Get Back with Jack,"
starring the back of a Bowen look-alike. Only KWTV could
promote Mr. Bowen's name and image until his contract expired
in August, says KWTV Vice President Jerry G. Dalrymple, "but
we didn't see any point in making a stink over it." That is,
until Mr. Bowen submitted his final expense account.
   Mr. Bowen's new employer warned him that his lawsuit would
peel away not only his cranial cover-up but also his privacy,
disclosing his last salary at KWTV of $147,300, plus $3,000
for clothes and $1,500 for hair. Mr. Bowen says he wasn't
daunted. "I said, `Ooh, are they going to tell the public I
wear makeup too?'" he recalls.
   The court ordered KWTV to reimburse Mr. Bowen and
dismissed the station's counterclaim for breach of contract.
"After years of reporting on other people," he says, "it felt
so good to see the system would work for me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Energy Service Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ESV
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Energy Service Co. said it agreed to acquire
from Argosy Offshore Ltd., a Texas partnership, 20 supply and
utility vessels serving the Gulf of Mexico oil industry.
Energy Service will pay $26.3 million in cash and as much as
$5 million in merchandise credits from its supply division.
   The acquisition would increase the contract drilling and
oil service company's fleet to 38 vessels. The Argosy vessels
are all chartered exclusively to Chevron Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<LP>
   HOUSE OF FABRICS Inc.'s president and chief executive
officer, Gary L. Larkins, said in a letter to Fabricland Inc.
directors that the $13.50-a-share bid by House of Fabrics for
Fabricland was "both fair and generous" to Fabricland
shareholders. In the OTC Focus column in the Dec. 19 edition,
Mr. Larkin was misidentified as a Fabricland officer and his
comment was incorrectly attributed to the president of
Fabricland, which said it hadn't responded to the bid.
   (See: "OTC Focus: Discount-Rate Cut Sparks Late Rally;
Composite Index Climbs 1.2% to 370.17" -- WSJ Dec. 19, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   CHUO KAGAKU Co., a Japanese maker of food containers, said
it will sell a device, priced at the equivalent of $7,570, to
condense used plastic-foam containers at shops and
restaurants so they can be recycled as fuel for industrial
boilers. The price of the device was misstated in the Dec. 10
edition.
   (See: "International: World Wire" -- WSJ Dec. 10, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, December 28, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 9% high, 1% low, 1% near closing bid, 1%
offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight
use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source: Babcock Fulton
Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 9 1/2%-10%. The base rate on corporate loans
at large U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 6.50%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9% to 9 3/4%. The charge on loans to brokers
on stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.30% 30 to 44 days; 7.15% 45 to 59 days;
7.10% 60 to 89 days; 7.05% 90 to 119 days; 7% 120 to 149
days; 6.95% 150 to 179 days; 6.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 9% 30
days; 8.45% 60 days; 8.15% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.48% one month; 7.53% two
months; 7.51% three months; 7.47% six months; 7.60% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.57% one month; 7.62% three months;
7.57% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.25% 30 days; 8.04% 60 days; 7.87%
90 days; 7.70% 120 days; 7.54% 150 days; 7.19% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 7 13/16% - 7 11/16% one month; 7
5/8% - 7 1/2% two months; 7 5/8% - 7 1/2% three months; 7
9/16% - 7 7/16% four months; 7 9/16% - 7 7/16% five months; 7
9/16% - 7 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 7 5/8% one month;
7 9/16% three months; 7 9/16% six months; 7 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
Effective rate for contracts entered into two days from date
appearing at top of this column.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 12.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
8%; Switzerland 10.50%; Britain 14%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Friday, December 21, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
6.52% 13 weeks; 6.57% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.72%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
7.75%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.64%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 7.75%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.35%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equity Market Index Is Altered
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 18
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA MAT AGREA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- MCA Inc. was deleted from the recreational
products and services industry group of the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index, effective today. The company is being acquired
by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.
   Mattel Inc. and American Greetings Corp. Class A are being
added to the group, also effective today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Right and Wrong
   Distorted in Congress
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   I note (Politics &amp; Policy, Dec. 4) that Sen. Daniel Inouye
asserts that his "Keating Five" colleagues' actions in
support of a campaign contributor (Keating) were "vigorous,
but not improper." I submit that Sen. Inouye has no idea of
what does or does not represent proper conduct.
   Proper conduct in office is not a function of adhering to
rules and regulations; proper conduct is a question of
ethics, honesty and doing what is "right." The Keating Five
and most of Congress live by one simple rule: Do what you
have to do to remain in office. That the members of Congress
collectively justify their actions is a testimony to their
distorted view of what is right and wrong. It is no wonder
that to refer to an individual as a politician is to place in
question the person's honesty, integrity and personal goals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William H. Meyerholt
   Mentor, Ohio
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter One Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COFI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Charter One Financial Inc. said it expects to
report a net loss for the year following a one-time,
fourth-quarter charge of $28.2 million to write off the
bank's good will.
   Charter One said that excluding the charge, it expects to
report record earnings for the year. Last year's net was
$16.9 million, or $2.44 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charter One said writing off the bank's good will is
expected to eliminate annual operating expenses by about $1.3
million after tax.
   Good will represents the difference between the purchase
price of an asset and its fair market value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's November Jobless Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (IEI)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's seasonally adjusted jobless rate in
November was 2.1% of the labor force, down from 2.2% in
October, the statistics bureau of the prime minister's office
reported Friday.
   The bureau said there were 62.98 million jobholders in
November, an increase of 1.19 million workers, or 1.9%,
compared with the same month a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   November's decline in unemployment contrasts with
October's 1.5% year-on-year increase in the number of
jobless. October's figure had marked the first year-on-year
increase in the number of unemployed since October of 1987.
   November's figures indicate that Japan's labor market
remains tight. Officials at the Bank of Japan frequently cite
the need to combat inflationary pressures as they defend the
central bank's tight monetary policy.
   In November, 1.26 million people were unemployed, and the
decrease by 70,000 people from a year earlier represented a
5.3% decline, the bureau said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highland Superstores Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PLYMOUTH, Mich. -- Highland Superstores Inc. said it
reached agreement with its bank lenders to defer reducing the
consumer electronics concern's line of credit in January, as
they normally do.
   Under the agreement, the company said, $11 million of the
scheduled $22 million seasonal reduction has been deferred
and will be payable in installments through March 15, when $7
million of the deferred $11 million will be due.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Devaluation of Dinar
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   BELGRADE, Yugoslavia -- Premier Ante Markovic said the
dinar would be devalued by 22.2% against the German mark
under reform plans announced Friday to both chambers of the
federal Parliament.
   The government appealed to Parliament to accept planned
economic reforms, warning that 1991 is "crucial" for the
survival of the fractious federation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Markovic told deputies that, beginning Tuesday, the
dinar would be pegged to the mark at a rate of nine dinars to
one mark. The previous rate was seven dinars to one mark.
   The premier also called for a wage freeze to help keep
inflation down and for ceilings on public spending by the
federation and Yugoslavia's six republics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Western Financial Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FWES
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- First Western Financial Corp., in talks
with an unidentified potential buyer, said it set a record
date of Jan. 11 for an annual shareholders meeting on Feb.
14.
   R.G. Taylor, chairman of the savings and loan holding
company, said the meeting, originally scheduled for Nov. 29,
had been deferred to allow management to concentrate on talks
with the possible buyer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Taylor said that any acquisition agreement reached in
the near future isn't likely to be submitted to shareholders
until after the February meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cushioning the Impact
   Of Desk Workers' Stress
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   IF NATHAN Edelson has his way, man will return not to the
sea but to the floor.
   Mr. Edelson, a designer in Missoula, Mont., has put
together a three-piece set -- two foam cushions and a little
wooden desk -- that he hopes home office workers will use
instead of chairs and big desks. With his Wedge System,
people can sit or lie on the floor, in various positions,
while using a laptop computer or doing other tasks.
   Mr. Edelson says the Wedge would allow the nation's five
million laptop users to keep their backs in "mild to moderate
extension" for some of the working day, counteracting what he
calls the harmful effects of conventional seating. It would
also encourage them to change their position frequently,
avoiding postural strains.
   Ergonomic chairs, he says, don't work, because people
don't sit the way the designers wish they would, back pressed
flat against the protruding lumbar surfaces.
   Today's office workers are subject to bodily restraint,
social isolation and mental monotony for eight hours daily,
says Mr. Edelson. The Wedge office is more in keeping with
the "leisure-oriented, high-excitement environment" that
people have come to expect when not on the job, he adds.
                                                                                                       

   Landfills Become Parks
   As Refuse Goes Green
                                                                                                       

   CITIES AND TOWNS struggle to turn garbage into parks.
   Landfills often represent the cheapest land around. Land
costs in the San Francisco area are $500,000 to $750,000 an
acre, says Glenn Lyles, manager of the Shoreline Park in
Mountain View, Calif. "So people are willing to take some
chances."
   The chances people take in converting a dump into a park
include land subsiding unevenly (as different garbage decays
at different rates), toxic chemicals leaching out and methane
gas escaping. State and federal rules often require expensive
devices to contain or collect leachate and methane.
   Kearny, N.J., plans to turn its 57-acre dump into a kind
of newage Stonehenge by lining up the steel methane recovery
towers with the sun, moon and major stars at important
celestial events. Ninety percent of the money Palo Alto,
Calif., is spending on Byxbee Park goes to comply with state
requirements on leachate and methane. The rest is being used
to build various artworks, including a forest of telephone
poles and giant earthen chevrons that line up with a runway
at the city airport.
   Mountain View's 700-acre Shoreline Park, which includes a
golf course, amphitheater and sailing pond, has been built on
13 years of San Francisco's garbage, for which Mountain View
received $17 million. Revenues from golf, sailing and sales
of methane to utilities pay for the park's operation.
   Turning garbage into parks needn't be expensive.
Lexington, Mass., spent $385,000 of public and private money
converting an 18-acre dump and adjacent wetlands into a
60-acre park, which includes playing fields, paths, a
wildflower meadow, fitness stations and ponds.
   Landscape designer Nell Walker says the park's low budget
was possible because the dump had been closed 20 years. The
land had subsided, most of the methane had dissipated and the
household chemicals of 20 years ago were less toxic than
today's, says Ms. Walker.
                                                                                                       

   Like the Pie Itself,
   This Box Goes to Pieces
                                                                                                       

   THE PIZZA BOX is undergoing change to make it more
convenient and environment-friendly.
   Eric Crockett of Toledo, Ohio, has redesigned the top of
the box, adding perforations that allow the top to be
separated into four "plates." The flaps form sides, which can
be grasped with thumb and index finger through holes. Mr.
Crockett says his design saves washing dishes and makes the
pizza box easier to fold for disposal.
   Domino's Pizza, which delivers 250 million pizzas a year,
recently shaved off the corners of its box, turning a square
into an octagon. The re-design, by Stone Container of
Chicago, was aimed at saving material and money, giving the
pizza less room to slide around, retaining more heat and
strengthening the box.
   PepsiCo's Pizza Hut subsidiary says it's using more
recycled paper in its pizza boxes, napkins and other paper
products. Roger Rydell, the company's director of public
affairs, says Pizza Hut is also exploring whether it could
reduce the weight of its box without making it too floppy.
   Randy Love, sales vice president for Love Box, Wichita,
Kan., says pizza makers have shown little imagination in
their boxes. He praises Eric Crockett's new design as "great
use of a box."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capitol Bank &amp; Trust
   Of Boston Liquidated
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11B
</SO>
<CO>
   CAPB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
liquidated Capitol Bank &amp; Trust Co. and began paying off
depositors after the Massachusetts banking commissioner
closed the Boston bank.
   The FDIC said it decided to liquidate the bank, which had
assets of $464.2 million, after failing to get an acceptable
bid to purchase the institution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the agency liquidates a bank, it pays depositors in
full up to the federal limit of $100,000. Customers with
accounts larger than that usually receive at least part
payment on the balance as the FDIC sells off the bank's
assets. The FDIC said it would make immediate advance
payments of 45% of the uninsured deposits. Depositors could
get additional payments on uninsured amounts later.
   The bank, which was closed on Friday, had 28,000
depositors with deposits of $438.1 million. These amounts
include $25 million held by 300 depositors with accounts of
more than $100,000.
   Bank liquidations and depositor losses are relatively
rare. In 1990, the FDIC closed 168 banks, and the accounts
were fully protected in 148 of those banks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Hong Kong's Trade Surplus
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (IEI)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Hong Kong's trade surplus in November plunged
to 491 million Hong Kong dollars (US$62.9 million) from
HK$3.11 billion a year earlier, as a sharp rise in re-exports
-- goods imported and reshipped without material change --
was overwhelmed by surging imports.
   The surplus also represented a narrowing from October's
HK$816 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic exports grew 13% to HK$21.88 billion from
HK$19.41 billion a year earlier, but were off 1.4% from
HK$22.19 billion in October. Re-exports surged 42% to
HK$42.71 billion from HK$30.05 billion in November 1989 and
were up 2.1% from October's HK$41.84 billion.
   Total exports rose 31% to HK$64.58 billion from the
year-earlier HK$49.46 billion and were up 1% from HK$64.024
billion in October. Imports climbed 38% to HK$64.09 billion
from HK$46.34 billion a year earlier and rose 1.4% from
HK$63.21 billion in October.
   The colony's trade account in the first 11 months swung to
a deficit of HK$268 million from a surplus of HK$5.67 billion
a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Coming Battle for Europe's Soul
   ----
   By David Howell
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   What is federalism? Conservative and liberal intellectual
contributions to the debate about Europe's future have been
so weak that the concept of federal union has become almost
irredeemably associated with the enlargement of central
power, rather than its diffusion, and with stronger rather
than more limited central institutions.
   Yet federalism ought to mean, and once used to mean, quite
the opposite of what it has come to imply. A century or more
of blind faith in collectivist government, and the powerful
intervening state, have caused us to lose sight of the older
view and purpose of federal structures. This was that the
member states or units of a federation should delegate only a
few and the most carefully circumscribed powers to the
federal body, and that these powers could be altered or
reclaimed as circumstances changed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet the authors of the proposals for European Community
development aired in Rome seem to have overlooked all this.
Their mindset remains determinedly centralist. Many more
powers over social policy, greatly extended inter-regional
transfers, many more decisions to be taken by majority vote
among ministers -- these things lead "inevitably" to a far
stronger and larger commission and a stronger European
Parliament to control it. An imposed single currency can only
add to the mounting activities of EC officialdom.
   In short, we have here the recreation of the familiar 20th
century bureaucratic nation state, but on a Leviathan scale.
   Constant complaints that Europe is an economic giant and a
political pygmy, and that it must somehow develop to be on a
par with the U.S. and Japan, confirm all too clearly where
these ideas are intended to lead. But monolithic Europe would
be the last great folly of the 20th century, hustled into
existence at the very moment when such concepts are withering
everywhere else.
   A monolithic Soviet Union is collapsing before our eyes.
Eventually a more modern and looser confederation will have
to replace it (and we will all face great dangers in Europe
until it does). A much-too-centralized U.S. is stumbling
along, but as Professor James Buchanan has pointed out in his
dazzling essay "Europe's Constitutional Future," (published
by the Institute of Economic Affairs, London) American
federalism has become "a mockery." Feelings are growing that
a century of power-drift to the center should be reversed and
the old wisdom of James Madison and others, from a
pre-collectivist-socialist age, revisited.
   At this point in history Europe therefore has a golden
chance to be different -- to maximize the enormous benefits
of economic integration, as offered by the Single Market, but
without repeating all the errors, or the vanities and
conceits, of the collectivist epoch.
   The Single Market idea looks like it works (although we
are not there yet) precisely because it came to be based,
after a shaky start, on market and competitive principles
rather than socialist-centralist ones. It sought to create
competition based on variety and diversity between industries
and nation states, and not on sameness. But the ambitious new
encroachments on national diversity now proposed by the
"federalists" seem to have ignored this lesson. Instead they
re-embrace the old Adam of the socialist, redistributive
state, but recast in a European mold.
   Stretching this mutated (and outdated) "federalism," not
just to social and monetary policy, but to defense and
foreign affairs, is a recipe for even greater weakness.
Experience in the Gulf vividly confirms that while a European
voice is useful on certain world issues, when it comes to
action a collective European stance on all foreign policy
would be a policy of indecision -- a lowest common
denominator of agreement to disagree. On external defense
issues this would apply even more strongly.
   Yet Europe may be saved from the paralysis that this sort
of federalism promises by three factors:
   First, Margaret Thatcher's departure changes the whole
context of the European debate. Mrs. Thatcher certainly
identified the European issues clearly -- perhaps too
clearly. Too often her presence seemed to polarize the debate
fruitlessly between sovereignty and supra-nationalism. Now
that she has gone Europe's policy-makers have no option but
to square up with vigor to the real issue, which is whether
they want a federation (or confederacy) of nation-states or a
federated nation state. This is an issue of deepest
constitutional significance that cannot be by-passed by
references to the elastic concept of subsidiarity.
   Second, the head-on collision in the GATT talks between
agricultural subsidy and freer world trade ought to awaken
Europe to the dangers of further doses of centrally
administered protectionism. Quite the wrong lesson to be
drawn from this saga is that Brussels needs a still tighter
hold on farm policy in Europe. The right lesson is that
individual nations should support their rural economies in
varied ways and liberalize their food trade not through
coordinated inertia but as and when they separately so wish.
A truly competitive federal Europe would have repatriated
much of this kind of policy away from the centralizers, long
ago.
   Third, the opening of Eastern Europe and the fierce
commitment of the post-communist governments there to market
forces may push the protectionists of the EC firmly onto the
defensive. If the new democracies are to succeed they will
have to be offered by the EC something far more liberal and
diffuse then the centralist menu of CAP, common social policy
and single money. A continent in change will need a different
and more supple kind of federal union.
   Like almost every other global issue, the European unity
debate has now been overtaken by the revolutionary events of
1989. It is no longer a matter of faster or slower movement
towards an "inevitable" central government of Europe, with
only a few nationalist laggards obstructing the advance.
Instead, a historic debate opens about the best
constitutional structure of Europe for the next century.
   There has been nothing like it since the founding of the
U.S. Even now, the dominance of past collective thinking is
so great that the need for such a debate to begin is denied
by some, or dismissed as a mere hang-up caused by the insular
British. But begun it has, if very belatedly. And we shall
see now whose kind of federal union prevails -- the kind that
concentrates more and more power in strong central hands or
the kind that spreads power in a new age of diffusion, the
kind that closes Europe or the kind that opens it.
   It is nothing less than a struggle between the 20th and
the 21st century for Europe's soul.
   ---
   Mr. Howell is chairman of the Select Committee on Foreign
Affairs in the British House of Commons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Small Firms Get an Introduction to Their Uncle Sam
   ---
   Services Like Ed Wilder's Help With
   Often-Tricky Contract Applications
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   If you are a small-business owner, the Ed Wilders of the
world want to help you get a piece of a $34 billion pie.
   The federal government spends roughly that amount annually
on contracts with small businesses for everything from
toothpaste and guard services to missile parts and
groundskeeping. If you know what you are doing, government
work can be a steady and profitable source of business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But for the uninitiated, trying to win and complete
government contracts "can really be a madhouse" that drains
resources from a small company, says Frank Lopez, owner of
Arion Computer Inc., a Houston computer supplier hoping to
snag its first federal contract.
   That's where people such as Mr. Wilder come in. As
executive director of Houston-based Texas Information
Procurement Service, Mr. Wilder and his staff help small
businesses -- for a fee of $200 per year -- find government
work and navigate around sometimes encyclopedic bidding
requirements, arcane rules and flinty-eyed government
auditors.
   Since opening in 1986, TIPS, as the Texas operation is
known, has helped some 3,000 businesses obtain over $200
million in contracts, says Mr. Wilder. "Of those companies,
90% had never done business with the government before," he
adds.
   Mr. Wilder's operation is one of 90 relatively little
known procurement-assistance centers operating in 43 states.
Partly financed by $9 million a year from the Defense
Department and usually operated by local universities or
state agencies, these centers are in the front lines of an
effort to bring more small businesses into the
government-contracting arena, as a way of increasing
competition and lowering costs.
   In the current economic downturn, the importance of such
centers is growing, observers say. A diet of government work
"can be the difference between surviving and getting burned
up" in a recession, says Jon Goodman, director of the
entrepreneur program at the University of Southern California
and a founder of TIPS.
   TIPS, which is part of the University of Houston, is
lauded by federal officials and other center directors as one
of the better such operations going. Much of the credit is
given to the 45-year-old Mr. Wilder, who spent 21 years in
procurement activities for the U.S. Army before starting up
the center in 1986. "Ed is Mr. Procurement," says Phyllis
Golden Nelson, president of the Texas Association of
Procurement Centers, a trade group.
   "If it weren't for Wilder, my firm would probably be out
of business," says Ed Pita, president of Process Technology
International Inc., a Houston engineering and fabrication
company. A supplier to the oil industry, Process Technology
had disdained government work until the oil bust of the
mid-1980s sent Mr. Pita scrambling to find new business.
   With TIPS help, the company has won more than $1.5 million
in contracts, representing about 40% of its revenue, over the
past three years. One crucial bit of early aid, says Mr.
Pita, was showing the company how it could apply for and get
progress payments on its job of refurbishing some contracts
for the Army. "Without that cash flow, I couldn't have done
the job," says Mr. Pita.
   Government contracting isn't for every small business,
says Mr. Wilder. A relatively new company, particularly, may
have a hard time persuading a government contracting officer
that it has the technical or financial wherewithal to
complete a contract, he says. Nonetheless, Mr. Wilder adds,
his experience in Texas convinces him that only a tiny
percentage of qualified small businesses actually go after
government work.
   TIPS goes through the Commerce Business Daily, a
Department of Commerce publication that lists federal
contracts worth more than $25,000, looking for jobs to match
up with its clients. Sometimes Mr. Wilder goes through the
local yellow pages looking for a company to match up with a
contract he has found -- such as the $90,000 job he once
placed with a local concern to rent trailers to the Secret
Service for surveillance work.
   The procurement service is also plugged into the
"grandmothers' network" that each year collects data on
hundreds of thousands of contracts of less than $25,000.
These smaller contracts only get posted on "bid boards" at
the local government facility that is in need of the service.
Local people, often retirees, who live near the facility copy
down the bid-board information and sell it to interested
parties, such as TIPS.
   Finding the right contract is one thing, deciphering it is
another. A government bid solicitation can run several
hundred pages, spelling out the requirements in excruciating
detail.
   And details can be crucial. Arion Computer's Mr. Lopez
says he was about to make a bid on supplying 30 computer
terminals to the government, until TIPS counselors discovered
that the computers he had in mind lacked one small, but
crucial specification. "If I had bid and won that contract, I
would have been stuck with 30 computers at $4,500 each," he
says.
   Once a company has been declared low bidder for a
contract, it must often endure a "pre-award survey" by a
government contracting officer checking to make sure the
company can actually do the work. TIPS counselors do what
amount to dress rehearsals of these surveys and then act as
observers during the actual visits. "We want to make sure our
clients don't get jerked around," says Mr. Wilder.
   Jack Reid, president of International Polymer Corp. in
Houston, says a TIPS review led him to rewrite his company's
quality-assurance manual, which was crucial in passing an
Army survey for an ammunition contract. "While we were
competent to do the job, the contracting officer wouldn't
have known it without the revisions," he says.
   Barbara Lasris, president and owner of Air Repair
Products, says her four-person concern used to supply its
air-purifying products to companies working for the
government. Sometimes they didn't pay her. "TIPS showed me
how to bid directly and cut out the middlemen," she says.
   TIPS also helped steer her through the esoterica of
government procurement. Once, she was about to ship her
devices four to a box when Mr. Wilder noticed a code on the
order form stipulated a limit of one per box. "That saved me
from possibly having it sent back for improper shipping," she
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Paper Makers
   Allege Dumping
   By Europeans
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The U.S. paper industry charged that European
producers of magazine-grade paper are dumping their products
at below-market prices and pushing it out of that segment of
the business.
   The American Paper Institute said its Committee to
Safeguard the U.S. Coated Groundwood Paper Industry filed an
anti-dumping petition with the Department of Commerce and the
International Trade Commission. It said the price
undercutting by European paper companies range from 28% to
88% of fair market value, currently about $800 a ton. Coated
groundwood paper is used primarily for magazines, catalogs
and commercial printing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A. Paul Victor, an attorney at the New York firm Weil,
Gotshal &amp; Manges who represents the committee, said he
believes it is the first such trade action by the U.S. paper
industry in more than a decade. He said the petition
"contains no allegation of government subsidies" in Europe to
paper makers. "It's all a matter of companies making private
pricing decisions" to garner market share in the U.S., he
said.
   Based on the paper institute's recent 1990 capacity survey
for U.S. paper makers, coated groundwood production for the
year is expected to be about 4.4 million tons, indicating a
market of about $3.5 billion. Mr. Victor estimated imports
are about $300 million. But according to various industry
statistics, imports in this category have been growing, more
than four-fold in the last decade.
   The institute represents substantially all U.S. producers
of paper and pulp, and said the committee's member companies
account for about 80% of shipments of the product. Nine
countries were named -- Austria, Belgium, Britain, Finland,
France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Sweden -- as
bases for various under-pricing producers. A copy of the
petition wasn't immediately available to identify specific
European companies.
   "The European companies have dramatically increased their
capacity for making this product and are using the U.S. as
the prime market in which to sell their excess capacity,"
said Virgil K. Horton Jr., the institute's vice president for
paper products.
   As a consequence, Mr. Horton said, U.S. paper makers are
"suffering from decreases in productivity, efficiency and
profitability, resulting in a drop in investment levels,
reduced employment opportunities, and an inability to justify
the dedication of capital to coated groundwood paper
operations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charter Medical Will Post Yearly Loss
   Of $210 Million; Restructuring Possible
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Charter Medical Corp., already struggling to hold its
operations together, said it will post a net loss of about
$210 million for the year ended Sept. 30.
   The giant hospital chain also said it will write down
about $100 million in assets and reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss, which compares with a net loss of $36.7 million
a year earlier, is higher than most analysts expected, and
could force the company to restructure its finances or
consider even more drastic measures, analysts say.
   "It looks inevitable that they'll have to take" radical
steps, said George Pillari, president of Health Care
Investment Analysts Inc. in Baltimore.
   Executives at Charter declined to be interviewed. But in a
Dec. 13 letter to employees, William A. Fickling Jr.,
president and chairman, said: "Industry changes, coupled with
some operating setbacks, have diminished the financial
`cushion' the company has historically maintained." As a
result, he said, Charter might pursue a "financial
restructuring."
   Charter, based in Macon, Ga., is one of the largest
operators of psychiatric hospitals in the U.S. In the face of
a tightening market for psychiatric care, it has been
struggling under $1.6 billion in debt from a 1988
management-led buy-out. Since January, 2,600 employees have
been laid off as part of a series of cost-cutting measures.
   The company provided no other figures Friday and said it
would delay filing its annual report until the middle of
January. Mr. Pillari, however, estimated that the company's
interest expenses totaled about $200 million in its latest
fiscal year, while operating profit totaled only $147
million.
   "I don't see how they're going to make debt service
payments in the future," he said. "There's too much of a
gap."
   One answer, Mr. Pillari said, might be for Charter to sell
off a number of its 89 psychiatric hospitals and focus on a
group of about 25 core facilities. "The underlying business
is in a good industry," he said. "It's not a rust-belt
company or an oil company. There are still millions and
millions of patient-days out there."
   Indeed, the company has moved to sell or close some
operations, but has met with mixed success. One hospital in
Texas has been sold; a second in Arizona is about to be.
(Terms haven't been disclosed.) A plan, however, to sell and
lease back 12 facilities to Health Care Property Investors, a
Los Angeles real estate investment trust, for $76.2 million
was "mutually terminated," said a Charter spokesman.
   The estimated $210 million loss marks the end of a brutal
year for Charter. In March, the company disclosed that
internal accounting errors would result in a second-quarter
charge of $28 million. (The final figure was $35 million.)
That led, in May, to a second-quarter loss of $67 million,
the company's biggest loss since going private in 1988. In
June, federal regulators began investigating allegations that
Charter had inflated Medicare and Medicaid bills for
psychiatric hospital care. (The investigation is continuing,
and Charter said it is cooperating with regulators.)
   In July and again in August, Moody's Investors Service
Inc. lowered its ratings on Charter's debt, citing concerns
about declining occupancy rates at the company's hospitals
and deteriorating cash flow. Also in August, the Securities
and Exchange Commission began a review of Charter's buy-out,
examining whether the company misled investment banks about
its financial prospects. (That investigation, too, is
continuing; Charter said it believes its financial records
are proper.) And last month, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. cut its
ratings on Charter, warning that the company could default in
March unless it secures outside funding or gets more time to
pay its debts.
   The problems have been exacerbated by turnover in the
company's executive suite. This year alone, Charter has gone
through three executive vice presidents for hospital
operations, firing one in the wake of the accounting fiasco
and turning aside his successor after only four months on the
job. Two weeks ago, the company was hit by the resignation of
two top executives: C. Michael Ford, chief financial officer,
and J. Rodney Laughlin, executive vice president of human
resources and development. No reason was given for their
departures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Electric Power Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   POM
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Potomac Electric Power Co. said it filed a
request for an electric rate increase of 9.6%, or $56.4
million, for its District of Columbia business.
   The requested rates would increase revenue in two steps:
$41.2 million, effective in late 1991, and $15.2 million,
effective June 1, 1992, to coincide with the start-up of a
138-megawatt combustion turbine and related facilities at the
company's Dickerson Generating Station.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Potomac Electric said its last District of Columbia rate
increase, 1.6% or $9.5 million, was granted in July 1990. The
company, however, had requested an increase of 5.8% or $33.4
million, and subsequently filed for reconsideration, a
request still pending with regulators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   South Korea's Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (IEI)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Burdened by increased oil imports
and sluggish exports, South Korea's current account sustained
a record one-month deficit of $1.21 billion in November, the
Bank of Korea reported Friday.
   It compared with a deficit of $625 million in October and
a surplus of $498 million in November 1989. The previous
one-month record deficit was $930 million in December 1981.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The November shortfall brought the 11-month deficit since
January to $2.52 billion, from a surplus of $4.26 billion in
the same period last year.
   Bank officials said, however, that this year's cumulative
deficit is likely to be reduced to about $2 billion in
December when merchandise trade is expected to score a
surplus of $500 million.
   This would be South Korea's first annual current account
deficit after four consecutive years of surpluses that ranged
from $4.6 billion to $14.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Charity That Breeds Success
   ----
   By Sharon Blair
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Heifer Project International has perhaps the only funny
name in the serious business of hunger relief. It makes some
people smile in a puzzled way, then ask: "Heifer? Like in
cow?"
   Precisely.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The oddly but aptly named Arkansas-based organization has
fought against hunger and poverty for almost 50 years by
giving livestock and training to the rural poor in 33 states
and more than 110 countries. Heifer Project started during
the Spanish Civil War with an Indiana farmboy turned church
youth worker. Dan West's volunteer job was to pass out
powdered milk to refugees. There was never enough. Mr. West
decided that the fight against hunger would be more effective
if the refugee families were given a food source rather than
foodstuffs. Very quickly, Mr. West's endeavor had its first
slogan: "Not a Cup but a Cow."
   Before the first shipment of 19 heifers had left the
Southeastern U.S. in 1944 en route to impoverished Puerto
Rican families, Mr. West decided that the cows should be
pregnant, and that each recipient should agree to "pass on"
the first-born female offspring to another needy family. This
philosophy has remained at the core of Heifer Project's work;
only the range of animals provided has changed over the
years. This year, Heifer Project was honored with a
Presidential End Hunger Award on World Food Day, Oct. 16. Out
of eight honorees, it was the only private voluntary
organization.
   About half of Heifer Project's 1990 income of about $8
million came from churches or church members. A Sunday school
class or congregation might collect the $500 it takes to buy
a cow for a needy family. A quarter of Heifer Project's
income comes from foundations, corporations and government
grants. The rest comes from individuals. At Living Gift
Markets, some people contribute the amount they normally
would spend on holiday gifts to Heifer Project and send out
cards saying that ". . . instead of a gift, a cow has been
purchased in your name." There's even a Heifer Project
International gift catalog.
   Thanks to Vermont cow artist Woody Jackson, Heifer Project
raises some funding and some eyebrows with wild red-and-green
T-shirts bearing black-and-white cows and the slogan "Give
Milk to the World" emblazoned across the chest, right above
bra level for some.
   Speaking of wild, the first totally WiLD conference (Women
in Livestock Development) premiered this past spring at
Heifer Project's ranch in Arkansas. The WiLD women were
village leaders, university instructors, relief-agency
workers and farmers. They were from Kenya to Kentucky, from
China to Maine. In addition to receiving classroom and field
training, these women were feted by first-lady Hillary
Clinton at the Governor's Mansion in Little Rock and were
wined and dined by Winthrop and Lisenne Rockefeller at their
home on Petit Jean Mountain, overlooking the Heifer Project's
1,200-acre ranch and learning center in the valley below.
   Some WiLD conferees stayed on for the annual Institute for
Livestock Development. With their male colleagues, the women
studied farm methods as diverse as the zero grazing system
(dairy animals are confined to stalls, where the pasture is
brought to the animals -- thus overcoming erosion caused by
overgrazing and providing a way to keep the valuable manure
in one place) to advanced systems in how to breed fish.
   Yes, that's right -- fish. While cows remain central, the
organization deals in other livestock and such hoofless food
sources as fish and poultry. In 1989, Heifer Project dealt in
cattle, goats, water buffalo, yaks, swine, rabbits, sheep,
poultry, fish and honeybees. One hundred and sixty new yaks
were distributed in China. More than 25,000 new fish were
distributed in the U.S., Canada, Indonesia and the
Philippines. Four hundred fish were "passed on" to repay a
loan in Thailand. Last year, Heifer Project dealt in new
honeybees in India, and in Mexico, bees were "passed on."
   In Massachusetts, Northeast director Rosalee Sinn
overlooks the rolling acres of a Heifer Project farm and
recounts by phone her recent trip to China. "I visited
projects where Chinese who have trained here at Overlook Farm
are working," she says. Ms. Sinn, an internationally
recognized expert on goats who waxes eloquent on the relative
merits of goat vs. cow milk, is particularly impressed with
the results that Heifer Project is having with yaks. "The
best yogurt I've ever eaten," she says, "was made from yak
milk in China." She delights in the crossbreeding of yaks
with Holsteins, resulting in an animal that produces two
gallons of milk a day.
   Holy cow indeed, Heifer Project. Give milk to the world.
   ---
   Ms. Blair is director of program development at
Connecticut Public Television in Hartford.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Uruguay Leader's Modernization Drive
   Struggles as the People Resist Change
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay -- Luis Alberto Lacalle, Uruguay's
president, is discovering that it's a long way from
Switzerland to Singapore.
   Uruguay was long known as the Switzerland of South
America, a small, peaceful, conservative country where cows,
sheep and people happily coexisted, the latter deriving a
comfortable living from the former.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But this idyll was broken in the last two decades, when
Uruguay suffered such typically South American problems as
military dictatorship, terrorism, inflation and public
deficits. Now, Mr. Lacalle, who took office in March, aims to
turn his country into South America's Singapore, a bustling
financial, services and port hub of an integrated Southern
Cone of the continent.
   "I want to put the country back into the modern world," he
says in an interview, pacing back and forth in his office.
   But he faces a big problem: Wary of change, Uruguayans are
happy enough with the old ways. This is a country where cars
from the 1930s still roam the streets and where milk
deliveries in Montevideo, home to half the population of
three million, are still made by horse and buggy. "We want to
live in peace and tranquillity with a decent standard of
living," says Carlos Baraibar, political secretary of the
Broad Front, a left-wing coalition opposed to Mr. Lacalle.
"We're not going to let Lacalle change the national character
of the country."
   This sort of widespread sentiment makes Uruguay a paradox:
The smallest and one of the richest countries per capita in
South America is the one most vocal in its opposition to the
free-market winds blowing throughout the continent. "It's a
small place, but it's pretty complicated," says a diplomat
based here.
   The 49-year-old Mr. Lacalle has been getting a first-hand
view of the complications. Unions have organized scores of
general and sectoral strikes. Bank workers, for instance,
staged three months of work stoppages until they got twice
the 15% raise they were offered. Government bills to lift
existing state monopolies or sell off public companies are
gummed up in Congress. Polls show a population upset by the
quality of public services -- but also a majority opposed to
their privatization. The coalition government Mr. Lacalle
heads gets shakier by the day.
   "I'm afraid I was a bit naive," Mr. Lacalle admits. "I
thought we could do all that in 100 days. It's difficult to
sow these kinds of seeds. We were brought up in a country
where the ethics of security overrode the ethics of change."
   Critics say Mr. Lacalle has mainly himself to blame.
"There have been some achievements, but I definitely don't
think he's achieved the objectives he's set for himself,"
says Victor Zerbino, general manager of Banco de Boston, the
local unit of First National Bank of Boston.
   Despite the government's success in cutting the fiscal
deficit to 2.5% of Uruguay's $8.5 billion gross domestic
product, from 6.5% last year, inflation is heading to an
estimated 130% for the year from 89% last year. Economists
attribute much of the rise to a government's exchange-rate
policy, designed to boost exports. Having made the fight
against inflation his top priority, Mr. Lacalle's failure has
cost him credibility, analysts say.
   Moreover, they say, Mr. Lacalle has wasted time seeking to
work out a seemingly impossible consensus on his
privatization and "demonopolization" bills. Rather than
quickly submitting legislation upon taking office, he tabled
the bills to break up the state monopolies in alcohol
distillation, insurance, telecommunications and port
activities only in August. He has also fudged on
privatization, which will likely include Antel, the
telecommunications monopoly, and Pluna, the national air
carrier. Mr. Lacalle now talks of "reform of state
enterprises," or less than full privatization.
   Mr. Lacalle says his style reflects his difficult
political situation. Elected with only 22% of the vote, Mr.
Lacalle's National Party, better known as the Blancos, is in
a fragile parliamentary coalition with the Rural Party, known
as the Colorados. "I don't have a majority, so how can I bang
on the table and say, `I want this and this,'" says Mr.
Lacalle. "If I'd sent the bill without consultations, they
would have said this arrogant know-it-all wants to ram bills
down parliament."
   In fact, Mr. Lacalle's greatest foe is probably the
Uruguayans resistance to change. Having built one of Latin
America's only cradle-to-grave welfare systems, with generous
retirement and public-sector employment policies, Uruguayans
have come to rely on the state. "There's no official religion
here, but in reality there is one: statism," says Javier de
Haedo, one of Mr. Lacalle's economic advisers. "Half the
population here is socialist in the sense that they have the
religion of the state."
   The public sector employs over 25% of the work force of
one million, and an additional 670,000 are drawing state
pensions. This makes it all the more difficult for Mr.
Lacalle to push through his program to roll back the state.
Compounding the problem is that unlike other Latin American
state companies, most of Uruguay's, though overstaffed, post
small profits because the government doesn't hold down their
rates to keep inflation under control.
   Still, Mr. Lacalle is posting small successes.
International commercial banks recently agreed to a plan that
would reduce Uruguay's $1.6 billion debt to them through a
series of options. And the government has completed the sale
of long-troubled Banco Comercial to a consortium consisting
of Credit Suisse, Chemical Bank, Dresdner Bank and
Argentina's Banco General de Negocios. The sale shows the
banks' growing interest in Uruguay, whose banking secrecy,
liberal foreign exchange regulations and generous tax regime
have made it a haven for flight capital from Brazil and
Argentina. Banks hold $5 billion in deposits, 80% denominated
in dollars.
   With Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay set to join
in a common market in 1994, Mr. Lacalle wants to further
develop the service sector, and analysts say integration
could be the battlehorse he needs to impose change on his
country. But even his advisers admit it will be a long
process.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Sues to Block First Hawaiian Inc.'s
   Acquisition of First Interstate of Hawaii
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   FHWN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department said it filed a civil
antitrust suit to try to block the proposed acquisition of
First Interstate of Hawaii Inc. by First Hawaiian Inc.
   The controversial acquisition of First Interstate, the
holding company for that state's fourth-largest bank, by
First Hawaiian, parent of the state's second-largest
commercial bank, had received the approval of the Federal
Reserve Board Nov. 30, despite strong objections from the
Justice Department's antitrust division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department's lawsuit, filed Friday in the federal
court in Honolulu, is a setback for First Hawaiian and former
Treasury Secretary William E. Simon, who helps control First
Interstate. Mr. Simon is co-chairman of an investor group
that bought First Interstate in February 1989 for $31 million
and had agreed to sell it to First Hawaiian for about $140
million.
   Mr. Simon, renowned for his well-timed buy-outs of such
concerns as Gibson Greeting Cards, personally stands to gain
an estimated $20 million if the deal isn't blocked.
   In Honolulu, First Hawaiian officials said in a prepared
statement that they were "disappointed" with the Justice
Department's decision and would study its action and decide
on a response, which may include litigation to block the
order. Neither Mr. Simon nor other officials of First
Interstate could be reached for comment.
   First Hawaiian has total assets of about $5.5 billion;
First Interstate has roughly $858 million. First Hawaiian
stock closed at $21, unchanged, in national over-the-counter
trading Friday.
   In its lawsuit, the Justice Department charged that the
proposed acquisition would violate federal antitrust law by
excessively concentrating control of banking services in five
geographic markets in Hawaii: Honolulu County, East Hawaii,
West Hawaii, Kauai and Maui. First Hawaiian and First
Interstate now compete in providing services such as checking
accounts and loans for business customers.
   James Rill, the Justice Department's antitrust chief,
said: "This acquisition will hurt the many
small-to-medium-sized businesses in Hawaii. The acquisition
will eliminate one of only a few banks serving those
customers and will likely result in them paying higher prices
for services."
   By acquiring 100% of First Interstate's stock, First
Hawaiian, the parent of First Hawaiian Bank, had hoped to
shore up its competitive position against Bancorp Hawaii
Inc., parent of Hawaii's largest bank, Bank of Hawaii. As big
as First Hawaiian and Bancorp Hawaii are, the Fed had said in
November that adequate competition would continue to exist
under the merger because of the existence of three other
banks, as well as five thrift institutions, in the island
state.
   First Interstate officials have contended that while the
proposed merger "would lessen competition to some extent," it
wouldn't do so significantly.
   Walter Dods Jr., First Hawaiian's chief executive officer,
said before the Justice Department's action Friday that the
company would sell three branches in the outer islands to
ensure that the acquisition would not violate antitrust
standards. But that promise didn't satisfy the Justice
Department, which has taken a somewhat more skeptical view of
mergers in the past 18 months, compared with the hands-off
policies of the Reagan administration.
   First Hawaiian has about 50 branches in the islands; First
Interstate has 19.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Homeplex Mortgage Investments
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HPX
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOMEPLEX MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS Corp., Phoenix, Ariz., said
it obtained a $50 million, three-year term loan and will
resume paying quarterly dividends in the first quarter of
1991. The real estate investment trust, which didn't disclose
the amount of the next dividend, last paid a dividend of 50
cents on Jan. 30, 1990. The company said it used the first
$20 million of proceeds, plus other short-term borrowings of
$5.7 million, to repay $25.7 million of indebtedness
outstanding under its existing loan agreement maturing on
Feb. 1. The company plans to use additional proceeds from the
loan to repay the remainder of its short-term indebtedness.
The term loan will reduce the company's overall borrowing
costs, Homeplex said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air-to-Ground
   Phone Field
   Gains 4 Firms
   ----
   By Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE MTTL MCAWA GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Communications Commission cleared four new
companies to provide air-to-ground telephone service, setting
the stage for the first-ever competition in the fledgling
industry.
   GTE Corp.'s Airfone Inc. unit, currently the only company
providing aircraft telephone service, will now face potential
challenges from four companies the FCC has allowed to enter
the field: In-Flight Phone Corp., Clairtel Communications
Group L.P., Mobile Telecommunications Technologies Corp., and
American Skycell Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Airfone's immediate competition promises to come from
In-Flight, which has already spent $8 million developing
state-ofthe-art services that it says will include enhanced
reception, fax machine capabilities and video games.
   In-Flight's entrance into the airplane phone service
business will pit communications entrepreneur John Goeken
against his one-time employer.
   Mr. Goeken founded Airfone in 1984, but two years later
sold his brainchild to GTE. Complaining that the
communications giant was usurping his authority, Mr. Goeken
left Airfone early in 1989. Since then, he has been locked in
a legal battle with GTE, in part over his attempts to set up
a rival airplane phone service.
   In August of this year, an Illinois court ruled that Mr.
Goeken was bound by a noncompete agreement he had signed with
GTE; since then, Mr. Goeken's daughter, Sandra Goeken, has
officially headed In-Flight and his wife has assumed
ownership of his majority of the company's stock.
   Individuals close to the company said Friday that a court
settlement is expected "in very short order," that will allow
Mr. Goeken to resume his post as In-Flight's chairman and
chief executive officer.
   An Airfone spokesman said he has "no knowledge" of an
agreement that would free Mr. Goeken to compete.
   For the 60-year-old Mr. Goeken, who is best-known for
founding MCI Communications Corp. in the 1960s, the FCC
license and his reinstatement as chairman would offer him the
opportunity to once again break new ground in the
communications industry. Closely held In-Flight, of Oak
Brook, Ill., plans to swiftly implement a digital aircraft
telephone transmission system, which it contends is superior
to the analog system Airfone uses.
   "We took the chance that the FCC would approve this and we
went ahead and spent $8 million to develop the system," Mr.
Goeken said in an interview.
   In-Flight said it plans to have a limited number of phones
installed in aircraft owned by American Airlines, Northwest
Airlines, and USAir within about four months. "We'll expand
from there as the airlines want," a spokesman said.
   Clairtel, formed through a limited partnership with McCaw
Cellular Communications Inc. and Hughes Network Systems, will
initially install systems similar to Airfone's, but also
plans eventually to introduce advanced technology. The other
newly licensed companies, which entered after Mr. Goeken
petitioned the FCC to open the field to competition, aren't
as far along.
   The FCC's approval of permanent licenses for the four new
companies comes on the heels of an FCC ruling this year that
formally established aircraft telephones as a regular
communications service, and thus opened up the frequency
spectrum to competitors.
   The development ended what has been a monopoly for
Airfone, which continues to operate under an experimental FCC
license, granted in 1984, when it began installing phones in
aircraft.
   An Airfone spokesman said the company expects to receive
permanent licensing following further FCC analysis. "It is
much more difficult to grant our license than that of a new
company," the spokesman said.
   Airfone currently has phones installed and operating in
more than 1,400 planes -- about one-third of the U.S.
domestic fleet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Technologies
   Wins Navy Contract
   For $151.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX ITT GM GMH NT T.NTL PC RTN LK HON GQ BCE T.B
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- United Technologies Corp. received a $151.2
million Navy contract for SH-60f helicopters.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ITT Corp. won a $63.7 million Navy contract for ship
radars.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Communications Services Inc., a unit of General
Motors Corp., got a $48 million Navy contract for satellite
communications.
                                                                                                       

   Northern Telecom Inc. was awarded a $40 million Air Force
contract for telephone systems.
                                                                                                       

   Vitro Corp., a unit of Penn Central Corp., received a
$30.1 million Navy contract for Trident Missile engineering
services.
                                                                                                       

   General Motors Corp. got a $23.2 million Navy contract for
aircraft engines.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. won a $18.6 million Army contract for Patriot
missiles.
                                                                                                       

   Lockheed Corp. was awarded a $15.7 million Navy contract
for Trident missile equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Honeywell Inc. received a $10.9 million Air Force contract
for aircraft navigation equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Grumman Corp. got a $10.7 million Navy contract for
aircraft ejection seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Home Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HFET
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOME FINANCIAL Corp. (Johnson City, Tenn.) -- Jack L.
Myers, 55 years old, an attorney who has been general counsel
to this savings and loan holding company since 1966, was
elected to the board. He fills one of the vacancies created
last fall when William L. Jenkins resigned to become a judge
and W. Kyle Huddle resigned after 30 years as a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Soviets Follow U.S. Lead Forging Links
   To Moderate Arabs as Well as to Israel
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Soviet Union finally is taking America's
advice about how to deal with the Middle East and, as a
result, could increase its influence there greatly when the
Persian Gulf crisis ends.
   After decades of fruitlessly supporting radicals in the
region, Moscow is strengthening its ties with the moderate
Arab states that are its partners in the U.S.-led coalition
against Iraq. The Soviets also are on the verge of resuming
full diplomatic relations with Israel. Following that,
Moscow, with the Bush administration's blessing, will push
for a regional meeting hosted by it and Washington.
Initially, the meeting would discuss arms-control issues, but
it ultimately could become the forum for overall Arab-Israeli
peace talks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The Soviets are demonstrating what the U.S. has been
telling them all along: You can have good relations with the
Arabs and with Israel," said Martin Indyk, executive director
of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. "It isn't a
zero-sum game."
   Barring complete upheaval in the Soviet Union, U.S.
analysts believe, the potential gains from the current policy
will persuade the Kremlin to keep pursuing this policy even
though its principal architect, Eduard Shevardnadze, has
resigned as Soviet foreign minister.
   The Bush administration, for its part, isn't worried any
longer that expanded Soviet influence in the region will come
at Washington's expense. The U.S. is convinced that Moscow
now is truly interested in promoting Mideast stability. And
the administration, angered by Israel's reluctance to pursue
peace talks, is ready to try a new approach in the region.
   The key to the change is Moscow's realization that
resuming full ties with Israel won't alienate most Arab
leaders. This year, the Soviets upgraded consular-level
activities involving Israel and permitted nearly 200,000
Soviet Jews to go to Israel, yet there were few protests from
Arab states. Indeed, Saudi Arabia, building on increasingly
friendly ties to the Soviets, for the first time established
diplomatic relations with Moscow. The Saudis also are talking
about extending a $4 billion line of credit to the Soviets.
   Even the Palestine Liberation Organization privately has
urged Moscow to resume ties with Israel, according to
Viacheslav Matouzov, a Mideast specialist at the Soviet
Embassy. The PLO believes that would put Moscow in a better
position to persuade Israel to negotiate with Palestinians,
he said.
   One reason for Moscow's interest in the new approach is
that it would allow it to continue playing the role of a
world power in a region where it has vital interests, even as
it withdraws from much of the rest of the world to
concentrate on domestic problems.
   Moscow inched closer to resuming relations with Israel,
which were severed after the 1967 Six Day War, during Mr.
Shevardnadze's recent Washington meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister Yitzhak Shamir. Following the session, Mr.
Shevardnadze said there no longer are any prerequisites for
resuming full ties. Previously, Moscow had insisted as a
condition that Israel attend a United Nations-sponsored peace
conference, a demand Israel rejects.
   Such an international conference still is discussed
heatedly at the U.N., but the idea's time appears to have
passed. This month, the Soviets, working quietly, helped the
U.S. keep a call for an international conference out of the
text of a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning Israel
for violence against Palestinians.
   Moscow's idea to hold a regional arms-control meeting
under the auspices of the two major world powers has the
private support of Israel and most Arab states. Such a
meeting offers Mr. Shamir the chance to hold direct
negotiations with his Arab neighbors; Syria also has signaled
that a conference held under a major-power umbrella might be
acceptable. And Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia probably could
be persuaded to attend.
   According to Mideast diplomats, the Soviets propose trying
first to limit conventional arms sales and the proliferation
of missiles and missile technology. Moscow, borrowing from
measures used successfully to ease confrontation in Europe,
also wants to establish a regional center to reduce tensions.
The center would provide a forum for increasing
communications among Mideast nations and giving prior
notification of military maneuvers.
   The hope is that progress in those areas could lead to
talks between Israel and its Arab adversaries, particularly
Syria, on broader issues. "The Gulf crisis has provided the
example of close cooperation between the United States and
the Soviet Union," says Mr. Matouzov, the Soviet official.
When the crisis is resolved, he adds, such cooperation could
help settle other Mideast disputes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Environmental Control
   Says President to Quit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ECGI
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PENNSAUKEN, N.J. -- Environmental Control Group Inc. said
its president and chief executive, Brian R. Esher, plans to
leave the company early next year and that it is looking for
a successor.
   Mr. Esher, 42 years old, joined the company in the fall of
1989 as chief executive, when the company was posting losses.
Last July, he assumed the additional duties of chairman,
succeeding John Stoddard, who had held the position since
early 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Environmental Control, a solid hazardous-waste control
concern and insurance company, had third-quarter net income
of $483,000, or seven cents a share, on revenue of $15.1
million.
   Environmental Control recently named its chief financial
officer, Anthony J. Gurley, to the post of chief operating
officer, with responsibility for daily planning and
administration of Environmental Control's subsidiaries.
   In 1989, Environmental Control posted a loss of $5.7
million, causing technical defaults under its bank lending
agreements. The technical defaults have been eliminated.
   "The company's balance sheet has been strengthened, and we
have had good relations with the banks," Mr. Esher said,
adding that bank debt has been reduced to less than $5
million, from nearly $16 million when he joined the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Midlantic's McDonald
   Named Chief of Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   EDISON, N.J. -- Midlantic Corp. said Desmond P. McDonald,
president of its Midlantic National Bank unit, will assume
the additional post of chief executive officer, effective
tomorrow.
   Mr. McDonald, 63 years old, takes over the post from
Robert Van Buren, 65, who remains chairman and chief
executive for the holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For almost 15 years, I have held these duel
responsibilities and, in light of current economic conditions
and looking to the future, it is appropriate that my emphasis
and attention be dedicated to the overall performance of
Midlantic Corporation," said Mr. Van Buren in a statement.
   Mr. McDonald has been president of the banking unit since
1976, and in recent years has been assuming more day-to-day
executive responsibilities of the bank.
   Midlantic National Bank, with $9 billion in assets, is the
lead bank of Midlantic Corp., a $24 billion bank holding
company operating in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   John Hanson Bancorp's Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JHSL
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   BELTSVILLE, Md. -- John Hanson Bancorp said its John
Hanson Savings Bank unit anticipated being unable to arrange
for a capital infusion of $10 million by today -- one of the
requirements of its capital plan that was approved by the
federal Office of Thrift Supervision in July.
   A bank spokesman said, "We will probably resubmit an
amended capital plan and they will review that." He declined
to speculate on the actions the thrift office could take if
the amended plan is denied. As of Sept. 30, John Hanson's
assets totaled $874.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank, which has 15 branch offices, said it is
continuing efforts to raise capital from "all viable sources"
and is working with the thrift office in efforts to comply
with regulatory capital requirements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Child World Expects
   Flat December Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CWLD
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   AVON, Mass. -- Child World Inc., helped by clearance
sales, expects December sales to be "about flat" compared
with last year, said Peter Hayes, its president and chief
executive officer.
   Mr. Hayes, however, declined to disclose a dollar figure,
noting that the company doesn't report monthly sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year-earlier fourth quarter, ended Feb. 3, 1990,
Child World reported sales of $404.6 million. Most of that
came from December sales, analysts said.
   "The discounts really brought in the traffic," Mr. Hayes
said. "Without the promotion our sales would definitely have
been down." Mr. Hayes estimated that unit sales were up by at
least 10% from last December.
   Separately, in an effort to keep Child World from filing
for bankruptcy protection, a committee of the toy retailer's
creditors has urged other unsecured creditors to try to
negotiate a debt repayment plan out of court.
   The group, composed of six major U.S. toy makers, said it
"recommends that each unsecured creditor refrain from taking
any precipitous action to hinder the current ongoing
restructuring efforts."
   Child World, short on cash, owes approximately $212
million to its vendors. On Dec. 5 it informed toy makers that
it wouldn't be able to pay them until after Jan. 15. But to
keep its shelves well stocked it promised to pay in cash for
any deliveries made in December and the first half of
January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Is There a Rhino in the Room?
   ----
   By Donald Lyons
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Ray Monk's new biography, "Ludwig Wittgenstein: The Duty
of Genius" (The Free Press, 654 pages, $29.95), provides the
fullest narrative yet of this contradictory, prickly, but
charismatic philosopher. Born in 1889, he was the eighth and
youngest child of a Viennese family of assimilated Jews of
enormous wealth and cultural sophistication. Gustave Klimt
painted his parents' wedding portrait; for his pianist
brother Paul, Maurice Ravel composed a concerto for left hand
after he lost his right arm in World War I.
   Standards of taste and proficiency ran high in this
exquisite and fastidious clan; so did accompanying stresses
and torments. No less than three of Ludwig's brothers
committed suicide. At 19, already handsome, lonely and
intense, Ludwig went to Manchester, England, as an
aeronautical engineer. It was the heroic age of air
pioneering, and Ludwig wanted to build and fly his own plane.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But a bent toward the abstract drove him shyly and
hesitantly to Cambridge to study under Bertrand Russell,
whose revolutionary "Principles of Mathematics" reduced
philosophy to logic. Russell was captivated and exasperated
by this obnoxious apprentice: "My German engineer, I think,
is a fool. He thinks nothing empirical is knowable -- I asked
him to admit that there was not a rhinoceros in the room, but
he wouldn't." But as Wittgenstein began to outgallop the
master intellectually and spiritually, Russell's tune soon
changed to "I love him and feel he will solve the problems I
am too old to solve."
   But Ludwig went home in 1914 to enlist in the Austrian
Army, where he served in logistics on the Galician front, in
artillery on the Russian front, and finally as a POW on the
Italian front. During these five tempestuous and formative
years in uniform, he wrote the major work published in his
lifetime, the 1921 "Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus" (the
clumsy title is an allusion to Spinoza's equally clumsy
"Tractatus Theologico-Politicus"). In form the book is a
series of separate, numbered, aphoristic paragraphs; in
spirit it is an uneasy wedding of Ludwig's Cambridge logic to
a Tolstoyan mysticism cultivated under fire. It affirms that
meaningful language is limited to propositions about fact,
but then declares that all this is but a ladder to be thrown
away. Ending with the famous aphorism "Whereof one cannot
speak, thereof one must be silent," it follows Kant in its
implication that God and ethics are true features of reality
but ineffable.
   After the war, Ludwig tried teaching grammar school in a
succession of Austrian villages. His pedagogy showed a
characteristic combination of empathy and impatience; he
awoke the faster pupils with imaginative presentations of
astronomy, biology, botany and architecture, while inflicting
"ear-boxing" and "hairpulling" on the slow or dishonest. He
produced with none of the endless fuss that impeded his adult
writings a superb spelling dictionary for children, gardened
for a while in a monastery, and designed a severely
geometrical house for a sister in Vienna. Then he grudgingly
returned to Cambridge in 1933 to teach philosophy. He was to
remain on its faculty for most of the rest of his life (he
had given away his inherited fortune, which had briefly made
him one of the richest men in Europe). This most influential
of academics hated academe, urged his favorites to defect
from philosophy to medicine or factory work, and indeed saw
philosophy itself as something to be cleared away in favor of
a life of fiercely self-denying austerity.
   Physically, he was forever fleeing the university for long
periods of roughing it in spartan climes -- Iceland, Norway,
the wild Irish coast and, very briefly, Stalin's Russia,
which apparently proved too spartan even for him. He spent
some of World War II as a medical orderly in Newcastle; he
died of cancer in Cambridge in 1951 and was given a Catholic
burial. His last years he spent jotting down questions about
language and meaning, but the exact questions have come to
matter less than the saintly tone of the questioner.
   As the critic Guy Davenport put it, "Disciples who came to
him expecting to find a man of incredibly deep learning found
a man who saw mankind held together by suffering alone, and
he invariably advised them to be as kind as possible to
others." He seemed like those mystics specializing in
sweeping away verbal and other obstacles blocking the naked
contemplation of God. He did the sweeping in what he wrote;
he did the contemplating in how he lived.
   Mr. Monk's book works well enough on the anecdotal,
day-to-day level. He also gives a quiet and credible account
of Wittgenstein's homosexual loves and friendships with shy
young disciples, eschewing both the sensational distortions
and the stuffy denials that have marred recent writing on
this sensitive topic. But Mr. Monk is not up to painting an
organically convincing picture of the sage. His presentation
of the very difficult philosophy is skimpy, random and
context-less; he does better but is still inadequate on
Wittgenstein's constant and profound entanglement with
concerns of the spirit. Saint and thinker remain too dim and
too far apart in this readable but finally unsatisfying life.
   ---
   Mr. Lyons is a free-lance critic living in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Economy Will Keep Growing in '91
   But Slowly, Commerce Department Says
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
FACTORY EQUIPMENT (FAC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. should experience "continuing but
slow growth" in most sectors, the Commerce Department said in
its annual industrial outlook.
   "Overall, we see continued growth in 1991 for the majority
of industries, both manufacturing and services," said J.
Michael Farren, undersecretary for international trade.
Exports, which represented more than 70% of sluggish U.S.
growth in the first three quarters of 1990, will partly
counteract weakness in other aspects of the U.S. economy, he
added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The growth rate for all industries covered by the survey,
however, is expected to slow slightly to 1.13% from 1.38%,
according to Jonathan C. Menes, director of the department's
office of finance, industry and trade information. But since
the report was prepared, many private economists, who say the
country is in a recession, have become increasingly
pessimistic about the country's economic prospects.
   The study, a series of forecasts for specific industries
prepared by more than 100 department analysts, makes certain
assumptions about the future of the U.S. economy. In
particular, it assumes that real growth in 1991 will be
between 1% and 3%, with the "most likely case being growth at
the lower end of that range." In the first three quarters of
1990, economic growth averaged about 1.3%.
   Among manufacturing businesses, the report said most of
the high-technology and health-related industries will
continue to outperform the rest of the economy. It forecasts
8.9% growth in 1991 in the semiconductor and related
industries and expects computer industry shipments to
increase by 6% during the year. Medical instruments, supplies
and appliance businesses also are projected to grow at rates
of between 7% and 9% in 1991. Leather tanning and finishing,
with a projected 9.4% growth rate in 1991, should outperform
most manufacturing businesses.
   But there are laggards as well. Motor vehicles and
construction "will experience negative growth" in 1991, Mr.
Farren said. Manufacturers of butter, mobile homes and frozen
baked goods -- other than bread -- will be hit particularly
hard, the report said.
   The aircraft industry, including engines and parts --
which was the boom manufacturing business during the past
year -- will experience a 4.6% growth rate in 1991, down
sharply from 17.9% in 1990. But the aerospace industry is
expected to have a record 1991 trade surplus of $31 billion,
up from more than $28 billion in 1990. Machine tool
production also is expected to continue to be strong, with a
predicted 5% growth rate in 1991, after a 5.3% rise in 1990.
   In service industries, the strongest sectors will be
electronic information, computer software and data
processing, with revenues growing as much as between 16% and
20%, according to the report.
   Despite the report's predictions for continued sluggish
growth, many private economists paint an even gloomier
picture. They say the economy is in a recession, with no
guarantee that it will perk up before late 1991. Recession is
commonly defined by economists as at least two consecutive
quarters of negative growth.
   Generally, the Commerce Department's industrial outlook is
based partly on midsummer economic projections released by
the Office of Management and Budget. This year, however, the
Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, with the subsequent turmoil
in oil and other markets, forced the department to use a
revised set of economic assumptions prepared in August. In
general, the department's analysts "assumed that the economy
would avoid a recession, though a soft economic environment
would persist into the first half of 1991, followed by a
gradual pickup," according to J. Antonio Villamil, the
department's chief economist.
   The report's assumptions project an inflation rate of
between 4% and 4.5% for 1991, down slightly from 4.5% to 5%
in 1990. They also assume a slight reduction in interest
rates, with the Treasury bill rate falling to between 6.8% to
7.2% in 1991, from between 7.2% to 7.5% in 1990, while the
10-year Treasury note rate would fall to a 1991 range of 8.0%
to 8.5% from between 8.5% to 9.0% in 1990. According to the
report, the unemployment rate may pick up slightly to between
5.5% to 6.5% in 1991 from between 5.5% and 6% in 1990. The
report also assumed a 1991 oil price of $25 a barrel.
   These projections, which were prepared in recent months,
are already somewhat dated. The administration will soon
release its economic report of the president, which will
include more current economic forecasts for 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Parting Is Sweet Sorrow
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   Governments aren't used to cutting back, so the reduction
in legislative staffing that was part of California's Prop.
140 term-limit initiative is terra incognita. The solons are
taking good care of the help scheduled to depart by July 1.
The state Senate Rules Committee has authorized five months'
severance pay for employees of two or more years, and three
months' lump sum for those who've worked for a year. Generous
indeed by private-sector standards, but we'd expect nothing
less.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Sustained Dollar Recovery Is Unlikely
   Until Second Half of '91, Economists Say
   ----
   By Nicholas Hastings
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The dollar isn't likely to begin a sustained
recovery until the second half of 1991, when the U.S. economy
has started to climb out of its slump and U.S. authorities
have room to boost interest rates again, international
economists forecast.
   They predict that while the Persian Gulf crisis will
continue to provide limited support for the dollar in the
early months of 1991, there is still a high risk that the
U.S. currency will fall back to its 1990 lows before the
middle of the year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In the first quarter, the dollar will remain vulnerable
to {further} U.S. economic decline and further Fed easing,"
predicted David Morrison, chief international economist at
Goldman Sachs International in London.
   Indeed, on Friday the dollar dropped in very light trading
in reaction to further indications the U.S. economy is
weakening rapidly. In late New York trading, the greenback
was quoted at 1.4936 marks and 134.85 yen, down from 1.5255
marks and 136.40 yen late Thursday in New York.
   In early Monday trading in Tokyo, the dollar was at 134.32
yen, down from Friday's Tokyo close of 136.05 yen. Meanwhile,
the dollar was trading at 1.4925 marks, down from 1.5210
marks Friday.
   Michel Girardin, head of foreign exchange research at
Union Bank of Switzerland in Zurich, warned that a conflict
in the Middle East will trigger a short-term dollar rally.
But he said this "support will soon disappear as the market
starts to concentrate again on U.S. economic fundamentals."
   Economists also see little chance that the Group of Seven
leading industrialized countries will run to the dollar's
aid, because member nations seem to be at odds on the issue.
   How long and how strongly the Gulf crisis will work in the
dollar's favor remains to be seen. Most economists think
uncertainty about the chances for an armed conflict is the
main factor preventing the U.S. currency from falling at the
moment. They suggest that this could make the currency
vulnerable to a downturn if a war starts and sentiment
swiftly refocuses on the U.S. economic slowdown and the
possibility of further reductions in U.S. interest rates.
   Nigel Rendell, international economist at James Capel &amp;
Co., says he expects the U.S. federal funds rate to decline
one-half of a percentage point to about 6 1/2% in the first
quarter of 1991. About the same time, Germany will probably
raise interest rates another notch and further undermine
support for the dollar, he predicted. The federal funds rate
is the interest rate banks charge each other for overnight
loans.
   Mr. Rendell predicted the dollar could drop to 1.45 marks
in the second quarter. UBS's Mr. Girardin thinks it could
even fall below 1.40 marks. The dollar's all-time low was
1.4625 marks, set Dec. 10.
   "I would be surprised to see any rebound in the dollar
until there are signs of the {U.S.} recession passing," Mr.
Girardin said. Most economists don't expect any such signs of
recovery to appear until midyear. By then, they also expect
signs of a slowdown in Japan and Germany.
   How far the dollar recovers will depend largely on how
quickly U.S. authorities increase interest rates. Some
economists suggest that the need to attract funds for the
Treasury's massive refunding programs will create pressure to
nudge rates higher as soon as possible.
   But Robert Thomas, senior international economist at
Midland Montagu &amp; Co. in London, said officials will have to
show caution because the economic recovery is likely to be
gradual and the fragile state of the U.S. financial system
will argue against any abrupt credit-tightening.
   By contrast, German rates are widely expected to rise
another half to full percentage point in the first half of
1991 as the Bundesbank attempts to curb inflationary
expectations kindled by last October's reunification of East
and West Germany.
   German inflation is likely to have peaked by the middle of
1991, though, and with the mark's strength depressing export
volumes and economic growth starting to slow, authorities
should be more receptive to lower interest rates and a weaker
mark, economists say.
   Japanese interest rates are also expected to rise early in
1991 because the Bank of Japan remains concerned about high
wage demands and persistently high money-supply growth.
   However, economists doubt that Japan will tighten policy
significantly, given signs that growth could slow sharply
next year. At the same time, Mr. Girardin of UBS added, the
yen isn't likely to benefit much from higher rates, which
would merely increase fears of a possible collapse in land
prices that would prompt another shakeout in Japan's stock
market.
   Such concerns, says Mr. Thomas of Midland, could force a
decline in Japanese rates well before German rates head down
in 1991. And, after falling as low as 120 yen in the first
half of 1991, the dollar could recover to its current level
of around 135 yen by the end of 1991, he predicted.
   This year, the dollar fell to a low of about 123.50 yen in
mid-October before rebounding as high as 137.05 yen near the
end of the year.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $394 an ounce, up $8.60.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$391 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Geneva Steel Reports
   Lower Net, Revenue
   For Its First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GNV UK
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VINEYARD, Utah -- Geneva Steel, citing a general decline
in steel prices, reported net income for the first quarter
ended Nov. 30 fell 39% on 6% lower revenue.
   Net dropped to $7.1 million, or 47 cents a share, from
$11.8 million, or $1.01 a share, for the year-earlier
quarter. Revenue dipped to $124.3 million from $132.2
million. Tons shipped eased to 340,000 from 344,000 a year
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Increased operating, labor and freight costs as well as
unscheduled mill downtime in September hurt profit in the
quarter, Geneva Steel said.
   The company's $239 million modernization program, which
includes building two basic oxygen furnaces, a coilbox, a
continuous caster and other rolling-mill improvements, is
scheduled for completion by September 1992. The upgrades are
designed to reduce operating costs and increase the quality
of its finished products.
   Geneva makes hot-rolled sheet, plate and other steel
products for use primarily in central and western U.S.
markets.
   The company said the Linde division of Union Carbide
Corp.'s Union Carbide Industrial Gases Inc. will build and
operate a $25 million oxygen plant to supply oxygen and other
needed gases to the new furnaces. It is scheduled for
completion in 1991's third quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ameriana Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ASBI
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERIANA BANCORP (New Castle, Ind.) -- Paul W. Prior,
chairman and chief executive officer of this banking concern
and its subsidiaries, will retire effective today. Mr. Prior,
69 years old, had been chairman since 1973. Ameriana's board
appointed Harry J. Bailey, now president and chief operating
officer of the company, to the additional post of chief
executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union Bid to Restructure Debt
   Clears Hurdle but Liquidity Woes Stay
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   WU T
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Western Union Corp., after an arduous
struggle, said it received enough notes to complete its cash
tender offer and restructure its debt by today -- but not
enough to escape its chronic liquidity problems.
   The offer, which helps Western Union restructure its
approximately $530 million in junk debt, is expected to be
completed today after the company completes the sale of its
business services unit, an electronic mail and telex
business, to American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've cleared a major hurdle," said a Western Union
spokesman. "It eliminates the default that has existed since
June {when Western Union missed a $51 million interest
payment} and the threat of being forced into involuntary
bankruptcy by our creditors."
   However, Western Union, now a mere vestige of the
communications giant it once was, said it must still seek new
financing in 1991 to meet cash obligations including debt
interest payments. If this fails, it could yet be forced into
bankruptcy-law proceedings by creditors.
   "We may have to sell assets, or find new financing or
propose to restructure our remaining outstanding debt," said
the spokesman.
   While he declined to elaborate on what assets remain that
Western Union could sell, he did make it clear that the
company is not out of the woods. That is because it will
still be left with about $311 million in debt -- including
other IOUs spread among 11 different issues of notes of
various interest rates -- and annual interest expenses of $52
million a year.
   The company may not be able to cover these payments with
the cash flow it gets from its remaining financial services
unit, which includes a bill payment service (formerly
National Payments Network, which Western Union acquired in
1989), Mailgram and Telegram.
   The spokesman said the company, which is controlled by New
York financier Bennett S. LeBow, does not break out cash flow
from its operations.
   However, in a statement filed late last month with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Western Union said it
could experience total negative cash flow of almost $70
million in 1991 and more than $200 million in 1992. In 1989
the company's operating cash flow amounted to about $61
million -- but this was still insufficient to meet its debt
obligations and this figure included the business services
unit, which Western Union will lose after today.
   Western Union is set to receive $175 million in cash from
AT&amp;T for the business services unit and apply the money
toward its cash tender, which was aimed at retiring up to
$350 million principal amount of its 19 1/4% notes and 16%
notes for 50 cents on the dollar. The company stipulated that
at least $250 million in 19 1/4% notes had to be tendered to
complete the offer.
   Western Union said that as of midnight last Thursday,
about $328.6 million of the 19 1/4% notes had been tendered,
out of a total $500 million, and $5.9 million of the 16%
notes, out of a total $29.9 million, had been tendered.
   At 50 cents on the dollar, the company will have to pay
its noteholders roughly $167 million to cover the $334
million in notes that have been tendered. This will leave $8
million from the AT&amp;T payment, which Western Union will
retain, according to a Western Union spokesman. In addition,
to bring its interest payments current, Western Union will
pay about $37 million in interest to noteholders who did not
tender their notes in the offer, which it will pay with about
$50 million cash on hand.
   Western Union, which is nearly 140 years old, has suffered
from a steep decline in its telex business due to the
explosion in facsimile transmissions and heavy competition in
its money transfer and electronic mail operations. Telex and
E-mail will now become part of AT&amp;T's newly formed global
messaging unit, giving AT&amp;T about 40% of the world
electronic-mail market.
   Earlier in the year Western Union had tried to get its
bondholders to accept an exchange offer that would have
converted its $530 million in junk-bond debt into new stock
and debt securities and help it avoid bankruptcy-law
proceedings.
   However, in late November when bondholders -- led by Carl
Icahn, who holds about $70 million of the company's debt --
continued to hold out after numerous extensions of the offer
by the company, Western Union scratched the exchange and made
its all-cash tender offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDP Expects to Post
   A Profit of $193,000
   For Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FDPC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- FDP Corp. expects to report fourth-quarter net
income of about $193,000, or six cents a share, compared with
a year-earlier net loss of $53,835, or two cents a share,
said Michael C. Goldberg, president and chief executive
officer.
   The company, which makes and markets software systems for
the pension and life-insurance industries, said revenue in
the fourth quarter ended Nov. 30 rose 22% to about $4.5
million from $3.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Now we're starting to see the results of development that
we were putting into place over the last few years," Mr.
Goldberg said, adding that he expects the trend of higher
revenue and earnings to continue through 1991.
   Mr. Goldberg said the company's profit margin widened to
20% from 9% a year earlier. He said selling, general and
administrative expenses held steady at about $785,000 in the
quarter.
   For all of fiscal 1990, FDP expects to report earnings of
about $483,000, or 14 cents a share, on revenue of $16.9
million, compared with 1989 loss of $100,000, or three cents
a share, on revenue of $14.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   W. Bell &amp; Co. Seeks
   Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   BLLW
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKVILLE, Md. -- W. Bell &amp; Co., citing mounting losses
because of weak sales, filed for protection from creditors
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   The catalog showroom retailer said its third-quarter loss
widened to $5.8 million, or $1.53 a share, from $833,000, or
22 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 22% to $15.7
million from $20.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   W. Bell shares plunged in reaction to the announcement. In
over-the-counter trading Friday, the stock fell 75 cents to
close at 50 cents a share. It had been trading as high as $4
a share earlier this year.
   The company said the Chapter 11 filing will enable the
company to continue operating while it works with creditors
to develop a plan to pay back debt. Martin Pfeifer,
treasurer, said the company had about $4.9 million in
long-term debt. It listed assets of $40.7 million and
liabilities of $33.5 million.
   Despite the filing, the company said normal customer
services and store operations such as store hours, credit
card charges, merchandise returns and gift certificate
redemptions would continue as usual for its retail business.
   The filing, made with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Rockville, Md., follows an offer by Hong Kong-based Venture
Link Co. to acquire all W. Bell shares outstanding. The
offer, which was valued at between $8.6 million and $10.5
million in October, is still pending, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   Left-leaning historian Eric Foner writing in the Dec. 24
issue of The Nation:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In today's U.S.S.R., it is not simply the ubiquitous
shortages but how people do manage to obtain things that
feeds discontent. In a world of empty stores, shopping is
commonly done through the back door -- that is, via bribes,
barter and official or family connections. Even those in a
position to benefit from this system find it unfair and
humiliating. To a large extent, whom you know now determines
your standard of living. There is something positively
egalitarian about the way money in a market society can erase
other social distinctions, about a world in which anybody
with the cash can walk into a store whatever goods he or she
pleases, without incurring personal obligations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   OEA TBK JP LNC NCC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange and the American
Stock Exchange each announced one new listing.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   OEA Inc., Denver, Col., a maker of explosive devices used
in missiles, aircraft and space vehicles, previously traded
on the Amex, begins trading on the Big Board Friday under
ticker symbol OEA.
                                                                                                       

   Tolland Bank, Tolland, Conn., a state-chartered stock
savings bank, previously traded on the national market system
of the over-the-counter market, began trading on the Amex
under TBK.
                                                                                                       

   Options began trading at the Amex on three listed stocks:
Jefferson-Pilot Corp., a holding company for subsidiaries
providing insurance, financial and communications products
and services, under JP; Lincoln National Corp., an insurance
holding company, under LNC; and National City Corp., a bank
holding company with branches in Ohio, Kentucky and Southern
Indiana, under NCC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Polly Peck International PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.POL
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   POLLY PECK INTERNATIONAL PLC (London) -- Robert W. Fisher,
41 years old, resigned after five months as chief operating
officer of PPI Del Monte Tropical Fruit Co., a Coral Gables,
Fla.-based unit of this holding company. Mr. Fisher, in a
statement, said Polly Peck has dropped the product line
expansions and food-business reorganization for which he was
hired. Mr. Fisher, who was previously president of the Dole
Food Co. unit of Castle &amp; Cooke Inc., didn't elaborate on his
plans. PPI said it doesn't plan to replace him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   IE Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IEL
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   IE INDUSTRIES Inc. (Cedar Rapids, Iowa) -- Blake O. Fisher
Jr., formerly vice president, finance, and treasurer for
Consumers Power Co., was named executive vice president and
chief financial officer of this utility holding concern. As
chief financial officer, Mr. Fisher, 46 years old, succeeds
J.B. Rehnstrom, 60, who remains a director and was named to
the newly created post of senior vice president, special
projects, and corporate secretary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston Giveth,
   But -- Before 1994 --
   It Can Taketh Back
   ---
   Big Securities Firm Awards
   Fat Raises but Attaches
   Long Strings to Bonuses
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSH
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CS First Boston Inc. has a New Year's gift for
hundreds of senior employees: a fat salary raise.
   But the employees are far from thrilled. That's because
late last week they also were required to sign an agreement
that authorizes the big securities firm under certain
circumstances to yank back as much as 40% of their 1990 cash
bonuses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The raise, which is effective in 1991, increases
directors' base salaries to between $150,000 and $200,000
from the current $100,000. Managing directors will receive
$200,000 to $250,000, up from the current $150,000, people
familiar with the firm said.
   But here's the hitch: Salary alone typically is just a
tiny part of overall compensation. Even in a down year, such
as 1990, a bonus may exceed 80% of total compensation. And
bonuses at CS First Boston are down roughly 40% this year,
according to the firm's executives.
   Making matters more difficult, employees say, is the
agreement they recently were asked to sign. That agreement,
given to employees on Dec. 20 and required to be signed by
Dec. 27, stipulated that those who quit before the end of
1992 must give 40% of their 1990 cash bonus back to CS First
Boston. If they leave within three years, they also give back
all or part of their 1990 bonus that they received in CS
First Boston stock, which made up about half their 1990
compensation package.
   "The net of the equation is that overall compensation is
going to be factored down at a time when {employees are}
facing a potential penalty" for leaving, says Jeffrey L.
Liddle, an attorney with the New York firm Liddle, O'Connor,
Finkelstein &amp; Robinson who represents securities-firm
employees.
   CS First Boston officials declined to comment on the
compensation changes or agreement.
   The firm's salary strategy is part of a plan under which
Switzerland's CS Holding agreed last month to pump $300
million in equity into its CS First Boston unit, parent of
investment bank First Boston Corp.
   Mr. Liddle also contends that employees didn't have enough
time to consider the accord's ramifications. "They gave this
thing to people to sign over the Christmas holiday," making
it more difficult to get a private attorney and without much
time to think about it, he says.
   First Boston officials privately retort that employees
have known about the proposed changes informally for several
weeks.
   In a separate internal memo, the firm said employees who
aren't asked to sign an employment agreement will be paid at
least 60% of their cash bonus in the next two weeks. "Any
remaining cash payments are scheduled to be paid on or about
February 15, 1991," the memo said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Next S&amp;Ls?
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Congress has done such a wonderful job regulating the
Savings and Loan industry that some Members now want the
federal government to take charge of regulating the insurance
industry as well. If this happens, no insurance policy at any
price will protect premium holders or taxpayers from the kind
of congressional "constituent services" that made Charles
Keating a household name.
   Insurance remains regulated primarily by the states, which
so offends Rep. John Dingell and Senator Howard Metzenbaum
that they have held hearings on the effrontery. Senator
Donald Riegle, of Keating Five fame, now urges Treasury to
jump on the federal-regulation bandwagon. Their argument for
a federal takeover of state regulation is, believe it or not,
that only the feds can regulate such a complex industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The word from state insurance commissioners and insurance
executives is that congressional staffers are busily crafting
new legislation to be introduced early next year to reverse a
half-century of regulation at the state level. Among the
proposals is a new federal agency to totally replace state
regulators.
   A possibly likelier proposal is just as dubious. This is
the potent combination of giving the federal government new
oversight over the solvency of property, casualty and life
insurers while the states would continue to regulate
insurance prices.
   Ralph Nader groups and the trial lawyers are the biggest
boosters of the idea that the feds should regulate solvency
while the states regulate prices. It's easy to see why. This
would give states new incentives to mandate cuts in insurance
premiums -- as several states have done with auto insurance
-- regardless of the economic realities or tort-system
problems that insurers face.
   Indeed, there would be a race to the bottom as each state
made sure its residents got lower premiums, solvency of the
insurers be damned. Why worry about solvency if that's
Washington's problem? A series of legislated price cuts in
the states would lead to a real solvency crisis for insurers
that the feds would then have to "solve." Indeed, this
Keystone Kops system of regulation would be a recipe for
another S&amp;L fiasco.
   The better argument is that there is little likelihood of
an S&amp;L-style debacle for insurers unless Washington gets more
involved in regulating them. There are enormous differences
between thrifts and insurance firms. Insurers have no
equivalent to the taxpayer-guaranteed deposits that
encouraged thrifts to make high-risk loans. There is no
parallel with the dead-of-night jump to a $100,000 guarantee
per deposit.
   There is little reason to think the feds would do a better
job of regulating insurers than do the states, which recently
created new guidelines on capital requirements. State
insurance commissioners have also developed methods for
forcing healthy insurers to take some responsibility for
troubled insurers. This gives insurers incentives to
self-regulate their industry in ways that were never created
for the thrifts.
   There is no denying difficulties in the insurance
industry. It's doubtful, though, that Congress will solve any
of the problems. The immediate problem facing many insurers
is troubled commercial mortgages in the soft real estate
market, with a few insurers also posting losses from the
regulatory attack on junk bonds. There have been insurance
insolvencies in past recessions, but insurance analysts doubt
we will have any major calamity.
   There is a well-known, longer-term problem facing
insurers, but there's little hope that Congress will do
anything about it. This is that our incompetent legal system
makes writing insurance a very risky business. If anyone
still doubts that there is a relationship between the
breakdown in the rule of law and problems in the insurance
industry, take note that even the insurers have decided they
need insurance. Lloyd's of London recently announced that
enormous liabilities from the U.S. had forced it to form a
separate reinsurance fund. The idea is that its members will
join together to spread the risk against by-now expected but
wholly unpredictable long-term liability from U.S. pollution,
asbestos and malpractice claims.
   Someone needs to start to make sense of America's
unpredictable liability system. It should be possible for
insurers to correctly price premiums to reflect potential
liabilities. With its trial-lawyer lobby, however, Congress
has declared itself part of the problem and not the solution.
Legislators have defeated all tort reform proposals in recent
years.
   More broadly, if the Keating hearings are teaching us
anything, it is that asking Congress to regulate an industry
has become asking foxes to watch over hens. Nothing in the
S&amp;L disaster argues for more federal regulation of a
financial industry. On the contrary, the presumption against
new federal regulatory powers has become well-nigh
overwhelming.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kaifu Shuffles Cabinet;
   No Change in Policy Seen
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu shuffled his cabinet
over the weekend, but the changes most likely won't alter
Japan's foreign and economic policies.
   Mr. Kaifu, who had resisted a shuffle, finally gave in to
power brokers within the ruling Liberal Democratic Party but
found a way to keep the most important cabinet positions, as
well as the top officers of the LDP unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new cabinet will be Mr. Kaifu's third since he took
over as prime minister 17 months ago. Mr. Kaifu's term as
president of the LDP, and hence prime minister, expires next
October. Most political observers doubt that Mr. Kaifu will
get a second term. Some wonder whether he will serve out his
term.
   Mr. Kaifu gave the LDP faction led by former Foreign
Minister Shintaro Abe an extra seat in the cabinet.
   In other cabinet moves, Motoji Kondo was named agriculture
minister and Eiichi Nakao, who served as director of the
Economic Planning Agency under former Prime Minister Noboru
Takeshita, was named Minister of International Trade and
Industry.
   Kazuo Aichi was named director general of the Environment
Agency. Akiko Santo, a former actress, was named director
general of the Science and Technology agency.
   Seiroku Kajiyama, the justice minister who created a
ruckus with a slur against blacks this year, got the boot.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Sees Medicare Paying
   Doctors 7.3% More in 1991
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Medicare payments to doctors should increase
7.3% in fiscal 1991, the Department of Health and Human
Services said.
   The department set the increase, which it calls a
"performance standard," for all physicians' services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   HHS lists annual fee boosts for medical services under a
1989 law that aims to control the rate of increase in
Medicare payments to doctors.
   The figures aren't a limit on how much more the government
will pay doctors in fiscal 1991, which began Oct. 1. But
under the complicated 1989 law, the failure to keep Medicare
fee increases within those rates of growth could lead to
strict curbs in the years ahead. Over time, the new law will
slow either the rise in the fees doctors charge or the growth
in the volume of services, proponents contend.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disclosure Inc. Agrees
   To Buy Bechtel Corp. Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N.VNU
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- Disclosure Inc. said it reached an
agreement in principle to purchase Bechtel Information
Services Inc.
   The acquisition would make Disclosure, a U.S. unit of
Dutch publisher VNU N.V., the contract provider of corporate
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies refused to disclose the terms of the
agreement, which won't be closed until next month. Bechtel
Information Services is a unit of Bechtel Corp., the large
San Francisco-based engineering concern. Bechtel Information
helps run the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering Analysis and
Retrieval (EDGAR) project, operates the SEC's
public-reference facilities in Chicago, New York and
Washington; and fulfills public requests for filings made
with the SEC.
   Disclosure already provides public information on 12,000
U.S. companies and operates a retrieval service for federal
and state legislative, regulatory and judicial documents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- IVAX Corp.:
   Miami Company Acquires
   Harris Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   IVX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   IVAX Corp. said it completed the acquisition of Harris
Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for 6,250,000 common shares in a
transaction valued at $73.4 million.
   Harris makes and markets generic pharmaceuticals and has
facilities in London and Waterford, Ireland. Miami-based IVAX
is a holding company with interests in pharmaceuticals and
medical diagnostics. Three operating officers of Harris-Isaac
Kaye, Cyril Beck and Nigel Nortonwere appointed to IVAX's
board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Barton Industries Inc.
   Gets Special Council
   For Internal Inquiry
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   BART
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SHAWNEE, Okla. -- Barton Industries Inc. said it has
retained special counsel to conduct an investigation of
"certain financial and accounting matters" and placed three
of its top officers on administrative leave until the probe
is completed.
   The maker of oil-field equipment said its chairman and
chief executive officer, C.W. Earl Johnson, had requested an
administrative leave, which was granted by the board. The
board also placed the company's chief financial officer and
its controller on leave. The company said that Mark H.
McKinsey was elected president, chief operating officer and a
director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it was named a defendant in a
shareholder class-action suit filed in an Oklahoma federal
court alleging violations of federal securities law. Company
officials couldn't be reached for further information.
   The company didn't provide any details about the matters
under investigation. But earlier this month, the company
announced that it would restate the results for its fiscal
third quarter ended June 30 because a sale it booked was
returned during the fourth quarter. Furthermore, the company
said that because a supplier was slow to deliver the proper
parts for its control units, inventory had stacked up,
resulting in "substantial" reductions in fourth-quarter
earnings and revenue. The company said the problem could
contribute to a loss for the fiscal year and had caused it to
experience serious cash-flow problems. In that announcement,
the company also said it is delinquent on payments of
employee withholding taxes and has been working with the
Internal Revenue Service to resolve the problem.
   The next day, however, the company issued another
statement saying that the previous release, issued by its law
firm, was incorrect and unauthorized by management and the
board. The company said the board formed a special committee
to review certain matters pertaining to the law firm's
actions.
   In its "clarification," Mr. Johnson stated, among other
things, that the company expected to report a "good operating
profit for 1990, although corporate non-cash charges
unrelated to operations will reduced the operated results."
Further, he said, "the reported 1990 results will show
considerable improvement from the prior 1989 levels, and the
operating comparison will be even stronger."
   In its latest announcement, Barton said it has requested
that the deadline for filing of its annual 10k report for the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30 be extended. The company said it
isn't in a position to make any statement with respect to its
earnings, revenue, results of operations or other financial
information for the fiscal year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   FMS Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FMCO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   FMS FINANCIAL Corp. (Burlington, N.J.) -- Craig W. Yates,
a board member and major shareholder, was named president and
chief executive officer of FMS and Farmers and Mechanics'
Savings Bank, a wholly owned subsidiary. Mr. Yates, 49 years
old, succeeds Michael D. Bisceglia, 55, who will continue as
a member of the board of directors. The naming of Mr. Yates
is part of a reorganization at the savings bank, which
reported a loss of $1.06 million, or 82 cents a share for the
nine months ended Sept. 30. Mr. Yates, who holds a 9.9% stake
in the bank, stressed that Farmers and Mechanics continues to
meet all regulatory and capital requirements, despite a
"difficult year for real estate values in New Jersey."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Paper Terms
   Environment Suit Meritless
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   IP GP
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   PURCHASE, N.Y. -- International Paper Co. said a $2
billion lawsuit that alleges that the company and
Georgia-Pacific Corp. dumped dioxin and other pollutants into
three state rivers is "frivolous and completely without
foundation."
   The suit, which includes more than 1,800 plaintiffs,
alleges that the two paper companies knew their plants were
dumping toxins into the water, but continued to do so, posing
a "health risk to human beings, wildlife, aquatic life and
the environment in general."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James P. Melican, general counsel, said International
Paper's mill in Moss Point, Miss., meets all environmental
permits and limits imposed by state and federal agencies.
   "This is a manufactured lawsuit filed by a handful of
plaintiffs' attorneys who have been aggressively soliciting
clients for months, including by advertising in local
newspapers," Mr. Melican said. The company will "aggressively
defend" the suit, he added.
   The suit, filed in Jackson County, Miss., chancery court,
seeks to enjoin the companies from continuing the alleged
practices. It asks for a judgment of $150,000 plus $1 million
in punitive damages, for each plaintiff.
   In Atlanta, a spokeswoman for Georgia-Pacific Corp. said
the company still hadn't seen a copy of the lawsuit. She said
there "isn't any merit" to allegations outlined in a story
about the suit in Friday's Wall Street Journal. She added
that Georgia-Pacific "plans to defend itself vigorously."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Debt Payments
   Cut by BCE
   Development
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   T.BD BCE T.B T.CDN
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- BCE Development Corp. said it would stop paying
interest to holders of its unsecured debentures to convince
senior creditors in the U.S. to accept smaller debt-service
payments.
   The real-estate development concern, which is 67%-owned by
BCE Inc., a diversified holding company based in Montreal,
also said it wanted to channel all its financial resources
into completing several major projects, including the huge
BCE Place office tower in downtown Toronto.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BCE Development, which had a loss last year of 710 million
Canadian dollars (US$611 million) after writing down C$550
million in property assets, said it plans to present a full
debt-restructuring proposal to its creditors next spring.
Under the proposal, the company said it expects to offer
lenders up to 20% of the equity in its main operating unit,
Brookfield Development Corp., in exchange for retiring debt.
   In the meantime, BCE Development said the cash flow
generated by its properties isn't sufficient to cover
debt-service payments. Edwin Nordholm, senior vice president
and general counsel at BCE Development, said most of the
company's creditors have agreed to accept payments below that
called for in lending agreements. But he said agreements to
accept reduced payments still need to be reached with "one or
two" senior lenders. These lenders complained that junior
creditors hadn't made similar sacrifices, prompting the
company to cut off interest payments to its debenture
holders, he said.
   "By and large, we're pretty confident most of the lenders
are looking to do a deal with us," Mr. Nordholm said. He
wouldn't identify the creditors except to say most of them
were U.S. insurance companies. He said the company's
remaining problem properties are in Denver and in Minneapolis
and St. Paul, Minn.
   BCE Development said it wouldn't pay interest due Dec. 31
on its 8% debentures, saving roughly C$4 million. It also
said it was "unlikely" to pay C$1.4 million in interest on
its 10.75% debentures, due April 30. The company said it
would call a meeting with the trustees of the debenture
holders to explain its position.
   Mr. Nordholm said the decision to end interest payments on
the debentures wasn't forced by the company's major financial
backers, BCE and Carena Developments Ltd., a real-estate
developer controlled by Toronto financiers Peter and Edward
Bronfman. The two companies have provided a secured credit
facility of up to C$700 million to BCE Development to finish
construction of various projects. About C$550 million of the
facility has been used so far, Mr. Nordholm said.
   In September, BCE Development said the two backers might
restrict the funds from being used to meet debt obligations.
But Mr. Nordholm said the credit facility is still being used
to supplement cash flow from certain properties in order to
meet debt-service payments. At one of its properties, this is
costing BCE Development C$1 million a month, he said.
   BCE and Carena have agreed to convert much of their loan
into equity under a previously reported rights offering of
Brookfield shares scheduled for next June. A separate issue
of Brookfield warrants, representing up to 20% of the
subsidiary's equity, will probably be used to settle debt
from other creditors, Mr. Nordholm said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trying to Remedy Gaffe, Appease City,
   GM Bars Discrimination Against Gays
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp., faced with a threatened boycott by
the city of San Francisco over a slur against gays in a
promotional video, has issued a company directive barring
discrimination or insults against homosexuals.
   The directive was made in an effort to appease angry gays
in San Francisco and other cities over an internal video
shown by GM's Chevrolet unit last September, which contained
a reference to a foreign competitor's product as "that little
faggot truck."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Upon learning of the video through news reports, the city
of San Francisco, home to a powerful gay lobby, threatened to
rescind its contract with GM for about $500,000 a year in
cars and trucks, unless the auto maker could show how it
would avoid discriminating against gays in the future. San
Francisco, which received letters of support from around the
country, acted under a city ordinance that bans
discrimination against homosexuals.
   In addition to notifying San Francisco officials last week
about its new directive, the company, in its December
newsletter, condemned discrimination against gays. Also, GM
Chairman Robert C. Stempel has sent a letter of apology to
the city of San Francisco.
   "I want to assure you that this singular unfortunate
incident does not reflect General Motors policies, practices
or attitudes toward lesbian and gay people," Mr. Stempel
wrote in the Nov. 6 letter to San Francisco Supervisor
Richard Hongisto, who led the protest against the slur.
   In San Francisco, city officials said they were "pleased"
with GM's actions and were inclined to lift the threat of a
boycott -- as long as GM can demonstrate how the
non-discrimination policy will be implemented. The directive,
issued Nov. 29 to GM managers nationwide, states only that
each "employing unit" will be charged with carrying out the
policy.
   "We feel that General Motors at its highest leadership has
demonstrated a sincere commitment to undo the damage that has
been done, and we feel their efforts are laudable and
sincere," said T.J. Anthony, administrative aide to Mr.
Hongisto.
   The city would also like GM officials to consider
contributing money to a national organization that fights
discrimination against gays.
   GM officials weren't available for comment Friday. But in
his letter to the city, Mr. Stempel explained that GM didn't
intentionally include the "faggot" reference in the video,
shown during an internal marketing show in Detroit.
   GM officials have said that the slur was made by a
customer being interviewed for the video on why he preferred
Chevrolet products over smaller foreign models. In his
letter, Mr. Stempel said the interview was aired along with a
number of other customer interviews.
   Although Detroit-based GM already has an
anti-discrimination policy, the new directive adds protection
regardless of one's sexual orientation.
   "Abuse of the dignity of anyone through slurs or other
derogatory or objectionable conduct, including that based on
sexual orientation, is offensive employee behavior and has no
place in General Motors," said the directive by R.F. O'Brien,
vice-president of industrial relations staff, and G.A.
Knechtel, vice-president of personnel, administration and
development staff.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Tool Makers Say
   Caution Rules
   Project Orders
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
FACTORY EQUIPMENT (FAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Manufacturers are cautious about launching major factory
investment projects these days, but most intend to carry out
previously planned modernization programs, machinery
producers say.
   U.S. machine tool plants received $203.4 million of orders
in November, 10% more than during the weak month of November
1989, but 24% less than October's $268.1 million.
Furthermore, last month's bookings were down 18% from the
average for the first 10 months of 1990, according to the
NMTBA, the Association for Manufacturing Technology, a trade
group based in McLean, Va.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Machine tool distributors, who handle imported machines as
well as those made in the U.S., saw November orders drop 32%
from a year earlier and 8.1% from October, said the American
Machine Tool Distributors' Association, Rockville, Md.
   Because lathes, machining centers, metal-forming presses
and other machine tools are used to shape most metal parts --
and to make the molds for many plastic products -- machine
tool orders are a good barometer of investment in factory
machinery. Also, machine tool purchases usually can be
postponed without creating an immediate crisis, which makes
them a sensitive indicator.
   November frequently is a weak order month because
Thanksgiving eliminates two business days. However, machine
tool executives say last month's scanty orders also reflect
reluctance to make major commitments while the economy is
weakening rapidly.
   Thus far, there's no sign of widespread cancellations of
planned factory improvements such as those that occurred
early in the 1973-74 and 1981-82 recessions. Only $7.6
million of previously placed machine tool orders were
canceled in November, NMTBA said, a figure below the monthly
average for the last two years. By contrast, monthly
cancellations averaged $53.3 million during 1981, when the
last major recession was brewing.
   "Orders from aerospace companies, both domestic and
overseas, continue strong, but general industry orders have
been very slow," says Christopher C. Cole, group vice
president for Cincinnati Milacron Inc., the nation's largest
machine tool maker. "We didn't see the year-end rush to use
up capital spending budgets that we've had in previous
years."
   Spending for individual "stand-alone" machine tools has
weakened recently, says Brian D. McLaughlin, president and
chief executive officer of Hurco Cos., Indianapolis, a major
producer of computerized controls for such machines. Many
stand-alone machines are bought by smaller factories.
   Larger factories often buy groups of machines that form a
parts-making system. Orders for these manufacturing cells
haven't dropped off as sharply. "We hear a lot of talk about
recession, but we don't see a precipitous pullback by our
customers," says John F. Townsend, vice president of Giddings
&amp; Lewis Inc., Fond du Lac, Wis., a leading producer of
manufacturing cells. Orders for the company's automated
assembly systems also have held up well.
   Forecasting into 1991 is unusually difficult because no
one can forecast the severity and length of the economic
downturn. Manufacturers continue to discuss new factory
equipment programs, but they don't sign order forms, says
Milacron's Mr. Cole. "You can be discouraged that orders
haven't been signed, or optimistic because plans aren't being
canceled," he says.
   A Commerce Department survey made in October and November
of capital spending plans didn't signal a sharp drop. Major
machine tool buyers -- manufacturers of automobiles,
airplanes, appliances, machinery and other durable goods --
said they would reduce capital spending less than 1% next
year.
   And Eli S. Lustgarten, machinery analyst with PaineWebber
Inc., thinks manufacturers will cut purchases of data
processing and communications equipment rather than factory
machinery. He's looking for a "single digit rise" in machine
tool orders next year because U.S. auto makers must spend
more on production systems to make new engines and
transmissions, or they will fall dangerously behind Japanese
competitors.
   Based on the recent trend, 1990 orders for U.S.-made
machine tools are likely to be slightly higher than the $2.81
billion for all of 1989. Shipments in 1990 also will be up a
few percentage points from last year's $3.20 billion.
   Shipments have exceeded new orders during much of the last
two years as machine tool builders filled backlogged orders.
At the end of November, the backlog of unfilled orders
totaled $1.52 billion, NMTBA said, down from $1.80 billion at
the start of 1990 and from a recent high of $2.32 billion in
February 1989.
   November orders for lathes, machining centers, boring
mills, milling machines, grinders and other machines to cut
metal totaled $137.5 million, up 6.6%, from $128.9 million a
year earlier, NMTBA said. Last month's orders for
metal-forming presses and other machines to shape metal with
pressure were $66 million, up 19%, from $55.5 million in
November 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Orion Holder's Investment
   Fetches `Mermaids' Cut
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   OPC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Orion Pictures Corp. agreed to give
its majority shareholder a cut of profits from the movie
"Mermaids" in return for a $23 million investment.
   Shareholder John W. Kluge and his partner Stuart
Subotnick, executive vice president of Mr. Kluge's Metromedia
Co., will receive up to 64% of certain profits from the
movie, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, the filing indicates the pair may receive
certain profits from Orion's next scheduled release, "The
Silence of the Lambs," should receipts from "Mermaids" prove
disappointing.
   The romantic comedy starring Cher and Winona Ryder grossed
$8.3 million over the Christmas holiday weekend.
   An Orion spokeswoman would not comment on the $23 million
investment -- in the form of a joint venture called
MetMermaids -- saying she could not reach top executives for
an explanation.
   Mr. Kluge holds about 70% of Orion shares.
   Orion recently retained the New York investment banking
firm Salomon Brothers to find new sources of money.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Cabinet Upholds
   TV Copyright-Fees Ruling
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The cabinet of Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney upheld a ruling ordering Canada's cable television
industry to pay more than 50 million Canadian dollars
(US$43.1 million) annually in copyright fees to compensate
U.S. movie producers and other copyright holders for the use
of their programs.
   The Canadian Copyright Board, a regulatory agency, ruled
in October that cable companies must pay copyright fees on
programs they retransmit from abroad. The board's ruling
implemented a Canadian commitment in the U.S.-Canada free
trade agreement. The Canadian Cable Television Association,
an industry group, had appealed the board's decision to the
federal cabinet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canada's Consumer and Corporate Affairs Minister Pierre
Blais said the cabinet "was satisfied that the board followed
the process established by law." He said the government will
issue new criteria for setting royalty fees in the future.
   The cable television association is expected to appeal the
cabinet's decision to the Federal Court of Canada.
   The fees are retroactive to January 1990. The Copyright
Board is scheduled to begin another review of retransmission
payments in July to set fees for 1992.
   About 57% of the total royalty payment will go to a group
representing producers of U.S. movies and syndicated
programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It Helps to Be Cool
   And Klutzy if You
   Are Selling on TV
   ---
   A Shopping Hostess Wears
   Braces, and Viewers See
   Her as Part of the Family
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   QVCN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST CHESTER, Pa. -- Molly Daly's television show doesn't
begin until midnight, but the lateness of the hour hardly
deters her hard-core fans. Don't leap to conclusions. The
sauciest things about this show are saucepans. Until 3 a.m.
most mornings, Ms. Daly's fans watch and listen while she
tries to sell cosmetics, luggage, jewelry, clothing,
appliances and other such goods.
   Ms. Daly, 34 years old, is the not-quite-perfect shopping
hostess in the not-quite-prime-time slot on QVC ("Quality,
Value, Convenience") Shopping Network, a growing,
24-hour-a-day cable enterprise that beams live into 38
million homes. Tonight, she wipes some lipstick off her
orthodontic braces, mops spilled soda from her note cards and
snags her suit on a chair as she delivers her pitch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first tonight is for a Cobra answering machine that
sells at retail, according to the script, at $119.90. QVC's
regular price is only $84.50, Ms. Daly says, but today the
machine has a "special value" price of only $69.96. "The
touch pads are concave," she says. "The numbers are Arabic --
think if people tried to dial with Roman numerals]"
   By 12:20 a.m. the audience feedback has begun. A woman who
identifies herself as "Dolores from Mount Carmel" calls in
with doubts about the answering machine after watching Ms.
Daly program it. "It seems kind of complicated," Dolores
says. Not so, Ms. Daly assures her. "If your dog ate the
manual, you could operate this."
   And if Molly, an admitted klutz, can get it to work, maybe
Dolores can, too. This, at least, is the message that QVC's
management hopes will reach all the Doloreses out there.
"Host identity" is critical to what QVC Chairman Joseph Segel
calls the "psychographics" of interactive TV home shopping.
This market involves a "critical mass" audience, an
800-area-code telephone network, charge-card availability --
and, perhaps most important, an appealing family of hosts who
steer clear of the hard sell and talk about themselves nearly
as much as the products. "I want the audience to love them,"
Mr. Segel says.
   It does. QVC gets about 85,000 phone calls a day. Some
callers giggle about being "maxed out" on their credit cards.
Some ask about a host's new baby or recent vacation, as if
they were soap opera characters.
   The shopping system works by dint of a satellite dish and
the diverse dynamics of 17 hosts who are relentlessly
promoted as the "QVC family." Their salaries range from
around $50,000 to $100,000 a year each, although a part is
held hostage to each quarter's popularity ratings. QVC is
constantly surveying its audience. Among other people who
have returned postal response cards sitting in a three-inch
stack here is a woman who writes, "I am disabled and do not
get out much. QVC is a godsend for me. Keep up the good
work." From another: "The hosts are just like my friends."
But unlike family and other guests, Ms. Daly notes, as a TV
host "you're not leaving wet towels on the bed."
   Ms. Daly says viewers consider her "offbeat." She calls
fellow hosts Bob Bowersox "everybody's favorite son-in-law,"
Jane Rudolph Treacy "the girl next door, only more so,"
Jeffrey Hewson "the guy everybody wishes their daughter will
bring home," and her pal and the host who precedes her, Steve
Colantuno "the guy everybody wants to come to their party."
   Among viewers, no one carries more clout than Elizabeth V.
Fisher, a Pennsylvania grandmother who says she writes to QVC
almost daily. She corrects grammar and critiques hair styles
and clothing so fastidiously that the chairman offered to
hire her as a consultant. She declined. "I don't want to be
tied down," she says. Besides, it might detract from her
shopping. Mrs. Fisher figures she spends $30,000 or so a year
on mail-order shopping, including her QVC buys.
   Ms. Daly, hired in 1986, is one of QVC's original hosts.
She is a former rock-group and telegram singer who dropped
out of Temple University in her senior year. She likes music,
birding, history, writing, dogs, lapel pins, the environment
and ice cream. "When I used to be on in the day," she says,
"kids would call in and say, `You're goofy, but you're cool.
You remind me of Bugs Bunny.'" A serious problem with her
vocal chords last year forced her to leave the afternoon time
slot for a "no-talking" recuperation. "I wore Post-its around
the office saying, `I'm not rude, I'm resting my voice,'" she
recalls.
   Ms. Daly brings to her calling a rich vocabulary -- and a
theatrical gene pool. Her Daly-Kelly family tree has borne a
Pulitzer Prize-winning Kelly playwright and the late Princess
Grace, as well as a Daly poet.
   While Ms. Daly's profession isn't exactly show biz, it's
definitely biz. Mr. Segel keeps a vigilant eye on the
competition. "Let's call HSN (Home Shopping Network Inc.),"
he says, nodding to a bank of eight television monitors in
his office that are tuned to HSN, QVC and its recently
acquired CVN Cos., and J.C. Penney Television Shopping
Channel, among others. "I always enjoy doing that."
   Punching up the HSN phone number, he puts the competitor's
operator through her paces as he demands to know the shipping
charges on the "Gray Flannel Travel Set" cologne that is on
the air at the moment. QVC, he says, always shows its
shipping charges on the screen. "Five dollars for a $14.75
item?" he exclaims after the operator has determined the
charge. No, he is not interested at that price.
   Consumer price sensitivity colored QVC's important
Christmas shopping season. Mr. Segel says home shoppers were
very selective, often jamming phone lines but not to buy
higher-priced goods. He expects the fourth quarter to be
profitable, though not profitable enough to offset losses
earlier in the year as QVC digests its recent acquisitions.
   Mr. Segel thinks of his hosts not as entertainers or
salespeople but as "explainers" whose job is to keep people
tuned in. But Ms. Daly sometimes spontaneously breaks into
song or impressions. One day, sitting off-camera in the QVC
cafeteria, wearing a cowgirl getup and eating a sandwich --
delicately, because of her braces -- she warbles in credible
Katharine Hepburnese: "The caaaalla lily is such a
beeeyoootiful fuhlowah."
   The fringed blouse, bolo tie and boots are a costume for a
"celebrity interview" with country-Western singer Charlie
Daniels, one of her favorites. He is promoting his book and
tapes, which are being sold over QVC during the interview.
Ms. Daly prepared for the show by reading the book, listening
to the tapes and losing sleep to arrive at the studio at 4:30
a.m. for the special, four-hour-long Saturday broadcast.
   Afterward, Mr. Daniels hurries to a video display terminal
that shows the morning's sales figures. "That's pretty good,"
he says of the figures. But outside the room, a telephone
order-taker confides to Ms. Daly: "Molly] Every other phone
call was for that blouse you're wearing. And the boots. We
could have sold thousands of them]"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Ease in Short, Pre-Holiday Session;
   London Equities Decline After Lackluster Week
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices slipped late in Friday's half-day
session, as investors took profits ahead of a string of New
Year holidays that will keep the market closed until
Thursday.
   In London, shares closed lower, after a lackluster week in
which Christmas celebrations ruled out the prospect of any
genuine business activity in the stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 91.99
points at 23848.71 at the end of the morning session. On
Thursday, the index gained 53.14 points. The Tokyo Stock
Price Index, or Topix, of all first section issues, which
gained 10.74 points Thursday, fell 6.72, or 0.39%, to
1733.83. First section volume was estimated at 180 million
shares, up from an estimated 150 million in Thursday's
morning session. Declining issues outnumbered advancing
issues 599 to 290, and 204 issues were unchanged.
   The second section index, which added 3.99 points
Thursday, was down 10.91, or 0.4%, to close at 2711.15.
Second section volume was estimated at three million shares,
compared with 4.5 million shares a day earlier.
   The Nikkei advanced to Friday's intraday high of 24055.29
in the first hour of the session, helped by buying by
arbitragers and some brokerage houses, traders said. The
market gave up the gains later, as declines in stock-futures
prices discouraged buying interest, while approaching margin
calls also put downward pressure on prices of high-technology
and other equities.
   Considering a possible worsening of the continuing Middle
East crisis and the uncertain political situation in the
Soviet Union, "Investors felt it risky to pass the New Year's
Eve with stocks in their hands," said Atsushi Koishihara,
general manager of stock trading at Taiheiyo Securities.
   Some participants expected that the Nikkei index would
finish Friday's session above the psychologically significant
24000 level. Though the index recovered from the intraday low
of 23770.72 near the end of the session, the market lacked
the strength to push stock prices up further, traders said.
   Traders said the Nikkei index could have risen to 26000 in
December if it hadn't been for the shocking news of Soviet
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze's resignation.
   "I think the market ended the year at an adequate level,"
said Hiroyuki Murai, general manager of stock trading at
Nikko Securities. He said domestic interest rates are
expected to start softening in the first quarter, which has
recently lent support to interest rate-sensitive shares.
   But the recent swelling of stock-futures arbitrage
accounts indicates the possibility of strong pressure from
arbitrage selling ahead of expirations of the March futures
and options contracts in mid-March.
   Among the most actively traded stocks on Friday, Nippon
Steel closed unchanged at 448 yen ($3.28), Sumitomo Metal
added 2 to 458; Hitachi Ltd. rose 10 to 1,130, Honshu Paper
fell 50 to 1,760, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries eased 5 to 668,
Tokyo Electric Power fell 50 to 3,650, Kawasaki Steel was
down 6 at 410, NKK was up 1 at 402, Tokyo Gas eased 2 to 565,
and Marubeni lost 5 to 660.
   In London, most British fund managers chose to plan to
unwind positions Monday, before the official two-day close of
trading on the stock exchange. The majority of operators
remained absent from the market Thursday and Friday, with
business expected to stay muted until after the New Year
break.
   The quiet tone of the holiday period had led some
observers to forecast small gains for Friday in the absence
of fresh bearish news. But Wall Street's weak opening tone
and thin trading conditions helped to foster London's modest
losses for the day. Also behind the retreat, brokers said,
were bearish data on the U.S. leading indicators for
November, as they underlined recessionary conditions in the
U.S.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index ended
down 7.4 points at 2160.4. The intraday high was 2170.4, and
the day's worst level was 2160.0.
   Associated British Foods shares closed a penny lower at
420 pence ($7.93). The company said Friday that shareholders
approved the #880 million ($1.66 billion) sale of its British
Sugar unit to Berisford International. Berisford shares
finished 2 higher at #18 ($33.97).
   ECC, an industrial materials concern, closed a penny lower
at 351. The company said Friday that it completed its
previously reported acquisition of Georgia Kaolin for $340
million.
   Among shares that bucked the market's downward trend, the
electronics group Thorn EMI finished 4 higher at 677; Carlton
Communications gained 5 to 396; and the beverage concern
Grand Metropolitan rose 4 to 677. Traders noted that several
stocks were higher, following share-purchase recommendations
in domestic newspapers.
   Water company shares had a strong session, as their
defensive stature attracted investors. Severn Trent rose 3 to
247, Thames Water added 2 to 275, and Anglian finished a
penny better at 274.
   Electricity shares had a weaker session, in fairly active
trading. The electricity package, comprising shares in all of
the recently privatized regional electricity companies,
closed 25 pence lower at #14.58 a unit.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Stockholm and
Brussels, and lower in Paris and Frankfurt. Stocks were mixed
in Amsterdam, Madrid and Zurich and flat in Milan. South
African gold stocks closed weaker. Friday was the last
trading day of the year in Frankfurt. Zurich's market will be
closed Monday through Wednesday. Brussels had a late surge in
activity from so-called window dressing, in which investors
dump speculative stocks in an effort to make their portfolios
look better at year end. Stockholm's rise and Madrid's late
surge were attributed to window dressing activity.
   Equities closed lower in Hong Kong and higher in
Wellington, and were little changed in Sydney and mixed in
Singapore and Manila; some Manila gains were attributed to
window dressing. The session marked the last trading day of
1990 for Manila, Sydney and Wellington. The stock markets in
Taipei and Seoul were closed Friday.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                             Dec 27       Dec 26      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ......................  305.7        307.8    -  5.9
 Britain ...................  646.6        642.6    - 10.3
 Canada ....................  363.8        364.2    - 15.9
 Japan .....................  993.4        988.1    - 40.0
 France ....................  425.1        426.3    - 25.0
 Germany ...................  228.8        229.9    - 19.8
 Hong Kong ................. 2202.0       2196.3    +  5.0
 Switzerland ...............  169.4        170.5    - 23.2
 Australia .................  267.2        265.2    - 19.3
 World index ...............  458.5        459.1    - 19.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Thai Airways International:
   Airline Seeks to List Shares
   On the Bangkok Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11A
</SO>
<CO>
   C.TAC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thai Airways International, Thailand's flag carrier, has
applied to list its shares on the Bangkok stock exchange.
   The government had given the airline permission to raise
$118.6 million of capital, Air Chief Marshal Kaset Rochananil
told a news conference.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kaset said Thai Air expected to raise domestic fares
by 15% on main routes by the middle of January. International
fares have already been raised 7% in November to cover higher
fuel costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Data General
   Scuttles NTT
   Data Gear Pact
   ---
   Computer Maker, Focusing
   On Cost Cuts, New Line,
   Quietly Drops Accord
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   DGN J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Data General Corp., working to cut costs and focus its
resources on a new computer line, quietly dropped a
high-profile product-development agreement with Nippon
Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp.
   Separately, Chief Executive Officer Ronald Skates
disclosed that the company has cut its work force more deeply
than had been expected, eliminating about 2,400 jobs, or 20%
more than the 2,000 jobs Data General had said it would cut
this year. By January, the payroll will total about 9,300,
down from a peak of 17,000 in 1985, he estimated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement with NTT to build high-speed hubs for
private data communications networks was unveiled with great
fanfare in a Commerce Department-sponsored press conference
in 1987, at a time of acute U.S.-Japan trade tension over
technology issues.
   The project, code-named "asparagus" because it was
supposed to take two years to grow, apparently fell victim to
engineering delays and five years of losses and slow sales at
Data General. The move completes the Westborough, Mass.,
computer maker's withdrawal from the data communications
equipment business after investing millions of dollars in the
failed effort.
   Although Data General never disclosed the value of the NTT
contract, NTT executives said at the time of the announcement
that the company planned to buy over a five-year period
starting in 1989 some $130 million of equipment to be
developed by Data General. The communications systems were to
link voice, data and computers in large, private
communications networks such as those used by corporations
and universities. Analysts said at the time that the revenue
could eventually be significant for Data General.
   Barry Willman, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co.,
says that killing the project now will help focus Data
General on its new Aviion workstations, which he called "the
company's future." He added that the NTT project had
"stalled" and revenue expectations for the fruit of the
venture had been "severely diminished."
   Mr. Skates, the chief executive, said in an interview that
the financial impact of withdrawing from the data
communications equipment market "is already behind us." He
said the company "still has a strong business relationship
with NTT in other areas." He added that delays "on both
sides" combined with a changing market to reduce the
product's potential.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Data General said the agreement was terminated Dec. 5 "at its
request."
   Mr. Willman estimates Data General will lose about 15
cents a share, or $5 million, on revenue of $298 million for
the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 30. In the year-earlier
first quarter, the company had a net loss of $20.5 million,
or 69 cents a share, on a 6% decline in revenue to $290.7
million.
   Data General's deep cost-cutting had prompted some
analysts to predict that the company could break even as
early as its fiscal second quarter. But most now foresee a
loss for at least two more quarters.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Data
General stock closed at $4.25 a share, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP JAPAN J.NTT TAXES LATAM J.SSD
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   REPLY FROM MRS. AQUINO
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philippine President Corazon Aquino said her government
would meet conditions set by a Swiss court for the return of
money allegedly deposited in Switzerland by the late
President Ferdinand Marcos.
   In a decision made public last week, the Swiss Supreme
Court ruled that the money must be returned as soon as a
competent criminal court in the Philippines has issued a
"legally binding" verdict in a case against Mr. Marcos and
his widow, Imelda. The order set a one-year deadline for the
Philippine government to complete legal proceedings.
   "The decision of Switzerland's Federal Supreme Court
should be hailed as a victory for the Filipino people," Mrs.
Aquino said. "For our part, we are confident that we will be
able to fulfill the conditions within the time frame
available."
   The Aquino government claims that Mr. Marcos and his
associates embezzled up to $10 billion.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE RESUMES CHINA CREDIT
                                                                                                       

   France agreed to restore official lines of credit for
projects in China managed by French companies that were
suspended after China suppressed pro-democracy demonstrations
last year. In Paris, an Economics Ministry official said a
protocol signed by China and France would release 1.3 billion
francs ($253.6 million) of loans to help finance
telecommunications and water-treatment projects.
                                                                                                       

   TOKYO PHONE NUMBERS ADD DIGIT
                                                                                                       

   Telephone numbers in Tokyo are adding one digit to become
eight-digit numbers, beginning tomorrow at 2 a.m., Japan
time. All phone numbers in Tokyo's 03 area code are adding
the number "3" before the present seven-digit number. The
change affects 6.14 million numbers of the total 7.18 million
numbers in Tokyo. The 1.04 million numbers unaffected by the
change were previously changed to eight-digit numbers,
starting with the digit "5."
   Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. is taking the step to
increase the numbers available for use.
                                                                                                       

   VENEZUELA CHANGES SAVINGS TAX
                                                                                                       

   Venezuela's Planning Minister Miguel Rodriguez said most
savings accounts would be exempt from a new tax planned by
the government in 1991. The government plans for the first
time to tax interest from personal savings accounts but only
when the accounts exceed the equivalent of $10,000. The
original plan was to tax accounts above $5,000. The tax is
expected to be about 2%.
                                                                                                       

   COSTS BALLOON IN BRAZIL
                                                                                                       

   Inflation in Brazil in December hit 19.39%, up from a
November rate of 16.64%, according to the official index. The
consumer price index, a separate, unofficial measure, showed
an increase of 18.3% in December and a record 1,795% for the
year. In December, price increases were led by pharmaceutical
products, which rose 50%. The government ordered an
investigation of what it called "perverse" increases by drug
companies, and the industry last week voluntarily agreed to
freeze its prices for 45 days. Also contributing to the
December jump were rents, which rose 38%, and bus fares,
which climbed 22%.
                                                                                                       

   RECALL OF JAPANESE COSMETICS
                                                                                                       

   Shiseido Co., a Japanese cosmetics maker, said its
Australian and Singapore subsidiaries are recalling six
skin-care products containing urocanic acid, an
ultraviolet-absorbing material that an Australian researcher
linked to skin cancer. A Shiseido spokesman said urocanic
acid has been approved as safe by Japan, the U.S. and other
nations. Shiseido doesn't plan to recall the products
elsewhere. The spokesman said an Australian government
advisory on Dec. 18 urged a recall; while no similar action
was taken in Singapore, the local subsidiary decided on the
recall after media coverage of the Australian action.
                                                                                                       

   BEIJING RAISES SOME PRICES
                                                                                                       

   Beginning tomorrow, residents of Beijing will have to pay
double the current fare for bus and subway tickets and up to
10 times today's price to stroll in a park as the city tries
to reduce subsidies.
   The new rates still fail to cover the city's costs to run
the public-transit and parks systems, the Beijing Evening
News said. But it didn't indicate whether further increases
were likely soon.
   Even for Chinese, the new rates remain relatively low. A
bus ride across the central city will cost three cents, for
example, or less than 3% of the average worker's daily wages.
Most city parks have charged less than one cent for entry and
now will charge nine cents.
   China has selectively increased prices over the past
decade in an effort to reduce the burden of subsidies. But
authorities have failed to overhaul the entire price system,
as economists have urged, for fear of causing social unrest.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Italian Treasury is issuing a 1,000-lire bill with a
picture of educator Maria Montessori, replacing the
traditional portrait of explorer Marco Polo. A thousand lire
are worth about 86 cents. . . . Argentine soccer star Diego
Maradona was voted Italy's most hated person in a year-end
poll conducted for La Repubblica newspaper. Mr. Maradona, who
is captain of the Napoli team, was called "a troublemaker, a
hypocrite and a sower of discord." He headed a list including
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, President Bush and rock
singer Madonna.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Longs Drug Stores Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LDG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONGS DRUG STORES Corp. (Walnut Creek, Calif.) -- Robert
M. Long, the president and chief executive officer of this
drug store chain, temporarily assumed the postion of chairman
of the 13-member board after his father, Joseph M. Long,
chairman and co-founder, died Thursday at the age of 78.
Robert M. Long said he plans no changes in the operations of
the company. Joseph M. Long and his brother, Thomas J. Long,
a director, founded the company in Oakland, Calif., in 1938.
Since then, the company has grown to 257 stores in six states
with more than 14,000 employees and sales last year of more
than $2 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Great Lakes Bancorp:
   Write-Off of Good Will
   To Lead to Loss for 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLBC
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Great Lakes Bancorp said it expects to write off between
$25 million and $28 million in good will, which will result
in a loss of as much as $23 million in 1990.
   Great Lakes Bancorp said future earnings will benefit from
the write-off because the annual expense of amortizing good
will and other intangibles is reduced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it will add between $15 million and
$18 million to its reserves to protect it from possible loan
losses and improve future earnings. The increase will boost
reserves to between $23 million and $26 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Investors Flock to Stock Funds
   To Catch Market's Rising Tide
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With stocks up 11% since mid-October, somebody
must be bullish. And that somebody seems to include mutual
fund investors.
   In November, stock mutual funds pulled in $1.4 billion
more than they surrendered to departing shareholders.
Moreover, a sampling of major fund groups shows that
investors continued to pour money into stock funds in
December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I call them the `chicken' stock buyers," says Jon
Fossel,, president of New York's Oppenheimer Management Corp.
He notes that investors may be buying stocks, but they are
opting for conservative funds such as equity-income funds and
so-called asset allocation funds.
   The Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait prompted a rash of
withdrawals from stock funds. According to the Investment
Company Institute, stock funds suffered net outflows of $2.8
billion in August and an additional $484 million in
September.
   That outflow turned around in October, when $734 million
flowed back into stock funds. November's $1.4 billion inflow
is the strongest since June 1990. (These figures reflect
stock fund sales less redemptions, plus the net result of
switches between stock funds and other funds in the same fund
family. Reinvested dividends are excluded.)
   Fund groups such as Financial Programs, Janus Capital,
Twentieth Century and Vanguard Group all report strong net
inflows into their stock funds during December.
   But not everybody saw a pickup in the stock fund business.
New England Securities and Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark say that
the inflows into their stock funds slowed in the past four
weeks. Fidelity Investments says its stock funds saw a small
net outflow.
   "December, of course, is the month that people hold back
equity fund purchases because of the capital gains
distributions," notes Gavin Quill, a Scudder marketing
research analyst. At year end, stock funds usually make big
capital gains and income distributions, on which investors
then have to pay taxes.
   Among specialty funds, Financial Programs and Vanguard
both say that their health care funds were big money magnets,
and that their energy funds had net outflows. At Franklin
Resources, there was keen interest in the fund group's gold
and utility funds. "That would seem to indicate that people
are pretty apprehensive," says Gregory Johnson, a Franklin
marketing vice president.
   The outlook for stock fund sales is bright, according to a
survey conducted for Fidelity by the University of Michigan
Survey Research Center. The December survey found that 35% of
fund owners plan to buy a stock fund over the next three
months, up from 25% in November and just 12% in July. (These
figures reflect the percentage planning to buy a stock fund
minus those planning to sell.)
   Stock fund managers, meanwhile, continue to sit on a pile
of cash. But because a rising stock market boosted the value
of stock fund assets in November, cash as a percentage of
fund assets dropped to 12.4% from October's 12.9%.
   Though stock fund sales had a rough ride in 1990, the
biggest loser has been taxable bond funds. So far this year,
stock funds have pulled in $12.8 billion, but taxable bond
funds have bled $658 million.
   High-yielding junk bond funds gave up an additional $399
million in November, bringing this year's net outflow to $4.5
billion. And U.S. government bond funds have hemorrhaged $7.1
billion this year.
   Bond funds "were sold primarily to savers, not to
investors," says A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper
Analytical Services. For many bond fund investors, he says,
"volatility in both dividends and share price has come as a
surprise."
   But Oppenheimer's Mr. Fossel says that sales of his fund
group's government bond funds picked up in December, and
other fund companies have noticed a similar trend. "The
public has noticed that money fund rates have come down, so
they've extended maturities," Mr. Fossel says. "I think it's
a very wise move on their part."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insurance -- The Next Crisis?
   ---
   Ominous Signs:
   Regulator's Failure
   To Halt Insurer's Slide
   Shows Flaws in System
   ---
   Pennsylvania Let Lacop Keep
   Going Despite Cash Woes,
   Sanctions by Other States
   ---
   A Call for Federal Guidelines
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Last of a series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   HARRISBURG, Pa. -- State regulators here knew Life
Assurance Co. of Pennsylvania was in trouble. But they hoped
the problems would go away.
   Lacop, as it is known, had for years appeared on a
national watch list of shaky insurers. Various states had
barred it from doing business within their borders. But it
was up to Pennsylvania, Lacop's home state, to decide whether
to shut it down. And Pennsylvania waited.
   Lacop assured state officials this past July that it soon
planned to sell its policies to another insurer and get out
of the business. Officials decided to give Lacop more time
even though its bank accounts were overdrawn by $2.8 million.
Lacop wrote millions of dollars in new policies as the state
held back.
   This fall, Lacop gradually stopped paying most claims.
First a trickle and then a torrent of calls came into the
insurance department from angry policyholders and banks
complaining about missed payments and bounced checks. In late
October, the state suspended all operations at Lacop, and
regulators are now seeking to have the company declared
insolvent by a state court.
   State insurance Commissioner Constance Foster, an
energetic official who has built up a department that had
declined for years, says she remains astounded by Lacop's
demise. "I'll tell you frankly, to this day I don't know how
this company became insolvent." The company disputes the
notion that it is actually insolvent, and says it plans to
challenge the state in court.
   The Lacop case illustrates several problems with the way
insurance companies are regulated in this country. Though it
reaches not only across state lines but around the globe,
insurance is governed by a patchwork of local regulation that
is sustained by state and industry lobbying. So diffuse is
the current system that state regulators refer to companies
headquartered in other states as "foreign."
   There is increasing concern that the business is
outstripping the ability of laws, regulators, and accounting
rules to guide it. The business itself is riskier than ever.
Property and casualty carriers, who once concentrated on the
more predictable hazards of theft and fire, now also
underwrite far riskier lines such as product liability and
financial guaranties. Life insurers, acting much like banks,
are selling investments at narrowing profits backed in some
cases by worrisome assets. And hundreds of policy writers use
offshore companies to "reinsure" their own risks.
   Up against this are state insurance departments, whose
abilities and resources vary widely. While New York spent
more than $50 million to monitor the $31 billion in policies
written there last year, Pennsylvania spent only $11 million
to regulate the $27 billion of policies written in that
state. New York's insurance commission has 821 staffers,
while Pennsylvania's has but 263. Pennsylvania has only seven
financial analysts and 46 field examiners to inspect the
roughly 400 insurance companies headquartered there and the
more than 1,000 other companies doing business in the state.
The small staff conducted about 200 examinations this year.
   "I guess that you can always use more {resources}, but I
feel that we have been very kindly treated" by the state
budget, Commissioner Foster says.
   While no one has questioned the integrity or the
commitment of Pennsylvania's department, that isn't so in
some other states. Two commissioners were indicted earlier
this year for alleged bribe-taking in unrelated incidents.
Critics say many states still jockey for narrow and parochial
interests at the expense of a coordinated, national approach
to policing insurers. And more than a century of close
connections between the industry and its government overseers
persists, even though for years many regulators themselves
have called for greater regulatory independence.
   "The problem with state regulation is that in many cases
it continues to function in the era of the quill pen,"
complains Rep. John Dingell, the Michigan Democrat whose
Oversight and Investigations subcommittee has been
researching the insurance business for over a year. Many in
the industry believe Rep. Dingell will next year propose
federal legislation for insurance regulation.
   Proponents argue that the current regulatory structure can
catch up with the modern realities of insurance. The system
is slowly strengthening its oversight of companies' financial
conditions. "We have accomplished more in the last year on
solvency regulation than we have in the last 20 years
combined," says James Long, North Carolina insurance
commissioner and president of the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, which coordinates state regulation.
   But, for all their efforts, the states still have far to
go. When an insurer falls ill, its home state is expected by
other states to monitor -- and, if need be, cut off -- the
business. Theoretically, consumers across the country are
equally protected. In practice, 50 doctors may minister to
the one patient, enforcing different laws with widely varying
vigilance. The Pennsylvania department is a case in point.
   The agency was in disarray when Mrs. Foster took over in
January 1987, inside and outside observers contend. Eight
commissioners had come and gone in as many years. Staffing
had dropped by about 30% in the preceding decade. And a major
insolvency was breaking on the scene.
   Mutual Fire, Marine &amp; Inland Insurance Co. had recently
failed and been taken over by the department. Its assets
trailed its liabilities by about $400 million, making it the
largest insurance failure in Pennsylvania history. Mrs.
Foster had little experience in this kind of thing herself,
having spent most of her time as a Philadelphia attorney
suing insurance companies in workers' compensation cases.
Still, she says, it was immediately apparent that the
department wasn't up to its regulatory responsibilities.
   "It was clear that our solvency net was full of holes,"
she says. Among other things, she was bothered by the sight
of department financial analysts checking company numbers
with hand calculators. There was hardly a computer in sight.
   Commissioner Foster has pushed staff training and shaken
up the organization chart. She has increased the staff by 33%
and the budget by 43%. And she draws praise from some other
commissioners. "Connie seems to be able to filter through all
the technical stuff and understand what's needed for the
marketplace," says Elaine McReynolds, Tennessee's insurance
commissioner.
   For her part, Mrs. Foster says, "I think we have used
every financial and human resource to our fullest potential
in the last four years. We couldn't have done more. But I do
think there are more improvements we can make."
   Penny-pinching remains a way of life in the department.
The commissioner recently spent days debating the purchase of
a $25,000 machine to improve the flow of calls to the
complaints department.
   Pennsylvania's insurance outlays are proportionately among
the lowest of major states. Moreover, the department
routinely takes in more in license fees and fines than it
spends -- resulting in a "profit" to the state of $4 million
in the latest fiscal year. And, like all states, Pennsylvania
also collects taxes on insurance premiums that dwarf
regulatory spending. Those amounted to about $190 million in
the last fiscal year, ended June 30.
   Most of Commissioner Foster's improvements and added
personnel have been in politically attractive areas such as
rate monitoring and consumer complaint services.
   Insurance regulation is more than financial analysis. In a
nondescript brick high-rise a few blocks down from the
capital building in Harrisburg, rows of employees field calls
from distressed consumers while dozens of actuaries and rate
specialists scrutinize over 14,000 rate filings and over
40,000 policy forms a year.
   Under Gov. Robert Casey, the Democrat who appointed
Commissioner Foster, Pennsylvania has undertaken some major
consumer-oriented initiatives, particularly in automobile
insurance, where it has compelled insurers to disregard a
policyholder's sex in setting rates and to reduce rates in
return for some restructuring of certain mandatory coverage.
   As the Lacop case shows, attention to company analysis and
solvency was almost lost in the battles over auto rates and
other issues.
   About every three or four years, regulators visit
insurance companies in Pennsylvania and around the country to
do an on-site audit of the books. It's a time consuming
process that takes months and even years to complete. And
critics contend that these so-called examinations are often
so late as to be useless. The state's examination of Lacop
for the year 1987, for example, still isn't finished.
   Insurers do have to voluntarily report a raft of financial
data to the state every year, and that data is fed into a
computer run by the national insurance commissioners' group.
In fact, as the insurance business becomes more complex,
regulators are relying more on computers than increased
manpower to monitor insurers's health.
   Each year, the computer identifies companies that may be
in financial trouble so that states, and particularly their
home state, can pay closer attention. Beginning in the
mid-1980s, the computer picked out Lacop as a troubled
insurer.
   Life Assurance Co. of Pennsylvania is a 33-year-old,
closely-held company that is part of the real estate and
insurance holdings of Chicago businessman Richard Fanslow.
Lacop specialized in so-called credit life policies, which
promised to keep up payments on car and consumer loans even
if the borrower should die or be disabled. A small company,
it had total capital of but $7.8 million as of June 30. The
nation's largest life insurer, Prudential Life Insurance Co.
of America, has more than $5 billion in capital.
   James Blair, president of Lacop, declines to discuss its
dealings with regulators, saying it is contesting a number of
insurance department actions in court.
   The first regulatory action against Lacop came more than a
year ago, when Ohio's insurance department limited the
premiums Lacop could write there. In October 1989, the
Illinois department banned the company altogether. So did
Tennessee in December of that year. And last April,
California took the same step, alleging that the company was
"conducting its business and affairs in a manner hazardous to
its policyholders, creditors, and the public." Maryland
lifted the company's license in July.
   Yet, most states held to tradition, counting on Lacop's
home regulators in Pennsylvania to take the lead. West
Virginia, one of Lacop's most active markets, awaited action
from Pennsylvania while the company took in $11.4 million
from West Virginia residents in the year and a half leading
to June 30. "We rely on the regulatory strength and ability
of the insurance company's home state; that's all we can do,"
says John Collins, director of the West Virginia insurance
department's Financial Conditions Division. He notes that he
and two financial analysts must look after the 1,200
companies licensed to do business in the state.
   By June 30, Lacop's bank accounts were overdrawn by $2.8
million. Assets exceeded liabilities only because another of
Mr. Fanslow's businesses transferred the deed on an $8.5
million piece of property to Lacop.
   Yet Pennsylvania refused to take action -- in part,
regulators say, because they were misled by company
officials, and in part because they say shutting an insurer
down is such a drastic and difficult step.
   By summer, state and Lacop officials were in almost daily
contact. State officials failed to appreciate the seriousness
of the company's cash shortage. Moreover, they were focused
on Lacop's assurances in July that it was getting out of the
insurance business altogether. "I remember breathing a sigh
of relief when they told us that and thinking that we
wouldn't have to take harsher action," recalls Kenneth
Wolensky, the 28-year-old director of the department's Bureau
of Licensing and Financial Analysis.
   Harsher action means taking an insurer to court and
proving -- generally against the company's protests -- that
it is insolvent, or that its liabilities exceed its assets.
Commissioner Foster says the cases can be tough to prove. And
when the state wins, it then has the burdensome job of taking
control of the insurer and liquidating it.
   "We thought that we could dismember the company, and that
there were books of business within Lacop that were very
attractive, and that those books of business could be sold
off with no impact at all on the consumers," Commissioner
Foster says. "Once you put a book of life insurance into
liquidation, there are some very big legal questions about
what's going to happen to the holders of whole life
{policies}, and that was something we were trying to avoid."
   It seemed at first that there might be buyers for Lacop's
business. Negotiations with an undisclosed party droned on
through August and into September, and the department kept
its hopes up.
   But then, in about mid-September, calls began trickling
into the state that Lacop claims weren't being paid and then
that claim checks were bouncing. The department paid little
attention. Lacop, according to state officials, explained
complaints away, first as a processing problem and then as a
temporary cash glitch that would soon be covered by a line of
credit.
   "We were misled," the commissioner says now.
   On October 4, Lacop voluntarily stopped writing new
business, again quelling state concerns. Not until mid-month
did the state realize the full gravity of the cash problem.
On Oct. 18 it issued an order officially suspending the
company's business, and four days later it sent an examiner
into the company's offices. But it was too late. Ronald
Chronister, deputy insurance commissioner for company
regulation, says the state had for months planned to send a
team of examiners into Lacop, but somehow "other priorities
just interceded."
   In Pennsylvania's mind, Lacop's days of independent
operation were over. Nearly half a decade after the first
warnings signs from regulators' computers, Commissioner
Foster, on Nov. 23, asked the Commonwealth Court of
Pennsylvania in Harrisburg to declare Lacop insolvent. Lacop
is disputing that assertion, but it declines to disclose its
reasons. A court hearing is scheduled for early January.
   Across the country, the number of insolvencies has jumped
to a record 44 last year from less than five per year earlier
in the decade, renewing calls for some form of federal
oversight of insurance.
   State oversight of the insurance industry dates back to
1868, when the U.S. Supreme Court concluded in a case called
Paul vs. Virginia that insurance wasn't a form of commerce
and therefore was exempt from federal control. "A historical
quirk," one scholar has called the ruling. The high court
overturned Paul vs. Virginia in 1944. But the industry and
its state government allies, in a lobbying tour de force,
swiftly convinced Congress to pass the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson
Act, once again exempting insurance from federal control,
including antitrust laws. The act "violates the most
fundamental rights of citizens and economic good sense," says
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, the Ohio Democrat who has conducted a
number of campaigns to rescind McCarran-Ferguson.
   While the industry and the individual states have beaten
back such attempts before, both groups feel under pressure
now. In response, the state commissioners' group, NAIC, is
working to get the 50 states to adopt uniform standards of
regulation, such as requiring that all insurers get an
outside auditor to sign off on their annual statement of
financial health. Currently, only 15 states, including
Pennsylvania, require such an audit.
   The NAIC this year began a campaign to certify state
insurance departments. Two of the best state departments, New
York and Florida, entered the process. Both were certified,
but NAIC officials concede that many states would flunk if
tested. Nor has the NAIC adopted any punishment for failure
to attain certification, asserting instead that insurance
buyers themselves will shun companies based in states that
don't make the grade.
   State politics in many cases can play as big a role as
theories of insurance regulation and sound accounting
practices. California Assemblyman Patrick Johnston says he
ran into a buzz saw this summer when he proposed limiting
insurance company junk-bond holdings to 20% of assets. Mr.
Johnston, who is chairman of the assembly's Finance and
Insurance Committee, says he hadn't reckoned on the lobbying
powers of Los Angeles-based First Executive Corp., a major
holder of junk bonds. His bill was sunk by his own committee.
"It wasn't even close," he says. First Executive has declined
to comment on the assembly vote.
   The regulatory process itself is infused with industry
officials and lobbyists at all levels. NAIC meetings often
are filled with insurance executives, known sometimes as "the
greenies" because of the registration tags they must wear. At
a conference in Baltimore earlier this year, industry
representatives outnumbered state officials more than six to
one. Each NAIC committee has an industry advisory group,
whose members sit side by side with their regulators,
cajoling and arguing about the detailed rules and
requirements that are supposed to guide the industry.
   At their worst, industry ties to regulators have led to
allegations of corruption. According to federal prosecutors,
Louisiana insurance Commissioner Douglas Green let
now-insolvent Champion Insurance Co. stay in business,
despite widespread complaints that the insurer wasn't paying
claims, after he had received $150,000 in campaign
contributions from interests related to the company.
   This June, a federal grand jury in New Orleans charged Mr.
Green with mail fraud, money laundering and conspiracy. He
was also indicted in Baton Rouge in July by a state grand
jury on charges of public bribery in the same matter. Through
a spokeswoman, Mr. Green denies the charges, which he says
are politically motivated.
   Former Wyoming insurance Commissioner Gordon W. Taylor Jr.
was indicted earlier this year on three federal counts of
alleged bribe-taking in connection with companies under his
department's surveillance. Mr. Taylor recently pleaded guilty
in federal court in Casper, Wyo., to one of the charges and
is awaiting sentencing.
   Meanwhile in Pennsylvania, lessons are being learned,
Commissioner Foster says. "Next time we will be less
accepting of what the company has to say," she asserts. The
state has been working for two years on a new computer system
of its own to better target troubled insurers. It plans to
cut back on its on-site examinations of clearly healthy
companies to concentrate more resources on sick ones.
   Many of the more aggressive state insurance commissions
are taking similar steps. But other states lag far behind.
Commissioner Foster says she reluctantly would welcome
federal guidelines for states to follow. "I think there is a
crying need for minimum standards," she says. Better
monitoring of company "solvency is the door through which
federal regulation will walk. Some form of it is inevitable."
   ---
     Top Ten Insurance States -- And Their Regulators
                                                                                                       

                   JULY 1989-
    1989           JUNE 1990       REGULATORY
    STATEWIDE      DEPARTMENT      SPENDING AS
    PREMIUMS       BUDGET          A PERCENT OF
   (In billions)  (In millions)   TOTAL PREMIUMS     STAFF
                                                                                                       

 California
      $54.59         $60.4            0.11%             813
                                                                                                       

 New York
       30.98          54.2            0.17              812
                                                                                                       

 Florida
       28.24          39.0            0.13              651
                                                                                                       

 Pennsylvania
       27.23          11.3            0.04              263

 Texas
       27.03          50.7            0.18            1,299
                                                                                                       

 Ohio
       16.74          11.8            0.07              185
                                                                                                       

 North Carolina
       11.96          18.7            0.16              356
                                                                                                       

 Indiana
       11.82           3.3            0.02               99
                                                                                                       

 Connecticut
        9.77           4.3            0.04               76
                                                                                                       

 Georgia
        9.51           6.3            0.07              131
                                                                                                       

   Source: National Association of Insurance
Commissioners/State Reports/WSJ
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Justice Department Seeks to Block
   Sale of Semiconductor Firm to Japanese
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NSN HPC
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration said it would try to
block on antitrust grounds the acquisition of a U.S.
semiconductor-equipment company by Nippon Sanso KK of Japan.
   The action comes even though President Bush earlier had
approved the deal as posing no threat to national security.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Justice Department said Friday that it would file a
civil antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the proposed sale by
Hercules Inc. of Wilmington, Del., of its SemiGas Systems
unit to Tokyo-based Nippon Sanso. Critics of the
controversial transaction, including many Democrats in
Congress, have said it would hurt the struggling U.S.
semiconductor industry.
   Semi-Gas provides crucial chip-manufacturing services to
Sematech, a Pentagon-supported consortium of U.S.
semiconductor manufacturers and other electronic companies.
   A spokesman for Hercules said that the chemical-maker
would fight the Justice Department move. The spokesman,
Robert Hessler, said the company's lawyers had received "only
verbal notification" that the department plans to seek an
injunction. "But based on that, we believe the government's
claim has no merit or basis, and accordingly, Hercules is
prepared to defend any claims brought by the department," he
said. Hercules agreed to sell Semi-Gas for $23 million.
   The Justice Department said the proposed sale would
violate federal antitrust law by combining the two leading
producers of gas cabinets in the world and "substantially
{increasing} Semi-Gas Systems' dominant position" in the U.S.
market. Gas cabinets are used to distribute specialty gases
for semiconductor fabrication. The Justice Department didn't
specify in which federal court it planned to file suit or
when it would do so.
   The proposed sale "may substantially lessen competition in
the production and sale of gas cabinets in the United
States," said James Rill, the Justice Department's antitrust
chief.
   In July, President Bush provoked criticism from
congressional Democrats when he endorsed the sale of Semi-Gas
contingent on certain conditions for protecting sensitive
semiconductor research. Sen. Albert Gore Jr. (D., Tenn.)
attacked the administration for doing a "lackadaisical" job
of screening foreign takeovers of U.S. high-technology
assets. The interagency panel that advises the president on
such takeovers has approved almost every transaction it has
reviewed since late 1988.
   Mr. Rill denied that the administration had taken
conflicting positions on foreign takeovers of U.S.
high-technology assets. "The two actions were totally
unrelated," he said. "They do not depend at all on the same
statutes or on the same considerations. . . . This is a very
straightforward {antitrust} case."
   A Sematech spokesman praised the Justice Department for
its promised legal action. "Our concern is that another
American technological jewel not fall into the hands of a
foreign competitor," said Mark Nelson, director of government
affairs for the Austin, Texas, consortium. Sematech claims
that Japanese companies currently don't have certain Semi-Gas
technology.
   Executives of Semi-Gas earlier had failed to raise enough
money to match Nippon Sanso's offer for the Hercules
subsidiary. A person familiar with the situation said Friday
that in recent months "the employees' group has been trying
to put their deal back together" in an effort to prevent a
takeover by the Japanese company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southwestern Energy Co.:
   Arkansas and Missouri Clear
   Rate Increases for Gas Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SWN
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southwestern Energy Co., Fayetteville, Ark., said its
Arkansas Western Gas Co. unit received final regulatory
approval from Arkansas and Missouri for rate increases
totaling $7.4 million annually.
   The company had requested a total of $15.3 million.
Arkansas granted increases of $6.5 million a year, Missouri
$900,000 a year. Most of the increases apply to residential
and small-business customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In granting its boosts, Arkansas's public service
commission also initiated a review of the way natural gas
purchase costs are passed on to customers, Southwestern said.
The commission maintained that "certain regulatory and
contractual impediments" exist in Arkansas Western's system
that could prevent it from obtaining competitively priced
gas, Southwestern said.
   The commission in particular described a longstanding
supply contract between Arkansas Western and another
subsidiary of Southwestern as "diametrically opposed" to
current, more flexible contracting provisions, Southwestern
said. The commission will take initial testimony March 6 and
has scheduled an April 16 hearing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- HQ Office Supplies Warehouse:
   Board Agrees to Complete
   Merger With Former Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HQOSA HQOIA SPLS BZMT
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HQ Office Supplies Warehouse Inc. said its board reached
"an agreement in principle" with its affiliate and former
subsidiary, HQ Office International Inc., to complete a
merger proposed on Sept. 4. The operator of office supply
stores currently owns 25% of HQ Office International.
   The transaction is subject to approval of the shareholders
of HQ Office International, regulatory approvals, and other
closing conditions. HQ Office Supplies said it expects the
merger will be completed in early 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it entered into "a definitive
agreement" for the sale of substantially all its HQ Office
Supplies Warehouse retail stores in Southern California to
Staples Inc., and "an agreement in principle" to sell its
stores in Northern California and Las Vegas, Nev., to BizMart
Inc.
   HQ Office Supplies said its "repositioning" is due in part
to its inability to close financing on a $40 million private
preferred equity placement during the fall of 1990. In
addition, the company said it was hurt earlier this year by
delays on the part of its underwriter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC Staff Says Exchanges Improved
   Performance Between '87, '89 Crashes
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 21
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Experience pays.
   That, in brief, is the conclusion the Securities and
Exchange Commission staff reached after analyzing how
securities exchanges coped with the stock market's mini-crash
Oct. 13, 1989, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged
190.58 points in the final 90 minutes of trading. The study
found that the exchanges had repaired many of the weaknesses
revealed by the far scarier market crash two years earlier,
when the industrials dropped 508 points in one day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevertheless, the study by the SEC's division of market
regulation found room for improvement. Exchanges should
consider several changes "to improve their ability to
function as efficiently and effectively in turbulent markets
as in stable markets," the study said. In particular, the
report said it found some "very troubling" conditions in the
markets for index options, which allow speculators and
hedgers to bet on price changes in stock indexes, such as the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500.
   The report recommended that the New York and American
stock exchanges develop more objective standards for
measuring the performance of specialists, who make markets in
stocks by balancing orders to buy and sell shares. The agency
repeated its concern that specialists need more capital.
   Exchange officials reached after the report was issued
Friday said they hadn't seen the 173-page report and couldn't
comment on it.
   In general, the study contains reassuring news about the
steps exchanges have taken to maintain fair and orderly
markets in the face of sudden surges in trading volume and
sharp price fluctuations.
   Market performance "has improved substantially during
periods of high price volatility and trading volume as a
result of the implementation of many of the recommendations"
following the crash of Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987. Acting on
post-crash studies, the exchanges bolstered their operational
systems and took steps to prevent highly volatile markets
from spinning out of control.
   Although options exchanges performed "significantly
better" in 1989 than two years earlier, "concerns about the
ability of the options exchanges to provide a continuous
market in stock-index options during extreme market
conditions, especially when the primary stock-index futures
contracts have ceased trading, resurfaced during October
1989," the report said.
   To provide more reliable trading conditions for index
options in highly volatile markets, the SEC staff recommended
that exchanges consider automatically halting index-option
trading when markets in the index futures are closed
temporarily by the "circuit breakers" designed to stabilize
turbulent markets. In addition, the report recommended better
procedures for reopening trading in index options and higher
performance standards for specialists on options exchanges.
   This is the second report the SEC staff has released on
the 1989 mini-crash. A study released in May looked at
trading patterns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- United Industrial Corp.:
   Indonesian Magnate Gains
   Control of Singapore Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UIC P.SIL WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Indonesian tycoon Liem Sioe Liong has gained control of
Singapore's diversified United Industrial Corp. with a share
purchase that surprised analysts.
   UIC's president, Oei Hong Leong, sold 182 million shares
at 1.60 Singapore dollars (91 U.S. cents) each to Mr. Liem's
Singapore investment company. The S$291.2 million transaction
reduces Mr. Oei's stake to 4.7% from 22.4%. The holding of
Mr. Liem's KMP Pte. rises to 24.5% from 6.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Oei is also stepping down as UIC's president and chief
executive officer.
   Mr. Liem's Salim Group, Indonesia's largest conglomerate,
has more than 200 companies involved in banking, trading,
manufacturing, property and other activities. Headed by the
74-year-old Mr. Liem, Salim has been steadily expanding its
activities in Singapore. Now, Salim will in effect get
control of a large block of Singapore's commercial real
estate: UIC controls the country's largest
commercial-property company, Singapore Land Ltd.
   Neither Mr. Liem nor Mr. Oei could be reached for comment
on the transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Recreation Centers Inc.:
   Purchase of 400,000 Shares
   By ESOP Cleared by Board
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMRC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Recreation Centers Inc. said its board authorized
the purchase of 400,000 shares by its Employee Stock
Ownership Plan.
   The transaction was financed by a loan to the employee
organization from the company and will be repaid over five
years from annual contributions made to the organization by
the company. The company said it used its credit line to
secure the loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Sacramento, Calif., company said it purchases stock
for its members from time to time on the open market and
added that it will continue to do so.
   American Recreation Centers owns 22 bowling centers in
California and five in Texas. It also owns Right Start
Catalog Inc., a direct marketer of products for infants and
children.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Battle Zone:
   A Battered University
   In Lima, Peru, Reflects
   Nation's Political Strife
   ---
   Venerable San Marcos Decays,
   Caught in the Crossfire
   Of Police and Guerrillas
   ---
   Taking Classes by Lamplight
   ----
   By Jose De Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   LIMA, Peru -- Standing before one of the many murals of
Mao Tse-tung that adorn the worn halls of San Marcos
University, Gustavo Buntinx, a Harvard-trained art history
professor with flowing hair and an elegant ascot, begins a
lecture on late "Sendero Luminoso" style.
   He doesn't get far before a dozen students take off like
spooked birds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Sendero Luminoso isn't some Peruvian conceptual
artist. Shining Path, as it is known in English, is a Maoist
political sect that criticizes other Marxist movements by
hanging dogs from lampposts. It also kills people; at least
20,000 have died during its decade-long guerrilla war with
Peru's government. So for students, it's dangerous to be
identified either as pro-Sendero by the police, or as
anti-Sendero by Sendero. "They are caught in the crossfire,"
Prof. Buntinx says of his fleeing students.
   Welcome to the University from hell. San Marcos is an
institution with a noble past, a school that claims to be the
oldest university in the Americas. But now, like Peru, it is
caught between guerrillas and security forces. Ill-managed
for years and virtually bankrupt -- also like Peru -- it is
in dire straits. San Marcos University and the changes it has
gone through are a mirror of this troubled country.
   Students at San Marcos can't study, many professors don't
teach, and the campus is in tatters. "When you come into San
Marcos, you are hit in the face with the nation's reality,"
says Walter Silvera, a law student. "It's an open wound."
   Once-pleasant lawns and gardens of the campus are
reverting to desert. With no money to pay gardeners,
maintenance chief Raul Montesinos has let university workers
turn the grounds into a quilt-work of alfalfa and potato
patches, hoping they will water the sandy soil and thus save
the dying trees. But in Peru, a novel solution like this
could prove a Faustian bargain; Peruvian law says land
belongs to the tiller, and some fear the university's
militant unions may one day literally inherit the earth --
the campus. "San Marcos has no future," says Leon
Trahtemberg, a prominent educator.
   It has an illustrious past, though. Founded 439 years ago
by Dominican priests in a Lima convent, San Marcos has over
the centuries been the alma mater of a Who's Who of
distinguished Peruvians. But in the late 1960s, in a process
common in developing countries, it quadrupled enrollment at
the same time as funding was shrinking. This year, amid
hyperinflation, San Marcos's budget came to $300,000, for a
university with some 40,000 students. (The money ran out by
March, and the government kicked in an added $600,000.)
   The kind of students coming also changed. Most of the
white creole middle and upper class left, largely replaced by
the mestizo and Indian sons and daughters of peasants and new
migrants to the city, who had crowded into a misery belt of
shantytowns around Lima. During the 1970s, says Rodrigo
Montoya, an anthropologist and San Marcos professor, this new
type of student, sometimes angry and resentful, collided with
a Marxist ideology that identified professors and the
university as class enemies. The result, he says, was that
San Marcos was sacked.
   "They stole toilets, basins," says Mr. Montoya, sipping
coffee in his book-lined study. Students evicted the dean of
the school of arts and letters and turned his office into a
classroom. "The feeling was: The university belongs to the
bourgeoisie, let's expropriate it."
   And they did. University appointments became the fiefdom
of leftist political parties. University workers didn't work.
Students, treasuring the free medical attention, cafeteria
meals and cheap transportation, stayed on for years. Then
Peru's government, seeing in San Marcos a seedbed of
subversion, slashed its funding. Hyperinflation decimated
what was left.
   The result: chaos. Last year, San Marcos's water and
electricity were cut off when the school couldn't come up
with money to pay the bills. For most of this year, power was
off several nights a week because of guerrilla attacks on
electric installations and because of a drought. The
university's 33 libraries can't afford a subscription to a
single foreign journal, full professors are paid about $70 a
month, and books are rare. Most students use photocopied
notes or pirated knockoffs of textbooks published on cheap
paper. Strikes by workers and professors are epidemic.
   The campus looks like a battleground. Rusting steel rods
protrude from the unfinished roofs of classroom buildings,
glass facades are punctuated with broken windows, and dark
hallways reek of urine.
   As night descends and electricity splutters in San Marcos,
classes may be cut short. In some classrooms, groups of
students huddle like medieval monks around a teacher and a
kerosene lamp while shadows dance on walls.
   Graffiti proclamations call, in dense Marxist language,
for a popular war. A hit parade of discredited Communist
prophets -- Mao, Che Guevara, Lenin, Stalin, Marx and Engels
-- stare sternly from the corridors. But the visionary who
casts the longest shadow is Sendero Luminoso's founder,
Abimael Guzman, a one-time philosophy professor at a
provincial college whose bespectacled visage is endlessly
repeated on the walls here. No one is sure whether Mr.
Guzman, whose nom de guerre is "Presidente Gonzalo, the
Fourth Sword of Marxism," is alive or dead.
   Besides murals, Sendero does dogs. Twice Mr. Montesinos's
maintenance crews have had to remove dead dogs hung from
light posts, decorated with placards blasting policies in
China or the Soviet Union deemed to be deviations from
Marxism.
   In the student dining room on a recent day, a Sendero
activist read excerpts from the movement's clandestine
newspaper over a loudspeaker as students ate. "Only students
and workers allowed," growled an attendant, barring a
visitor.
   Working in this environment is rough. "I feel stress,"
concedes Mr. Montesinos. Threats are common, and some years
ago terrorists threw a stick of dynamite at his office,
poking a hole in a wall. "They wanted me to resign," he says.
   Studying isn't easy, either. "It's depressing," says
Magali Arellano, poring over her notes. Good students here,
she says, are self-taught.
   A professor who is an old Sendero activist estimates that
the guerrilla movement has the sympathy of 20% of San Marcos
students, though many students and faculty members call this
a huge exaggeration. Sendero has contested one election, at
the education faculty, where it won about 10% of the vote.
When hooded Sendero activists stage marches, they never
number more than about 100.
   For the rest of Peru, however, the image of the venerable
university now is inextricably woven with that of Sendero and
other radical groups. "Studying in San Marcos is considered a
crime" because of its terrorist image, says Francisco
Mendoza, a slightly built psychology student standing in a
dark hallway as his class meets nearby by the light of a
kerosene lamp. He is missing class this evening because the
feeble light from the lantern hurts his eyes and a candle he
brings to school burnt out earlier.
   Three times in three years police have swept through the
campus arresting hundreds of students, later released. Each
time, university officials say, precious lab equipment has
been destroyed and other equipment has vanished. In one raid,
a watchman was shot dead by police, and on another police
killed a student onlooker.
   If not quite in Sendero's camp, San Marcos is undoubtedly
attuned to a plethora of leftist groups and causes. A
Christian group named Alpha and Omega publishes a newspaper
called Armageddon and awaits the second coming of a
revolutionary Christ who will wipe out capitalism. A notice
by the biochemistry department urges students to sign up for
the Friedrich Engels Biology Study Group. Outside of the
microbiology lab, where researchers work on new types of
potatoes, a placard hails the "victory of socialism in the
Albanian People's Socialist Republic."
   Fidel Castro, viewed in much of the world as an aging
dictator, recently was awarded an honorary degree by the
university. To the purists of Sendero, however, Castro is a
revisionist heretic.
   In this maelstrom, the university manages to struggle on.
Research centers somehow keep up their investigations, of
tropical illnesses or of ways to preserve the genes of
threatened plants. Some faculties, like the medical and
veterinary schools, are still considered the best in Peru.
And against all odds, students study.
   Some have made a stab at bettering these conditions. They
repainted the accounting department and then put up iron
gates to thwart the graffiti artists, and bought a generator
for blackouts. Other student groups have painted murals to
rescue the walls from Sendero's graffiti and protest the
violence in which Peru, and the university, are mired.
   But once out of San Marcos, graduates bear its stigma.
Many private as well as government employers think the
school's graduates are crypto-terrorists, and ill-educated
ones at that. Help-wanted ads in Lima papers sometimes
stipulate that candidates must have degrees from a short list
of prestigious and expensive private universities. (San
Marcos is tuition-free.)
   At any rate, there is barely a job market left in Peru.
Four out of five Peruvians are underemployed or unemployed.
Over the last two years the nation's gross national product
has plunged 20%, caught in a precipitous spiral of
hyperinflation that for the last 12 months ran at a rate of
about 8,000%. The new government of President Alberto
Fujimori last August announced an economic austerity program
that, while slashing inflation, spun the economy into a
deeper recession and led to strikes and increased guerrilla
attacks.
   Yet for some students, the self-respect attached to having
a college education is what counts. That is the case with
Vitaliano Chanli, a round-faced locksmith from Puno, a
hardscrabble mountain province.
   Sitting on a tree trunk reading a book of essays on the
conquest of Peru, Mr. Chanli, a history student, recounts how
his father, an illiterate peasant, brought him to a Lima
shantytown to get an education. An uncle, also illiterate,
lent him money to start his shop. The uncle, a humble man, is
often stiffed by bigshots who look down on him, says Mr.
Chanli, but they can't do that to him.
   "Since I have more culture, when the bigshots come, I know
how to treat them," says Mr. Chanli with a wide smile. "We
talk like equals."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp.:
   Charge of $170 Million Set,
   To Reflect Cost of Benefits
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   WHX
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. said it would take a
one-time, $170 million charge to earnings for the fourth
quarter. The Wheeling, W. Va., steel company, which has been
in Chapter 11 bankruptcy law proceedings for a number of
years, earned $29.5 million in the year-ago fourth quarter.
   The one-time charge includes $74 million to establish a
fund for post-employment medical insurance benefits granted
in a labor contract the company signed earlier this month.
The charge also includes $96 million to adjust prior
estimates of the present value of post-employment medical and
life insurance benefits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Binding Corp.:
   U.S. to Ask Court to Bar
   Acquisition of VeloBind Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   GBND VBND
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Justice Department said it will ask a federal court to
block General Binding Corp.'s proposed $50 million
acquisition of VeloBind Inc. on antitrust grounds.
   General Binding, Northbrook, Ill., makes business machines
and related office supplies. It is the nation's largest maker
of high-volume mechanized binding machines, the federal
agency said. VeloBind, Fremont, Calif., is the second-largest
producer of such gear.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed $9.77-a-share acquisition could
"substantially lessen competition" in the field, particularly
between the two companies, the Justice Department said. In
national over-the-counter trading Friday, VeloBind shares
fell $2.125, or 23%, to close at $7, and General Binding
shares slid $1 to close at $15.
   General and VeloBind announced their agreement in
September, but antitrust regulators' scrutiny of the deal
deferred its closing. In a joint statement Friday, the two
companies expressed "puzzlement" at the agency's action and
said they intend to hold further talks with it in an effort
to resolve the department's concerns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   California Regulators Clear
   Part of Pipeline Expansion
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCG CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   The California Public Utilities Commission approved
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.'s plan to expand a 900-mile
natural gas pipeline from British Columbia in Canada to
California.
   The $1.2 billion project still requires approval by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has indicated it
will make a decision shortly. The California regulatory
approval covers only the 415 miles of pipeline within the
state, and not the parts through Idaho, Washington and
Oregon. The California commission's approval is conditioned
on the San Francisco-based company's complying with
environmental mitigation measures. It said it "made it clear
that it was up to PG&amp;E, not the commission, to assess the
market demand for gas transportation to determine whether it
should undertake the expansion project." Construction is to
begin in early 1992; completion is expected by late 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The expanded pipeline will transport an additional 755
million cubic feet a day of Canadian natural gas to
California and 148 million cubic feet to the Pacific
Northwest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Campsa S.A.:
   Four Spanish Oil Refineries
   To Divide Gasoline Stations
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11B
</SO>
<CO>
   E.CGR E.CES REP EUROP E.CEP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   The four Spanish oil refineries that control Spain's
retail gasoline monopoly, Campsa S.A., agreed to take over
its distribution network by July 31, an Industry Ministry
official said.
   Cia. Espanola de Petroleos S.A., or Cepsa; Petroleos de
Mediterraneo S.A., or Petromed; Ertoil S.A.; and Repsol S.A.
agreed to divide Campsa's gas stations, with each refinery
taking a part of the network proportionate to the size of its
shareholding. Spain must end Campsa's retail monopoly by 1992
to fulfill its obligations as a European Community member.
The distribution network covers 3,600 gas stations in Spain.
Repsol will sell 4% of its holding to the other shareholders
in exchange for rights to the Campsa trademark. Repsol will
hold 65.9% of Campsa, Cepsa 17.8%, Petromed 9.1% and Ertoil
7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ministry said the move was intended to foster
competition in Spain's retail gas market and to increase
refineries' vertical integration into the retail sector. The
refineries eventually may set retail gas prices; prices are
set now by Campsa beneath government ceilings, which are
readjusted every two weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AmeriFirst Bank:
   Thrift Has 4th Period Loss,
   Erasing Remaining Equity
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   AMRI
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   AmeriFirst Bank, already struggling to avoid seizure by
federal thrift regulators, reported a fourth-quarter loss of
$129.9 million that wipes out its remaining equity.
   The loss, which includes $86.7 million in loan-loss
provisions, amounts to $11.76 a share. A year ago, the thrift
posted a fourth-quarter loss of $49.1 million, or $4.44 a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AmeriFirst didn't specify the size of its total reserves
for bad loans. But it said it increased the reserves after
the Office of Thrift Supervision and auditors KPMG Peat
Marwick reviewed its assets.
   An AmeriFirst spokeswoman said the bank, which has been
operating under strict supervision by the Office of Thrift
Supervision since August, has proposed a plan to meet capital
standards through an infusion of private capital by a group
including former Chairman M. Lee Pearce.
   But the Miami bank now has a negative net worth of $81
million, and Sally McIver, an analyst with SNL Securities in
Charlottesville, Va., said that makes it a strong candidate
to be seized by regulators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Tele-Communications Inc.:
   Heritage Unit, Parent Slate
   Consolidation of Cable Units
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TCOMA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Heritage Communications Inc. of Des Moines, Iowa, and its
parent, Tele-Communications Inc. of Denver, said they will
consolidate their cable television operations in the 1991
first quarter.
   The consolidation, which will result in the loss of an
unspecified number of jobs at Heritage headquarters, is
taking place earlier than initially planned. When
Tele-Communications acquired Heritage in 1987, the companies
said they would manage their cable operations independently
for a five-year transition period. But in announcing the
consolidation, officials said planning had proceeded more
rapidly than expected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   J.C. Sparkman, executive vice president and chief
operating officer at Tele-Communications, said he hopes
virtually all Heritage employees will remain with
Tele-Communications after the consolidation. He also said the
company will continue using the Heritage name. Heritage has
about 1,800 employees nationally, 90 of them in the Iowa
headquarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Barclays Bank PLC:
   Stake of 51% Is Acquired
   In Unit of French Concern
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11B
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CCF BCS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Barclays Bank PLC, the largest commercial bank in Britain,
said it completed the acquisition of a 51% stake in
L'Europeenne de Banque, the banking arm of Credit Commercial
de France of France.
   The bank, which confirmed Dec. 13 that it had made a
conditional offer to CCF for the unit, founded in 1817, also
said it signed a letter of intent to acquire the balance of
the French institution's interest by early 1991. It said the
total value of the transaction, once completed, is 1.5
billion French francs ($288.5 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the pact, approved by the French government,
Barclays acquired 16 private and retail banking offices in
France and a controlling interest in an operation with 14.1
billion francs of total assets. The deal includes the Paris
head office of L'Europeenne de Banque; Barclays said its
French unit, Barclays Bank S.A., will consolidate operations
there and dispose of its own Paris headquarters. Barclays
said the acquisition will help it double its French retail
banking market share and raise its French branch operations
to 70.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Enimont S.p.A.:
   Italy's ENI to Launch Bid
   For the Rest of Enimont
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   I.EMT EUROP I.ENI
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, or ENI, the Italian
state-owned energy group, will launch on Wednesday its public
swap offer for the 20% of Enimont S.p.A., a chemical concern,
that it doesn't already own.
   The offer will run until Feb. 5, according to the Milan
Stock Brokers executive committee. ENI will issue 1.4
trillion lire ($1.21 billion) of four-year, floating-rate
bonds, each with a face value of 1,650 lire ($1.43), for each
of the 850 million Enimont shares still on the market. The
first six-month coupon, payable next August, was set at 6.4%.
The yield is linked to the average yield of a basket of
government securities and the three-month interbank rate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ENI owns 80% of Enimont; it bought out its former partner,
Montedison S.p.A. in November. The bond issue is part of the
complete nationalization of the chemical group. ENI has said
an undetermined part of Enimont may be refloated on the
market in the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Petroleos de Venezuela:
   Oil Conglomerate Approves
   Ambitious Expansion Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.PDV LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petroleos de Venezuela approved an ambitious expansion
plan that would boost oil production to 3,250,000 barrels a
day in 1993 from 2,330,000 now, Energy and Mines minister
Celestino Armas said Friday.
   Production capacity in 1991 is expected to reach 2,970,000
barrels a day, enough for sustained production of 2.5 million
barrels a day. Petroleos de Venezuela also approved
increasing its refining capacity, now 1.1 million barrels a
day, to 1.7 million barrels by 1997. Its 1990 profit reached
a record $2.12 billion, and profit for 1991 is expected to
exceed $3 billion. Investments in 1991 will total 250 billion
bolivars ($5.03 billion), mostly for exploration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Armas wouldn't say whether he supports returning to
the pre-Aug. 2 quota system of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries; he previously said quotas would be
reapplied if needed to avoid a surplus in world oil supplies.
Venezuela's OPEC quota was 1,940,000 barrels a day. As a
result of the increase in oil prices and output, Venezuela
revised its estimated 1990 oil revenue to about $14.3 billion
from less than $10 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Occidental Petroleum Corp.:
   Oil Firm Moves 51% Stake
   In IBP to a Holding Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY IBP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Occidental Petroleum Corp. said it transferred its 51%
stake in IBP Inc. to a holding company called Occidental
Agribusiness Investments Inc.
   A spokesman declined to comment on whether Occidental
transferred the 24 million IBP shares in preparation for a
sale of its stake in the giant Dakota City, Neb., beef and
pork packer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since Occidental's patriarch, Armand Hammer, died earlier
this month, analysts have been speculating that the new
regime, led by Ray R. Irani, will dispose of several sacred
cows acquired under Dr. Hammer's reign -- chief among them
IBP, where the operations contrast oddly with the Los Angeles
company's primary interests in petroleum and chemicals.
   In a statement, Occidental said the transfer of shares to
Occidental Agribusiness from Occidental Petroleum Investment
Co. "conforms the corporate structure of Occidental's
interest in IBP to that of other operating divisions of
Occidental and does not represent any change in the
ownership."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United National Bancorp:
   New Jersey Concern Expects
   To Post 4th-Quarter Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UNBJ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   United National Bancorp said it expects to post a loss for
the fourth quarter but a profit for the full year, after
adding $2.2 million to its provision for possible loan
losses.
   The Branchburg, N.J., bank holding company had net income
in the year-ago fourth quarter of $767,000, or 36 cents a
share. For the 1989 full year, United National earned $4.2
million, or $1.92 a share, adjusted for a stock dividend paid
in November 1989. An official of the company said he couldn't
yet estimate the size of the fourth-quarter loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The official said the $2.2 million addition to loss
reserves would bring the total provision for possible loan
losses to $2.7 million at year end. United National is the
parent of Plainfield, N.J.-based United National Bank. The
bank has 18 offices in central New Jersey.
   The bank holding company said the addition would
accommodate write-offs of $1.5 million in nonperforming loans
and would help provide for future loan losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Numerica Financial Corp.:
   Thrift Unit Under Order
   To Tighten Lending Rules
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NUME
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Numerica Financial Corp. said its Numerica Savings Bank
unit has received a cease-and-desist order obliging the bank
to tighten lending policies and raise about $40 million in
capital by June 1991.
   The Manchester, N.H., thrift is ordered to strengthen
lending standards, especially in commerical real estate,
where it has experienced most of its problems as the New
England econony has continued to sag.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A cease-and-desist order, considered the most serious
regulatory step short of seizure, obligates the bank's board
to ensure changes are made by the institution's management.
   In the third quarter, Numerica's loss widened to $4.1
million, or 93 cents a share, from $1 million, or 23 cents a
share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Seeks Tougher
   Securities-Violations Law
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The government unveiled legislation Friday
that would extend the statute of limitations for certain
securities-law violations to three years, from the current
six months.
   Tam Wing Pong, deputy secretary for Monetary Affairs, said
the change would allow the Securities and Futures Commission
to bring charges within three years of a suspected violation
of rules covering such offenses as shortselling, keeping an
improper securities register or failing to disclose
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new law would limit the securities watchdog group,
however, by also requiring that charges be brought within one
year of its launching an investigation.
   In an interview, Mr. Tam said the SFC, established 18
months ago, has found that the existing six-month limit
provides insufficient time to develop a case against
complicated offenses.
   "The (change's) purpose is to help them bring about more
successful investigations," Mr. Tam said.
   Government officials said the bill is expected to be
introduced in the Legislative Council in mid-January, and
could become law later in the month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Dollar Depreciation
   Has Its Limits
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The greenback has fallen dramatically in the
past year to its lowest level in years. Yet the U.S. still is
running a persistent trade deficit of about $100 billion
annually. In fact, the latest trade statistics, for October,
showed a worrying 25% deterioration in the trade account, to
a monthly deficit of $11.6 billion from $9.3 billion in
September.
   This defies conventional economic wisdom. A plunging
dollar should at least begin to correct the trade imbalance.
What's wrong?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oil and autos. Period.
   Excepting those, the trade imbalance has disappeared,
thanks in part to the depreciating dollar.
   But there are limits to depreciation. It can do nothing to
counter the economic effects of Saddam Hussein's Aug. 2
invasion of Kuwait, which pushed up oil prices sharply to
more than $30 a barrel during the fall. Even now, oil is
hovering around $26 a barrel, up from $18 a barrel early this
year. Because of higher oil prices, the nation's oil deficit
rose to $6.4 billion in October from $5.5 billion in
September.
                                                                                                       

   A resolution of the Gulf conflict should lead to a large
drop in oil prices, probably to as low as $20 a barrel, says
James Fralick, an economist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. in New
York. That, in turn, would knock as much as $85 billion off
the trade deficit, he estimates. "The run up in oil prices
has camouflaged most of the improvement that has gone on in
the trade account," he says.

   The trade role of oil imports is massive. They represented
53% of the overall deficit of $85.9 billion in the first 10
months of 1990.
   Massive as well is the trade role of automobiles, which
are also the largest consumers of oil. In the same 10 months,
the deficit in cars and automotive products -- the other
major component of the trade deficit -- was about $42.2
billion.
   Looking ahead, if deficits in oil and cars plus auto parts
are taken out, the trade account is projected to reach a
surplus of about $20 billion in 1991. That's a $60 billion
improvement from a deficit of about $40 billion for the
non-oil, non-auto trade account in 1987.
   There are further benefits still to filter through from
past depreciation of the dollar.
   "Over the coming months, there should be some more
improvement in the trade account," says John Williamson of
the Institute of International Economics, a think tank here.
He and his colleagues have stopped advocating dollar
depreciation. In his organization, at least, "I don't think
there's anybody now who thinks it should go down further," he
says.
   In fact, there may be risks to promoting further
depreciation. "The potential costs of further depreciation --
such as inflation, a loss of confidence in U.S. financial
assets and other distortions -- far outweigh any theoretical
benefits," says Lawrence Kudlow, an economist with Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co.
   Depreciation also carries political costs. Some in Europe,
especially in France, see it as predatory, a sign that the
U.S. is subsidizing its exports and resorting to a
beggar-thy-neighbor exchange-rate policy. This view has made
it harder for the U.S. to get its trading partners to drop
their own protectionist habits.
   Further depreciation also won't solve the nation's basic
economic problems. The U.S. still hasn't achieved the
productivity gains, the cutbacks in consumption and the
increases in savings that it needs for a competitive economy
over the long haul.
   "The U.S. has to correct its overconsumption,
underinvestment, undersavings mentality," says Rimmer de
Vries, a managing director of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. "U.S.
policy makers," he adds, "could do more to encourage private
savings and stimulate equity and plant-and-equipment
investment, rather than real estate investment."
   Further depreciation also is no substitute for an energy
policy that emphasizes less importing of oil, for even if oil
prices should fall the U.S. would still face a significant
deficit in oil trade. The U.S. could look to its supplies of
natural gas, "an abundant and environmentally clean natural
resource that is highly underutilized," says Mr. de Vries. "A
breakthrough in this area would strengthen greatly the U.S.
trade balance, the dollar, real incomes and net savings."
                                                                                                       

   Finally, further depreciation wouldn't address the
necessity of getting a new, strong accord under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Only such an agreement will
give the U.S. the kind of access it needs to international
markets to allow its competitive companies to export freely.
                                                                                                       

   A lawless trading system wouldn't be a pretty sight. In
recent weeks, for example, Japanese securities firms
reportedly have been doing their best to block some firms
there from using the services of Salomon Brothers Inc. for
securities transactions. And South Korea has recently shown
an increasing willingness to pursue protectionism against
U.S. and other foreign companies.
   All the dollar depreciation in the world wouldn't begin to
help stop such activities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Flagship Financial Corp.:
   Company Adds $4.7 Million
   To S&amp;L Loan-Loss Reserves
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLGF
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Flagship Financial Corp. said it added $4.7 million to
loan-loss reserves, resulting in losses for the quarter of
about $3 million, or 86 cents a share, and $13 million, or
$3.75 a share, for the year.
   The Jenkintown, Pa., thrift company, which owns First
American Savings and Brandywine Savings Bank, had net income
of $1.4 million, or 41 cents a share, in the year-earlier
fourth quarter. For all of 1989, Flagship had net of $6.1
million, or $1.75 a share. The results included pretax gains
on the sales of loans and securities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said about $2 million of the addition to
reserves is related to a $6.4 million loan for the
construction of a commercial office building. Flagship
classified the loan as nonperforming as of June 30.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Debate Grows About Whether Economy
   Will Recover From Recession Rapidly
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
FORECASTS AND ANALYSIS OF U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMJ)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- As the New Year opens, the gap is widening
between economists who say the worst of the recession is over
and those who say more bad news is yet to come.
   In recent weeks, economists generally have agreed that the
significant drop in fourth-quarter economic activity pushed
the nation into a recession. Now, however, the debate is
growing over when and how fast a recovery will start.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Debbie Johnson, an economist at Prudential-Bache
Securities here, believes the economy could start to pick up
early next year. While sticking to her forecast of a
fourth-quarter decline in gross national product of 2% to
2.5%, she says the nation's output of goods and services
could rise 2% in 1991's first quarter. "We've probably seen
the worst of it," she says.
   That doesn't wash with Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at
Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. "It doesn't make any sense to
me that the economy is going to recover quickly," he says.
Mr. Sohn argues that those in the optimistic camp incorrectly
trace most of today's economic woes to the Middle East crisis
and higher oil prices. He maintains that the problems stem
from the nation's heavy debt burden. Furthermore, citing an
increasing rate of credit-card delinquencies for even
smaller, less-expensive items, Mr. Sohn worries that
consumers, too, have taken on more debt than they can handle.
   In the shorter term, economists find more room for
agreement. Many predict that December's economic data, while
still showing important declines, will not slump by the same
magnitude as November's. Further evidence of moderation may
arrive in this week's economic indicators.
   On Wednesday, the purchasing managers' index for December
is due. Predictions for the index, which is compiled by the
National Association of Purchasing Management, are for a drop
of 0.5 to 1.3 percentage points from November's level of
41.3%. While still reflecting weak economic activity, that
range would be less than the 2.1% decline reported in
November. Generally, a reading above 50% indicates an
expanding economy, while a reading below 50% suggests
contraction.
   Norwest's Mr. Sohn doesn't expect this month's purchasing
managers' report to be as bad as last month's, but that
doesn't necessarily mean the index has bottomed. He sees the
manufacturing sector of the economy continuing to
deteriorate, depressed further by poor Christmas sales. He
notes that the weakness in durable goods now is spreading
from big-ticket items such as refrigerators and laundry
appliances to smaller items such as toasters and cassette
tape players.
   Similarly, economists don't expect to see the same sharp
plunge in employment during December that they witnessed in
November. On Friday, the government releases December's
unemployment rate and the tally on non-farm payrolls.
   Kenneth Mayland, chief economist at Society Corp. in
Cleveland, sees the unemployment rate rising to 6.1% from
November's 5.9% and expects another cut in payroll jobs of
150,000. In November, a striking number of non-farm payroll
jobs -- 267,000 -- were eliminated.
   While not willing to go so far as to say the worst of the
recession is over, Mr. Mayland does argue that an analysis of
past recessions shows that bigger payroll declines occur in
the second half of a recession than in the first. "Sharper
rates of decline could be consistent with an imminent rebound
of the economy," he says.
   Other economic indicators due to be released this week
include new-home sales and construction spending for
November, and auto sales for mid-December. With consumer
confidence still discouragingly low and banks more carefully
scrutinizing loan applications, economists don't see much
room for improvement in home or auto sales for awhile. The
construction industry remains in a profound slump, though a
bulge in public spending lifted the October construction
figures.
   ---
                   CLOSELY WATCHED REPORTS
                                                                                                       

      Statistics Released in the Week Ended December 28
                                                                                                       

                                             CHANGE
                                          (from prior
                              TOTAL          period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     Dec. 17 (in billions)   $823.9         + $3.2
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     Dec. 17 (in billions) $3,323.4         + $4.6
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     Dec. 17 (in billions) $4,093.2         + $5.1
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders

                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended Dec. 15       441,000          -3.0%
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators
   November, index           139.7%          -1.2%
                                                                                                       

              Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Agricultural prices (Mon.)
   December
                                                                                                       

   Purchasing Manager's Index (Wed.)
   December
                                                                                                       

   Initial jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Construction spending (Wed.)
   November
                                                                                                       

   New home sales (Thurs.)
   November
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Thurs.)
   Mid-December
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Fri.)
                                                                                                       

   Employment, payroll (Fri.)
   December
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment rate (Fri.)
   December
                                                                                                       

   December Manufacturing orders (Fri.)
   November
                                                                                                       

   Manufacturing shipments (Fri.)
   November
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dutch Insurer Aegon Skips Merger Game
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11B
</SO>
<CO>
   AEGNY
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE HAGUE -- As European insurers and banks pair off
frantically, Aegon N.V. is playing hard to get.
   The Dutch insurance company -- No. 2 in its home market
and one of the biggest foreign insurers in the U.S. -- now is
putting a higher priority on expansion in Europe, where
national barriers are giving way to freer competition. To
cope with what is expected to be a fierce scrap for market
share, many insurance companies are joining forces with other
insurers or banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   N.V. Amev, the Netherlands' third-largest insurer, earlier
this month completed a merger with Groupe AG, the No. 1
Belgian insurance concern. Meanwhile, Nationale Nederlanden
N.V., the biggest Dutch insurer, is proposing to merge with
NMB Postbank Groep N.V., a Dutch bank-holding company.
   That leaves Aegon conspicuously alone on the sidelines.
But Aegon's feisty chairman, Jaap Peters, is no wallflower.
He insists that the company, whose earnings growth has easily
topped that of its Dutch rivals in the past few years,
doesn't need a partner.
   On the other hand, he adds in an interview, "we are open
for discussions."
   Although Mr. Peters is coy about his company's intentions,
he suggests two options that might tempt Aegon into the
mating dance:
   -- Some form of alliance with another sizable insurer to
improve Aegon's geographical spread. The company now derives
about 90% of its revenue from the Netherlands and the U.S.
One of Aegon's priorities is to expand in Southern Europe.
   -- The acquisition of a minority stake in a bank or other
financial institution that could help channel certain kinds
of insurance to customers.
   Mr. Peters says Aegon has had "contacts" with potential
partners, but he cautions against expecting too much. "There
is an overestimation of what is possible" in terms of
attractive alliances, he says.
   In the "top league" of European insurers, Mr. Peters says,
"the number of players is maybe 15."
   Mr. Peters clearly believes that this elite includes
Aegon. Created by the 1983 merger between two Dutch insurers,
the company is based in a drab suburb of The Hague, where its
headquarters resembles a swank American shopping mall,
complete with a five-story marble atrium.
   Revenue totaled 11.75 billion guilders (about $7 billion)
last year. Over the past three years, earnings per share
advanced by an average of 11% annually, and Amsterdam
brokerage firm Van Meer James Capel N.V. sees increases of
about 10% this year and 7% in 1991.
   In recent years, earnings growth has come partly from the
cost-saving benefits of the 1983 merger. In the years ahead,
some analysts expect Aegon's earnings growth to slow markedly
unless it can find a new engine for expansion.
   Predominately a life-insurance company, Aegon still earns
about two-thirds of its profit in the Netherlands, even
though the home market accounts for only a little over half
of world-wide revenue. As the Dutch market is saturated,
prospects for growth there are limited.
   It is unclear whether Aegon's biggest Dutch rival,
Nat-Ned, will succeed in its plan to merge with NMB Postbank.
Opposition from Nat-Ned's shareholders and independent agents
has been surprisingly strong. If the merger does go through,
however, Postbank's 2,500 banking outlets and 5.5 million
Dutch clients could be a powerful tool for Nat-Ned to sell
certain types of basic insurance cheaply.
   "The retail network of Postbank is unique," says E.J.
Huijboom, an analyst at Pierson, Heldring &amp; Pierson N.V., who
figures that weapon will provide a big edge in the long term
to whichever insurer wins it.
   Aegon's other big Dutch rival, Amev, already has a savings
bank unit, VSB Groep, to help it reach more clients.
   For its part, Aegon says it can continue to rely on
selling insurance almost exclusively through agents. But some
analysts are skeptical and fear Aegon will lose market share.
   Should the Nat-Ned merger plan fall through, analysts
believe Aegon might try to form some kind of joint venture
with NMB Postbank. Aegon's Mr. Peters allows that his company
has long thought -- in a "theoretical" way -- about some sort
of cooperation with NMB Postbank.
   Outside the Netherlands, Aegon is focusing on growth along
the Mediterranean, from Portugal to Turkey. Already, Aegon is
heavily involved in Spain, where it has acquired three
companies over the past decade and is one of the country's
top 10 insurers. This year, Aegon moved into Portugal,
starting up a small insurance company from scratch. In
Greece, Aegon has a 51% stake in Aspis-Pronia Insurance Co.,
which is mainly a life insurer.
   Aegon continues to look for possible acquisitions or
partners in Italy and Turkey, Mr. Peters says. So do many of
his rivals. When an insurance company is auctioned off in
Southern Europe, prices are at least twice as high as they
are in the U.S., Mr. Peters says.
   Aegon is an old hand at acquisitions in the U.S., where
its biggest operating companies are Monumental Life
Insurance, National Old Line Insurance and Life Investors
Insurance. Excluding Canadian companies, Aegon says it is the
biggest foreign insurer in the U.S. in terms of assets. Most
of the U.S. profits come from life insurance. Aegon's record
in U.S. group-health insurance has been disappointing, partly
because of soaring medical costs, but Mr. Peters says the
situation is improving.
   As the U.S. financial-services industry flounders, more
acquisition opportunities are likely to open up there. Mr.
Peters says Aegon will be watching for them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Says Cement Makers
   Fixed Prices in 2 Regions
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11A
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MMC J.SCC J.NCT J.ONC JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's Fair Trade Commission said it admonished
12 major cement makers for agreeing to fix prices and
restrict sales in two regions of Japan.
   The companies have until Jan. 11 to challenge the
commission's ruling. If there is no challenge, the commission
would calculate a fine based on the amount of sales conducted
under the alleged cartel agreements, which stretch as far
back as 1985 and covered the northern island of Hokkaido and
southwestern Honshu. A commission spokesman declined to
estimate the amount of the sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan has been under pressure from the U.S. to increase
fines and toughen enforcement of its antitrust laws. U.S. and
other foreign authorities have argued that collusive behavior
enables some Japanese companies to use their home market as a
safe haven while competing aggressively for market share
abroad.
   An advisory commission to Japan's Fair Trade Commission
this month recommended higher fines and stronger antitrust
enforcement. The issue is expected to be discussed with U.S.
officials in mid-January during a follow-up to this year's
Structural Impediments Initiative bilateral trade talks.
   Among the companies warned by the commission were market
leaders Nihon Cement Co., Onoda Cement Co., Sumitomo Cement
Co. and Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement Co. Company officials
couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First Executive Corp.:
   Investors Disclose Owning
   5.7% of Series G Preferred
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Los Angeles investors David T. Smith and his wife, Norma,
said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that they
hold a 5.7% stake in the Series G cumulative preferred stock
of First Executive Corp., a Los Angeles-based insurance
holding company.
   Earlier this month, the Smiths disclosed that they held
7.6% of First Executive's depositary preference shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In their latest filing, the Smiths said they hold 588,800
Series G shares, including 508,900 purchased from Oct. 31 to
Dec. 20 for 43 to 84 cents each. They also sold 191,200
shares from Nov. 21 to last Thursday for 58 to 92 cents each.
   The Smiths said in their filings that they believe the
shares are an attractive investment. First Executive, which
has been experiencing financial difficulties, didn't have any
comment on the Smiths' latest filing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Terms of Soviet Food Credits, Coming Reports
   On Agriculture Will Dominate Grain Futures
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Haggling between the Bush administration and
the Soviet Union over U.S. food credits to the U.S.S.R. and
speculation about impending agricultural reports will
dominate trading in grain futures this week.
   On Friday representatives of the Soviet Union and the U.S.
Agriculture Department will meet to hammer out terms of the
$1 billion in credits that the department granted for Soviet
purchases of U.S. foodstuffs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviets have said they want to use the bulk of the
credits to buy corn. The USDA, contending that the U.S.S.R.
has not bought enough wheat to comply with its long-term
trade agreement with the U.S., wants the country to buy a
combination of wheat and corn. Analysts say the USDA may try
to entice the Soviets to buy wheat by offering it at a
discounted price.
   In addition, the Soviet Union, which is having chronic
problems delivering food to its citizens, wants to use some
of its food-aid credits to pay for shipping whatever food it
buys to its shores, but the USDA opposes this idea. Traders
this week will be watching for new developments in the
dialogue on these issues.
   Also on Friday, the USDA's hog and pig report will be
released, giving grain traders an idea of demand for grains
as feed for livestock. One week later, on Jan. 11, the USDA
will release its final crop production report, which will
contain statistics likely to have a profound impact on all
grain futures prices. The data in the crop report will
include final estimates of the 1990 crops in corn, wheat and
soybeans; existing stocks of grains; and supply and demand
summaries.
   The Jan. 11 report is likely to set the tone for grain
futures trading over the next three months, analysts said.
Trading between now and then is expected to be light, because
investors will be reluctant to take positions in the face of
such potentially major news.
   Traders will be watching the USDA's estimate of the
soybean crop particularly closely, because many view with
skepticism the department's November projection that the
soybean harvest will be 78 million bushels larger than
previously expected. "That estimate increase was a shock to
the industry," said Daniel Basse, director of market research
for AgResource Co., Chicago. "Quite a few people think the
USDA overestimated the crop."
   Also keenly watched in the coming week will be any news
that seems likely to affect U.S. exports in corn or soybeans,
which are at their lowest since 1974. (Mexico, contributing
to the problem, lowered its U.S. corn imports from 3.8
million metric tons to 2.5 million last week because it is
now forecasting a record corn harvest in its own country of
12 million metric tons.)
   Unless events conspire to boost U.S. grain exports in
early January, analysts said, the USDA will have to revise
its potentially optimistic export calculations soon.
   Looking ahead to other commodities markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil prices rose Friday in extremely light activity
with little news to spur trading. Moving in a narrow range,
crude oil for February delivery ended at $27.57 a barrel, up
56 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Traders said
fears of war in the Middle East have been resurfacing lately
on the floor of the New York Merc, although few expect any
confrontation before Jan. 15, which is the United Nations
deadline for Iraq to leave Kuwait. Heating oil for January
delivery finished at 79.78 cents a gallon, down 1.1 cents.
January gasoline settled at 69.56 cents a gallon, up 0.92
cent. Traders said activity will continue to focus on the
chances of war.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices were strong Friday, closing near their
highs of the day. February delivery gold was up $8.60 an
ounce to $396.20. March silver advanced 9 cents an ounce to
$4.245. April platinum rose $6.40 an ounce to $415.30. A weak
dollar, growing tensions in the Persian Gulf and a thinly
traded holiday market all contributed to the price rises.
   "As the days tick off toward the Jan. 15 deadline by which
Iraq is to get out of Kuwait, there is a tendency for traders
to buy contracts rather than sell them," said one analyst.
There were reports of scrimmages in the Middle East, but the
Pentagon denied them, he said. Nevertheless, the February
gold contract rose through resistance levels at $391, $393
and $395, which touched off further buying and accelerated
the advance, he said.

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Copper futures prices rose Friday. The March contract
ended with a gain of 3 cents a pound to $1.141. Reports by
various news services of a strike at Chuquicamata, one of
Chile's major mines that produces an estimated 550,000 tons
of refined copper a year, triggered the buying, an analyst
said. Light holiday trading conditions also were a factor and
prices accelerated when the March contract rose above several
key resistance levels, he said. Traders ignored a rise in
London Metal Exchange copper stocks, as well as further
indications of a weakening U.S. economy, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ventura County National Bancorp:
   Fourth-Quarter Net Is Put
   Slightly Above 1989 Figure
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VCNB
</CO>
<IN>
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ventura County National Bancorp, Oxnard, Calif., expects
to report net income for the fourth quarter of about
$698,000, or 13 cents a share, on revenue of about $9.4
million, W.E. McAleer, president and chief executive officer,
said.
   The company had net income in the year-ago quarter of
$686,000, or 13 cents a share, on revenue of $8.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company paid a 10% stock dividend in February 1990. At
the end of this year, there were 4.8 million common shares
outstanding, compared with 4.3 million at the end of last
year.
   Ventura operates Ventura County National Bank and Frontier
Bank and both banks cater primarily to medium-size
businesses. The banks have a total of eight branches in
Ventura County and Orange County, Calif.
   For the year, Mr. McAleer said Ventura expects to report
net income of $3.4 million to $3.6 million, or 71 cents to 73
cents a share, on revenue of $40.8 million. A year earlier,
the company reported net income of $2.8 million, or 71 cents
a share, on revenue of $28.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   ROMing Your Corporate Library for Job Leads
   ----
   By Ronald F. Dow
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Recent reports in this paper describe the "flood" of
managerial cutbacks sweeping through America's leading
corporations. Executive and middle-management layoffs are
affecting thousands of people as companies across the country
downsize and retrench in light of economic gloom.
   Some of the soon-to-be unemployed are turning to corporate
business libraries for help. Over the years managers have
used corporate library resources for data collection and
other sources of information that have fed their activities
as analysts, planners, brokers and marketers. However, the
recent development of electronic directories of U.S. and
international businesses on CD-ROM (compact disk-read only
memory) have added a new dimension for library users. CD-ROM
is an optical disk technology that offers great information
storage potential. A typical disk can hold the text of
150,000 printed pages or the contents of 1,200 standard
5.25-inch diskettes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CD-ROM readers, coupled with commercially available disks
of corporate data purchased from business publishers, make an
impressive tool for the job seeker. This technology, which is
relatively inexpensive, requires just a personal computer,
CD-ROM drive, controller and printer. The data, coupled with
the technology, is now available in many corporate, public
and academic business libraries. Job seekers now are finding
that librarians can quickly and cheaply produce lists of job
leads, develop customer lists for new business opportunities,
or supply enough company data to build a personalized job
bank.
   For example, a manager in a company's corporate real
estate department, suspecting it was only a matter of time
before his termination, sought the librarian's assistance in
locating firms in other geographical regions with enough
corporate property to need someone with his experience. Using
CD-ROM directories of both public and private companies, the
librarian searched such criteria as number of employees,
subsidiaries, and key balance-sheet items to identify
job-search targets.
   The search produced a select universe of potential
employers. This list was then limited geographically to
cities in Virginia and the Carolinas, using telephone area
codes, and given to the manager for review.
   When the list was returned to the library by the manager,
the address and chief administrative officer's name for each
selected firm was downloaded into a PC computer file. The
file was then linked to a word processing program. A form
letter was written and run against the data file, producing
personalized letters to be sent to each firm on the edited
list. The entire operation took less than one hour of the
librarian's time and produced more than 100 personalized
letters for the manager. Even more important, the manager
received positive responses on many of his letters.
   In another instance, a recently fired senior executive in
the investment banking department approached the corporate
library for assistance identifying prospective customers for
a new business venture she was evaluating. She was
considering using severance pay as venture capital for her
own enterprise.
   Using CD-based library resources, the corporate librarian
was able to identify a range of potential customers by
segmenting publicly available corporate data by geographic
location, line of business, sales and other criteria -- at
virtually no additional expense to the former employer. In
other words, as sort of a severance bonus the executive was
able to walk away with both capital to begin a new business
and a segmented list of potential customers' companies,
executive names, addresses and phone numbers.
   Students in the nation's business schools are also turning
to the library to identify potential employers who don't
normally recruit on campus. Often these students are looking
for smaller firms or companies in specialized markets.
   Utilizing such sources as Securities and Exchange
Commission filings, financial statements, brokerage house
reports, market studies and other widely-held materials
available on CD, students are identifying companies as
employment prospects. Since all of these resources are
available through commercially available CD-ROM services, the
process of gathering data is significantly speeded up.
   Some of the primary vendors of business information on CD
are Disclosure Inc., Lotus Co., Dun &amp; Bradstreet, and
Standard &amp; Poor's. For the past several years Disclosure has
marketed its Compact Disclosure product. With updates
provided on a monthly basis, this disk contains extensive
information on over 12,000 public companies. Lotus, D&amp;B and
S&amp;P have produced similar products that incorporate extensive
information on both public and private companies.
   These CDs will often contain several years of
balance-sheet information, the full text of the president's
letter from the annual report to shareholders, a list of
senior officers and directors (including compensation), an
extensive breakdown of lines of business by either SIC code
or description, and, of course, the company address and phone
number. Many of the files also list subsidiaries and their
locations.
   Although each vendor's product is different, all do allow
searching on most of the data bases. That search capability
is what gives these systems their strength. By following
simple menus, users are able to search through data on
literally hundreds of thousands of companies to identify
targets for the job search.
   For example, by searching on balance-sheet items, a job
seeker can limit activity to companies of specific sizes. Or
by looking for words such as "reorganization" or "turnaround"
in the president's letter, target companies that might tap
the past experience of unemployed executives can be
identified.
   Some job seekers request that specific information, such
as the text of the president's letter, product descriptions,
lists of subsidiaries, and financial data -- the same sources
that are useful when analyzing a competitor's or supplier's
financial condition -- be printed from the disk on every
company targeted for the job search. As one production
manager, who was in the process of relocating to the New York
area noted, the printout results in a ready reference when
preparing for an interview.
   ---
   Mr. Dow, former director of libraries at Shearson Lehman
Hutton Co., was assisted in the preparation of this article
by James R. Fries, business and engineering librarian,
Dartmouth College.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fibreboard Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FBD
</CO>
<IN>
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FIBREBOARD Corp. (Concord, Calif.) -- Harvie M. Merrill,
69 years old, will retire as a director of this building
products company. He will also retire from several other
boards for health reasons. The company will consider a
successor for Mr. Merrill on the five-member board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Rehnquist Urges Tougher Rules
   On Handling of Interstate Lawsuits
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel and Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Chief Justice William Rehnquist urged Congress to make it
more difficult for individuals or businesses to sue one
another in federal court over matters of state law.
   In his annual year-end report on the federal judiciary,
the chief justice also renewed his plea to Congress to make
changes in 1991 in the system of death penalty appeals. He
said federal law should ensure that lawyers are available to
handle the appeals of death row inmates, while "assuring to
the states the necessary degree of finality."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first proposal involves what is known as "diversity"
jurisdiction, a federal law that allows lawsuits between
citizens of different states to be filed in federal court,
even though no issue of federal law is involved. In May 1989,
Congress amended the law to require that only disputes
involving at least $50,000 can be considered by federal
courts. This increase -- from $10,000, the amount required
for the previous 30 years -- caused the number of such cases
filed in federal court to drop to 57,000 this year, compared
with 67,000 in 1989, Chief Justice Rehnquist said.
   The chief justice proposed that, at the very least,
Congress should raise the threshold to $75,000. He didn't
mention more drastic proposals to throw all such cases out of
federal court and leave them to the state courts, although he
has endorsed broader measures in the past.
   His comments on the death penalty reflect his
disappointment that Congress dropped efforts to change the
system of appeals to federal court by death row inmates
convicted in state courts. Many law enforcement officials
blame these appeals, called habeas corpus petitions, for
delaying state executions. Chief Justice Rehnquist has said
the system should be streamlined by setting strict limits on
the number of such appeals and the amount of time after which
they can't be filed. But the proposals became mired in
controversy this year and were dropped from a crime bill.
   ---
   INSURERS ORDERED to pay defense costs in patent suit.
   A federal judge in Los Angeles ordered three insurance
companies to pay $500,000 in attorneys' fees to a company
that is defending itself against a patent infringement suit.
   The ruling appears to follow a trend of holding carriers
liable for policyholders' legal expenses in other kinds of
cases.
   Lawyers for the company, Intex Plastics Sales Co., Long
Beach, Calif., said the decision will be a boon to companies
seeking relief from costly intellectual property litigation.
"Now people who are sued for patent infringement can remain
in the marketplace because they will have the backing of a
large commercial insurer," said one of the lawyers, Daniel J.
Callahan of Irvine, Calif.
   New York patent lawyer Steven D. Glazer said the court's
ruling is likely to encourage similar suits in other states.
"If the trend continues, this could result in insurance
carriers rethinking potential losses and may affect the
reserves they'll have to maintain to cover those losses,
which can only exacerbate problems at insurance companies
already in financial trouble," he said.
   The issue arose when Intex, which makes waterbeds, sued
the providers of its commercial general liability policy,
claiming that a clause covering "advertising injury" applied
to legal fees in patent suits. Federal District Judge
Consuelo B. Marshall agreed.
   "If I were an insurer with a policy out there like the one
litigated in this case, I'd be having a heart attack right
now," said David J. Lee, a New York patent lawyer who wasn't
involved.
   But Mr. Lee noted that federal courts in other states,
including New York, haven't been willing to interpret similar
clauses as broadly, resulting in "an area of major dispute"
likely to be resolved only at the appellate court level.
   Lawyers for the insurance companies, United National
Insurance Co., First State Insurance Co., and New England
Reinsurance Co., couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   WIDOW CAN BE DENIED federal aid for lack of a marriage
license, court rules.
   A federal appeals court ruled that the Social Security
Administration properly canceled federal widow benefits that
were being paid to a 74-year-old New York woman who had lived
with her husband for 47 years.
   The woman, Gertrude Thomas, began receiving the benefits
when her husband died in 1985. But a year later the Social
Security Department concluded that her marriage had been
invalid because evidence of a marriage ceremony couldn't be
found and because Joseph Thomas apparently had never divorced
his first wife.
   The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that
federal law does allow benefits to be paid to a widow whose
marriage turns out to have been invalid -- but only if a
marriage ceremony was held. Living as common-law husband and
wife for 47 years -- and having 10 children, as in Ms.
Thomas's case -- doesn't qualify the woman for benefits, the
court in Manhattan said.
   Ms. Thomas said the marriage was performed by a minister
in Georgia in 1938 when she was 21 and Mr. Thomas was 45, but
she couldn't prove it. She told officials that she never
verified whether a marriage license was issued "because I was
quite young at the time and I just took what {Mr. Thomas}
said to be true."
   The appeals-court panel said the 1960 law covering the
benefits fails to mention widows of common-law marriages.
   Some states grant extensive rights to common-law spouses.
But the court said Congress may have "believed that persons
who have doubts about whether a prior marriage has been
validly ended will be more reluctant to go through a marriage
ceremony than they will to enter into an informal
cohabitational relationship."
   Ms. Thomas's attorneys couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT suit filed by EEOC is settled by law
firm.
   The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued
Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &amp; Walker in October for alleged
sexual discrimination in the Los Angeles firm's New York
office. The civil suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan,
alleged that women employees were subjected to sexual
harassment and threats, and then punished for complaining to
partners at the firm.
   Under the settlement, the firm didn't admit any
wrongdoing, but agreed to fully abide by federal
sexual-discrimination laws. The law firm also agreed to
provide training about the problem of sexual harassment to
all its attorneys. Other details about the settlement weren't
disclosed.
   "The matter has been satisfactorily resolved," said Paul
Hastings partner Dennis H. Vaughn.
   ---
   COLUMBIA LAW faculty selects new dean.
   The faculty of Columbia University School of Law chose
Harvard Law School Prof. Lance M. Liebman, 49 years old, to
succeed Dean Barbara A. Black, who announced in April that
she would step down at the end of the academic year to return
to teaching and research at Columbia.
   A Columbia spokesman confirmed that the dean search
committee had relayed a faculty recommendation to the
university president but declined to comment further. The
spokesman said the president and the board of trustees must
still approve the selection.
   Columbia has traditionally chosen its dean from within the
school's ranks. The two other finalists were Columbia
professors Harvey J. Goldschmid and Peter L. Strauss,
according to people familiar with the process.
   Vincent A. Blasi, a professor and chairman of the dean
search committee, said he couldn't comment while the process
is under way.
   Mr. Liebman has been a professor at Harvard since 1970. He
began teaching there three years after graduating from the
law school. He teaches employment and property law and was
associate dean of the law school from 1981 to 1984. Mr.
Liebman declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   AIDS and Other Hot-Button Issues
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Prime-time TV continues to plumb the depths of our social
problems, and never more so than in the next few weeks, when
the schedule crackles with hot-button issues of the most
galvanic sort: abortion, AIDS and, that theme-de-resistance,
child molestation.
   Tonight, in addition to her many other troubles, Rosie
O'Neill must defend a woman who has killed her own daughter
(CBS, 10-11 p.m. EST). On Wednesday, "48 Hours" provides a
gruesomely detailed portrait of health-care workers infected
with AIDS (CBS, 8-9 p.m. EST). The weekend brings the CBS
Sunday Movie "Bump in the Night" (9-11 p.m. EST), about a
college professor who molests boys -- very young boys. Next
week's episode of "Law &amp; Order" focuses on an abortion clinic
bomber (NBC, Jan. 8, 10-11 p.m. EST).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The next night we are back to AIDS, when the intrepid
district attorneys on ABC's "Equal Justice" (Jan. 9, 10-11
p.m. EST) prosecute an AIDS carrier who has infected a young
woman. No one can accuse the networks of ringing the new year
in on a frivolous note.
   The "48 Hours" segment is, not surprisingly, the program
that packs the biggest punch, since it's a documentary
dealing in real AIDS cases. In the course of the action a
physician in charge of a hospital emergency room goes public
with the news that he has AIDS, something he's withheld from
patients and everyone else except a few members of the staff.
Often when he was on duty, the doctor reveals, he went off to
cry, because he felt worse than most of the patients he was
treating. The hospital officials, the lawyers in particular,
don't conceal their apprehension about the doctor's on-camera
revelations.
   They have cause for concern, as the program's opening
report -- about the young woman federal health officials
believe contracted AIDS from her dentist -- forcefully bears
out. Kimberly Bergalis, a 22-year-old Florida woman, makes no
secret of her fury at the dentist (now dead of AIDS) for
concealing his condition; she is now suing the insurance
company that sent her to him. She spends much of the rest of
her time agitating publicly for patients' right to know
whether the health professionals treating them have AIDS or
are HIV-positive.
   Most of the film's most dramatic reportage bears out the
view that many health professionals are at particular risk
for AIDS. This is where the program's troubles begin, for "48
Hours" -- like so much of the rest of the major media
treatment of AIDS -- labors under a heavy burden of political
constraint. These politics decree certain rules. First, AIDS
victims must be presented not simply as suffering fellow
humans deserving of our deepest concern, which they assuredly
are, but as heroes. Second, the rule as regards the conflict
between AIDS patients' privacy rights vs. public safety is
that privacy wins. Liberal principle dictates this, and
anyway, or so the prevailing argument goes, the danger to the
public is negligible.
   Obedience to this second rule required some fancy stepping
on the part of the folks who put this "48 Hours" together.
What the reporters have filmed implies one thing, while what
the reporters say -- or more precisely what they declaim --
broadcasts another.
   Shouldn't she consider the cost to AIDS sufferers -- the
stigmatization -- that would result if they were made to
disclose their condition? reporter Erin Moriarty asks Ms.
Bergalis. Particularly since the danger of AIDS transmission
by health professionals is so very small?
   Such arguments about minimal risk cut no ice with Ms.
Bergalis, who responds, unanswerably, "But look at me -- I'm
the one that came down with it, and it took my life away."
   The things the program writers could not bring themselves
to say outright are, in their absence, glaringly obvious. Any
concession, for example, that fear of being treated by an
AIDS-infected health professional might be something other
than hysteria or bias. But what the script will not say,
outright, the film does manage to show, with considerable
clarity.
   One of the most striking scenes is of a trauma unit in a
Miami hospital, in which a young surgeon and others working
to save a gunshot victim are splattered full in the face with
blood and vomit that gets past masks, and gloves. This sort
of thing takes on a certain alarming significance, in light
of the statistics offered -- that one out of every five
people coming in with a gunshot wound is carrying the virus.
   An AIDS-infected New York City pediatrician whose identity
is concealed says he hides his condition from his patients
because they don't need to know and because mothers with
babies "tend to be emotional."
   "48 Hours" in short manages, despite shilly-shallying, to
deliver what is, in the end, a tough and harsh picture of one
aspect of the AIDS crisis.
   In the fiction department, social-issues category, ABC's
"Equal Justice" is worth mentioning mainly because it is so
striking an example of the sort of thing that has been going
on in scriptwriting for a while. This is the kind of program
in which four or five different story lines are thrown in,
affording viewers the opportunity to graze or doze, depending
on which bores them least. A few minutes of sustained story
line is all we are asked to absorb before, bam, the action
lurches elsewhere -- which in the case of the AIDS segment is
a stroke of fortune for everyone concerned.
   "Law &amp; Order's" treatment of the theme of abortion, it
should be said, is in distinguished contrast to the rest of
these televised sermons. It is a commendably well-written
treatment of an abortion-clinic bomber. It cannot quite
escape unfairness, suggesting, as it inevitably does, a link
between the fanatics who bomb clinics and the pro-life
movement overall. One of the strengths of the series is its
casting, and to appreciate how true that is one has only to
look at the restrained and altogether hypnotizing performance
of Caroline Kava as the right-to-life group's leader. The
chief flaw in this script is the obviousness of the way it
wears its political heart on its sleeve. The script's last
line equates the right to legal abortion to the black
liberation from slavery -- a glorification of abortion that
even its most ardent advocates might consider a trifle
excessive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Our Wine Beverage
   Unfairly Tarnished
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   CDGB
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   An article on Sept. 12 stated that our product, Cisco, is
"known on the street as liquid crack."
   According to the Center for Science in the Public Interest
(CSPI), the term "liquid crack" was "coined by concerned
citizens in Washington" and not by people on the street. We
find this extremely disturbing: To call a legal
alcoholic-beverage product "liquid crack" dangerously
diminishes the seriousness of an illegal-drug problem that
has become one of our nation's worst social ills. The
implication that illegal drugs are no worse than legal
alcoholic beverages does a grave disservice to anti-drug
campaigns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We have never received any complaints from consumers,
retailers or wholesalers about incidences of mistaking Cisco,
a 20% alcohol wine beverage, for a 4% alcohol wine cooler.
Nevertheless, as soon as we heard the National Council on
Alcohol and Drug Dependence and the Center for Science in the
Public Interest's claims that our product could be mistaken
for a wine cooler, we took a series of steps to ensure there
be no confusion between Cisco and low-alcohol coolers,
including placing the statement "This product is not a wine
cooler" on all Cisco bottles.
   We are a responsible company selling a legal product. Like
all producers of alcoholic beverages, we strongly support
existing laws prohibiting the purchase of alcoholic beverages
by minors. We also support the efforts of community leaders
and concerned citizens to curb alcohol and drug abuse and to
educate consumers about the dangers of drunk driving.
   Marvin Sands
   Chairman
   Canandaigua Wine Co.
   Canandaigua, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   TWO LAWMAKERS FAULTED Bush for rejecting Iraq's Jan. 12
date for talks.
   Senate Minority Leader Bob Dole and Rep. Les Aspin,
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said the
president and Baghdad's Saddam Hussein must break the
stalemate over diplomatic talks. Dole, asserting that
Americans "are not yet committed to war," said he has
received indications from Iraq that Baghdad may show
flexibility on dates for the talks. Meanwhile, a U.S.
official said he believes EC foreign ministers will reaffirm
support for a Jan. 15 deadline for an Iraqi withdrawal from
Kuwait when they meet Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iraqis and other Arabs will attack American and Western
targets worldwide if the U.S. and its allies launch a
military offensive against Iraq, an official Baghdad
newspaper warned.
   ---
   Soviet police with bulldozers razed Moscow's
five-month-old "Tent City," a group of plastic and cardboard
shacks near the Kremlin that had sprung up in a gesture of
disillusionment with Gorbachev's reforms. An interior
ministry spokesman said that 47 people were rounded up, and
that 52 makeshift dwellings were destroyed.
                                                                                                       

   Moldavia agreed to comply with a Kremlin order to
reconsider its law making Moldavian the republic's official
language. The republic's parliament acted in response to a
decree issued by Gorbachev, who has sought to defuse ethnic
tension in Moldavia.
   ---
   About 40,000 Argentines gathered outside President Menem's
office in Buenos Aires to protest his pardon on Saturday of
key figures who served in the military dictatorship during
the 1970s "dirty war" on leftists. Among those pardoned were
former Presidents Videla and Viola and a co-founder of the
Montonero terrorist group.
   ---
   China's leaders approved a vague five-year plan that
offers few changes or surprises but gives the government a
good deal of leeway to manage the economy. The plan was
announced after a six-day Communist Party plenum in Beijing
involving 584 senior party members.
   ---
   Israeli soldiers shot and wounded 14 Palestinians in the
Gaza Strip, where four people were killed Saturday by troops,
Arab sources said. The army confined most Gaza residents to
their homes. Separately, Israeli planes attacked an Arab
guerrilla post in Lebanon that military sources said had been
used to launch assaults against Israel.
   ---
   Poland's premier-designate attempted to form a
transitional government that will rule until parliamentary
elections expected next spring. Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, 39, a
free-market economist, was named by President Walesa on
Saturday to take over from Mazowiecki, who quit after losing
to Walesa in last month's presidential vote.
   ---
   Greek officials reversed themselves and said they won't go
ahead with plans to pardon Greece's jailed military
dictators. The scheduled pardons of leaders of the 1967-74
right-wing military government had provoked protests by
left-wing politicians as well as members of the conservative
government of Prime Minister Mitsotakis.
   ---
   Two Algerian army deserters gave up after hijacking a
domestic airliner, freeing their hostages and ending a
two-day standoff, officials said. The plane's pilot said the
duo didn't seem to know why they commandeered the Air Algerie
jet carrying 88 people from Ghardaia to Algiers. The plane
was forced to land in the city of Annaba.
   ---
   Albanian Jews are being allowed to emigrate to Israel and
several already have arrived, Israel army radio reported. The
Jews aren't coming through official Israeli channels, but are
sponsored by Jewish groups and unofficial agencies, the radio
said.
   ---
   Japan's Kaifu shuffled his cabinet over the weekend, but
the changes most likely won't alter the Tokyo government's
foreign and economic policies. The new cabinet will be the
prime minister's third since he took office nearly a year and
a half ago.
   ---
   Hundreds of supporters welcomed Chun Doo Hwan, South
Korea's disgraced former president, as he returned to Seoul
following two years of self-imposed exile at a mountain
temple northeast of the capital. Chun left Seoul in November
1988 after publicly apologizing for abuses of power during
his seven-year rule, which ended in 1987.
   ---
   About 800 people rallied in support of Bangladesh's
deposed President Ershad, demanding his release from house
arrest, where he was placed while the government investigates
corruption charges. Ershad was forced to resign Dec. 6
following two months of nationwide demonstrations.
   ---
   Havana and Moscow signed a trade and economic cooperation
accord for the coming year, calling for Cuba to exchange
sugar, nickel, citrus fruit, medicines and medical equipment
for Soviet oil, cereals, chemicals, machinery and spare
parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Now, Walsh vs. First Amendment
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   With his major Iran-Contra prosecutions in a shambles,
Lawrence Walsh is reduced to going after one of his own.
Jeffrey Toobin, who joined Mr. Walsh's crew soon after law
school, has written a book that Mr. Walsh is doing his best
to suppress.
   We don't know exactly what's in "Opening Arguments: A
Young Lawyer's First Case -- U.S. v. Oliver North," because
Mr. Toobin and his would-be publishers at Viking fear
criminal prosecution if they dare send anyone a copy. It's
unlikely that Mr. Toobin, a former writer for the liberal New
Republic, criticizes Mr. Walsh's performance as strongly as,
say, we would. What we do know is that Mr. Walsh's
so-far-successful prior restraint yields a fine sense of
being on the receiving end of an independent counsel's wrath.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When Mr. Toobin, now 30 years old, left the independent
counsel's office in 1989, he agreed to have anything he wrote
reviewed to make sure it divulged no confidential information
or violated the criminal prohibition against leaking grand
jury information. The CIA and Justice Department both quickly
approved the book, so it apparently contains no national
security or grand jury secrets.
   Yet Mr. Walsh refuses to grant his permission to publish.
The passages he finds objectionable remain under court seal.
He asked that the Justice Department's Public Integrity
Section bring a criminal case against Mr. Toobin, which
Justice refused. According to Mr. Toobin's court papers, Mr.
Walsh even tried to get him fired from his new job as an
assistant federal prosecutor in Brooklyn. The FBI started
asking Mr. Toobin's friends about him. Mr. Toobin finally
decided to sue his former boss, citing Mr. Walsh's
"stonewalling, specious objections and intimidation." He
hopes to get judicial approval of his right to publish at a
hearing this week.
   The First Amendment supposedly covered the threat of prior
restraint, though we do have some problems with prosecutors
divulging information, especially against individuals who
were never indicted and so could not defend against any
accusations. Mr. Walsh himself will write a report to
Congress that almost certainly will smear unindicted
officials, perhaps even President Bush. For that matter, Mr.
Toobin says that Mr. Walsh told him he planned to write his
own book on Iran-Contra. Any notion that prosecutors have a
special obligation to keep silent out of court began to
disappear with several books by Watergate prosecutors.
   We doubt that any high principle is at stake here.
Instead, we suspect Mr. Walsh simply fears the embarrassment
of disclosure. The Viking promotional material promises that
the book will "trace the complex legal and political
struggles" of the prosecution, including "within the office
itself." Last year, Mr. Toobin got a letter from Mr. Walsh's
office objecting to references "to matters which were and are
totally internal to the Office of Independent Counsel,
including discussions of staff meetings." Sounds like
fascinating reading. We wonder if anyone on the staff warned
of the legal problems with the prosecutions.
   Mr. Walsh's conviction of Oliver North even on the minor
charges was overturned because he used evidence that Congress
had immunized. A similar fate awaits the John Poindexter
conviction. Newspapers that once cheered on Mr. Walsh's
crusade now wish he'd just go away.
   As we have said, this has been a political prosecution
from the beginning, which Mr. Walsh made worse by
grandstanding instead of following the law. While he waits
for court permission to publish, Mr. Toobin should add a
chapter on this final lesson from the unsupervised and
unaccountable prosecutor Walsh.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MNC Financial Inc.
   Suspends Dividends
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 20
</SO>
<CO>
   MNC
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE -- MNC Financial Inc., the struggling parent of
Maryland National Bank, suspended dividend payments on its
common shares and on its three issues of preferred stock.
   MNC, which has been increasingly hurt by problem
commercial real estate loans, had agreed in October that it
wouldn't pay any dividends without approval from the Federal
Reserve Board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By suspending the dividends, MNC will retain about $26
million a quarter in capital that it otherwise would have
paid out to shareholders. Most of those savings will come
from suspending the 29 cent-a-share quarterly dividend on its
84 million common shares outstanding.
   MNC also has a small issue of convertible preferred stock
and two issues of adjustable-rate preferred stock. Total
quarterly dividend payments on those shares would have been
about $1.8 million.
   MNC common shares closed at $3.375 each, unchanged Friday
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The dividend
suspension was announced after the stock market closed.
   In a statement, MNC said its board would consider
restoring dividend payments "depending upon regulatory
approval and a variety of factors relating to the company's
performance, such as its financial condition, results of
operations, capital levels and other appropriate
information."
   MNC, which has assets of about $25 billion, is trying to
sell assets, including the nation's fourth largest bank
credit-card operation, to reduce debt and improve its capital
position. If MNC can't find a buyer for its credit-card
business, the company plans to attempt to spin off the unit
with an initial public offering valued at as much as $1.3
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Year-End Rush
   Puts Short Rates
   Through Roof
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Stuart Drown
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The annual year-end jump in short-term
interest rates is unusually intense this year as banks,
particularly Japanese banks, scramble to get their hands on a
diminished pile of available money.
   Short-term rates usually soar around year-end as banks
race to borrow short-term funds to put on their balance
sheets. This maneuver is done for accounting purposes and is
commonly known as "window dressing."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While it's not unusual for year-end rates to rise into
double digits, eyebrows were raised in midweek when the
closely watched federal funds rate charge on overnight loans
between banks briefly reached 100% -- far above its target of
7% -- and some Eurodollar deposit rates hit 50%.
   "There has been frantic bidding for year-end funds" for
more than a month, said Louis Crandall, economist at W.R.
Wrightson &amp; Associates. He said the jump in rates reflects
unsually strong demand for funds at a time when many lenders
in the market -- which consists mostly of other banks -- are
limiting supply.
   Although most economists expect the pressures to be
relieved later this week or next week, they say that rising
short-term bank borrowing rates is a major reason commercial
banks haven't yet lowered their prime lending rates, a common
benchmark for consumer loans.
   Late in the week, brokers who trade in the federal funds
market were quoting rates for U.S. banks of between 10% and
12%. Yet some Japanese banks -- a group that has been
severely squeezed in the short-term funds market -- were
paying between 20% and 50%.
   Essentially, these borrowers were locking in commitments
to take delivery of funds at year-end that they plan to repay
in early January, a phenomenon known to the market as
turn-of-the-year financing.
   It might seem surprising that the Japanese banks have been
hit much harder than their U.S. counterparts, considering
that many of the largest Japanese banks are thought to be
healthier than the big U.S. banks. But there are widespread
concerns that some Japanese banks will stumble amid further
erosion of Japan's stock and real estate markets. This fear
is causing U.S. investors to discriminate against all
Japanese banks. The Japanese stock market declined nearly 40%
in 1990.
   Rates have been moving higher and higher as Japanese banks
apparently worry that overnight funding supplies will be
exhausted before their needs are met.
   "If somebody is afraid that his credit line might be cut
off, he is willing to borrow now to make sure he has the
money he needs at year-end," said Samuel D. Kahan, economist
at Fuji Securities Inc.
   Moreover, some lenders have reduced their exposure to
Japanese banks in the interbank funding market and some money
market funds have cut back their purchases of deposits of
Japanese banks.
   Reflecting the year-end funding squeeze, one-week
Eurodollar deposits were quoted late last week at 11% bid,
15% asked; one-month Eurodollar deposits were quoted at 10%
bid, 10 1/2% asked.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Prices of long-term bonds deteriorated as renewed concerns
about the Middle East prompted investors to sell bonds ahead
of the weekend and New Year's holiday. But some short-term
notes posted modest gains.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell 5/8 point, a
loss of about $6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its
price, rose to 8.30% from 8.24%. The benchmark bond was
quoted late Friday at a price of 104 28/32 compared with 105
16/32 on Thursday.
   Prices of two-year notes rose slightly to 100 1/32 from
par on Thursday. The yields on the issue fell to 7.20% from
7.23%.
   Charges from the Bush Administration that Iraq is blocking
progress in setting up meetings to discuss a resolution of
the Middle East crisis, and ill-founded rumors that shots had
been fired in the Persian Gulf, spurred some selling.
   Trading activity was light, partly because of the holiday
season and an East Coast snowstorm that kept many players
away. Most bond dealers closed their trading desks before 3
p.m.
   In the corporate bond market, prices were little changed.
For all of 1990, corporate debt sales fell to a five-year
low, according to Securities Data Co. Only $105.6 billion in
corporate debt was sold this year, down 20% from the $134.1
billion in corporate financing last year.
   Expectations of lower interest rates kept many corporate
borrowers on the sidelines during the first half of the year,
and a spike in interest rates after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait
stifled issuance in the third quarter.
   Only $19.8 billion of corporate debt was sold in the third
quarter, compared with $27.8 billion in the comparable period
last year. But offerings rebounded in the fourth quarter when
falling interest rates sparked a flood of financings.
   According to Securities Data, $31.2 billion of corporate
debt was offered in the fourth quarter, a slight dip from the
$33.3 billion sold in the year-earlier period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Investors Tying Strategy to Result
   Of Super Bowl May Be Shut Out
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Many investors are forever seeking the market equivalent
of the Holy Grail.
   They yearn to discover a pattern that would allow them to
pick winning stocks ever after. They long for a technique
that would require little or no thinking, yet have a high
probability of success.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three patterns that keep cropping up in Wall Street banter
around this time of year are the January effect, the Super
Bowl effect and the midterm-election-year effect. All three
are discussed below. But first, a cautionary word about
patterns in general.
   Burton Malkiel, professor of economics at Princeton
University, has long asserted that prices of investments tend
to move in a random way -- that an investment's price today
is not related to yesterday's price. Such price action is
frequently described as a "random walk."
   Professor Malkiel freely concedes that people can look at
historical data and find lots of patterns that work on paper.
But trying to profit from such information is difficult.
   "Suppose you find something that appears to produce
profits," Mr. Malkiel says. "If there is really something
there, then investors won't wait for the starting date for
the strategy." And this tendency for investors to `jump the
gun' will, over time, cause the effect to disappear, says Mr.
Malkiel.
   Mr. Malkiel concedes that some recent research has shown
persistent exceptions to the random-walk model. He argues,
however, that such effects are difficult, if not impossible,
to profit from, because of transaction costs. These costs --
commissions and the prices investors must pay to buy and
sell, the so-called bid-ask spread -- are frequently larger
than the effects themselves.
   That said, let's zero in on some Wall Street buzzwords.
   Midterm elections. In years past, the stock market's
behavior has correlated fairly strongly with the presidential
election cycle. The year after midterm congressional
elections -- the third year of a president's term -- has
tended to be a good year for the market.
   "Since 1962, stock prices have registered a major bottom
in every (midterm) election year without exception," wrote
Robert J. Brinker in the Nov. 4 issue of his newsletter, Bob
Brinker's Marketimer. Larry Vaden, an individual investor and
longtime student of the stock market in Trenton, Texas, says
he is planning to invest more aggressively because the
midterm election indicator gives him confidence.
   Indeed, the Dow Jones industrials have risen in 17 of the
past 20 calendar years following the midterm election year.
(The data run from 1911 through 1987.) The average gain for
all 20 such years was 12.2%.
   The industrial average was up an average 17.8% in the 17
profitable years, and was down an average 19.6% in the three
losing years. A buy-once-and-hold strategy over the same 77
years would have produced an average 4.2% compounded return,
disregarding dividends.
   "Presidents have awesome power to sweep dirt under rugs,"
says Yale Hirsch, editor of the Stock Trader's Almanac. "That
is why most bear markets take place in the first two years of
a presidential term."
   "In the first couple of years of a president's term he has
to do nasty things to the economy," says Alfred Goldman,
director of market analysis at A.G. Edwards &amp; Son Inc. in St.
Louis. "But in the next two years, he is going to do
everything in his power to get re-elected or keep his party
in power."
   That, anyway, is the rationale -- but Mr. Goldman doesn't
think it provides any investment guarantees. "I wish life
were that easy," he says.
   In fact, in the current case, the Bush administration
escaped a recession early in the term, but seems to be stuck
with one now. Given that the economy isn't following the
traditional election-cycle pattern, there's certainly no
guarantee that the stock market will.
   The January effect is the pattern that receives the most
attention, especially around this time of the year.
   According to market lore, stocks -- especially those
companies with smaller total market values -- tend to rally
in January. (In recent years, the rally has often started in
December.)
   For the years 1980 through 1990, the industrial average
rose in seven Januarys out of 11. Smaller stocks, as
represented by the Nasdaq Composite Index, outperformed the
Dow industrials in five of the seven "up" Januarys.
   On the other hand, there were four Januarys (1981, 1982,
1984 and 1990) in which the Dow industrials declined. In each
of those four cases, small stocks declined further.
   Still, string the 11 Januarys together and the effect
looks pretty good. The industrials rose about 27%, and the
Nasdaq Composite rose about 38%.
   There are a couple of possible explanations for the
effect. Portfolio managers may start a new year in a mood to
take some chances. As the year progresses, they may become
more cautious -- either to protect their gains or to avoid
looking truly foolish.
   Tax factors are another often-cited explanation. People
who have paper losses on stocks often sell late in the year,
so they can use the losses to offset gains that would
otherwise be taxable. Stocks depressed by such tax-loss
selling may rebound smartly in the new year.
   This year the small-stock rally was dubbed by some the
"Thanksgiving effect" as it started early -- perhaps because
of the "gun-jumping" described by Mr. Malkiel, perhaps
because of a little-noticed aspect of the 1986 tax law that
prodded mutual funds to sell many losing stocks before Oct.
31.
   Money managers holding losses on small-cap stocks
apparently wanted to reap those losses to offset any gains on
other stocks in their portfolios. They knew that shareholders
wouldn't take kindly to having to pay capital gains taxes in
a year that, on the whole, was bad for stocks. But having
sold small stocks early, they also replenished their holdings
of such stocks early.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 12.9% from Oct. 31 through
last Wednesday. Over the same period, the industrial average
was up 8%.
   For investors, the nagging question this time is: How much
January effect is left to happen in January?
   Super Bowl Indicator: Few market forecasting techniques
appear to have less economic justification than this curio,
which depends on the outcome of the Super Bowl. Yet some
investors, no doubt, will be glued to their TV sets on Sunday
night Jan. 27 not because they have $100 riding on their
favorite team but to tell them whether they should continue
to hold stocks.
   Football used to have two separate leagues, the National
Football League and the American Football League. The Super
Bowl indicator says that if a team from the old National
League wins, the market will rise.
   Most old National League teams now are part of the
National Football Conference. Three -- the Pittsburgh
Steelers, the Cleveland Browns and the Indianapolis (formerly
Baltimore) Colts -- now are American Football Conference
teams. So bullish believers in the indicator usually root for
the NFC over the AFC, but not always.
   Until 1984, the Super Bowl predictor had an unblemished
record of 17 correct market calls. But in the past seven
years it has been right only four times. This year, for
example, the NFC's San Francisco 49ers won, but the New York
Stock Exchange Composite is down about 7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Agency Sells
   Enterprise Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Resolution Trust Corp., the U.S.
thrift-cleanup agency, sold Enterprise Savings Bank, Chicago,
as it continued its effort to sell shaky institutions rather
than let a government takeover of them reduce their market
value.
   Enterprise Savings, with $447.8 million in assets, was
acquired by United Federal Bank, a unit of Westinghouse
Federal Bank, Galesburg, Ill. The thrift agency expects the
government's cost of the transaction to be $55 million in
funds that will be advanced to United Federal to compensate
for the bad assets held by Enterprise. Under the terms of the
sale, United Federal will obtain virtually all of the failed
institution's assets, as well as its deposits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enterprise Federal was closed briefly Thursday and its
shareholders' interests were wiped out. It reopened as part
of United Federal Friday.
   The agency believes that it gets higher prices for
institutions by selling them before they have been operated
by the RTC for a long period of time. Three other thrifts
have been sold using this approach.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Creaky Computer System
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Almost 20 years ago, the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners created a computerized financial system to sift
through the annual filings of thousands of insurance
companies and identify those with a high risk of insolvency.
   The system has been touted from time to time as an almost
magical solution to regulatory problems, and it remains the
main way state regulators target insurers for thorough
examination. But in practice it has fallen short of
designers' hopes, and some critics suggest that, in the
current form, it is badly in need of overhaul.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Called the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or
IRIS, it consists of 11 ratios that compare basic financial
components of each insurer. For instance, one test checks
premiums written compared to a company's capital; another
looks at levels of reserves for potential claims. There is
one set of ratios for property-casualty firms and one for
life insurers.
   Companies are slated for a brief check by a special team
of regulatory analysts from across the country if computers
turn up at least four categories in which a particular
insurer is deficient. If that initial look suggests there are
deeper problems, the company's home state is expected to do a
thorough examination.
   Back in the 1970s, IRIS fingered about 90% of the
companies that later became insolvent, and only about 15% of
its targets didn't later go broke, says James Schacht, deputy
director of the Illinois insurance department and one of
IRIS's developers. But now the system is catching only about
75% of those that eventually go under. And about 25% of
companies targeted by IRIS aren't really in trouble, meaning
that in some cases regulators' time is wasted investigating
healthy insurers.
   The problem is the increasing complexity of company
financial structures, says Mr. Schacht. This is worsened by
the growing number of companies.
   "The more false readings IRIS gives in either direction,
the less useful it is," notes James Baresse, professor of
economics at the College of Insurance in New York. He
concluded in a recent study that five of the
property-casualty ratios didn't produce a statistically
significant result. Similarly troubling results have been
reported in studies of the life insurance tests.
   Another problem facing regulators, who rely heavily on the
system, is the risk that IRIS will be fooled by misleading
numbers in financial statements. Integrity Insurance Co., the
insolvent New Jersey firm profiled earlier in this series,
had a sturdy-looking balance sheet in large part because it
reserved far too little for future claims by policyholders, a
problem that slipped by IRIS at the time.
   Mr. Schacht and others are trying to beef up the system.
New ratios, which are secret, have been added to the older
IRIS set. And so-called "expert systems" are being
considered, in which computers would be programmed to
investigate more-intricate relationships in financial
reports, ones that experts hope will make it harder to
mislead the system with false data.
   (See related story: "Insurance -- The Next Crisis? ---
Ominous Signs: Regulator's Failure To Halt Insurer's Slide
Shows Flaws in System --- Pennsylvania Let Lacop Keep Going
Despite Cash Woes, Sanctions by Other States --- A Call for
Federal Guidelines" -- WSJ Dec. 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE B-2 BOMBER PROGRAM will be frozen at current
production levels by the Air Force, which plans instead to
use alloted funds to work on those aircraft already in the
pipeline. The project's prime contractor, Northrop, is
playing down the significance of the program change, but the
move will give the plane's opponents a political edge.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Air-to-ground phone service has been opened by the FCC to
four new potential providers. The companies would be the
first rivals for GTE's Airfone unit, now the only service.
   ---
   The index of leading indicators fell 1.2% in November, its
fifth straight monthly drop and yet another sign of economic
weakness. Separately, machine-tool makers say manufacturers
are cautious about new orders.
   ---
   The U.S. economy should post "continuing but slow growth"
in most sectors, the Commerce Department said in its annual
industrial outlook.
   ---
   First Hawaiian's plan to buy First Interstate of Hawaii
faces opposition from the Justice Department, which filed an
antitrust suit to block the combination of the bank concerns.
   ---
   Data General dropped a high-pro file development agreement
with NTT of Japan to build hubs for private data
communications networks. The move is part of the U.S.
computer maker's efforts to reduce costs.
   ---
   Stock mutual funds had a net in flow of $1.4 billion in
November, up from $734 million in October. The trend reverses
the outflow of investor cash that began with the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait in early August.
   ---
   Short-term interest rates are experiencing unusually
intense upward pressure in this year's annual scramble by
banks for year-end funds to meet their balance-sheet needs.
   ---
   Matsushita Electric Industrial of Japan completed its
$6.59 billion tender offer for MCA, accomplishing the year's
largest acquisition and the biggest takeover yet of an
American company by a Japanese concern.
   ---
   U.S. securities exchanges have fixed many of the
weaknesses that led to the 1987 stock market crash, according
to an SEC study of the less-severe plunge of October 1989.
   ---
   Charter Medical will post a loss of about $210 million for
its latest fiscal year and take $100 million in write-downs.
Analysts say the results could force a restructuring or even
more drastic steps at the hospital chain.
   ---
   Japan's Nippon Sanso faces U.S. opposition to its planned
acquisition of Semi-Gas, a maker of semiconductors. The
Justice Department plans to file an antitrust suit to block
the deal.
   ---
   Western Union said it received enough notes to complete
its cash tender offer and restructure its debt. The
completion of the offer is expected to follow the sale of the
concern's business services operation to AT&amp;T.
   ---
   Las Vegas, Nev., the nation's fastest growing city, faces
an economic squeeze. Its ambitious development plans are
nearing fruition just as the area's economy is beginning to
slow.
   ---
   The U.S. paper industry charged that European competitors
are dumping magazine-grade paper at below-market prices and
pushing it out of that segment of the business.
   ---
   Canada's BCE Development said it would stop paying
interest to holders of its unsecured debentures to convince
senior U.S. creditors to accept smaller debt-service
payments.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 111,040,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2629.21, up 3.71; transportation 911.54, off 1.88; utilities
210.07, off 0.38.
   Bonds: Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3650.82, off 19.05.
   Commodities: Oil $27.57 a barrel, up 56 cents. Dow Jones
futures index 127.37, up 0.98; spot index 124.15, up 0.84.
   Dollar: 134.85 yen, off 1.55; 1.4936 marks, off 0.0319.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, December 28, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                          Stock    N.A.   Stock        %
 Fund Name                Exch.   Value   Price       Diff.
                                                                                                       

 Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

 Adams Express            NYSE    16.77   14  3/4     -12.05
 Baker Fentress           NYSE    18.30   14  3/8     -21.45
 Blue Chip Value          NYSE     6.9    16          -13.17
 Clemente Global Gro      NYSE    b9.66    8  1/2     -12.01
 Gemini II Capital        NYSE    11.63    9  3/8     -19.39
 Gemini II Income         NYSE     9.95   11  1/4     +13.07
 General Amer Invest      NYSE    20.49   17  1/2     -14.59
 Growth Stock Outlook     NYSE     9.88   10  1/2     + 6.28
 Liberty All-Star Eqty    NYSE     8.87    7  3/4     -12.63
 Niagara Share Corp.      NYSE    14.21   12  1/8     -14.67
 Nicholas-Applegate       NYSE    10.14    9  7/8     - 2.61
 Quest For Value Cap      NYSE    16.75   11  7/8     -29.10
 Quest For Value Inco     NYSE    11.59   12  3/4     +10.01
 Royce Value Trust        NYSE     8.48    8  1/8     - 4.19
 Salomon Fd               NYSE    13.29   10  7/8     -18.17
 Source Capital           NYSE    36.79   37          + 0.57
 Tri-Continental Corp.    NYSE    24.48   21  1/2     -12.17
 Worldwide Value          NYSE    14.63   12  1/8     -17.12
 Zweig Fund               NYSE    10.44   11  1/8     + 6.56
                                                                                                       

 Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

 CIM High Yield Secs      AMEX     5.65    4  1/2     -20.35
 Franklin Prin Mat Tr     NYSE    b7.35    7  1/8     - 3.06
 Franklin Universal Tr    NYSE    b5.95    5  1/8     -13.87
 Municipal High Inco      NYSE     9.29    9          - 3.12
 Zenix Income Fund        NYSE     5.00    4  3/4     - 5.00
                                                                                                       

 Flexible Portfolio Funds

 America's All Seasn      OTC      5.70    5  1/8     -10.09
 European Warrant Fd      NYSE     9.25    7          -24.32
 Franklin M-M Inco        NYSE    b7.43    7  1/4     - 2.42
 Zweig Total Return Fd    NYSE     8.98    8  5/8     - 3.95
                                                                                                       

 Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

 Alliance Global Env Fd   NYSE    12.78   10  3/4     -15.88
 Alliance New Europe Fd   NYSE     9.12    8  1/4     - 9.54
 American Capital Conv    NYSE    19.36   16  1/4     -16.06
 ASA Ltd                  NYSE  bc46.15   43  5/8     - 5.47
 Asia Pacific             NYSE    12.04   10          -16.94
 Austria Fund             NYSE    12.07   10          -17.15
 Bancroft Convertible     AMEX    18.35   15  3/4     -14.17
 Bergstrom Capital        AMEX    62.20   61  1/4     - 1.53
 BGR Precious Metals      TORb    e9.52    8  1/8     -14.65
 Brazil                   NYSE     5.97    6  3/4     +13.07
 CNV Holdings Capital     NYSE     7.62    4  1/8     -45.87
 CNV Holdings Income      NYSE     9.30   10  7/8     +16.94
 Castle Convertible       AMEX    19.38   16  1/4     -16.15
 Central Fund Canada      AMEX    b4.65    4  1/16    -12.63
 Central Securities       AMEX     9.89    7  5/8     -22.90
 Chile Fund               NYSE    17.54   15  1/2     -11.63
 Couns Tandem Secs        NYSE    12.83   10  3/8     -19.13
 Cypress Fund             AMEX     5.25    5  1/4     + 0.00
 Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE     8.29    8  5/8     + 4.04
 Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc        AMEX     7.43    6  1/4     -15.88
 Emerging Ger Fd          NYSE     9.58    7  5/8     -20.41
 Emerging Mexico Fd       NYSE    11.30    9          -20.35
 Engex                    AMEX     7.47    5 13/16    -22.19
 Europe Fund              NYSE    13.69   11  1/4     -17.82
 1stAustralia             AMEX     8.45    7  1/4     -14.20
 First Financial Fund     NYSE     4.96    4  1/2     - 9.27
 First Iberian            AMEX     8.41    7  3/4     - 7.85
 First Philippine Fund    NYSE     9.15    6  3/8     -30.33
 France Growth Fund       NYSE    10.32    8  1/8     -21.27
 Future Germany Fund      NYSE    14.09   11  1/2     -18.38
 Gabelli Equity Trust     NYSE    10.47   10  1/2     + 0.29
 Germany Fund             NYSE    11.03   11  1/8     + 0.86
 Global Utilities Fund    NYSE    11.38   10  7/8     - 4.44
 Growth Fund Spain        NYSE    10.18    8          -21.41
 GT Greater Europe Fd     NYSE    11.26    9  1/4     -17.85
 H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv       NYSE    12.16   11          - 9.54
 Hampton Utils Tr Cap     AMEX   b12.00   10          -16.67
 Hampton Utils Tr Pref    AMEX   b48.89   47  3/16    - 3.48
 India Growth Fund        NYSE   f13.91   10  3/4     -22.72
 Indonesia Fund           NYSE    10.36   10          - 3.47
 Irish Investment Fd      NYSE     9.11    6  3/4     -25.91
 Italy Fund               NYSE    11.49    9  7/8     -14.06
 Jakarta Growth Fd        NYSE     8.77    6  3/4     -23.03
 Japan OTC Equity Fund    NYSE     8.93    8  1/4     - 7.61
 Korea Fund               NYSE    11.09   12  3/8     +11.59
 Latin America Inv Fd     NYSE    14.02   10  3/4     -23.32
 Malaysia Fund            NYSE    12.39   11          -11.22
 Mexico Equity Inc Fd     NYSE    11.29    9  7/8     -12.53
 Mexico Fund              NYSE   b15.67   12  5/8     -19.43

 New Germany Fund         NYSE    12.75   11  3/8     -10.78
 Pacific Eur Growth Fd    NYSE     9.33    8          -14.26
 Patriot Prem Div Fd      NYSE     8.51    7  5/8     -10.40
 Patriot Prem Div Fd II   NYSE    10.06    8  5/8     -14.26
 Patriot Select Div Trust NYSE    14.26   13  1/2     - 5.33
 Petrol &amp; Resources       NYSE    28.47   25  1/4     -11.31
 Pilgrim Regional         NYSE     7.47    7          - 6.29
 Putnam Dividend Inco     NYSE     9.85    9  3/8     - 4.82
 Portugal Fund            NYSE    10.88    9  3/8     -13.83
 Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd    AMEX     5.25    4  3/4     - 9.52
 ROC Taiwan Fund          NYSE     9.14    7  3/4     -15.21
 Scudder New Asia         NYSE   a13.53   12  1/8     -10.38
 Scudder New Europe       NYSE   a10.52    8  3/8     -20.39
 Singapore Fd             NYSE   b10.87    8  3/4     -19.50
 Spain Fund               NYSE    10.54   10  7/8     + 3.18
 Swiss Helvetia Fd        NYSE    13.16   11  7/8     - 9.76
 Taiwan Fund              NYSE   b16.51   21  1/4     +28.71
 TCW Convertible Secs     NYSE    b6.80    7  1/8     + 4.78
 Templeton Em Mkts        AMEX   b11.91   13  1/8     +10.20
 Templeton Global Util    AMEX    10.82   11          + 1.66
 Thai Capital Fund        NYSE     8.28    6  3/4     -18.48
 Thai Fund                NYSE    13.08   15  3/8     +17.55
 Turkish Inv Fund         NYSE     8.25    6  3/4     -18.18
 United Kingdom Fund      NYSE    10.78    9          -16.51
 Z-Seven                  OTC     12.06   12  1/4     + 1.58
                                                                                                       

 a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial Jobless Claims
   Declined in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment fell to a seasonally adjusted 441,000 the week
ended Dec. 15 from 455,000 the previous week, the Labor
Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended Dec. 8 was a seasonally adjusted 3,006,000, or
2.9% of those covered by unemployment insurance, up from
2,953,000 the previous week, when the insured unemployment
rate was 2.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended Dec. 8 rose to 3,065,600 from 2,991,900 a week earlier.
These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   As Deposit Insurance Dwindles, FDIC Wonders
   If It Should Start Running the Banks It Seizes
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB GDM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- If some officials at the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. have their way, the term "national bank"
could have a whole new meaning.
   As the deposit insurance fund rapidly shrinks and fears
grow that some large regional banks could soon fail,
regulators are scrambling to find less expensive ways to deal
with insolvencies. One idea that is generating both attention
and controversy is to directly inject troubled institutions
with government money, perhaps even coupled with government
ownership.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The idea isn't unheard-of. In 1984, the FDIC put up $4.5
billion to bail out Continental Illinois Bank &amp; Trust Co.,
took complete ownership of the Chicago bank and installed new
management. As the bank got back on its feet, the FDIC began
selling its stock and has recouped most of its money. In
efforts to arrange takeovers of some large Texas banks by
Banc One Corp. and NCNB Corp., the FDIC also took temporary
ownership interests.
   But the regular use of such an approach would be a
significant break from current practice. In most cases now,
the FDIC arranges the merger of a failed bank into a healthy
one. The problem is that the cost of such arrangements to the
taxpayer can be huge: To make the merger work, the FDIC
itself takes over the failed bank's bad loans and other sour
assets.
   "What really costs us money is the dead-weight loss of
assets when they come out of the banking system," says Roger
Watson, the FDIC's director of research. As soon as the FDIC
assumes the bad loans from a failing bank that's being taken
over, he says, the assets suffer an immediate loss of about
15% in value. This is partly because the FDIC's goal is to
sell, rather than manage, the portfolio.
   FDIC officials say it might actually be cheaper to try to
keep the failed institutions alive. That's where the idea of
government money and possible ownership comes in. A capital
infusion into a bank that faces "market-induced problems"
such as sour real estate loans can help it skate through a
tough period, says Steven Seelig, the FDIC's director of
liquidation.
   Critics, though, contend that such changes could produce
dangerous results. A recent report prepared for the Financial
Institutions subcommittee of the House Banking Committee
warned that FDIC investments in banks could lead to
"effective nationalizations of our major banks."
   Moreover, say the critics, earlier attempts to give
savings and loans time to work their way out of problems
backfired, producing larger, rather than smaller, losses for
the government. "Forbearance doesn't work," says Rep. Charles
Schumer (D., N.Y.), a member of the banking panel. "We have
two choices: We can pay a little now or we can pay a lot
later."
   Banking consultant Bert Ely argues that greater direct
government involvement will only delay what he sees as a
needed consolidation among the nation's 12,400 banks. "If the
government supplies capital to weak banks, it stacks the deck
against the better managed institutions and doesn't allow as
fast a shrinkage of the industry as should take place," he
says.
   FDIC officials counter that things simply can't go on the
way they are now. They figure the Bank Insurance Fund will
incur gross losses of $11 billion in 1991, falling to $4
billion by year end. FDIC Chairman William Seidman has
proposed that banks pay a one-time assessment equal to 1% of
their deposits to pump $25 billion into the fund, but even
so, the agency says it has to find ways to slow down its
outlays.
   "Because of current economic conditions, it's difficult to
find private buyers who can or want to purchase and fully
capitalize failed institutions," says Mr. Seidman. What's
more, he points out, "the forced liquidation of large amounts
of assets in weak markets is expensive," and is helping fuel
the downward spiral of real estate prices that is
contributing to the problems many banks face.
   The FDIC's search for alternative ways of dealing with
troubled banks isn't limited just to the notion of taking
them over. Some analysts are beginning to talk of the need
for a modern version of the Reconstruction Finance Corp., the
federal agency that lent capital to some 6,000 banks to help
them through the Depression. Lowell Bryan, a banking expert
with the management consulting firm of McKinsey &amp; Co.,
recently briefed Mr. Seidman and other regulators on a
proposal to use funds from the FDIC and private investors to
shore up solvent but undercapitalized institutions.
   One of the concerns driving the review is the FDIC's
conclusion that more large banks will fail. In 1990, 169
banks failed, with assets totaling $16 billion; 148 of them
were so-called "purchase and assumptions," leaving the FDIC
holding most of the bad assets. In 1991, the agency predicts,
180 banks with total assets of $70 billion will fail --
meaning that the average failed bank will be much larger than
it was in 1990.
   Agency officials won't say which banks they expect to
fail, but the $70 billion figure leaves enough room to
include two large shaky banks in the Northeast -- the Bank of
New England in Boston and Goldome Financial Corp. in Buffalo,
N.Y.
   Mr. Watson, the FDIC's research director, says regulators
have learned enough from the S&amp;L debacle to know "you can't
forbear on an institution that has no chance of turning
around" and "you can't allow an institution to grow out of
its problems" by making more risky loans.
   Despite such lessons, finding a cheaper, easier way to
deal with failing banks won't be easy. "It's pretty clear
that if somebody comes up with a miracle that works and saves
money, everybody will jump to it," says James McLaughlin, a
regulatory attorney at the American Bankers Association. "But
I don't think they're going to find a miracle cure."
   ---
           How the FDIC Deals With Failing Banks
                                                                                                       

   Here's how the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. handled 169
failing banks in 1990:
                                                                                                       

   -- 148 by purchase and assumption. The deposits and some
assets are sold to a sound bank and the FDIC takes over the
bad loans. When banks are closed in this way, all deposits,
even those above the $100,000 federal insurance ceiling, are
protected.
                                                                                                       

   -- 20 by liquidation. The bank is closed and depositors
are paid up to the $100,000 insurance limit.
                                                                                                       

   -- One assistance transaction. The FDIC makes a capital
infusion to keep the bank alive.
                                                                                                       

   Source: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New York Developer
   Resolves Dispute
   With Japan Partner
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KMG
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A New York real estate developer and its
Japanese partner resolved a dispute that had stalled
construction of a $400 million Manhattan office building for
a year, but it remains unclear which partner will eventually
own the building.
   Under the agreement reached Friday, the Japanese partner,
KG Land New York Corp., ceded its controlling interest in
Americas Tower to its partner, New York Land Corp., which is
controlled by the Bernstein family. The dispute was before an
independent arbitration panel when agreement was reached.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   KG, a subsidiary of Kumagai Gumi Co., a big Tokyo
construction and development firm, obtained an option to buy
the building outright through an affiliate for "fair market
value." It must exercise the option between Jan. 4 and Jan.
31.
   The accord should give financially troubled KG Land time
to find financing to finish the million-square-foot project,
which is three-quarters completed.
   Last December, after investing $180 million on the
building's construction, KG moved to force the project into
bankruptcy proceedings, apparently because the reputation of
its partner had hindered efforts to secure the necessary
financing. That didn't succeed, so the dispute went to
arbitration.
   The Bernsteins had been entangled in numerous legal
battles surrounding the U.S. holdings of the late Philippine
dictator Ferdinand Marcos and his wife Imelda. The Bernsteins
had represented the Marcoses in their Manhattan real estate
investments.
   Under the settlement, KG Land's interest in the
partnership will drop from 60% to "substantially" less than
50%, according to New York lawyer Henry Bubel, who
represented the Bernsteins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Readin' and Writin' and No TV Ads
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Contrary to Chris Whittle's assertions in your Nov. 26
article "Whittle Asserts School-TV Project Draws
Subscribers," California continues to ban the use of
advertising programs such as "Channel One" in our
public-school classrooms.
   State law has never given schools the ability to barter
access to their students for television or any other kind of
equipment. In addition, the law is quite clear that the state
will not pay schools for the time "Channel One" viewers spend
watching ads for M&amp;Ms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whittle Communications' lobbyists tried, and failed, to
get a special-interest bill through the legislature. The law
remains as before. The State Board of Education, after
intense lobbying by Whittle's representative, did pass a
resolution stating that local school boards' decisions
regarding "commercial products and services" must be
"consistent with state law." Whittle Communications may
characterize that as a flip-flop. It is not.
   This state's PTA and the associations of school board
members and administrators support the continued ban of
broadcast advertising in the classroom. The state will soon
cut aid to the one public school that has used "Channel One"
since the beginning of the year.
   Beyond the local legal issues, the "Channel One"
controversy has raised serious educational and ethical
concerns, including the piecemeal selling of the school day
and the improper use of the compulsory-attendance law. It has
also focused attention on sales techniques that, while quite
legitimate in the free market, become exploitative in the
protected, monopoly environment in which Whittle
Communications seeks to operate.
   Bill Honig
   California Superintendent of Public Instruction
   Sacramento, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Two Foes of Mobutu Demand Inquiry
   Into de Groote's Ties to Zaire Regime
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound and Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC FORGN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two leading political opponents of Zairian dictator Mobutu
Sese Seko called for an investigation into whether a top
official of the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank acted improperly in his dealings with Mr. Mobutu's
regime.
   They urged that the IMF and the World Bank conduct an
inquiry into the ties between the Mobutu regime and Jacques
de Groote, a Belgian native and one of the most senior
executive directors of both institutions. "I think it's in
the interest of everybody's credibility -- the IMF, the World
Bank and Zaire -- to launch an investigation," said Nguza
Karl-i-Bond, a former Zairian prime minister, foreign
minister and ambassador to Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tshisekedi wa Mulumba, a prominent opposition figure and,
like Mr. Nguza, a candidate for the presidency of Zaire, went
even further. He urged that Belgian finance authorities, to
whom Mr. de Groote reports, conduct a separate inquiry into
conflict-of-interest questions raised by this newspaper in a
front-page profile last Friday of Mr. de Groote.
   An IMF spokesman said yesterday that "at this point, we
are not in a position to comment." A World Bank spokesman
also declined to comment. In an interview last October,
however, Barber Conable, the World Bank's chairman and
president, said: "If we were aware of an impropriety, we
would contact" Belgian authorities "and urge them to look
into it."
   Mr. de Groote, who doesn't represent Zaire at the IMF and
the World Bank, has acted as an adviser to the Mobutu regime
on finance policies for many years. He acknowledged in
interviews that even at the two institutions some believe he
was acting as a paid Mobutu agent. He strongly denied
receiving any money from Mr. Mobutu or his associates.
   The story also focused on Mr. de Groote's money problems
and his efforts to press the African nation of Rwanda into
devaluing its currency in the early 1980s. The devaluation
was being promoted by a Brussels businessman who was
assisting Mr. de Groote with his finances. Again, Mr. de
Groote denied he acted improperly.
   Belgian government officials haven't commented on the
story. But Arthur Gilson, a former Belgian defense minister,
said in an interview that the Belgian "prime minister and the
minister of finance should immediately and seriously start
looking into" the allegations.
   The IMF and the World Bank each have 22 directors. Mr. de
Groote and the others direct the affairs of the
multibillion-dollar institutions; their duties include
approving large loans to poorer countries and helping nations
adopt sound monetary policies. Mr. de Groote has been elected
to represent Belgium, Austria, Luxembourg, Turkey, Hungary
and Czechoslovakia -- but not Zaire.
   President Mobutu's opponents, who hope to unseat him in an
election in 1991, have campaigned against the corruption that
has pervaded his rule since he took power in the African
country in 1965. Mr. Mobutu himself is reputed to be a
billionaire.
   Mr. Nguza, once an insider, found it extraordinary that
Mr. de Groote had characterized Mr. Mobutu, a strong U.S.
ally, as "corrupt" in an interview with this newspaper.
"That's a serious accusation directed at a head of state by a
senior official of a highly respected institution." Mr. Nguza
said. President Mobutu didn't respond to written questions
submitted earlier this year.
   Mr. Tshisekedi, a prominent opposition leader who often
has been arrested by Mr. Mobutu's security forces, said in
Brussels that he feared any investigation by the World Bank,
the IMF and Belgian authorities wouldn't be thorough because
it might embarrass them. He also said that Mr. Mobutu
wouldn't likely cooperate with any inquiry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prescriptions for Change
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The system of state regulation governing the insurance
industry is under fire. Many expect Chairman John Dingell of
the House Oversight and Investigations subcommittee to
introduce a bill that would at the very least set out federal
guidelines for state regulators. Here are the views of some
industry executives and critics on what needs to be done:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph Belth, editor of the Insurance Forum and professor
of insurance at the University of Indiana: "There certainly
needs to be something that will better coordinate the
{National Association of Insurance Commissioners} operations
and increase its powers {or} some type of federal regulation
. . . I never have been sure that federal regulation would be
better than state regulation {but} there are gaping holes in
the current system."
                                                                                                       

   John J. Byrne, chairman and chief executive, Fireman's
Fund Insurance Cos.: "I wish that Congress would set some
minimum standards for regulation and leave the execution in
state hands. . . . The ideal is minimum standards."
                                                                                                       

   Rep. Dingell: "If {the problems} aren't being addressed by
the state legislatures, which they don't seem to be, then
federal regulation is going to be required. . . . We're
looking at overseas reinsurers, reinsurers generally, the
adequacy of state regulations, solvency, a {self-regulatory
organization} and also perhaps some SEC responsibility. . . .
This is not a war against the insurance companies, and we are
not going to be shrill in what we do or say."
   Wilson H. Taylor, chairman and chief executive officer,
Cigna Corp.: "The state regulatory process indeed does have
deficiencies. . . . I believe a self-regulatory organization
is intriguing. . . , a federal insurance solvency board like
{the industry-run Securities Investor Protection Corp.} could
address the regulation of insurer solvency, avoid additional
levels of regulation and, at the same time, create a
framework for positive future federal actions."
                                                                                                       

   Robert C. Winters, chairman and chief executive officer,
Prudential Insurance Co. of America: "The insurance industry
doesn't need more regulation; it's already one of the most
heavily regulated. {However}, rules protecting insurer
solvency are weak in some states and should be strengthened.
That doesn't mean Washington should take on the role of
regulator. There's no evidence that the federal government
would do a better job."
   (See related story: "Insurance -- The Next Crisis? ---
Ominous Signs: Regulator's Failure To Halt Insurer's Slide
Shows Flaws in System --- Pennsylvania Let Lacop Keep Going
Despite Cash Woes, Sanctions by Other States --- A Call for
Federal Guidelines" -- WSJ Dec. 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Giving Investments a Sharp Resolution
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
NYSE GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (NYS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Making New Year's resolutions tonight?
   Wall Street suggests adding these to your list, with an
eye toward making 1991, if not more prosperous, at least less
painful.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sell stocks.
   Buy bonds.
   Reduce debt.
   Avoid holding cash.
   Shun art and gold.
   Invest for the long haul.
   "Investors should resolve to use this rally in stocks that
we've seen in the past few months to sell their stocks," says
A. Gary Shilling, an economist and money manager in
Springfield, N.J. Mr. Shilling figures the economy is mired
in a recession that might not end until 1992, a scenario that
would lambast the stock market with the exception of
high-quality utility stocks with good dividends.
   And while you're selling those stocks, he advises, use the
proceeds to buy long-term Treasury bonds. Although bond
prices have already risen substantially in 1990, he figures
the depth and severity of the recession will result in
further declines in interest rates, driving bond prices even
higher.
   Mr. Shilling's longtime pessimism about the economy stems
from his view that many of the factors that often enable the
economy to grow its way out of a recession in a few quarters
aren't present this time around.
   Take the debt levels of both consumers and corporations.
They're so high that even if banks were inclined to lend --
and there's no evidence that they are -- nobody wants to
borrow. This means that housing, one of the industries that
usually leads the economy out of recession, isn't likely to
play the same role this time. And with all the commercial
real estate hitting the market as the Resolution Trust Corp.
tries to liquidate the savings and loan mess, the commercial
real estate market will be in the dumps for years, Mr.
Shilling says.
   Then there's the service industry, usually a pillar of
strength in times of recession. Trouble is, service companies
haven't done much to improve productivity in the past several
years, says Mr. Shilling, and that's going to hurt this time
around. The travel and recreation industries, for example,
are very vulnerable to a consumer retrenchment because their
services are highly postponable. And businesses will find it
much easier to cut back or eliminate such outside services as
lawyers, accountants and, yes, economic consultants than to
fire full-time employees, he says.
   As a period of sustained deflation sets in, tangible
goods, such as art and gold, won't be good places to hide, he
adds. "Look at the way the art market is falling off" and
gold hasn't gone anywhere despite the Middle East crisis, he
says. That, in turn, will crimp spending habits among even
the wealthiest individuals, who in the past seemed to escape
recessions unscathed.
   "The argument historically has been that the fat cats keep
buying come hell or high water," says Mr. Shilling. "But what
people don't realize is that the fat cats have an awful lot
of their net assets in tangible form."
   Charles Clough, chief investment strategist at Merrill
Lynch, is looking for hard times ahead, too, albeit not a
recession that stretches into 1992. He's resolved that bonds
are the place to be as the new year opens, a recommendation
that Merrill Lynch has been making for months. "We've been on
the Treasury bond case as long as Carter has been making
Little Liver Pills, but we still think the case is sound," he
says. "For every dollar of stocks you own, you should have a
dollar of bonds sitting next to it."
   And the stocks he recommends are utilities, which provide
some income through their lucrative dividends. "Locking in
income is not a bad way to go," he says. He thinks that over
the course of the next year the dividend yields on utility
stocks, now nearly twice as large as the yields on industrial
stocks, will come down as the utility stock prices rise.
   Perhaps one of the toughest resolutions to stick to in the
New Year is Mr. Clough's warning to avoid cash. "Cash is a
trap," he says. "Investors have gotten good returns for 12
years in short-term instruments and it's very hard to break a
habit like that. But short-term rates simply have to drop
sharply. If banks are not lending, they can't afford to pay
much to get your deposits."
   Most investors claim to be investing for the long run, but
1991 is the year in which you had better mean what you say,
says Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany
Corp. He expects both the economy and the stock market to
have a rough ride in 1991, with some bounces up that will
lure back unwary investors before it is time.
   "There could be a variety of economic indicators that lift
spirits, or confidence could begin to recover because of some
kind of political event like a settlement in the Middle
East," he says. "That would all be reflected in higher stock
prices, but what I'm warning is that those signals, important
as they may have been in the past, are likely to be false
signals."
   Like other advisers, Mr. Johnson expects this recession to
differ from previous downturns. He notes, for instance, that
in prior downturns the economy usually showed signs of
recovery some eight to 10 months after the Federal Reserve
began lowering interest rates to stimulate borrowing. But
this time it has already been nearly 20 months since the Fed
began paring rates, and still the economy is headed down
while banks balk at making new loans.
   "The economic system has become so fragile and borrowers
have taken on so much debt that you're not likely to see any
pickup in borrowing anytime soon," he says. "It's going to be
a very nerve-wracking year."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 3.71 points higher
Friday at 2629.21.
   Traders said the market averages drifted with narrow
losses, then turned higher late in the day on activity
related to year-end "window dressing" of portfolios. Losing
stocks outnumbered gainers, 800 to 712. Trading was the most
active of the week but Friday's volume was still low at
111,040,000 shares.
   For the week, the industrial average lost 4.45 points, or
a slim 0.17%. Traders didn't read much into the market's
failure to mount a rally in the final days of the year. Two
trading sessions were shorter than normal in a week already
truncated by the Christmas holiday.
   American Express was unchanged at 20 3/8. The stock was
down for most of the day after a Heard On The Street column
said that the company's Shearson Lehman Brothers unit might
face more write-offs stemming from almost $10 billion of real
estate and other investments.
   Georgia-Pacific fell 1 5/8 to 37 1/8, and International
Paper dropped 1/4 to 53 5/8. The two paper companies were
named defendants in a $2 billion lawsuit filed in Mississippi
that alleges they dumped dioxin and other pollutants into
three state rivers.
   LL&amp;E Royalty Trust rose 1/4 to 2 3/4, after falling 1/4
point Thursday. Late Thursday, the trust said that it
currently hasn't any plans to reduce its monthly
distribution, clarifying an earlier statement that led some
investors to believe distributions might be eliminated.
   Georgia Gulf jumped 3/4 to 10 after adding 1 1/8 the
previous day. As reported Thursday, First Boston raised its
investment rating on the stock and boosted its earnings
estimates for the company. The stock may also be getting a
boost from an article in Forbes, which speculates that
Georgia Gulf could be the next takeover target among chemical
concerns.
   Timken fell 7/8 to 20 1/2, a new 52-week low. Timken's
chief financial officer, J. Kevin Ramsey, told Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report that there are indications that
"things are soft" and "business is definitely off" in 1990's
fourth quarter compared with the year's previous quarters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Discount-Rate Cut Sparks Late Rally;
   Composite Index Climbs 1.2% to 370.17
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/19/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
OTC GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (OTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A late-afternoon cut in the discount rate
began a final-hour stock market rally and transformed what
had been a dull day for over-the-counter stocks.
   The Nasdaq composite index was lingering about 1.5 points
higher when the Federal Reserve announced it would reduce to
6.5% from 7% the rate the Fed charges banks for borrowing by
member banks. The move is effective today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   News that the Fed was still in the battle to pull
corporate America out of economic doldrums began a buying
spree that more than doubled early gains.
   The Nasdaq composite index closed 4.45 points, or 1.2%,
higher at 370.17.
   "The market wanted to go higher all day. The Fed gave it
the impetus," said Steve Bliss, head of OTC trading for Mabon
Nugent &amp; Co.
   Investors reacted to the news by buying OTC technology and
industrial stocks ahead of financial issues. While the Nasdaq
100, an index of the 100 largest nonfinancial OTC stocks,
rose 2.1% on the day, the Nasdaq Financial 100 index gained
just 1.2%.
   Apple Computer, which benefited also from a First Boston
recommendation, jumped 2 1/8 to 42 1/4. Microsoft added 1 1/4
to 75 1/4. Sun Microsystems surged 1 5/8 to 22 5/8.
   Intel climbed 1 1/2 to 37 1/4.
   Before the cut in the discount rate lit the fuse,
yesterday's trading was anything but fireworks.
   The slow pace betrayed a malaise among investors that
suggested to many traders the market had begun the Christmas
holidays earlier than usual.
   Perhaps not realizing just how prophetic his remarks would
be, one trader late in the afternoon said the market
displayed good tone but needed a push before it would take
any bold steps in that reluctant atmosphere.
   "The easiest thing to do is nothing. Absent any major
news, this is going to be a quiet week," said John Giesea,
manager of OTC trading for Advest.
   He was right. A moment later, the Fed made its
announcement, and stock prices took off.
   The advance-decline line, which had been mostly in
balance, shifted. The day ended with 1,059 stocks showing
gains and 899 posting losses.
   National Market System volume surged from a slow pace to a
more moderate 103 million shares. More than 85 million shares
were traded Monday.
   On the New York Stock Exchange, the gains about matched
the 1.2% OTC advance. The New York Stock Exchange composite
index was up 1.97 points, or 1.1%, to 180.19. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average closed at 2626.73, up 33.41 points.
   Earnings news and outlooks drove many stocks yesterday.
One technology stock to benefit from a positive forecast was
AST Research.
   AST shares gained 5 1/2 points to close at 32, a new
52-week high. The 20% climb came as the computer maker said
it expects fiscal second-quarter earnings to climb to $1 a
share from the 62 cents a share it earned a year ago. AST
also announced a 2-for-1 stock split.
   Dime Financial lost 1 to 5 when the company cut its
quarterly dividend in half to 10 cents a share and predicted
earnings for the year would drop to $4.2 million from $7.3
million a year ago. Dime Financial said, "all signs are that
the economic decline in New England will extend well into
next year."
   Aspect Telecommunications shares tumbled 2 1/2 to 6 after
the company told analysts Monday to expect fourth-quarter
results to be disappointing. Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report said Aspect told analysts to anticipate a break-even
quarter.
   Metcalf &amp; Eddy fell 1 1/4 to 11 1/2. The engineering and
construction firm reported fiscal 1990 net income declined to
$1.03 a share from $1.11 a share a year ago. Metcalf &amp; Eddy
also said it would stop work on a rehabilitation program
until the Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority makes
substantial contract payments.
   Paychex shares fell 2 to 17 1/4. Paychex reported fiscal
second-quarter earnings improved marginally, to 22 cents a
share from 21 cents in the quarter last year.
   Fabricland rose 2 1/4 to 12 1/4 on news that House of
Fabrics offered $13.50 a share in cash to acquire Fabricland.
In a letter to the board, Fabricland President Gary Larkins
called the offer "fair and generous."
   Teradata closed 7/8 higher at 13 3/4. PIR suggested recent
strength in Teradata's stock might be because of NCR's 9.4%
stake in the company. The speculation is that NCR might want
to buy all of Teradata as part of its defense against
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph's hostile takeover attempt.
PIR said Teradata shares have risen about 35% in the past
week.
   Reuters Holdings ADRs were unchanged at 38 3/4. Rupert
Murdoch resigned from the board of the international news and
systems company.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HOUSE OF FABRICS Inc.'s president and chief executive
officer, Gary L. Larkins, said in a letter to Fabricland Inc.
directors that the $13.50-a-share bid by House of Fabrics for
Fabricland was "both fair and generous" to Fabricland
shareholders. In the OTC Focus column in the Dec. 19 edition,
Mr. Larkin was misidentified as a Fabricland officer and his
comment was incorrectly attributed to the president of
Fabricland, which said it hadn't responded to the bid.
   (WSJ Dec. 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901231-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901231-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
12/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR EUROP FREST MDEST AFRIC TOYOY CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MODERNIZING IRELAND
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ireland's Prime Minister Charles Haughey said his ruling
Fianna Fail Party would embark on a 10-year strategy to
modernize Irish society.
   That plan calls for legalizing homosexuality and studying
the introduction of divorce. Homosexuality now is punishable
by life imprisonment under a rarely invoked 19th century law.
Divorce is banned.
   "It is our intention to carry out a comprehensive review
of current developments and to publish a white paper
following the review," the prime minister told party members.
   Mr. Haughey's announcement was seen as an attempt to give
his party a more progressive image after it lost the
presidential election last month to left-wing lawyer Mary
Robinson.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREA'S WAGE GUIDELINES
                                                                                                       

   South Korea announced guidelines calling for wage
increases in 1991 to be held below 10%. The aim is to curb
inflation while improving the competitiveness of Korean
exports. South Korean wages have increased sharply since 1988
as labor unions have become stronger with the nation's
political democratization. Average wage increases nationwide
were 21.1% in 1989 and will be an estimated 17% in 1990. The
guidelines are legally nonbinding but are published in an
attempt to set the levels the government feels are necessary
for continued growth.
                                                                                                       

   DIVIDED OPINION IN ISRAEL
                                                                                                       

   Israelis are deeply divided on how to deal with the
three-year-old Palestinian uprising in the occupied
territories, according to an opinion poll. The sounding of
1,200 adult Israeli Jews was published in the Jerusalem
Report, a weekly news magazine. The poll said 25% favored
some sort of statehood for the 1.7 million Palestinians of
the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Twenty-one percent wanted to
expel all or some of the Palestinians from the occupied
territories, and 20% thought Israel should withdraw from the
Gaza Strip. Only 6% favored annexing the West Bank, 9% opted
for preserving the present situation and 19% had no opinion.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICAN HARDSHIP
                                                                                                       

   The South African Black Taxi Association, representing
thousands of owners and drivers of the vehicles used by most
black commuters in Johannesburg, said members' earnings have
dropped by about 50% this year. An association spokesman said
that soaring transportation costs, plus disruption of
services due to township violence and bloody "taxi wars"
among rival drivers contributed to the decline. The drivers'
average monthly earnings this year are the equivalent of
about $600.
                                                                                                       

   TOYOTA'S U.S. SALES PROJECTIONS
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Toyota Motor Corp. expects sales in the U.S. to
increase next year, a spokesman said, but he denied a
Japanese newspaper report that the company had set a 1991
target of 1.07 million vehicles. Early this year Toyota
predicted U.S. sales in 1990 would total 1.03 million units,
but the spokesman said that has been revised upward to 1.05
million or 1.06 million. He said a target for 1991 would
likely be announced at automobile trade shows in Detroit in
January.
                                                                                                       

   CRISIS HURTS EUROPE'S AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Air traffic from Europe to the Middle East continued to be
badly affected by the Gulf crisis in October. The Association
of European Airlines said passenger traffic to the Middle
East and to North Africa both declined 25% from a year
earlier. Overall, the association said, passenger traffic
rose 4.8% from a year earlier, half the growth rate seen
during the summer months. The association said soaring fuel
costs had continued to hurt the industry, as had the general
slowdown in economic activity worldwide.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE RECYCLING INNOVATION
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese maker of food containers said it has developed
a technology to recycle plastic-foam containers into fuel.
   A spokesman for the company, Chuo Kagaku Co., said it
hopes to market a device by February 1991 that will condense
plastic foam on site at shops and restaurants. Chuo Kagaku
will pick up the condensed plastic and process it into fuel
for industrial boilers. Each device would be priced at about
$757,000, he said.
   The device uses vegetable oil to heat and melt plastics
made from thermoplastic resin. It can process about 22 cubic
feet of plastic an hour, reducing it to about one 50th of its
original size, the spokesman said.
   Chuo Kagaku will collect the reduced plastic and process
it into powder, which can be used as fuel for boilers in
industrial plants. In the process, the company will remove
substances that emit poisonous gases when burned.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Canada's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate was 9.1% in
November, the highest level in more than three years, the
government's statistical agency reported. The October figure
was 8.8%. . . . Italian stockbrokers voted to suspend a
protest strike scheduled for Dec. 13 in light of the initial
approval of a long-awaited piece of market-modernizing
legislation. The brokers' union stressed that the strike call
has only been suspended, rather than revoked, although no new
strike date was announced.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CHUO KAGAKU Co., a Japanese maker of food containers, said
it will sell a device, priced at the equivalent of $7,570, to
condense used plastic-foam containers at shops and
restaurants so they can be recycled as fuel for industrial
boilers. The price of the device was misstated in the Dec. 10
edition.
   (WSJ Dec. 31, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
