<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Grand Union Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PNF
</CO>
<LP>
   GRAND UNION Co. (Wayne, N.J.) -- Robert P. Ferla was named
corporate vice president, training and executive development,
at this supermarket chain. Mr. Ferla, previously vice
president, joined Grand Union in 1958 and reports to Charles
J. Barrett, senior vice president, personnel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM FRE FNM EUROP F.CBA MER GE Z.SBV
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $150 million of
notes, due May 24, 1994, priced at par for an initial yield
9.375%. The notes, which are noncallable for two years, will
be reoffered at various prices through underwriters led by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The notes were priced at a
spread of 34 basis points above the Treasury's four-year
note.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNCIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Ohio Water Development Authority -- $67.3 million of
Series A and Ohio Air Quality Development Authority's Series
B State of Ohio collateralized pollution control revenue
refunding bonds, Toledo Edison Company Project, due May 15,
2019, were tentatively priced by a Shearson Lehman Hutton
Inc. group to yield 8.25% in 2019.Series A consists of a
single portion of $33.2 million bonds priced as 8% securities
at 97.26 to yield 8.25% in 2019. Series B consists of a
single portion of $34.1 million bonds priced as 8% securities
at 97.26 to yield 8.25% in 2019. The bonds are rated Baa by
Moody's and triple-B by S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $520 million of Remic
mortgage securities is being offered in 15 classes by
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. The offering, Series 172, is
backed by Freddie Mac 9 1/2% securities with a weighted
average remaining term to maturity of 29.4 years. The yields,
where available, range from 9.59% to 10.88%.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- A $500 million
issue of Remic mortgage securities is being offered in nine
classes by Salomon Brothers Inc. The offering, Series
1990-64, is backed by Fannie Mae 10% securities. The "L"
class is eligble for thrift liquidity purposes.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $416 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered in nine classes by Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. The offering, Series 171, and backed by
Freddie Mac 9% securities, with a weighted average coupon
rate of 9.97%.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in nine classes by Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-62, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9% securities. The floater and inverse floater are
pegged to the one-month London Interbank offered rate. A
Morgan Stanley official said the TAC classes are structured
the same way as the original TAC classes in the derivative
market. That means they offer investors call protection if
rates fall but extend in average life if rates rise and
prepayments slow. There are no spreads available on the
issue, but the spreads are tighter than those on straight
Remic classes but wider than those on prepayment-protected
PAC classes. The collateral consists of Fannie Mae 9s with an
underlying weighted average coupon rate of 9.65% and a
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.5 years.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in nine classes by J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. The offering, Series 1990-63, is
backed by Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   European Investment Bank (Agency) -- 200 million European
currency units of 10% fungible Eurobonds due Feb. 14, 1997,
priced at 99.61 via lead manager Banco di Roma. Fungible with
800 million ECU issue outstanding.
   Compagnie Bancaire -- 600 million French francs of 10 1/4%
Eurobonds due June 10, 1992, priced at 101.10 to yield
10.26%, via Credit Commercial de France.
   Commonwealth Bank of Australia (Australia) -- $100 million
(Australian) of 15 1/2% bonds due June 7, 1993, priced at 102
to yield 15.28%, via Hambros Bank Ltd. Guaranteed by the
Commonwealth of Australia.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. Inc. (U.S.) -- 100 million Deutsche
marks of zero-coupon bonds due May 18, 2000, priced at 43.75
to yield 9.26% on an all-in basis excluding expenses, via
Merrill Lynch AG.
   General Electric Capital Corp. (U.S.) -- $200 million of 9
5/8% Eurobonds due Nov. 17, 1994, priced at 101 3/8, via
Kidder Peabody International.
   SBC Luxembourg (Swiss parent) -- 100 million Swiss francs
of 8% privately placed notes due June 1, priced at 100 1/4,
via Swiss Bank Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Making of a Financial Giant
   ----
   By John Lehman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Brilliantly researched and written, Ron Chernow's "The
House of Morgan" (Atlantic Monthly Press, $29.95) is to such
recent best sellers as "Predator's Ball" and "Liar's Poker"
what "War and Peace" is to a Judith Krantz novel. To a
potentially dry and certainly difficult subject -- the
influence of high finance on modern life -- Mr. Chernow
brings a lively style and the endurance of a trouper. He
compares his archival digging with "an explorer hacking his
way through a lost continent and uncovering majestic,
moss-covered ruins," and conveys the excitement of discovery
in every chapter of this 808-page herniator.
   The story of "the most formidable financial combine in
history" begins with its founding in London by an American,
George Peabody, in 1838 as a conduit to sell American state
bonds to wealthy Britons. Peabody had his hands full of
mistresses and bastards, and the partnership eventually was
taken over by Junius Morgan, a Boston banker, who quickly
turned it into a powerful rival of the Rothschilds. Junius
set up his son J. Pierpont Morgan (1837-1913) in New York
with Anthony Drexel of Philadelphia. This partnership grew
into J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. and Drexel &amp; Co. The London bank
became Morgan Grenfell and Morgan et Compagnie in Paris.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was a transatlantic axis that dominated world finance
for nearly a century. Then, in 1935, the Glass-Steagall Act,
specifically targeted to break up the Morgan empire, forced
J.P. Morgan &amp; Co. to split off its investment banking
activities with the establishment of Morgan Stanley. In 1959
J.P. Morgan merged with Guaranty Trust. Mr. Chernow follows
each of these tributaries from its source until 1989.
   He traces, for instance, how changing times affected
Morgan Grenfell, once the most aristocratic, powerful and
prestigious of London merchant banks, but by the 1970s, the
city's aggressive takeover specialist. Embroiled in the
Guinness scandal, it never recovered fully and was bought by
Deutsche Bank last year.
   The truest heir to the old House of Morgan is Morgan
Guaranty Trust, not the least because of its ambience, which
Mr. Chernow describes as, "A universe away from the coarse
bustle of Chase Manhattan or Citibank, {which} seduces the
rich with leather armchairs, grandfather clocks and polished
brass lamps." It currently ranks fourth in size and first in
profitability among American banks.
   Morgan Stanley began its life with a ready made blue-chip
client list and has remained at the pinnacle of investment
banking for 55 years. Of the 10 top investment banks in 1979
only four made it to the '90s under the same ownership
control, Merrill Lynch, PaineWebber, Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley, still the most profitable of all.
   Throughout its history the House of Morgan was
unswervingly pro-British: "Nearly everybody I know has
started for shooting in Scotland," Morgan once truthfully
wrote to a partner in early August. New York partner Russell
Leffingwell said, "To my mind the only thing worth fighting
for is to save England and the British Empire. For that I
would shed every drop of blood in my own veins, and let many
millions of Americans shed theirs too."
   Not surprisingly, the British government engaged the House
of Morgan in 1915 to be its agent for the purchase of war
supplies, for which it was paid a 1% commission. The House
also performed invaluable intelligence work for the British
government, both in the U.S. and abroad. All of this was
fodder for Morgan critics, creating an enduring image "that
the Morgans were stooges of the British crown and that their
money was drenched in blood."
   Back in the U.S., J.P. himself often had to contend with
William Jennings Bryan ("the toad in the Morgan garden"), who
focused his entire career on running against Pierpont and the
gold standard. Echoing the big industrial policy debates of
today, Pierpont Morgan favored consolidation of really big
business in order to promote U.S. entry into world markets.
He abhorred the idea of a decentralized free market economy.
   In his consolidation of industrial ownership -- as in the
forming of U.S. Steel -- Morgan was really building a form of
private socialism with centralized production and
distribution.
   "Morgan liked his capitalism neat and tidy, and under
banker's control," writes Mr. Chernow. "Because the House of
Morgan preached socialism for the rich, it always had a
partial affinity for those who preached it for the poor."
This is the Rockefeller Republicanism that Goldwater ran
against. It was no coincidence that big business and big
banks led by the House of Morgan were unremitting foes of
Reaganomics and supply-side theory.
   Mr. Chernow devotes interesting pages to the sociology and
origins of the Yankee bank-Jewish bank co-existence on Wall
Street that remains in much diluted form to the present day.
The so-called "whiteshoe" banks like Morgan had their origins
in the Yankee merchant class raising money primarily from
London. The Jewish banks -- Kuhn, Loeb, Lehman, Goldman
Sachs, Seligman, Oppenheimer -- had their origins in the
German-Jewish merchant class and raised the capital primarily
in Germany. As the 19th-century unfolded, the Yankee banks
dominated the railroads and smokestack industries, while the
Jewish banks dominated the retail and textile industries.
   Punctuating the narrative are photographs showing pictures
of J.P. and son Jack, both bulbous-nosed and
walrus-mustached, and many of their fine possessions, from
the house on Madison Avenue that became the splendid Morgan
Library, to their many yachts, all named the Corsair (I,
II,III and IV -- Pierpont claimed to be descended from the
pirate Henry Morgan). As commodore of the New York Yacht
Club, J.P. Morgan gave the club its most famous quotation:
"Anyone who asks about the cost of maintaining a yacht
shouldn't buy one."
   ---
   Mr. Lehman, a managing director at PaineWebber Inc., was
secretary of the Navy in the Reagan administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philips Industries
   Reports Net Loss
   For Quarter, Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   PHL MER
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- Philips Industries Inc. reported a net
loss of $45.3 million, or $1.60 a share, for the its fourth
quarter ended March 31 as a result of restructuring costs and
charges related to a failed takeover effort totaling $50.3
million after taxes.
   The diversified producer of construction, transportation
and industrial products earned $8.5 million, or 29 cents a
share, in the year-earlier quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales declined 11% to $219.7 million from $245.6 million
in the year-earlier period. The company isn't related to
Philips Industries N.V. of the Netherlands.
   Philips decided to sell some businesses and consolidate
others following collapse of a planned $700 million buy-out
of Philips by a new company established by Merrill Lynch
Capital Partners Inc. The charges, $59.2 million before
taxes, reflect anticipated losses on sale of businesses,
restructuring costs and buy-out-related charges.
   For the fiscal year, Philips reported a loss of $14.6
million, or 51 cents a share, versus a profit of $46.3
million, or $1.61 a share, for fiscal 1989. Sales were $927.5
million, down slightly from $941.7 million a year earlier.
   Excluding the unusual charges, the company had pretax
profit of $52.7 million, down 29% from $74 million in fiscal
1989. About $8 million of the drop was in operating profit of
subsidiaries Philips intends to sell, the company said.
Philips previously said it intends to sell its conveyor and
aluminum wheel businesses.
   The $7.5 million of after-tax, buy-out-related expenses
will be taken in fiscal 1990 if the merger agreement with the
Merrill Lynch unit is terminated before Philips releases
final figures for the year. However, if the agreement isn't
terminated until after the report is released, the loss will
be recognized when the agreement is terminated, Philips said.
   Philips repeated an earlier statement that the Merrill
Lynch unit still is interested in a transaction with Philips
if a new bargain can be negotiated that meets with the
approval of all parties. The buy-out group couldn't obtain
financing for the transaction negotiated last year.
   Philips also repeated that it has provided certain
information to another party that indicated possible interest
in a transaction with Philips. But Philips said it is unable
to predict whether any merger transaction will occur. A
Philips spokesman said yesterday that there are no new
developments and declined to identify the party to whom
Philips provided information.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phone Data Enters the Junk-Mail Morass
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GTE T MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Long-distance phone companies are becoming
more aggressive in the potentially lucrative business of
selling callers' phone numbers -- as well as their names,
addresses and more personal data.
   The carriers are wading into the controversy over caller
identification with products that identify callers to 800 and
900 lines. While the Caller I.D. debate has centered on
individuals calling other individuals, the new long-distance
services are likely to shift the focus to companies capturing
data, massaging it and passing it along to other companies
for marketing purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The emerging phone-company services make it effortless for
companies to compile mailing lists for direct mail or
telemarketing purposes or to sell or rent to other companies.
At the same time, some companies that operate 800 or 900
numbers are building their own mailing lists by matching
numbers supplied by long-distance companies with consumer
data bases. Generally, about half of all calls to 800 and 900
numbers can be accurately matched with the head of the
household and the address.
   The commercial uses of consumers' telephone numbers raise
concerns beyond the debate over local phone companies'
transmitting Caller I.D. That's because companies, more
easily than individuals, can link the numbers with data bases
containing personal credit history, marital status,
automobile purchases, names and addresses of neighbors and
so-called psychographic data on spending habits and product
preferences -- a window, if you will, into a callers' life
style.
   "The phone companies are now in a position to add value
beyond just a phone call," says H. Skip Weitzen, vice
president of strategic planning for Optima Direct, a small
Washington direct-marketing campaign firm. "On the other
hand, the phone companies need to consider the privacy
implications of such enhancements."
   Leading the emerging market for telephone company matching
is US Sprint Communications Corp., a subsidiary of United
Telecommunications of Kansas City, Mo. A Sprint Gateways
service called Targetlist lets customers choose whether they
want a printout, a computer tape or mailing labels. Sprint
can also provide names of nine neighbors, and can let callers
record their own name and address at the end of the 900-line
message. The company is planning yet another service that
draws a callers' demographic and psychographic profile, says
Adrian Toader, Sprint Gateways director of sales and
marketing.
   Retailers and other businesses, he says, are just
beginning to figure out how it can help them sell their
products. "So far, few companies know what to make of the
service," Mr. Toader acknowledges. "But Targetlist was ahead
of its time." With 900 service, callers are already
motivated, he says, because they pay for the calls.
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., which has a healthy
and growing business of providing callers' numbers to 800 and
900 customers, isn't yet providing names and addresses. MCI
Communications Corp. of Washington recently put its toe in
the water, providing names and addresses to a few businesses.
"We're not ready to mass market a product," says Patricia
Proferes, an MCI marketing specialist. "But we are talking to
a lot of different folks about marketing an off-the-shelf
automatic number identification solution package."
   Among the recipients of callers' names and addresses is
evangelist and politician Pat Robertson's Christian
Broadcasting Network. Paul Flanagan, CBN's vice president for
information services, said MCI has been delivering the data
on callers to CBN's counseling, prayer and information lines.
The information, he said, is merely piling up while CBN
figures out what -- if anything -- to do with it. Mr.
Flanagan says the names won't be used for direct mail or
telemarketing. "If somebody doesn't want mail, it's a waste
of postage, and may only make someone angry," he said. "We
look for more of a personal touch."
   Dow Jones &amp; Co., publisher of this newspaper and owner of
the 900-Journal line, is one of the Targetlist customers. A
Dow Jones spokesman said the company started collecting the
data in January. "It's just going on the shelf," he says, "It
is cheaper to collect it now than to go back and gather it
later." The spokesman said the data has potential for use in
internal research.
   Even on the shelf, the computer tapes and printouts worry
privacy experts. "Computer matching violates a central rule
of fair information practices," said Marc Rotenberg, director
of the Washington office of Computer Professionals for Social
Responsibility. "It undermines a caller's expectation of
privacy and should be prohibited." Mr. Rotenberg finds the
long-distance angle particularly troubling because more and
more consumers use 800 and 900 services. A recent study by
Strategic Telemedia of New York shows that 800 service has
been growing at an annual rate of 10% to 12% in recent years,
with revenues projected to reach $6 billion this year. The
study projects that 900 service, estimated at $455 million
last year, will soar to $3 billion by 1993.
   To be sure, the identification of long-distance callers
could have limited value. Calls made from offices, public
places and phones with unlisted numbers generally don't wind
up on mailing or telemarketing lists. And phone companies and
their business customers are concerned about privacy
implications, especially since congressional support grows
for a bill introduced by Sen. Herb Kohl (D., Wis.) that would
limit local phone companies' ability to provide callers'
numbers. The bill, however, doesn't directly address
commercial use of data from long-distance companies.
   Consumer research from Advertising Research Corp. and
Strategic Telemedia found that about a third of callers
wouldn't dial 800 lines if they knew their phone number was
going to be captured. "Companies are taking a wait-and-see
attitude because of fears of bad press and legislation," says
Bruce Kushnick, president of Strategic Telemedia.
   Nevertheless, the business of interactive telephone
services that let callers push buttons to play games or
transmit information such as age or sex -- and the lists they
can generate -- is mushrooming, says Robert Lorsch, president
of Teleline Inc., a Los Angeles company that has produced
such interactive 900 services as the "Lets Make a Deal" line
and CBS's soap opera update line. Information providers as
well as telemarketing service bureaus, he says, are
developing dual income streams from their 900 numbers -- one
from charging callers and the other from selling or renting
lists. "Most companies in the information industry haven't
figured out the proper non-invasive use of number
identification and data capture," he says.
   "This is the fastest, cheapest, easiest way to build a
direct response mailing list," says Optima Direct's Mr.
Weitzen. "And the back-end value is that you can market names
of people who are phone-responsive to catalog and
telemarketing companies. It's something consumers should
understand."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Mexico's President Breaks the Banking Taboo
   ----
   By Sergio Sarmiento
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- On Sept. 1, 1982, President Jose Lopez
Portillo delivered a rambling, four-hour speech before the
Mexican Congress in which he announced the state's
confiscation of Mexico's private banks. Although he used the
term "nationalization," all the banks were already in the
hands of Mexican nationals.
   "We have broken the taboos," Mr. Lopez Portillo said. "The
revolution is freeing itself from fears and speeding up its
pace. . . . Mexico's private banking system has postponed the
nation's interest, and it has promoted, propitiated and even
instrumented speculation and capital flight.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It is now or never," he cried dramatically. "They have
already plundered us. . . . They will never plunder us
again."
   President Lopez Portillo moved quickly to ensure that his
legacy would endure even after his administration. He changed
the constitution to prohibit the private ownership of banks.
Since a new president, Miguel de la Madrid, was getting ready
to take over, pressure was apparently applied to him so that
he would not turn back the clock. Just a few days before his
inauguration, and even though he was widely rumored to oppose
the banks' takeover, Mr. de la Madrid stated publicly that
the move was "irreversible."
   Irreversibility lasted exactly seven years, eight months
and one day. On Wednesday, Mexican President Carlos Salinas
de Gortari broke a new taboo when he sent a bill to Congress
that, if passed, will once again allow private companies to
own and operate banks. In order to "better attend to the
state's basic responsibilities," the bill claimed, "greater
selectivity" must be exercised in the government's "ownership
of property."
   Mr. Salinas wasn't expected to reprivatize the banking
system -- at least not now. The three months during which the
banks were managed by the Lopez Portillo administration, the
accounts were in total chaos. But under President de la
Madrid (1982-88) the banks' finances were cleaned up. Assets
and profits grew.
   This was partially achieved, however, by having the banks
lend almost exclusively to a riskless client: the government.
In 1972 bank credit in the private sector amounted to 19.5%
of the gross domestic product. By 1988, the figure was down
to 7.2% of the GDP. Small companies and individuals -- like
myself -- were left without recourse to credit, even mortgage
loans.
   Almost five years ago, I wrote a piece for this newspaper
in which I recounted the difficulties encountered by an
individual without high connections trying to buy a small
house. Obtaining a home mortgage without political
connections was quite impossible. This was at a time when
virtually all bank credit was being used to finance the
government's budget deficit.
   I also wondered how a banking system that had been
transformed into little more than the administration's cash
register could possibly finance the major reconstruction that
was necessary after the 1985 earthquake. I ended up paying
for my home in cash, and many earthquake victims were
deprived of loans, as well.
   To be sure, the inexorable power of supply and demand
often managed to gain the upper hand over private-banking
prohibitions, making it possible for consenting adults to
engage in credit practices. In 1987 I reported in this
newspaper on the evolution of a new informal financial
system. Stock-brokerage houses helped companies get loans.
Investment banks were also set up. But because they couldn't
legally be called banks, they chose fancy descriptions for
themselves, such as "financial engineering firms."
   While Mr. de la Madrid kept his word and didn't revoke the
banks' formal attachment to the state, he did make it
possible for private investors to own up to 34% of a bank's
stock. Still, effective control remained firmly in the
government's hands.
   For a while it seemed as if Mr. Salinas would follow a
similar path. Thus far in his still brief tenure as
president, he has liberalized the rules under which banks
operate. Now individual institutions can set their own
interest rates, operating schedules and distinctive services,
something they couldn't do before -- not even when they were
privately owned. Real competition among Mexican banks has
emerged for the first time in decades.
   As a result of these actions, total bank deposits in
Mexico -- including money-market accounts and acceptances,
which previously were unavailable -- grew 40.7% in real terms
in 1989. Profits, which were 1.8% of total income in 1982,
rose to 5.6% by November 1989, the latest figure available.
   But precisely because of the relative success of this
program, it was widely thought that Mr. Salinas wouldn't be
compelled to move on full privatization. Many of his economic
reforms, after all, were deeply resented by the country's
powerful intellectual elite, which, though changing,
continues to be dominated by those who favor socialist
policies. And many of the politicians who engineered and
supported the bank takeover are still around in key
government positions. This is why Octavio Paz, always a
dissident voice among Mexican writers, yesterday called
President Salinas's bill to Congress "a courageous and
intelligent rectification."
   Without denying Mr. Salinas's personal determination and
courage, his decision must also be seen as a warning signal.
The banking "taboo" has been broken twice in less than eight
years, and in opposite directions. Only the development of a
truly mature political system, with appropriate checks and
balances among the various powers, will prevent a future
president from breaking the taboo again at will.
   But at the very least, his action recognizes the most
insidious aspect of state ownership of the banks: With the
government controlling the banks, political considerations
often have played a role in banking decisions. A case in
point is Comermex, the fourth-largest bank in Mexico. The
bank had been in trouble for years until Guillermo Prieto
Fortun, a skilled financial administrator, was appointed
general director in 1989. A few months later, however, it was
thought politically advisable to remove the governor of the
state of Mexico, Mario Ramon Beteta, before elections were
held in that state. Mr. Beteta was appointed general director
of Comermex, while Mr. Prieto Fortun had to content himself
with the position of adviser to the finance secretary.
   If Congress does agree to privatize the banking system,
such practices will be eliminated, and Mexico will change on
many different levels. Already the nascent "underground"
financial market has developed to the point where bankers who
participate in it are less afraid of calling themselves
bankers. And there is a young boy in my new house -- born
just three months before President Salinas took over as
president -- who I believe might grow up to live in a country
where he will be able to contract a mortgage loan if so he
chooses, or where he might decide to be a banker without
shame.
   ---
   Mr. Sarmiento, editor in chief of Encyclopaedia Britannica
Publishers Inc. (Latin America), is also a columnist and
radio commentator in Mexico.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Lights, Camera,
   Icahn': TV Enters
   Battle Over USX
   ---
   Investor Puts on a Program
   To Persuade Shareholders
   To His Side in Proxy Rift
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Proxy contests have entered the video age.
   New York investor Carl Icahn is tuning into USX Corp.
investors with television.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Icahn, who owns a 13.3% stake in USX, is waging a
proxy battle against the company to prod management into
splitting up the steel and energy operations. So far, the
contest has been fought through traditional ads and letters
to shareholders, but with Monday's shareholder meeting fast
approaching, Mr. Icahn has taken his fight to the airwaves.
   Last week, Mr. Icahn bought a one-hour time slot on
Financial News Network's Institutional Research Network,
which says its subscribers include the nation's top 100
institutional investors, reached via satellite. The segment
opened with Mr. Icahn's partner, Alfred D. Kingsley,
announcing, "Welcome to Shareholder's Outreach," and
introducing the cast, including Mr. Icahn and three Wall
Street energy analysts, all of whom favor the Icahn proposal.
   Mr. Kingsley fed Mr. Icahn questions regarding details of
his proposal and his experience with other proxy contests,
including Texaco Inc. He then turned to analysts to explain
why USX's Marathon Oil is a jewel and should be separated
from U.S. Steel. The show closed with Mr. Kingsley urging
viewers to "vote for proposal No. 4" on the white proxy card.
   To complement the one-hour segment, Mr. Icahn also
purchased 30-second commercial time on Financial News Network
urging shareholders to vote with him.
   It's believed to be the first time anyone has used
television as a weapon in a proxy battle -- but it's not
likely to be the last. Jonathan Fram, president of
Institutional Research Network, says the television medium
provides a human dimension to faceless players in corporate
battles, and will probably be used more frequently.
   "TV imparts the warmth of the players," he says. "It can
take out all the bias. People watch and say, `By golly, he's
a regular guy and he makes sense.'"
   Television is also less labor-intensive than traveling
around to meet institutional investors -- a route adopted by
USX. USX executives have spent the last several weeks jetting
about the country to convince top investors and analysts to
vote against Mr. Icahn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Scientists Grow Human Brain Cells
   In Laboratory Dishes for First Time
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVX BMY
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   For the first time, scientists have grown human brain
cells in laboratory dishes, providing an invaluable tool to
study and possibly treat nerve disorders including
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
   The test-tube culturing of a colony of brain cells was
achieved by a team of neuroscientists at Johns Hopkins School
of Medicine in Baltimore. The original cells were obtained
during brain surgery on an 18-month-old girl who suffered a
severe, untreatable kind of seizure due to an enlarged brain,
the researchers reported in this week's issue of Science.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the new research avenues opened up by the feat is
the possibility that the cultured brain cells can be
genetically altered and then transplanted into the brains of
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's patients as substitutes for the
damaged brain cells seen in these disorders. The Johns
Hopkins scientists are now attempting such genetic
alterations in the cultured cells, according to Solomon
Snyder, who heads the research team.
   The cultured brain cells also might provide insight into
how to get nerve cells in the spinal cord to regenerate, a
feat that would be a boon to tens of thousands of people
paralyzed by spinal-cord injuries. The cells also could be
used to test the efficacy and safety of drugs for brain
disorders, the scientists said.
   Human and animal cells cultured in laboratory dishes are a
backbone of medical research, allowing scientists to study
and experiment with tissues isolated from all the chemical
influences of the human body. Culturing of cells has led to
breakthroughs ranging from the Salk polio vaccine in the
mid-1950s, when scientists learned how to culture kidney
cells, to the discovery of the AIDS virus five years ago by
the use of cultures of human white blood cells.
   While cells of most human tissues can be cultured in the
laboratory, those from the brain and spinal cord, the
neurons, have heretofore resisted all attempts at test-tube
culture. To maintain cells in a lab dish, the cells must
repeatedly divide, and neurons simply don't divide. Even in a
human, the neurons, unlike all other cells, quit dividing at
or shortly after birth.
   Dr. Snyder said the cell-culture feat was conceived 3 1/2
years ago when one of his neuroscience graduate students,
Jeffrey S. Nye, became interested in a rare brain disorder
known as unilateral megalencephaly. In this disorder, infants
are born with one side of the brain larger than the other
side. One theory is that the neurons, which divide during
fetal life, are much slower to quit dividing on one side of
the brain than on the other side, Dr. Snyder explained.
   "Jeffrey put two and two together" and speculated that if
the neurons on the enlarged side of the brain were slow to
quit dividing, they might be forced to resume dividing in the
test tube, Dr. Snyder explained. Thus, Dr. Nye was standing
by almost two years ago when surgeons were removing part of
the enlarged brain from the 18-month-old girl. He took cells
from the removed gray matter -- the cerebral cortex, or outer
layer of the brain -- and immediately plunged them into a
nutrient broth used to maintain cells in culture.
   Most of the neurons died within three weeks, except for
two tiny colonies that have continued to divide for the last
19 months. One colony is the culture of cells described in
the report in Science.
   The cultured cells have all the appearance of being normal
neurons. Treatment with various nerve cell growth stimulators
triggers them to mature and begin developing the tiny
outgrowths that are characteristic of neurons, the scientists
said. The cells also produce a number of chemical nerve
transmitters produced by neurons in the body.
   Dr. Snyder said the medical school hasn't yet determined
which companies might be licensed to exploit the advance, or
whether Nova Pharmaceuticals Corp. would be among them. Dr.
Snyder is a founder and chief scientific adviser of Nova
Pharmaceutical. The research was supported by federal grants
and grants from Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cooper Industries Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CBE WALB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Cooper Industries Inc. said it sold its Sharon
Manufacturing Corp. unit to Walbro Corp., a Michigan auto
parts maker. Terms weren't disclosed. Sharon is also an auto
parts supplier. Cooper Industries is a diversified
manufacturer of electrical, auto, petroleum and other
equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farah Inc. Is Sued
   By Largest Holder,
   Its Ex-Chairman
   ----
   By Alfredo Corchado
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA
</CO>
<LP>
   EL PASO, Texas -- William F. Farah, who was removed as
chairman of Farah Inc. last week, sued the company, Farah
directors and top officers to prevent them from cutting him
off from the clothing manufacturer he helped manage for 53
years.
   Mr. Farah, a company director and the company's largest
stockholder with one million shares, or about a 15% stake, is
asking an El Paso county court for a temporary restraining
order to keep other board members and Farah's top management
from restricting his role as a board member and company
consultant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Calling his fellow board members "spiteful conspirators"
who want to destroy him financially, Mr. Farah charges that
board members have threatened to terminate his three-year
consulting services contract. That contract, which has two
years remaining, pays him an annual fee of $365,000 and
provides Mr. Farah with an office and secretary. According to
a letter attached to the lawsuit, the board unanimously
decided at a March 13 meeting that Mr. Farah and his
secretary would vacate the premises by May 1.
   Mr. Farah resigned as president and chief executive
officer of the company last year and was succeeded by Richard
C. Allender.
   Mr. Farah wasn't available for comment yesterday.
   Last week, the board removed Mr. Farah as chairman after
he apparently wrote letters to directors urging them to
either replace current management or resign. Mr. Farah is
said to be unhappy with the direction of the company. He was
succeeded by Thomas G. Wyman, a recently elected board member
who has a 5% stake in Farah.
   In an interview conducted before the suit was filed, Mr.
Allender declined to discuss the company's relationship with
Mr. Farah. But when asked about Mr. Farah's pending lawsuit,
Mr. Allender said: "I can't afford to be concerned about what
Willie {Mr. Farah} may or may not do. I have a business to
run."
   According to the lawsuit, Messrs. Allender and Wyman
interpreted Mr. Farah's consulting contract to mean that Mr.
Farah should provide advice only when Mr. Allender requests
it.
   In a letter to Mr. Allender filed with court documents,
Mr. Farah said he would be "derelict in my duty if, as you
suggest, I limit my efforts, inquiries and activities to mere
attendance of board meetings."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recycling Waste Is Gaining Popularity
   Among Americans, Group's Poll Shows
   ----
   By Bill Paul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3B
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Recycling's popularity is soaring.
   Three out of four Americans believe they could more than
double the amount of waste they presently recycle, compared
with just 40% who thought so last July, according to a poll
released yesterday by the National Solid Wastes Management
Association, a Washington, D.C., trade group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Only 11% of the U.S.'s 160 million tons a year of
municipal solid waste is currently recycled, and even that
much is straining municipal officials, who must find somebody
to buy all those old newspapers, glass bottles, aluminum cans
and plastic containers.
   Nevertheless, 74% of those polled in March believe they
could beat the federal Environmental Protection Agency's
long-term goal of recycling 25% of the U.S.'s municipal solid
waste. And one in four said they could recycle as much as
three-fourths of everything they now throw out, compared with
just one in 10 who thought so last summer.
   To be sure, the public's sharply growing commitment to
recycling is already reflected in some states' recycling
goals. California and Iowa want to recycle 50% of their
garbage by the year 2000. New York wants to hit 50% by 1997,
Washington state by 1995 and Maine by 1994.
   But while there aren't yet enough new products and markets
to absorb the growing amount of recycled items being
collected by communities, experts attending the waste
association's annual convention here agreed that U.S.
manufacturers are going to be under increased public pressure
to use more recycled raw material in the goods they produce.
The industries most likely to be affected, the experts said,
are plastics, paper, glass, rubber, aluminum, metals and oil.
   The good news for manufacturers is that, "The public is
prepared to pay more" for those goods if they contain a lot
of recycled material, said Allen Moore, president of the
waste association.
   Newspaper and magazine publishers will be especially
affected, according to a study that was also released
yesterday by the association. The study found that while U.S.
newspapers contained only about 9% recycled fiber in 1988,
they will have 16% by 1992, 25% by 1995 and 40% by the year
2000 -- in part because of a proliferation of state
regulations requiring more recycled-fiber content in
newspapers.
   Moreover, the study noted that in order for publishers to
get the quality of newsprint they need, old magazine fiber
will have to be blended with old newspaper fiber, meaning
that, before long, Americans can expect to start putting
their magazines at the curb as well.
   The poll also found that public opposition to garbage
incinerators continues to lessen. Indeed, more than half of
those polled (55%) said they wouldn't object to an
incinerator being built in their community, compared with 44%
who didn't object last summer, and only 39% in February 1989.
   Even landfills got a bit more public support this time
around. Some 36% of those polled said they wouldn't object to
a new landfill in their community, compared with just 23% who
didn't object last summer and 30% in February 1989. A solid
59% majority, however, said they would still object, with
only 5% holding no opinion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Brands Posts
   83% Drop in Net
   For Its 3rd Period
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   FBR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   DANBURY, Conn. -- First Brands Corp. reported an 83%
decline in profit for its fiscal third quarter and warned
that earnings for its year ending June 30 could be lower than
expected.
   The manufacturer of such consumer brands as Glad, Prestone
and STP, cited difficulties in its antifreeze business.
Fiscal 1990 per-share profit "may be slightly lower than
expectations of $2.50," compared with the year-earlier $1.97,
when profit totaled $61 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit for the third quarter, ended March 31, fell to $2.7
million, or 12 cents a share, from $16.1 million, or 80 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 17% to $221.3 million
from $267.5 million.
   Fiscal 1989 figures included $20.7 million in revenue from
the company's European businesses, which have since been
sold, the company said. Adjusting for the sale, quarterly
profit rose fivefold to $3.5 million, or 16 cents a share,
from $693,000 or three cents a share. Revenue fell 10% to
$221.3 million from $246.8 million.
   First Brands said that lower-than-expected antifreeze
sales, primarily caused by price uncertainty, had reduced
overall sales below the prior year and plan. And because
there were added pressures to reduce antifreeze prices
further, it expected profit margins for the rest of the year
to be lower as well.
   In addition to its problems with antifreeze, First Brands
also has been facing criticism over the environmental claims
the company has made about some of its products. It also has
had problems with one new-product introduction.
   The Federal Trade Commission and several state attorneys
general have been investigating claims by First Brands and
other plastic manufacturers that their products are
degradable and therefore better for the environment. The
inquiries have had no business impact and aren't expected to
have any such impact in the future, said Donald DeSantis,
vice president and chief financial officer.
   Earlier this year, First Brands recalled 200,000 cans of a
new car-wax product, after receiving three reports that cans
ruptured after being weakened from the inside by corrosion.
The product, Simoniz Quick Gloss, which retails for $4, is a
spray-on shine for use at auto shows and in showrooms. The
product accounts for a very small portion of sales and hasn't
affected revenue, Mr. DeSantis said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bemis Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BEMIS Co. (Minneapolis) -- John H. Roe, 50-year-old
president and chief operating officer, was named to the
additional post of chief executive officer of this packaging
and graphics products concern, succeeding Howard Curler, 65,
who continues as chairman. Mr. Roe relinquishes the title of
chief operating officer. Also, Lawrence E. Schwanke, formerly
director of personnel and industrial relations, was named to
the new post of vice president, human resources.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Integra Financial's New Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ITGR
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Integra Financial Corp. said it formed a new
commercial leasing subsidiary.
   The unit, Integra Business Credit Co., will offer
businesses a way to finance acquisition of equipment ranging
in value from $50,000 to $5 million, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Integra is a financial holding company with subsidiaries
in banking, insurance, brokerage and other businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monarch Machine Tool Sees Higher Net
   For Year Despite First-Quarter Decline
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   MMO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIDNEY, Ohio -- Monarch Machine Tool Co. expects to show a
substantial earnings rise for 1990, despite lower profit in
the first quarter, Robert J. Siewert, president, said.
   First-quarter net income fell to $222,205, or six cents a
share, from $521,789, or 14 cents a share, a year earlier,
Mr. Siewert said. Sales increased 13% to $25.1 million from
$22.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We fully expect to earn more than our dividend payout
this year," Mr. Siewert said. The company has been paying
quarterly dividends of 20 cents a share, or 80 cents
annually, all through the 1980s, even though it earned less
than that amount every year since 1982.
   Mr. Siewert said he expects directors to maintain the
dividend at the current rate.
   In 1989, Monarch earned $2 million, or 52 cents a share,
on sales of $96.7 million.
   The higher 1990 net will result from an increase in
shipments to at least $110 million, more efficient U.S.
production and improved results from the company's British
subsidiaries, Mr. Siewert said in an interview.
   The company's domestic machine tool divisions had delays
in shipments in the first quarter arising from scheduling
problems and introduction of new products, Mr. Siewert said.
Those problems are being corrected, he added.
   Monarch has an order backlog of $80.7 million, which will
support a higher shipment rate for the remainder of the year,
Mr. Siewert said.
   However, Monarch's machine tool orders weakened in March
and April, following a relatively good order level in January
and February, Mr. Siewert said. Orders for metal-cutting
lathes have been particularly slow in recent weeks, he said,
but orders for machining centers also slipped.
   "The encouraging thing is that the inquiry rate hasn't
dropped off as much as orders, and we aren't experiencing
cancellations," he added. Price increases averaging less than
5% on Monarch lathes earlier this year may have caused some
customers to order during January and February machines that
they otherwise would have ordered in March or April, he said.
However, "the market is soft," he added.
   Orders for metal coil processing equipment continue
strong, Mr. Siewert said. Both aluminum and steel processors
are ordering actively, he said.
   Because Monarch has a year's backlog of orders for coil
processing machinery, the company is expanding production
capacity by about 50%, Mr. Siewert said. The new facilities,
which are adjacent to the current plant at New Bremen, Ohio,
will go into production in July, he said.
   Monarch has decided to continue to produce general-purpose
lathes and machining centers, rather than retreat to some
market niche, he said. "I think we can compete with foreign
producers" with new machines the company has under
development. Some of the new machines will be introduced at
an international machine tool show in Chicago next September,
he said.
   The Japanese remain formidable competitors, however, Mr.
Siewert said. Imports, mainly from Japan, combined with
production in Japanese-owned transplant factories in the
U.S., captured 82% of the U.S. numerically controlled lathe
market last year, he estimates, leaving only 18% for Monarch
and other U.S. producers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Air Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp., said its
April traffic rose 7.7% to 5.82 billion revenue passenger
miles from 5.40 billion a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The load factor, or the percentage of available seats
filled, slipped to 63.8% from 64%.
   For the first four months of 1990, the airline said it
flew 22.89 billion revenue passenger miles, up 6.7% from
21.44 billion a year earlier. The load factor rose to 64.6%
from 63.6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Colt Holdings Inc. Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   COT
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Colt Industries Inc. said it changed its name
to Coltec Industries Inc., effective yesterday, reflecting
the company's sale of its firearms business March 22, a
spokesman said.
   Excluding the firearms business, which accounted for only
6% of the company's $1.61 billion in sales last year, Coltec
now has businesses in aerospace, automotive and other
industrial products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Coltec currently is owned by Colt Holdings Inc., which
took Colt Industries private in June 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CRSS to Purchase Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- CRSS Inc. said directors authorized management
to purchase as many as one million common shares, or about 7%
of the total outstanding. The design and
construction-services company said the purchases would be
made "in the open market or otherwise" at prices it
"considers advisable." The shares will be held for general
corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Papua New Guinea Oil Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV BP
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- A joint venture of international oil
companies has applied for a license to develop oil fields in
Papua New Guinea. The group plans to start producing in
mid-1992 at the rate of about 90,000 barrels a day.
   The group includes Chevron Corp. of the U.S., operator of
the project, and British Petroleum Co. Each has a 25% stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northwest Air's April Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL, Minn. -- Northwest Airlines said April traffic
rose 16% to 3.89 billion revenue passenger miles from 3.37
billion revenue passenger miles a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile. The NWA Inc. unit said load factor, or the percentage
of available seats filled, dropped to 61.9% from 62.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first four months of 1990, Northwest said it flew
15.65 billion revenue passenger miles, up 21% from 12.97
billion miles. Load factor was 63.7%, up from 61.8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Singapore's Trade Gap Narrows
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SINGAPORE -- Singapore's trade deficit narrowed to $679.1
million Singapore (US$362.6 million) in March from $1.83
billion Singapore in February, and was narrower than the gap
of $1.07 billion Singapore in March 1989.
   March imports rose to $9.27 billion Singapore from $8.41
billion Singapore in February, and were up from $8.49 billion
Singapore in March 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Exports rose to $8.59 billion Singapore from $6.58 billion
Singapore in February and $7.42 billion in March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Identity Crisis
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The mail-delivery system
   Should be altered at all cost;
   "Occupant" letters reach me,
   While those with my name get lost.
   -- Mimi Kay.
   ---
   Homemade Threat?
                                                                                                       

   With endless meetings and paper work,
   Keeping corporate profit margins thin,
   Our business problems aren't found abroad,
   But boring from within.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Shipment Drop Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Continued weakness in the U.S. steel market could
lead to a drop of more than 7% in steel shipments in 1990
compared with 1989, the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development said.
   At the same time, weak prices in the U.S. and world
markets generally, together with lower production levels and
higher costs, "may present some threat to continued
profitable operations in the U.S. industry in 1990."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group said the downturn in U.S. steel demand at the
end of 1989 has continued through the 1990 first quarter,
although the OECD said the drop "has not yet become severe."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Pitching Winners for the Derby
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Kentucky Derby Day is upon us again, and I suppose you'd
like to know who's going to win. Look no further; the pitcher
is in focus.
   "I like Unbridled," says the pitcher, Rob Murphy of the
Boston Red Sox. "I base the pick mostly on breeding -- he's
the only colt in the field who got a `yes' on my rating
system as a yearling -- but he's also a late runner in a
field with a lot of early speed. Plus, you should get a good
price on him."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, you well may ask why Murphy, a dark-haired,
left-handed reliever of imposing stuff and mien, has been
summoned from the bullpen as a horse-racing expert. The
answer is because he is one. When he's not setting up saves
for Lee Smith or Jeff Reardon, he's exercising his computer,
seeking likely prospects for the horse-buying partnerships he
forms and manages.
   His company, M375 Thoroughbreds, is doing quite nicely,
thanks. In business since 1984, it currently has shares in
four racing animals, three unraced two-year-olds, three
broodmares and six yearlings or sucklings. All four runners
have recorded victories, and their combined winnings of about
$200,000 have almost doubled their purchase prices.
   And that could be just the start. "We've been limited by
the money at our disposal, but this fall we plan to be more
ambitious," says Rob. "I might put together a players' group,
and I certainly intend to get involved more heavily myself.
   "In case you haven't heard," he adds with a wink,
"ballplayers make pretty good money these days."
   The husky, 29-year-old Murphy is in that category, having
inked a contract that will pay him a total of $1.85 million
for this season and next. He qualified for that princely sum
by being the Major Leagues' busiest hurler over the past
three campaigns in terms of appearances (237), and by
inducing most of batters he faced to retire without much
fuss.
   The log for Murphy's four years in the Bigs -- three with
the Cincinnati Reds and one with Boston -- shows an earned
run average of 2.65 and 317 strikeouts in 344 innings. He's
putting them out in style again this term, with 19 K's in 16
innings through Tuesday.
   Unlike some play-for-payers, though, Murphy knows that
muscular heroics won't last, and this is where his horse
business comes in. It's perhaps no wonder that he's attracted
to the breeding end of the turf sport, because he has been
bred for it himself. His maternal grandfather, Frank Ashley,
was a well-known race announcer, and his grandma, Rose
LeDuke, kept charts for the Daily Racing Form. His father's
stepfather, Fred Smith, was a top jockey during the 1940s.
His dad, Bob, a building contractor, raises and races horses
out of his Early Morning Farm in Ocala, Fla.
   "We were a typical American family, except that we spent
all our holidays at the track," the pitcher recalls.
   Murphy got plugged into computers as a high schooler in
his native Miami, and learned early on that he could combine
his interests profitably. He and a friend designed a
handicapping program for a computer class, and got an "A" by
correctly picking Affirmed, Alydar and Believe It to finish
1-2-3 in the 1978 Kentucky Derby. Affirmed turned out to be a
great horse, so hindsight might adjudge the feat
unremarkable. But Affirmed was the second betting choice to
Alydar on Derby Day, and Believe It went off at 7-to-1.
   Murphy continued his computer studies at the U.'s of
Florida and Kentucky, but stowed his racing yen because he
was happily mowing 'em down on the diamonds. He revived it in
1983 after three so-so seasons of Class A ball in the Reds'
chain seemed to have dead-ended his career. That was partly
because a minor-league coach, who shall be unnamed, decided
that the game needed a 6-foot-2, 215-pound knuckleballer, and
induced Murphy to adopt the erratic pitch.
   "It was either my having a great spring in '84, or finding
something else to do," Rob says. "I figured I needed an
alternate plan."
   So he sat himself down before a computer and plumbed
racing's voluminous breeding stats, seeking the familial and
running characteristics that produced the most-successful
offspring. Working 16 hours a day for six months, he
identified 36 traits that seemed to count most, finding,
among other things, that the best racers usually had parents
who won fast races very early in their careers. Then he
backtested his program on the 26,129 horses that had been
offered for sale over a nine-year period at the four major
U.S. yearling sales.
   It gave a "yes" to just 433 animals, 1.7% of those
auctioned. Of those, 117 turned into stakes winners, about 10
times the proportion of the group as a whole.
   Other things about his program pleased him. "I wasn't only
identifying horses that sold for six figures and up; I found
the sleepers, too," he says. Among those were Spectacular
Bid, the $37,000 purchase who won the 1979 Derby, and Seattle
Slew, the '77 Triple Crown champ who'd been bought for a
bargain $17,500. Slew's "yes" sparked special delight because
he was Murphy's favorite horse. In celebration, he named his
company M375, which is "SLEW" spelled upside down and
backward.
   Murphy chucked the knuckler for the fastball and curve
that had made him a prospect, thus earning a "save" on his
baseball life, but pressed on with his equine endeavors.
Offering his services as an agent, he bought five horses for
a Seattle man, all of which posted wins, but clients declined
to take other recommendations that were to gain greater
glory. Frustration over such misfires led to his present
determination to oversee his own buying and racing
syndicates.
   Murphy lights up his computer almost everywhere, including
team flights, and has refined his program to encompass 55
traits. His tapping engendered some locker-room ribbing in
his early days in the Bigs, but now brings mostly requests to
invest. He says that a nice thing about being a ballplayer is
that it allows plenty of time for other activities. "The bus
for the park usually leaves about 4:30 p.m. If I get up at 9
a.m., I can put in a full day's work," he notes.
   Amazing what a guy can do if he doesn't watch cartoons,
isn't it?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westcoast Energy Inc. Plans to Proceed
   With $429.2 Million Pipeline Expansion
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WE NPL+ WMB
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Westcoast Energy Inc. said
it expects to proceed with a 500 million Canadian dollar
(US$429.2 million) expansion of its pipeline system to
capitalize on a projected 60% jump in its natural gas exports
to the U.S. Pacific Northwest and California by the
mid-1990s.
   "We project that the Pacific Northwest and California will
require an additional 900 million to one billion cubic feet
of natural gas per day during the next five years," said
Michael Phelps, president and chief executive officer of
Westcoast, a pipeline, utility, and oil and gas concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Phelps said he expects British Columbia producers, who
use Westcoast's 1,450-mile system to transport their gas from
the province's burgeoning gas fields, to supply about a third
of the additional U.S.-bound gas exports, or 300 million
cubic feet a day. That would add more than 60% to Westcoast's
1989 gas exports, or 475 million cubic feet a day.
   The exports accounted for more than 40% of Westcoast's
record-level daily volume last year of 1.13 billion cubic
feet, a 24% gain over 1988. The growth reflected the buoyant
economies of British Columbia and the U.S. Pacific Northwest,
and a growing appetite for natural gas.
   Arthur Willms, Westcoast's chief operating officer, said
its expansion spending would include about C$100 million to
boost capacity on its pipeline -- which interconnects with
Northwest Pipeline Corp.'s system at the Washington state
border -- and an additional C$400 million to expand gas
processing plants and gathering lines.
   Westcoast's upbeat export forecast hinges partly on an
expansion of Northwest's 6,500-mile system, which extends
from Washington's border with British Columbia, southeast to
New Mexico. In addition to its primary markets in Washington,
Oregon, and Idaho, the pipeline also serves Southern
California's growing gas markets, through an interconnection
with the El Paso natural gas pipeline.
   Northwest, a unit of Tulsa-based Williams Cos., is
discussing a possible expansion of its
two-billion-cubic-foot-a-day pipeline with gas producers and
expects to file an application this summer with U.S.
regulators.
   The size of the proposed expansion hasn't been decided,
said Tim Hausler, Northwest's vice president, marketing. But
he said any expansion would help Westcoast, which has
traditionally been locked into the Pacific Northwest market,
and unable to move gas to California, except on a spot basis.
   Certainly, Westcoast will face tough competition if it
hopes to win a slice of the California market.
   Several other large pipeline companies want a bigger piece
of the pie, including Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.'s pipeline
unit, which proposes a $1.2 billion expansion of its
Alberta-to-California pipeline.
   The proposal by San Fransisco-based Pacific Gas is
competing with the proposed $580 million Altamont pipeline,
sponsored by Houston-based Tenneco Inc., among others.
Altamont would run from Alberta to Wyoming, where it would
tie on to the proposed Kern River pipeline, which would
extend to California. Kern River is backed by Tenneco and
Williams.
   But analysts said it would be relatively cheap for
existing pipelines like Westcoast and Northwest to expand
their capacity, and Mr. Willms said Westcoast's spending
plans would have little impact on customer tolls.
   The proposals by Pacific Gas and Kern River's backers
would also complement Westcoast's aims, Mr. Phelps said,
because they would provide more direct routes to California,
via an expanded Northwest system.
   Northwest's line currently interconnects with the Pacific
Gas system, but the gas flows to Northwest, not to Pacific
Gas and on to California. Paula Rosput, a senior
vice-president with Pacific Gas's pipeline arm, said that
would change if the company's pipeline is expanded.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alaska Air Group Unit's Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALK
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Alaska Airlines said April traffic increased
16% to 322 million revenue passenger miles from 278.5 million
in the year-ago month. The passenger load factor, the
percentage of available seats occupied by fare-paying
passengers, declined slightly to 49.6% from 50.9%.
   For the first four months of 1990, the Alaska Air Group
Inc. unit flew 1.28 billion revenue passenger miles, up 18%
from 1.08 billion in the same period a year ago. The
passenger load factor dropped to 49.1% from 49.8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australians Await Airline Deregulation
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST A.TNT NWS U.QAI
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- The skies Down Under are about to
open up. But by all appearances, deregulating Australia's
domestic air travel won't yield major changes soon.
   Airline deregulation is part of the Labor Party
government's strategy of making the country more efficient by
allowing more competition in various industries. Since the
government signaled its intention three years ago to shake up
the airline industry, Australians have been anticipating a
new age of air travel with new competitors offering better
service, more choices and lower fares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Nov. 1, the government of Prime Minister Bob Hawke will
scuttle regulations that for nearly 40 years have given a
stranglehold over domestic air travel to two carriers:
government-owned Australian Airlines and Ansett Airlines of
Australia. Ansett is a joint venture between Rupert Murdoch's
News Corp. and TNT Ltd., an international transport company
controlled by Australian businessman Sir Peter Abeles.
   But new competitors aren't exactly ready to challenge the
two carriers. The lack of enthusiasm has caused industry
watchers to argue that deregulation steps announced so far
haven't gone far enough.
   To create the consumer benefits that deregulation can
cause, the Hawke government is "going to have to open the
gates a bit more" to, among others, foreign carriers, said
Richard Green, director of airline services at the accounting
firm Deloitte Ross Tohmatsu in Sydney.
   Even government officials concede that it is unlikely that
any new airline will be flying on Nov. 1. "We view
(deregulation) as a process that will unfold, not necessarily
take off in full bloom on Day One," said a transport official
in Canberra.
   What is likely to push the government toward further
deregulation is the badly needed potential tourism revenue.
In the fiscal year ended June 30, tourism overtook wool and
coal as the country's biggest foreign-exchange earner.
   Four would-be airlines are being touted in industry
circles as serious contenders. Yet only one, Compass
Airlines, appears likely to be ready to fly before year end,
and even it plans to start small.
   There are a variety of constraints confronting the
fledgling carriers, including a potential shortage of airport
terminal space in some cities, particularly Sydney, and
difficulties finding sufficient start-up funding, not to
mention enough of a financial cushion to ride out any fare
wars.
   Moreover, the industry is full of wild cards, including
Canberra's future plans for Australian Airlines. Those could
include selling part or all of the domestic carrier, or
merging it with government-owned Qantas Airways, the
international flag carrier.
   All this means that it is "even more difficult for any of
us to make a prediction about what will happen" under
deregulation, said Graeme McMahon, Ansett's general manager.
But he said Ansett intends to pull out all the stops to
protect its turf from upstarts.
   It's also unclear whether Australia's sprawling land mass
and relatively tiny population of 16 million people will
allow for additional, economically viable domestic airlines.
Figures from the Department of Transport and Communications
show the domestic airline market has been growing at an
average annual rate of 2.7% in the past 10 years, to 14
million passengers in 1989. That trails the economy, which
has been growing at an average annual rate of more than 3%.
   Deloitte Ross Tohmatsu noted, however, that the average
Australian currently travels less than once a year, compared
with the current post-deregulation average of two trips a
year for an American and 1.3 for a New Zealander. That
suggests there may be "a lot of pent-up demand" in Australia,
said Deloitte's Mr. Green.
   Mr. Green and others predict that air travel in Australia
will undergo some immediate changes, including restructuring
service on some of the less-profitable routes. Ansett said it
doesn't intend to withdraw from any routes, but the number of
flights on some minor routes is likely to be cut. Moreover,
because fares on popular routes now subsidize costs on minor
routes, fares on minor routes probably will rise as the
established carriers cut fares to compete on major routes
where any new airlines are expected to concentrate. Industry
analysts say five routes on Australia's east coast account
for about 50% of the domestic airline market.
   Government officials concede that air service on some
routes may suffer, but they argue that because several small
commuter airlines operate around the country, those carriers
can fill many gaps that may emerge as bigger carriers juggle
routes. Indeed, some analysts say the commuter airlines put
any new entrants on the airline scene at a potential
disadvantage. That is because many of the smaller carriers,
which feed passengers onto the major routes, already are tied
to Ansett or Australian Airlines through common shareholders
or other arrangements.
   Compass Airlines may be ready to take off by December with
two out of a prospective fleet of five planes, Compass
officials say. They expect to have five planes operating in
the first quarter of 1991. With operating costs estimated at
less than two-thirds that of Ansett and Australian Air,
Compass figures it can afford to slash fares between 20% and
50%. Compass hopes to grab about 15% of the market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Bond Prices
   Pushed Up
   Modestly
   ---
   Yield on 30-Year Falls
   Under 9%; Stocks
   Advance 6.53 Points
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Investors bid bond prices modestly higher despite
uncertainty surrounding today's government report on April
employment, a key measure of economic activity. Stock prices
rose slightly.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond gained about 1/2
point, or about $5 for each $1,000 of face amount. The gain
pushed the yield on the issue below the psychologically
important 9% point, a signal that indicates worries about
inflation and interest rates may be waning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 6.53 to 2696.17
points in relatively light trading. But that was sharply
below the nearly 22-point gain reached at midday. Analysts
said nervous investors decided to take profits in some of the
big blue-chip stocks ahead of the employment report.
   "There's good reason to take profits after we've had three
good days this week," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment
officer at First Albany Corp. "A lot of the activity we saw
earlier this week was in trading accounts. Long-term
investors have continued to move to the sidelines, and they
decided to flatten out their positions before the employment
report."
   He said that report, the first comprehensive look at how
the nation's economy performed in April, will set the pace
for the bond market for the rest of May. And because the
stock market's health currently depends on the bond market's
performance, potential surprises in the jobs report are
keeping investors wary.
   The consensus expectation calls for nonfarm payrolls in
April to have grown by between 173,000 and 200,000, excluding
an estimated 200,000 census workers hired last month. That's
up considerably from the 26,000 increase in March, but isn't
high enough to spark worries about a rebounding economy
growing too fast.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose modestly in moderately light trading.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 145.6 million
shares. Advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of
declining issues 901 to 557.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices gained in light trading. The yield on the
Treasury's 30-year benchmark issue slid to 8.97%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6827 marks and 158.05 yen, compared
with 1.6848 marks and 157.95 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Culbro Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CUC
</CO>
<LP>
   CULBRO Corp. -- M.J. "Skip" Beebe joined Culbro as
president and chief executive officer of this New York-based
wholesale-tobacco distributor's Culbro Land Resources
operation, based in Windsor, Conn. Mr. Beebe previously was
president of Wilma Southeast Inc., commercial real estate
developers in Atlanta.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northeast Bancorp
   Files a Suit Against
   Bank of New York
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   NBIC BK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW HAVEN, Conn. -- Northeast Bancorp filed suit charging
that Bank of New York Co. breached its longstanding agreement
to purchase Northeast Bancorp for about $500 million.
   In the suit filed in federal district court here,
Northeast sought to compel Bank of New York to complete the
merger agreement or pay damages of not less than $350
million. Under the merger agreement, Bank of New York is
obligated to pay 250% of Northeast's book value. Northeast
charged in the suit that Bank of New York breached the merger
agreement by assigning a book value substantially lower than
Northeast's actual book value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit is the latest exchange in the quarrel between the
two banks. Earlier this week, Bank of New York accused the
Connecticut company of breaking the merger pact by failing to
maintain accurate records and threatened to terminate the
pact. Northeast said its books are in order and that Bank of
New York is attempting to avoid its contractual obligations.
   A Bank of New York spokesman said the company was
"disappointed" by the Northeast suit. "Although we continue
to prefer to resolve this matter by agreement, we are
confident that the courts will sustain the Bank of New York's
position that Northeast's books have materially overstated
its net worth," the spokesman said.
   In the suit, Northeast said that Bank of New York assigned
it a book value of $12.31 a share, as of Dec. 31, 1989, based
on a review of Northeast's loans. That figure was
substantially below the Dec. 31 book value of $36.40 for
Northeast shares. Northeast also charged that Bank of New
York's disparaging remarks about Northeast's record keeping
damaged Northeast's reputation and negatively affected the
market price of Northeast's stock.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Northeast
closed at $26.50 a share, down 50 cents. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, Bank of New York closed at
$30.875, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   URS Corp. Is Closing
   Its Software Business,
   Mitchell Management
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   URS
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- URS Corp. said it is closing its software
unit, Mitchell Management Systems Inc. in Westborough, Mass.,
resulting in a $7.5 million loss from discontinued operations
in its fiscal second quarter ended April 30.
   The closing puts URS in violation of certain covenants of
its credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, but the bank has
given URS a 90-day forbearance while discussions concerning
the breach take place. The company said the closing won't
affect its ability to pay back debt, because future cash flow
will be strengthened. Mitchell contributed 8% of URS's fiscal
1989 revenue of $99.5 million, and reported pretax losses of
$1.4 million. In the first half of the current fiscal year,
the unit's losses accelerated to $3.3 million, according to
URS, an engineering and architectural consulting concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health Expenditures
   Rose 10.4% in 1988,
   Federal Agency Says
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The nation's health expenditures rose 10.4%,
to $539.9 billion in 1988, the Department of Health and Human
Services said.
   The double-digit rise in 1988, the latest year for which
the department has figures, followed increases of 7.2% in
1986 and 8.5% in 1987. The acceleration primarily reflects a
faster rise in the general rate of inflation, an HHS
economist said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988, health care accounted for 11.1% of gross national
product, the nation's total output of goods and services, up
from 5.9% in 1965, when the nation enacted two new federal
health programs -- Medicare for the elderly and Medicaid for
the poor.
   "Health care expenditures have been growing faster than
the national economy for many years," HHS Secretary Louis
Sullivan said in a statement. "This growth will strain the
ability of the American people to pay for quality health
care."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Panel Finds a Simple Answer
   To Question on Corporate Tax Receipts
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Finance Committee, looking into
why corporate tax receipts are lower and individual tax
receipts are higher than forecast under the 1986 Tax Reform
Act, found the explanation was rather elementary.
   The primary reason is corporate profits have been lower
than expected, and individual incomes have been higher than
expected, a Treasury official said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Harvey Rosen, the assistant Treasury secretary for tax
analysis, said that wages, salaries and interest rates have
been higher than expected in the three years since the tax
overhaul began taking effect. That has raised the income, and
the taxes, of individuals. It has also raised the costs of
corporations, squeezed their profits, and thus lowered their
taxes from what was forecast when the bill was passed.
   The 1986 law made sweeping changes in the corporate income
tax system. While it lowered the top tax rate for
corporations, it also repealed the investment tax credit,
limited depreciation deductions, restricted the use of net
operating losses and strengthened the alternative minimum tax
so corporations couldn't legally avoid paying tax.
   Together, these changes were expected to increase
corporate income tax receipts by $120 billion from 1987
through 1991. But so far, the receipts have fallen short of
government projections by between $20 billion and $25 billion
annually in 1987, 1988 and 1989, the Treasury estimated.
   Nevertheless, corporate tax receipts have grown each year
since the 1986 tax act. For 1989, they are believed to have
reached a record $104 billion, Mr. Rosen said.
   Moreover, Mr. Rosen said the tax law was succeeding in its
aim of shifting some of the tax burden from individuals to
businesses. "The Tax Reform Act of 1986 reversed a long-term
decline in the relative importance of corporate taxes in
producing revenues for the U.S. government," he said. "The
share of total taxes paid by corporations has been steadily
rising since 1986."
   Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional Budget
Office, agreed with most of Mr. Rosen's assessments.
Testifying before the committee, he estimated that about 58%
of the shortfall in corporate tax receipts in the past three
years probably stemmed from lower-than-expected profits.
   Mr. Rosen and Mr. Reischauer also said an increasing
number of companies have chosen to organize as S corporations
or partnerships -- forms of business that are taxed at the
shareholder or partner level rather than the corporate level.
   Mr. Reischauer also said "an important cause of
lower-than-projected profits during the 1987-1989 period was
further increased reliance by corporations on debt financing
instead of equity financing."
   The 1980s saw a wave of leveraged buy-outs of companies,
deals that were largely financed by borrowing. Interest
payments on the debt load are tax-deductible and therefore
reduce the taxable income reported to the government.
   Consequently, the committee chairman, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen
of Texas, said the shortfall in corporate tax receipts wasn't
"just a question of interest rates having exceeded
expectations, but a question of the massive movement to debt
from equity in this country."
   But Mr. Rosen said that data so far suggest that leveraged
buy-outs had little impact on total corporate interest
payments.
   "The effect of LBOs on corporate profits is unclear," he
said, explaining that if the acquired firms are reorganized
and managed more efficiently, profits could increase, leading
to a higher tax bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stockbroker Settles
   Complaint of Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A broker who formerly worked at Merrill Lynch
&amp; Co. and Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. settled a
complaint alleging that he misappropriated $503,000 from
customers.
   Marc Stuart Weiner signed a consent decree in federal
court in Manhattan, admitting that he had defrauded some
customers, as alleged in a Securities and Exchange Commission
complaint filed in September. Mr. Weiner also consented to an
order directing him to repay $387,000, the amount of money
that he has yet to return. However, Mr. Weiner said in an
affidavit that he is currently financially unable to pay that
amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joel Rudin, Mr. Weiner's attorney, said the acts occurred
during 1986 and 1987 because Mr. Weiner was a "compulsive
gambler and had hundreds of thousands of dollars of debt to
various bookies." Mr. Rudin said that for more than a year,
Mr. Weiner has attended sessions of Gambler's Anonymous.
   The SEC said Mr. Weiner is awaiting sentencing in a
criminal case in federal court in Brooklyn. In December, he
pleaded guilty to one count of securities fraud arising from
some of the acts alleged in the SEC complaint.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Britain Is Seen Not Ready to Become
   Member of European Monetary System
   ----
   By Nicholas Hastings
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- With the British government showing little sign
of caving in to pressure to make sterling a full member of
the European Monetary System now, some analysts suggest
Britain may not be ready to accept membership until after the
next general election.
   In recent weeks, a steady decline in sterling has
increased the calls from both outsiders and some of Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher's fellow Conservatives for
sterling to join the European Community's basket of
currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Entry into the exchange-rate mechanism of the EMS
generally would be expected to reinforce the government's
antiinflation commitment, help stabilize sterling and
eventually allow a reduction in interest rates. On a
political level, the move would counter criticism that the
government is too staunchly anti-European.
   However, some analysts now feel early entry could prove
counterproductive and might be ill-advised in the time left
before the next general election, which must be called by
mid-1992.
   Rather than protect sterling, they argue, EMS membership
would highlight Britain's inflation problems, make sterling
even more volatile and force the government to at least match
any rate increases by other members. This would put a further
squeeze on the British economy and accelerate an upturn in
unemployment that the government is trying to avoid before an
election.
   "Joining the mechanism this year would seem to be quite a
risky thing to do," said Neil MacKinnon, chief economist at
Yamaichi Securities. "It would force the government to take
corrective action it doesn't want to take."
   Certainly, there is little sign that the government is
even leaning toward early entry. Last weekend, Prime Minister
Thatcher continued to voice her opposition to swift moves
toward European economic and political union.
   And in an interview with a local newspaper, published
Monday, Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major warned once
again that entry will make British interest rates volatile.
He indicated that he will continue to take a pragmatic
approach toward EMS entry, which he doesn't see as an easy
alternative to higher interest rates. "I'm not in the
business of pre-emptive surrender," he said.
   Economists have generally predicted that the government
will take sterling into the mechanism early next year. But
with the country's high inflation profile looking
increasingly stubborn and the government anxious to keep a
firm grip on its political fortunes, the chance of entry
before another election could be fading, some now contend.
   It would be difficult, said Chris Dillow, senior British
economist at Nomura Research Institute, to present early
entry as "anything other than a huge U-turn or panic measure"
by the government -- a move that could only worsen its
political plight.
   Mr. Major, the chancellor, has made it clear the most
important barrier to early entry is the current high level of
British inflation compared with the inflation levels of other
major EMS members. In March, the annual rate of British
inflation rose to 8.1% and is expected to climb over 10% by
midyear before declining toward the end of the year. The
average level of European inflation is about 3% and is
expected to climb to about 4% in the first half of 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   BMW, Rolls-Royce
   Plan to Develop
   Engines for Jets
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW U.RR G.KHD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Bayerische Motoren Werke AG,
returning to the aviation engine business after a 30-year
absence, and Rolls-Royce PLC announced plans to form a joint
venture that, among other things, will develop jet engines
for airframes of 75 seats or more.
   BMW set up the deal by first arranging to acquire the
small jet-engine unit of Kloeckner-Humboldt-Deutz AG, the
West German engineering group that has been spinning off
secondary operations to focus on consolidating its core
business. Called KHD Luftfahrttechnik G.m.b.H., the unit had
1989 sales of 180 million marks ($106.7 million) and supplies
engine components for the multination Airbus commercial
airliner and Tornado jet-fighter programs. The company will
be folded into the BMW-Rolls-Royce venture, to be based at
KHD Luftfahrttechnik's plant near here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BMW and Rolls-Royce said in a joint statement yesterday
that BMW will hold a 50.5% stake in the new venture with
Rolls-Royce retaining the remaining 49.5%. Financial
arrangements weren't disclosed. The joint venture will
collaborate with Rolls-Royce Tay and Trent engine programs.
In addition, it will serve as the vehicle to jointly design
and develop new engines with less than 20,000 pounds of
thrust for emerging lines of smaller airliners.
   BMW officials say the engine venture is a base from which
to build a larger operation as the demand for short- and
medium-haul aircraft increases. The ongoing deregulation of
the European airline industry is allowing smaller airlines
with smaller airplanes to enter a marketplace where customers
increasingly prefer direct routings to smaller cities.
   "Our estimation is that both partners will invest as much
as a billion marks in the venture over the next 10 years,"
said a BMW source.
   Rolls-Royce, which has 50 licensing and cooperation
agreements world-wide, described the step as strengthening
its position in the European jet-engine market. Broader
link-ups between the two companies aren't planned. "BMW and
Rolls-Royce got together to run this company, that's it,"
said a Rolls-Royce spokesman.
   Rolls-Royce, a major player in the market for jet engines,
receives a cash-rich partner after BMW enjoyed years of
strong profit growth on sales of its popular luxury cars.
   Analysts put BMW's net cash position, or liquid assets
after accounting for debt, at 2.2 billion marks. BMW's jet
engine venture surprised many analysts. Indeed, BMW Chairman
Eberhard von Kuenheim has often asserted that BMW didn't feel
compelled to diversify because of strategies of other auto
makers, an apparent gibe at arch-rival Daimler-Benz AG and
its problems with achieving the desired synergy among its
varied operations.
   "We had wondered what it was going to do with all that
cash, but this comes unexpected," said Stephen Reitman, an
automobile analyst for UBS-Phillips &amp; Drew. "But it raises
their profile and gives them a foot in the door in a
potentially high-growth market."
   Separately, Kloekner-Humboldt-Deutz said yesterday it
agreed to spin off its Deutz-Allis Corp. farm-machinery
subsidiary to the U.S. division's management and an
unidentified "financial group."
   Financial details and the identity of the U.S. financial
group were not disclosed.
   Kloekner-Humboldt-Deutz acquired Deutz-Allis in 1985. The
farm-equipment maker had sales of $307 million last year.
   The company operates a sales and service network through
700 dealers in the U.S. and Canada. It also makes
crop-harvesting combines at a complex in Independence, Mo.
   Since 1987, Kloekner-Humboldt-Deutz said, Deutz-Allis has
followed a strategy of operating in niches of the tractor
market to avoid the negative impact of the fiercely
competitive farm equipment industry.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Is Close to Naming Fed's Taylor
   To Head Up Bailout of Thrift Industry
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush all but named a new official
to lead the savings-and-loan bailout and insisted that the
administration is confronting the problem of the bailout's
rising cost.
   At a news conference, Mr. Bush said "we're very high on"
Federal Reserve official William Taylor, whom William
Seidman, chairman of the Resolution Trust Corp.,
enthusiastically recommended as his successor. Although Mr.
Taylor's name had circulated recently in connection with the
post, the president said Mr. Seidman's recommendation came to
him directly in a telephone call.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Seidman has said since the S&amp;L industry bailout was
enacted in August that he wouldn't stay until the end of his
term in 1991. Privately, he says he expects to stay at least
through June 30 to direct an acceleration in the sales and
liquidations of insolvent thrifts expected by that time.
   Under last year's thrift-industry restructuring law, the
RTC has the lead role in managing the bailout, merging and
selling insolvent thrifts.
   Mr. Taylor, who is director of the Fed's division of
banking supervision and regulation, has been serving since
February as the temporary head of the RTC's policymaking
Oversight Board. Although Mr. Taylor agreed to serve as
interim president and chief executive officer of the board,
he didn't want that post permanently. Still, he has been
given credit for getting the thrift sales under way.
   A spokesman for Mr. Taylor declined to comment. The
nomination to head the RTC, which also would fill the job of
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., would
require Senate confirmation.
   Mr. Taylor, who shares the same sort of straight-talking,
no-nonsense style that won Mr. Seidman approval in Congress,
is widely respected in the banking field, but some lawmakers
were critical that the administration would allow Mr. Seidman
to leave without protest.
   "Bill Taylor is an able guy," said Rep. Bruce Vento (D.,
Minn.), who heads an RTC oversight task force, "but it
remains to be seen whether he'll assert the kind of
independence that gave Bill Seidman such a following."
   In his news conference, Mr. Bush denied that any friction
between himself and Mr. Seidman led to Mr. Seidman's plan to
leave his RTC post well before his term ends next year. Mr.
Seidman, who has long said he plans to depart early, has won
plaudits from Congress but has irritated administration
officials with his outspoken assertions that the bailout will
probably cost far more than the administration's early
estimates.
   Mr. Bush said: "I haven't told you I'm anxious to see Bill
Seidman leave." Noting his long relationship with Mr.
Seidman, who, like Mr. Bush, served in the Ford
administration, Mr. Bush added: "I think Seidman has
conducted himself with extraordinary grace and great
ability."
   Mr. Bush's aides have begun to acknowledge lately what Mr.
Seidman had long warned -- that the administration's official
estimate of the $166 billion over 10 years to pay for the
bailout is too low. Congress's General Accounting Office
recently estimated these costs would rise to at least $243
billion.
   The Bush administration has publicly acknowledged concern
over rising cost estimates, but hasn't described how it plans
to deal with the increased costs. Mr. Bush didn't offer any
new details, but promised: "We've got to work with the
Congress on how to deal with the cost, and right now there's
a significant review going forward to see what the costs are.
The figures change all the time on you."
   Meanwhile, the House Banking Committee announced that Neil
Bush, the president's son, will be among those scheduled to
testify in Denver this month on the demise of Silverado
Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association.
   Mr. Bush, who was on the board of Silverado, is to testify
along with other board members, S&amp;L regulators and Silverado
business associates.
   Other board members signed consent agreements recently,
barring them from participating in the thrift industry in the
future, over allegations of insider dealing at the Denver
thrift. Neil Bush, who asserts he did nothing illegal, has
refused to sign such an agreement. Thrift regulators are
pursuing the matter.
   ---
   Paulette Thomas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater: One Murder Mystery, Two Musicals
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- The stage murder mystery isn't what it used to
be. No doubt that reflects the times we live in, but whatever
the cause, writers no longer feel they can offer a
straightforward version of the form.
   As in plays like "Sleuth" or "Deathtrap," there has to be
a gimmick, a revelation part way through the play that lets
us know the author is standing behind the scenes pulling the
strings. "This is all a joke," they seem to be saying, not a
real murder or a real mystery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest entry in the field is "Accomplice" by Rupert
Holmes at the renamed Richard Rodgers Theater, formerly the
46th Street Theater. In this case there isn't just one level
of deception but a play within a play within a play. And in
the final scene the author himself, going his predecessors
one better, comes on stage to take part in the action.
   There is no danger that I will give away the plot because
it is much too complicated to remember. Initially the action
is set in an English country cottage, cleverly designed by
David Jenkins to include stone walls and a large mill wheel
inside the house that serves both as a wine cellar and, late
in the play, as an instrument of torture.
   The evening's fun and games begins before the curtain goes
up when we are told that the leading male role will be played
by the understudy -- an announcement that seems odd on an
opening night. But then, looking at the program, one
discovers that there are three male understudies listed for
two actual performers.
   The first scene, seemingly the murder of a husband by his
wife, is really a rehearsal of the murder by the woman and
her lover. When the presumed murder takes place, after
innumerable delays that the audience is supposed to recognize
as typical of the genre, it turns out not to be for the
original motive at all. The wife is killing her husband not
to be with her male lover, but with his wife. Mind you, this
is all in the first act. From there things become
increasingly convoluted.
   The four actors, each called on to play a variety of roles
and each performing with considerable brio, are Michael
McKean, Natalia Nogulich, Jason Alexander and Pamela Brull.
Author Holmes is a clever man with a quip, and he knows the
form inside out, which allows him to parody it on many
levels. The question becomes, what is one's tolerance for
unending zigzags, reversals and divagations? It's as if that
mill wheel on stage were turning all evening and each
rotation produced a new layer of deception.
   The best answer, I think, is to go expecting a diversion.
For those who love fun and games at the expense of a
well-known literary form, "Accomplice" affords an
entertaining evening. Those whose threshold for this kind of
theatrical gimcrack is somewhat lower may not be that amused.
   ---
   "Truly Blessed" at the Longacre Theater cannot be judged
on the same basis as an ordinary Broadway show for the simple
reason that it is in reality a Gospel concert. But it does
have a basis in play-acting: Queen Esther Marrow, a dignified
performer with a strong, resonant voice, takes the part of
the late great gospel diva Mahalia Jackson. In most cases the
facts of Ms. Jackson's life are enacted or, at least,
narrated. Ms. Marrow comes down stage to describe Ms.
Jackson's journey from the South, to churches in the North,
to world renown as a gospel performer. Along the way we learn
of her involvement with the civil rights movement and of
mountain-top moments such as an appearance at Carnegie Hall.
   Ms. Marrow is assisted by four enthusiastic, talented
singers -- Carl Hall, Lynette G. DuPre, Doug Eskew and Gwen
Stewart -- and four instrumentalists. They perform a number
of familiar gospel songs with additional ones written by Ms.
Marrow. During the static narrative sections the show often
stops in its tracks. But in the musical numbers, especially
on those occasions when the performers ask the audience to
join them in clapping hands, "Truly Blessed" becomes a
celebratory event for all concerned.
   ---
   In the late spring, just before the deadline for annual
Tony nominations, we can normally expect to see a little of
everything opening on Broadway, and this year has been no
exception. The wildest of the wild cards, however, has to be
"A Change in the Heir," a medieval musical fairy tale at the
Edison Theater. Originating in Chicago, this is a sophomoric
piece, by which I hasten to add, high school sophomoric, not
college.
   The action takes place during the Dark Ages, which is
symbolic on more levels than one. Two children, who will one
day vie to be heirs to the throne of a kingdom, are
arbitrarily assigned to the opposite sex at birth: The girl
is called Conrad and the boy Agnes. Don't ask the reason for
this. It's too Byzantine to explain. Among the innumerable
improbable events of the play, we are asked to believe that
these two don't discover their true sexual identities until
the eve of their 20th birthdays, when Agnes looks at
pornographic pictures and Conrad swims nude in the moat
around the castle.
   The performers work hard, especially Judy Blazer as Conrad
and Jeffrey Herbst as Agnes, but they, like all the other
actors, are swimming round and round in a moat of ineptitude
and implausibility with no hope of escape.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   THE FED FEARS it may soon have to start tightening credit
again.
   Last year's round of tightening slowed the economy, but
frustrated officials acknowledge that it seems to have done
little to control inflation. Even if one-time distortions are
removed, core inflation is still running at a 4.5% to 5%
annual pace -- the same or slightly higher than when the Fed
started clamping down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Administration officials seem confident the Fed won't
raise rates before its May 15 meeting. But a move could come
soon afterward: Regional Presidents Parry and Hoskins are
leading the charge, and usually dovish Vice Chairman Johnson
fears that the recent rise in long-term bond rates could
signal coming inflation.
   One former Fed official notes a new round of tightening
could spark a recession just when the White House least wants
it -- before the 1992 election.
                                                                                                       

   NAVAL MANEUVERS: The U.S. fleet faces major budget
cutbacks.
   Defense chief Cheney talks of eventually cutting the Navy
to less than 500 vessels. One likely casualty: the Reagan
administration's $1 billion plan for "home ports" in several
states. The Pentagon's internal hit list of potential base
closings includes some of the designated ports.
   Texas Sen. Bentsen and other Southern lawmakers vow to
wage a major battle to save ports in their region, citing
hefty investments already made by state and local
governments. But Secretary Cheney goes out of his way to say
the lawmakers never received "absolute assurances" that
construction would proceed.
                                                                                                       

   A SOVIET STALL is likely at tomorrow's German unity talks.
   U.S. analysts expect the Soviets to insist on
"synchronizing" unification with decisions on European
security, especially the issue of Berlin's NATO membership.
But Baker and his German, British and French colleagues will
counter that the only issues to be taken up now are canceling
the World War II allies' rights in Germany and guaranteeing
Poland's border.
   They will offer to discuss other Soviet concerns only at
arms talks that wouldn't hold up unification. To help
Gorbachev save face, though, they will offer to bar Germany
from building nuclear weapons and to cut the size of its
army. Bush's call yesterday for quicker talks on nuclear
weapons is also aimed at easing Soviet fears.
   U.S. officials say Gorbachev may act tough now to appease
his hard-liners but badly wants German trade and investment
and can't afford to stall forever.
                                                                                                       

   CRANSTON'S CONFIDENCE in his 1992 Senate re-election
prospects isn't shared by fellow California Democrats.
Powerful state Assembly Speaker Willie Brown says that while
Cranston -- tarred by the Keating scandal -- could win
renomination in a crowded primary field, "he could lose the
general election against a dead Republican."
                                                                                                       

   CONSERVATIVES COMPLAIN that Sununu seemed to back off from
Bush's pledge to veto the child-care bill in a White House
session with evangelicals and others last week. But White
House aides say the conservatives read too much into the
staff chief's comments; they don't expect Congress to give
the president a bill he will sign.
                                                                                                       

   RHETORICAL HIGH: In an anti-drug speech, Attorney General
Thornburgh yearns for an America "where `pot' once again
means a useful cooking utensil, where `crack' is the sound of
a baseball hitting a bat, where `grass' is something to mow,
not to smoke, and where `heroin(e)' means a Helen Keller, a
Christa McAuliffe, a Sandra Day O'Connor and, yes, a Barbara
Bush."
                                                                                                       

   BRADY'S CLOUT in economic policy making is likely to be
enhanced by the imminent appointment of Edith Holiday to be
assistant to the president for Cabinet affairs, where she
will oversee the powerful Economic Policy Council. Holiday, a
longtime aide to the Treasury secretary, is currently his
department's general counsel.
                                                                                                       

   PARTISAN PROPOSALS on campaign-finance reform bring accord
little closer.
   With Senate Democrats and Republicans backing vastly
different bills, Majority Leader Mitchell and Minority Leader
Robert Dole are expected to hold closed-door talks next week
in search of a compromise. But many lawmakers in both parties
believe that such talks are doomed -- and wouldn't be unhappy
to see no reform at all this year, as long as their party
isn't blamed for killing it.
   Especially unhappy are the big crop of Senate Democrats up
in 1992, who want special exemptions from new rules, and the
Democratic National Committee, which relies heavily on "soft
money" contributions that would be abolished. A filibuster by
Republicans or a Bush veto are likely if the Democrats insist
on public funding and spending ceilings.
   In the House, Majority Leader Gephardt brings back widely
respected, retired Rules Chairman Bolling to work on reform
legislation.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: The Ikea home-furnishings chain advertises
"Nancy Reagan Style at Barbara Bush Prices." . . . After a
Wall Street Journal story mentioned that Iowa gubernatorial
contender Donald Avenson doesn't use seat belts, he promises
to buckle up from now on and declares: "I am not a scofflaw."
. . . Former Rep. Mezvinsky announces his candidacy for
Pennsylvania lieutenant governor yesterday -- for a primary
to be held May 15. He calls the brevity of his "300-hour
race" a gift to the voters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Noland's April Sales Fell 4.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NOLD
</CO>
<LP>
   NEWPORT NEWS, Va. -- Noland Co. said April sales were
$35.3 million, down 4.3% from $36.9 million a year ago.
   The wholesale distribution company said sales for the
first four months of 1990 were $140.9 million, down slightly
from $141.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Genetics Institute Inc.,
   Baxter Submit Data
   For Hemophilia Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GENI BAX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Genetics Institute Inc. said it and
Baxter Healthcare Corp. submitted final clinical test data
for Recombinate, a genetically engineered antihemophiliac
drug.
   A Genetics spokeswoman said the FDA usually takes 12 to 18
months to evaluate such submissions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recombinate is a genetically engineered form of the
blood-clotting protein Factor VIII, which is used to treat
hemophilia, a condition that afflicts more than 50,000 males
world-wide, Genetics said.
   "We believe that people with hemophilia are eagerly
anticipating approval by the FDA of Recombinate as an
alternative replacement for existing plasma-derived
products," said Gabriel Schmergel, president and chief
executive officer of Genetics Institute.
   Genetics Institute cloned and developed the drug, and it
will supply a significant portion of Baxter's continuing
commercial requirements.
   Baxter, Genetics Institute's licensing partner, is
responsible for the clinical development, final manufacture
and world-wide marketing of Recombinate.
   In 1988, Genetics Institute was granted a U.S. patent for
the process to make recombinant Factor VIII, which it said is
one of the largest proteins ever produced using genetic
engineering techniques. In March 1989, Genetics Institute and
Baxter announced a world-wide patent cross-licensing
agreement concerning recombinant Factor VIII with Genentech
Inc. and Miles Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trading in Stock
   Of Genentech Is
   Focus of Inquiry
   ---
   SEC Investigating Possible
   Leak of Inside Data Prior
   To Merger With Roche
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GNE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -- The Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating possible insider trading in
connection with Genentech Inc.'s $2.1 billion plan to merge
with Swiss drug giant Roche Holding Ltd.
   The inquiry, triggered by an unusually high volume of
trading in the company's stock on the Pacific Stock Exchange,
focuses on a possible leak of insider information by the wife
of G. Kirk Raab, president and chief executive officer of the
biotechnology concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a move related to the merger, Genentech said its top
six officers were granted "golden parachute" agreements
awarding each a sum totaling five times their annual pay if
they lose their jobs in the merger. Mr. Raab's severance
package, should he leave Genentech, would equal $6.6 million.
His merger-related stock options, valued at $7.9 million,
would further enhance his windfall. The disclosures come at a
time when Genentech has said it will assume more of the
merger-related costs than previously thought.
   Genentech released the information as part of a detailed
merger plan, contained in a proxy statement filed with the
SEC and released to shareholders yesterday. The merger pact,
which also has been challenged by shareholder class action
lawsuits, must be approved by Genentech shareholders at a
meeting to be held on June 8. As reported, the plan would
leave Roche of Basel, Switzerland, holding 60% of Genentech,
with the option to acquire the remaining shares.
   The SEC investigation, according to Genentech, has been
under way since February. Mrs. Raab learned of the impending
merger from her husband before it was made public Feb. 2, and
is believed to have told a member of her family about it,
Genentech said in the proxy. That communication led to stock
trades by persons other than Mrs. Raab, who weren't
identified but who are apparently the probe's main targets,
Genentech indicated.
   Both Mr. and Mrs. Raab are cooperating with the SEC
inquiry, Genentech said. Genentech added it doesn't believe
the company or its chief executive are targets of any
investigation, and insisted Mr. Raab himself "exercised
proper care" in handling confidential information about the
merger. Mr. Raab declined to be interviewed, as did his wife.
   Genentech refused to provide further details of the
inquiry, citing an SEC ban on comment while an investigation
is in progress. The SEC also refused comment.
   "Even things we'd like to say in defense of Mrs. Raab,
we're precluded from saying," a Genentech spokesman said.
"It's not an investigation of Genentech or Kirk. But it
occurred around the {merger} deal so we felt compelled to
disclose it" in the proxy statement, he added.
   At the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco,
communications manager Roy Berces said the investigation
began Feb. 2 -- the same day the two companies stunned Wall
Street by announcing their intent to merge. Mr. Berces said
exchange officials became concerned about an unusually high
volume of call options, which are options to buy stock at a
fixed price. The trading involved some 8,000 contracts, each
involving 100 shares.
   The exchange spokesman declined to say on whose behalf the
trades were executed, explaining he was constrained from
commenting further by the SEC rule.
   The rich severance packages granted to top Genentech
officers were set at five times the amount of their annual
salary and bonus figures. These are larger than the typical
"golden parachute," which more often equals three times an
executive's annual compensation for tax reasons.
   Under terms of the deal, Robert Swanson, Genentech's
founder and chairman, would receive $6.3 million. James Gower
and William Young, both senior vice presidents, would get
$2.4 million and $2.2 million respectively. Louis Lavigne,
vice president and chief financial officer, and John
McLaughlin, vice president and general counsel, would each
receive just under $2 million.
   Nor do those amounts exhaust the benefits accruing to
Genentech's top officers as a result of the merger. Like all
Genentech employees, Genentech's officers will be given a
chance to cash out on their options holdings on an
accelerated schedule. As a result, Messrs. Swanson and Raab
stand to reap an additional $4.2 million and $7.9 million
respectively by cashing out. Options granted other top
officers sweeten their packages by $1.5 million to $2.4
million each.
   Analysts looking at the proxy statement remarked that, as
far as Roche's intent is concerned, "It's a done deal," said
Denise Gilbert of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. The
Swiss suitor formally indicated it will go forward with the
deal notwithstanding recent results of an Italian heart drug
trial rating Genentech's expensive cardiac drug TPA, costing
$2,000 a dose, as no better than its competitor drug, Hoechst
AG's streptokinase, which costs one-tenth as much.
   Ms. Gilbert also noted that Genentech had agreed to pick
up the cost of cashing out its employees' options. Under
terms of the pact, Genentech employees may sell 25% of
options that haven't yet matured. Previously, some on Wall
Street had assumed that Roche would pick up the tab for this
sweetener. However, according to the proxy, Genentech will
assume a cost of $115 million for the cash-out, Ms. Gilbert
noted.
   "That is to say, the shareholders will pay for it," she
added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   N.V. Philips's Shares Are Sold Off
   After Profit Plunge in First Period
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Ravaged by a slump in its computer business,
N.V. Philips reported an unexpected plunge in first-quarter
earnings, leading to a frantic sell-off of its shares.
   In trading in Amsterdam, the Dutch electronics giant's
shares plunged 11% to 33.60 guilders ($17.77) from 37.80
guilders ($20). That drop knocked 1.13 billion guilders
($597.9 million) off the company's market capitalization,
cutting its total value to 9.3 billion guilders ($4.92
billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
Philips common fell 14.4% to close at $17.125, off $2.875 a
share, on volume of 1.5 million shares.
   The results were described as disastrous by several
analysts and once again threw into question the company's
much-ballyhooed restructuring and its long-awaited recovery.
Many analysts say they question whether Philips can continue
to survive in its current sprawling structure, selling
everything from hair dryers and light bulbs to semiconductors
and medical equipment.
   "Despite earlier statements, the company is not at all on
the right track," said Fabian Koning, a securities salesman
at Bank Mees &amp; Hope in Amsterdam.
   Excluding extraordinary items, profit from operations
plummeted to just six million guilders ($3.2 million) from
223 million guilders ($118 million) a year earlier. But an
extraordinary gain of 330 million guilders lifted net income
to 336 million guilders from 223 million guilders. The
extraordinary gain came from the sale of part of Philips's
defense electronics operations to Thomson CSF of France.
   Philips blamed its problems on high interest rates,
fluctuating exchange rates and a world-wide slump in computer
sales. But it said that continuing problems for the rest of
the year will make it "very difficult" to meet an earlier
forecast of an increase in operating profit from last year's
2.29 billion guilders.
   "It's a world-wide malaise," said a Philips spokesman,
"It's not specifically a Philips problem."
   In March, when Philips reported its annual results for
1989, it reiterated its forecast of an increase in 1990
operating profit and gave no indication of pending problems.
Philips said that the global spread of its operations makes
it difficult to predict the impact of currency fluctuations
and last-minute changes in consumer demand.
   But investors have been hurt by such surprises by Philips
in the past. On Oct. 9, 1986, for example, the company's
stock fell 13% after a similar shock. Several analysts said
they are losing patience with the company's explanations of
such events.
   "Visibility has been extremely poor," said Eleanor Buss,
an analyst at Robert Fleming Securities of London. "You would
think a company would know what effect currencies would have
on its results."
   Philips, which reports its results in the strong Dutch
guilder, has been hurt by weakness in the yen, the dollar and
the pound, the principal currencies used by its competitors.
That means that it has been forced to charge higher prices
than its rivals. High inflation in Brazil and other parts of
Latin America also hurt profits in an important market for
items such as light bulbs and television sets.
   But outsiders contend the problem goes beyond currency
fluctuations. "In general," said one Amsterdam analyst, "they
have been losing market share in very competitive markets."
   This was especially true in the computer sector, in which
Philips is a major producer of terminal hardware and personal
computers.
   Nevertheless, Philips said that operating profit rose
"substantially" in consumer products, which includes consumer
electronics, domestic appliances, musical recordings and
personal-care products. It didn't give any profit figures but
said sales in this sector rose more than 10%.
   But even in traditional cash-generating parts of the
company, such as light bulbs and television-picture tubes,
analysts said that Philips is increasingly suffering from
lower margins and stronger competition.
   Philips has been undergoing a wrenching restructuring
program, trying to focus on its leading products and to
reduce its work force.
   During the past five years, Philips has closed more than
75 factories and has cut the number of its employees by more
than 40,000. And since Jan. 1, Philips has further reduced
its work force by 3,300 to about 300,000.
   Most recently, Philips has confirmed that it's discussing
a possible cooperation pact with other computer makers,
including Italy's Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co. Philips wants to
retain a foothold in the computer business to keep as wide a
presence as possible to benefit from its expertise from such
areas as high-definition television and in compact disks.
   Management consultants and analysts said that yesterday's
poor results will force Philips to redouble its efforts to
find a compatible partner.
   Few analysts advised investors to sell their shares at the
current depressed levels. One said he expects the share price
to stabilize at near the current level, mainly because of
takeover speculation. The company is currently valued at less
than half its net asset value and could be sold off for a
substantially higher price if it were broken up, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France to Offer Plans
   To Ease Debt Burdens
   Of Certain Countries
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- The French government intends to propose a series
of initatives on easing the debt problems of middle-income
countries, French Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy said
this week.
   Mr. Beregovoy didn't elaborate, saying that he will
outline the proposals to the policy-making Interim Committee
of the International Monetary Fund when it meets in
Washington next week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Beregovoy singled out the Ivory Coast, the Congo,
Gabon and Cameroon as countries that have a higher per-capita
gross national product than the poorest sub-Saharan
countries, but are nonetheless saddled with a heavy debt
burden.
   The fact that most of this debt is owed to governments and
state agencies means that these countries can't benefit fully
from the so-called Brady initiative that was launched in
1989. The initiative switched the focus of the debt strategy
from new lending by banks toward the lowering of countries'
commercial bank debt.
   Mr. Beregovoy has criticized the Brady initiative's
shortcomings in the past, saying it is too slow to implement
and has limited effectiveness.
   Since the autumn of 1988, France has been proposing the
creation of an escrow fund that would guarantee the payment
of principal and interest on securities created by
debt-conversion operations.
   A recent study by the IMF and the World Bank has concluded
that the Brady initiative hasn't worked as well as had been
hoped, chiefly due to the lack of sufficient resources and
the lack of support from commercial banks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Setting the Vietnam Record Straight
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   This week marks the 15th anniversary of the fall of
Saigon. Following is a statement by three Americans whose
lives were touched by the Vietnam War. All have spent much of
the past 15 years in Asia. Arthur Kobler is a Foreign Service
officer in Singapore. W. Gage McAfee is an attorney with an
international law firm in Hong Kong and Warren Williams heads
a public affairs consultancy in Hong Kong.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Like most Americans in their 40s and 50s, our lives were
scarred by the Vietnam War. We were among those who went to
Vietnam -- one a diplomat, another an AID lawyer, the third a
Special Forces officer -- persuaded that our national
objectives in pursuing the war were fundamentally correct.
Fifteen years ago, two of us worked on the Embassy evacuation
in Vietnam: one left on a helicopter from the roof of the
Embassy, another on the last Air Vietnam flight. The third
worked on the evacuation from Tokyo. We were all shattered by
the collapse of the American effort.
   Whichever side one took during the war, much has happened
since then that should have provoked rethinking the war
experience. Yet, despite the disintegration of communism, the
rise of regional powers and events that have forced us to
redraw the global strategic map, the American view of Vietman
remains frozen in a time warp.
   For the sake of our national peace of mind, the American
people must finally come to terms with the meaning of the
war. Only then will the U.S. be prepared to assess
dispassionately the national interest and shape a balanced
policy, motivated neither by penance nor revenge.
   According to popular mythology, the U.S. fought the
Vietnam War on the wrong side, and our soldiers went there to
kill innocent people and smoke pot. Our pop culture --
exemplified by films like "Platoon" and "Born on the Fourth
of July" -- panders to this distorted perception. As a
result, most Americans continue to wallow in guilt,
bitterness and unreconciled hostility toward Vietnam. Most
Americans are also astoundingly unaware of what has happened
in Southeast Asia during the past 25 years.
   The Vietnam War, like all wars, wreaked awful devastation.
Of that, no one can be proud -- Vietnamese or American.
Nevertheless, the transcending legacy of the U.S. war effort
is profoundly constructive: It is the growing prosperity and
vitality of the 300 million people who live in Southeast Asia
outside of Indochina and Burma. That compelling truth,
self-evident to many in this region, including most
eloquently Singapore Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, still seems
lost on the majority of Americans.
   Too few of us recall how tenuous this region's equilibrium
was in the early 1960s. Virtually every country was beset by
a virulent communist movement that threatened stability and
development: Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, the
Philippines. Today, Southeast Asia is the fastest growing
region in the world, and one of immense importance to our own
economy and national security. There are surely many reasons
for its remarkable success, including strong national
leadership, sound policies and access to U.S. markets. But
all these positive elements would have been nullified had the
U.S. not made a determined stand in Vietnam and steadfastly
continued to this day to guarantee the security of this vast
region. Those sustained efforts eased insurgent pressure on
the rest of Southeast Asia and provided breathing space to
achieve stability and growth.
   In retrospect, the unraveling of the war effort in South
Vietnam in 1975 was not the conclusive event it seemed to us
at the time. By 1990 it has become clear that the basic
objective of U.S. policy in Indochina -- safeguarding the
security and promoting the prosperity of Southeast Asia --
was splendidly achieved.
   Moreover, yet another paradox has emerged: Communist
Indochina itself is awakening to the stark reality of its own
failed revolution and is slowly groping toward principles it
once scorned -- open markets, private property, pluralism.
This awakening is surely painful and hesitant, but no less
inevitable than the dramatic transformation we have witnessed
in Eastern Europe.
   On this 15th anniversary of the fall of the Saigon, it is
fitting to set the record straight, to re-examine this
episode in our history -- not only the grief it caused, but
also its significance for Asia and for America's vital
interests. This process is an essential step in restoring the
dignity and honor of 55,000 American servicemen who perished
in the war and of millions of Vietnam veterans, South
Vietnamese and American. History has vindicated their
sacrifices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Treasury Aide
   Calls Asian Economies
   Closed, Cites Taiwan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW DELHI -- The U.S. yesterday criticized Asian countries
that it said are not going far enough toward opening their
economies to the rest of the world, singling out Taiwan,
South Korea and Thailand.
   In a speech to the Asian Development Bank's (ADB) annual
meeting here, U.S. Deputy Assistant Treasury Secretary George
Folsom indicated that Taiwan should let its currency
appreciate further. He said "exchange rate policy adjustment"
should play an important role in the nation's economic
policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While saying some Asian countries had progressed in recent
years, Mr. Folsom questioned whether continued rapid growth
is sustainable without further liberalization.
   "In many Asian countries, governments continue to
intervene in all aspects of their countries' economies,
maintaining import substitution policies, disincentives to
foreign investment, bloated public enterprises, private
monopolies and overvalued exchange rates, all of which have
contributed to growth rates that are below those countries'
potential to achieve and perpetuate balance of payment
difficulties," Mr. Folsom told the 2,000 delegates,
government officials and bankers gathered for the ADB's 23rd
annual meeting here.
   While Taiwan has pursued a liberalization of its foreign
exchange rate system, he said the adjustment process "must
continue." He said the country must also further liberalize
its foreign exchange rate and capital control rules.
   On the subject of South Korea, he said the new exchange
rate system put in place in March is potentially important.
But he said its significance will depend on further
liberalization of foreign exchange and capital controls, as
well as further trade and financial market controls.
   As for Thailand, he said the booming Southeast Asian
country should promote further industrialization and rural
development.
   Mr. Folsom strongly voiced opposition to opening talks on
replenishing the ADB's soft loan window. He reiterated the
U.S.'s position that even though the current funding period
is set to expire this year, sufficient resources are in place
to postpone talks for at least 18 months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Watch:
   Staff Exodus Depletes SEC's Senior Ranks
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   An exodus of key staff members at the Securities and
Exchange Commission is leaving the agency without experienced
senior managers in many of its most important posts.
   Some argue that the turnover at the SEC was long overdue,
and that the agency has held together its senior staff for a
long time. And some of the most visible staffers, including
the heads of market regulation, corporation finance and
investment management, are staying put for now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the bailout pace is quickening. Chairman Richard
Breeden's right-hand woman, Linda Fienberg, recently quit,
apparently after being told she wouldn't get the coveted
general counsel's job that Daniel Goelzer is expected to
leave soon. (Ms. Fienberg, who is out of the country,
couldn't be reached for comment.) The top personnel slot,
vacant since September, remains open, as does the post of
executive director.
   Mr. Breeden has moved to shore up staffing by hiring an
old friend, James Doty, as senior special counsel. Mr. Doty
is expected to become general counsel. Mr. Breeden also
promoted Marianne Smythe to Ms. Fienberg's old job as
executive assistant to the chairman.
   Possibly the most visible loss is Nina Gross, who as the
SEC's legislative affairs director was its day-to-day link
with Congress. Well-considered among legislators and Capitol
Hill staffers, Ms. Gross helped shepherd a number of
SEC-backed initiatives. Mitchell Delk, a veteran of Wall
Street and Capitol Hill, takes the job.
   Another notable departee is John Sturc, the tough cop who
as associate enforcement director brought the SEC's cases
against Dennis Levine, Ivan Boesky and Drexel Burnham Lambert
Inc.
   Other top aides are expected to leave shortly. Kathryn
McGrath, the head of investment management, will likely call
it quits within a few months, insiders say. Ms. McGrath, head
of the division for nearly seven years and a 16-year agency
veteran, has been a tough campaigner for increased
mutual-fund disclosure. The fund industry, which has fought
her at almost every turn, isn't likely to be unhappy if she
does depart. She wouldn't comment.
   ---
   A CONGRESSIONAL BOMBSHELL on alleged market
"front-running" fizzles after members of a House subcommittee
press a witness.
   James Coxon, head of Cigna Corp.'s investment policy
committee, stunned the telecommunications and finance
subcommittee yesterday by testifying that a "club" of Wall
Street firms "share proprietary customer information" to help
them do program trades ahead of large customer orders. Mr.
Coxon, a veteran of Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and of Harvard
Management Co., which manages Harvard University's $5 billion
endowment, said he sold stock-index futures ahead of the 1987
market crash because of information received from the Wall
Street firms.
   "We knew what formulas were inside the `black boxes' "
that firms used to determine when to set off computer-driven
program trades, Mr. Coxon said. That information was
routinely shared in phone conversations among firms, he said.
   That antagonized Rep. Norman Lent (R., N.Y.), who
dismissively said, "When someone talks about secret cabals
and clubs, I just figure it's just another wacko in the
room."
   When pressed on how much of the alleged manipulation is
going on, Mr. Coxon explained that what he was describing
wasn't new. He added that he already had described the
process in detail to the Brady Task Force, which studied the
1987 crash, and was simply expounding on what other witnesses
had said last year. Moreover, he was focusing solely on
portfolio insurance, a form of program trading that reports
show helped accelerate the 1987 crash but that is now little
used on Wall Street. He also was unable to offer any proof
that manipulative information-sharing actually occurred. The
other witnesses at the hearing, including Brady panel veteran
Peter Borish, head of research at Tudor Investment Corp.,
dismissed his allegations.
   An SEC spokeswoman said the agency "has been concerned
about `front-running' for a long time," but said that "clubs
of firms sharing trading information is a new one on us.
We've not heard of that particular situation."
   ---
   STRANGE BEDFELLOWS: The SEC may soon find itself siding
with a former adversary, the Belzberg family.
   The target of the team effort: the new Pennsylvania
anti-takeover statute, signed into law last week, that became
the toughest such provision in the country. The law forces
short-term shareholders who try to take over a company to
disgorge profits from their stock purchases if the takeover
attempt fails. It was enacted just before the Belzbergs were
to take on Armstrong World Industries Inc. in a proxy fight.
   The Canadian investors sued in federal court, challenging
the constitutionality of the Pennsylvania law. They contend
that the law "fundamentally alters the relationship between
the corporation and its shareholders."
   Now it looks like the SEC will file a friend-of-the-court
brief on the side of the Belzbergs. SEC Chairman Breeden has
objected to the law, contending that it would unfairly affect
the proxy process and could entrench management. General
Counsel Goelzer said the agency is still studying whether to
file a brief on behalf of the Belzbergs' position.
   Teaming the SEC and the Belzbergs would be an ironic twist
from the last time the two met. That was in a 1988 court
fight, after the SEC sued to recover $2.7 million over what
the agency contended was misleading disclosure of Ashland Oil
Inc. holdings by Marc Belzberg and First City Financial Corp.
The SEC, which won the case and subsequent appeal, used it to
expand existing law to force disgorgement of profit in a
disclosure case, previously a tactic used almost exclusively
in instances of insider trading.
   Mr. Goelzer is quick to point out that any help would be
to support a change in law, not support the Belzbergs. "We're
not trying to help the plaintiff," he said. "It's solely in
the principles of the case."
   ---
   THE RIFT WIDENS between SEC Chairman Breeden and the
commission's most senior member, Edward Fleischman.
   The two Republicans are trying to coexist, but simply
don't see eye-to-eye on the issues. Mr. Breeden is a
big-picture guy; Mr. Fleischman, a detail-oriented securities
lawyer.
   Mr. Breeden knows that he rarely needs Mr. Fleischman for
a majority vote on the commission. And Mr. Fleischman has
publicly objected to several recent SEC actions, clearly to
the annoyance of Mr. Breeden, who would prefer the appearance
of unanimity.
   Specifically, Mr. Fleischman objected to Mr. Breeden's
view that the SEC should have jurisdiction over stock-index
futures, pulling that power away from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. Mr. Fleischman informed the Senate of his
disagreement in a footnote to Mr. Breeden's testimony on the
subject.
   And on the SEC's recently passed Rule 144a, which expands
the private-placement market, Mr. Fleischman wrote a harshly
worded dissent to several provisions. For example, in arguing
that the rule doesn't help small companies enough, Mr.
Fleischman wrote, "I am astonished; I dissent; I reprehend."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phoenix Re 1st-Quarter Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PXRE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Phoenix Re Corp. reported a first-quarter loss
and declining revenue, due mostly to catastrophic events in
Europe.
   The loss was $1.9 million, or 48 cents a share, compared
with profit of $1.5 million, or 37 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue for the quarter declined 15% to $8.3 million
from $9.8 million a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss stemmed primarily from three European storms and
a major hailstorm in Sydney, Australia. Phoenix, which
provides reinsurance products and services internationally,
said it had set aside a $4 million loss reserve for claims
arising from these events.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   If You Go to an Indian Restaurant,
   Make Sure to Read the Fine Print
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   If you are ever in the position of having to eat your
words, a fad in India may make them go down a little easier.
   In one of the more astounding feats ever authenticated by
the Guinness Book of World Records, an Indian calligrapher
has crammed his country's national anthem, "Jana Gana Mana,"
onto a single grain of rice -- with husk to spare. What's
more amazing is that other samples of miniature writing on
rice continue to pour into the publisher's office in London,
and Guinness believes this week's record won't stand for
long.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've got enough rice now to cook a curry," says Deputy
Editor Nicholas Brown, who confirmed the latest record for
"writing minuscule" with a magnifying glass. The composition
-- 515 letters in all -- includes the anthem in Hindi, a
saying by the poet Robert Frost and the full home address of
the calligrapher, Anantha Kumar.
   Mr. Brown says that media reports about another Indian who
set the rice-writing record last year (with a mere 241
letters) have "set off a craze in India." That record didn't
stand long: It was doubled just as last year's book went to
press and there have been several new records since then.
   Guinness requires writers to compose a meaningful passage
so they don't just repeat skinny letters, such as I's or L's,
through the text.
   The champion of the moment, a 32-year-old from Bangalore
in southern India, is an old hand at micro-scribbling. As a
teenager, Mr. Kumar sketched flowers on dog's whiskers and
scenes from Indian mythology on mustard seeds. His epic rice
work is more notable for its length than its beauty.
According to Mr. Brown, it looks "like a fuzzy, dark speck"
to the naked eye.
   Deft handwork seems to be the trend among the 12 new
record-holders announced by Guinness this week. A Frenchman
achieved 801 consecutive catches with a boomerang. And a man
from Missouri managed to hold nine baseballs in one hand.
   Nor is rice the only canvas for would-be "writing
minuscule" entries. Mr. Brown says a Chinese man has
submitted a proverb written on a strand of hair that probably
surpasses the old record. "If China's anything like India,"
he says, "we'll be getting a lot of hair in the mail next
year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM Net Fell 54%, Ford's Plunged 69%
   In First Quarter Because of Weak Sales
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Neal Templin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co.
reported sharp drops in first-quarter profits, primarily
because of deep production cuts and weak sales in North
America.
   GM's first-quarter net income skidded 54% to $710 million,
or $1.02 a share, from a strong $1.55 billion, or $2.37 a
share, a year ago. A 22.5% drop in North American vehicle
shipments to dealers more than offset cost-cutting moves and
record results from overseas vehicle operations. The quarter
would have looked worse had it not been for a change in
pension-cost assumptions that added $75 million, or 12 cents
a share, to the bottom line.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, GM
rose 37.5 cents to $45.125. GM earnings came in at the higher
end of analysts' predictions.
   At Ford, profit plunged 69% to $506.2 million, or $1.10 a
share, from $1.64 billion, or $3.44 a share. In addition to
weakness in its home market, the No. 2 auto maker reported a
78% drop in overseas profit resulting from labor troubles in
Britain and economic turmoil in Brazil.
   Sales incentives in the U.S. averaged about $1,000 a
vehicle at both companies during the first quarter.
   Ford shares rose 12.5 cents to $45.625 in composite Big
Board trading.
   GM and Ford officials said they're optimistic that the
strong medicine administered to cut North American
inventories during the January-to-March period will help
second-quarter results.
   Ford Vice President and Treasurer David N. McCammon
predicted "no more down time" for any Ford plants through the
end of July. Despite the soft market, he is forecasting
second-quarter production will be down only 4% from a year
ago.
   GM earned the bulk of its first-quarter profits from its
overseas vehicle operations, as well as its finance and other
nonautomotive businesses. The company refused to say whether
its core North American automotive operations were profitable
in the quarter.
   GM added about 10% to its earnings for the quarter by
changing certain assumptions used to calculate pension
expenses. The company is now assuming that the average
retiree will die two years sooner than in the past. At the
same time, GM is betting that its pension fund managers will
get an 11% return on assets each year, up from the 10% a year
assumption used to calculate pension costs a year ago.
   The company spokesman said GM pension fund managers have
averaged an 18% return on assets over the past five years --
an extraordinary period that saw both a bull market peak and
the October 1987 crash.
   Ford also adopted a more optimistic pension fund outlook,
which added $26 million, or about 5%, to its first-quarter
profits.
   The No. 1 auto maker also appeared to make real gains in
cutting costs. That effort was sharply escalated earlier this
year under a program labeled "Quick Start 1990," which
ordered GM's North American automotive units to defer capital
spending, freeze hiring and cut advertising budgets in an
effort to save $1 billion during this year.
   For the first quarter, GM's operating costs exclusive of
depreciation and amortization, fell 8% from a year earlier.
But lower vehicle production more than offset those gains.
Revenue fell 9.4% to $30.1 billion from $33.2 billion a year
ago.
   GM's reserve of cash and marketable securities dropped to
$5.5 billion from $6.4 billion a year earlier and $7.1
billion at the end of last year, in part reflecting the $600
million cost of acquiring a 50% interest in the automotive
operations of Sweden's Saab-Scania AB.
   Ford's earnings came under attack from several fronts in
the first quarter. A sluggish U.S. car market forced the No.
2 car maker to cut its first-quarter production 26% from
year-ago levels and offer steep discounts to consumers. As a
result, Ford's U.S. automotive earnings skidded 80% to $160
million, down from $800 million in the first quarter of 1989.
That more than offset a 35% gain in earnings from Ford's
Financial Services Group, which posted profits of $191.2
million compared with $141.4 million a year ago.
   Meanwhile, Ford's overseas operations, which carried the
ball for the company last year when the U.S. market stumbled,
ran into trouble in the just-ended quarter. Ford's overseas
automotive earnings skidded to $155 million, down from $696
million in the year-ago period.
   Strikes at Ford's European operations cost Ford about $200
million in earnings during the first quarter, Mr. McCammon
said. Ford may be able to recover some of those losses during
the remainder of the year, Mr. McCammon said. However, he
said, Ford's results in the second quarter will be hurt by a
just-resolved strike at an assembly plant in Genk, Belgium.
   Ford also is having trouble in Brazil, where the
government's harsh anti-inflation measures have hobbled
operations at Autolatina, Ford's joint venture with
Volkswagen AG. Autolatina was the main reason Ford posted an
$85 million loss for its affiliated companies in the first
quarter, compared with a $60.3 million profit in the first
quarter of 1989, Mr. McCammon said. He warned that the
venture could suffer for the rest of the year.
   Mr. McCammon said there are some good signs for the second
quarter. The extensive plant idlings during the
January-to-March quarter helped Ford to trim its U.S. vehicle
stocks to 785,000 cars and trucks at the end of the first
quarter, nearly 200,000 less than the same period last year.
   That should help Ford to push its sales incentive costs
back to an average of $1,000 per vehicle this month from the
$1,200 per vehicle level they hit during April, he said. That
is still well above the $400 per vehicle incentive costs Ford
had during the 1989 first quarter. But the auto maker is
introducing some new products, such as the Ford Explorer
sports utility vehicle, that may be popular enough to sell
without big discounts.
   Mr. McCammon said Ford plans to run its U.S. factories
overtime to boost output to 110% of straight-time capacity
during the second quarter, compared with 91% during the first
quarter. Straight-time capacity is the level of production
achieved by running a plant for two, daily eight-hour shifts,
five days a week.
   As of March 31, Ford had $3.9 billion in cash and
marketable securities, down from $8.1 billion a year ago. The
big drop reflected the lower profits, Ford's purchase of
Jaguar and heavy capital spending to bring out new cars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Need a Motivator
   For Weary Worker?
   Try a `Congratulator'
   ---
   It Will Pat His Back on Cue;
   Zillions of Ways Provided
   To `Incent' Your Staffers
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg and Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Do your salesmen shirk from making cold calls?
Why not ply them with portable showers, inflatable hot tubs
or 3-D cameras?
   Are your workers turning out too many widgets with busted
switches? A four-pound Chateaubriand might shape them up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Saddled with 180 gross of lavender pantyhose? Maybe they
would fly off the shelves -- if you packaged them with rubber
squid keychains.
   Your business, large or small, could no doubt solve
nagging managerial woes simply by offering up the products
displayed at the 52nd annual Premium Incentive Show here this
week. Or so say some 1,800 exhibitors flogging their wares
before an estimated 34,000 would-be buyers.
   There are prizes for quota-busting salesmen, awards for
quality and service contests, freebies to boost slow-selling
products, and giveaways to massage clients and customers. At
this show, the talk is of patents pending, bulk discounts and
custom imprints. Phrases like "incent your work force" and
"so unique" abound.
   The giveaway industry is big business -- nearly $16
billion annually, according to Incentive Magazine, a trade
publication. This show, filling two floors of the cavernous
Javits Convention Center, is like a giant garage sale, where
Fortune 500 companies jostle with Malaysian tropical fish
importers, and where such big-ticket items as refrigerators
and projection television sets share space with beach
headrests, steak knives, levitating globes and talking
crystal balls.
   Cigars and booze are declasse as perks for customers and
suppliers, declares Jeff Robinson, president of Totally
Chocolate of Valencia, Calif. Instead, he suggests his wares:
corporate chocolate bars emblazoned with company logos.
"Chocolate has an image of being friendly, family-oriented
and acceptable," he says. Some examples from his brochure:
slabs of one to three pounds bearing such messages as,
"Tomorrow's Technology Taking Control" for Textron and "We
Wouldn't Go Anywhere Without You" for TWA.
   A salmon fisherman came all the way from Seattle to
display his goods. While fish can't be personalized, Taylor
Phillips, president of Seattle Select Smoked Seafood, says
Sockeye salmon still makes a great corporate gift. "It's
quality," he says. "It's a healthy item." You can stockpile
the vacuum-packed fish for ace salesmen contests, too: "We
recommend you eat them within a year, but I've seen packages
of this after four years, and they're still edible," he says.
   Sometimes all it takes to unload mongrel products is a
little something extra. Standing at a table laden with rubber
squid keychains and Christmas ornaments, Robert Powell, of
Olympia, Wash., claims his little plastic compasses were the
making of the Mobil Road Atlas. When the two items were
paired last year, he says, the books "blew out" of the
stores.
   Katherine Cowles, vice president of H.M. Gousha, a
division of Simon &amp; Schuster, which publishes the atlases,
agrees: "These compasses were just wonderful. Not only did
they help sell {the atlases} but we showed the stores we were
behind the product."
   Then there are the crystal ball and levitating globe, both
made by With Design in Mind International Inc., of
Chatsworth, Calif. Wouldn't anybody give his all to own a
globe that actually floats in midair, as the brochure
exclaims? "Spin it] Touch it] There is nothing holding the
globe]"
   Steve Zuloff, president, explains that the globe floats
through a combination of magnets and rapidly alternating
electric currents -- "the technology developed for the bullet
train in Japan."
   The talking crystal ball looks like your ordinary crystal
ball -- but it sounds different. Ask it questions designed
for a yes or no answer, pass your hand over the globe, and
you get one of 28 pre-programmed answers. "Does she love me
only for my body?" brings a randomly selected response such
as: "My sources say without a doubt." "Absolutely." "It is
not destined." "It is not in the stars." Or, "Concentrate and
ask again."
   R.P. Pat on the Back Inc. of Lindenhurst, N.Y., draws
plenty of stares at its booth with the Congratulator, which
workers can use to give themselves the recognition they don't
get from others. Pull a string on the shoulder-mounted
contraption and a wooden hand pats the user's own back. "To
that special employee," a brochure explains, "the
Congratulator says thank you."
   Some buyers cringe. "That's the most stupid thing I've
seen in my life," says Jan Schuster, a premium distributor
from West Germany.
   No trend escapes the notice of the giveaway promoters. One
touts the environmental merit of fancy shopping bags.
"They're reusable," she says. A maker of jump ropes with
corporate logos on the handles claims he has drawn interest
from five big pharmaceutical companies. "It's a fitness
product," he says. "It makes a nice tie-in."
   Vital Body Marketing Co.'s relaxing tapes -- the sounds of
rain forests, birds and zithers -- are usually sold through
bookshops and health food stores. But Jeffrey Charno,
president of the Glen Cove, N.Y., firm, says one company
ordered 500 sets packaged with massage oil for its salesmen.
"Everyone is pretty aware of the cost of stress and the
pleasures of relaxation," he says.
   A personal alcohol breath tester imprinted with the
corporate name or slogan would make a fine gift to boost
morale -- and it could reduce company liability, maintains
Rick Snyder, a representative of U.S. Alcohol Testing of
America Inc., in Paramus, N.J. "Companies don't want people
going home from company picnics and getting into car
accidents," he says.
   One company even suggests capitalizing on executives'
fears. As a corporate giveaway, the "Citizen defense shield,"
a bulletproof liner for luggage, "makes an unforgettable
statement of concern and caring," says a brochure from
Prudent Technologies Inc., of Rowayton, Conn.
   "We all have a steak in quality" reads the posters that
New York Steak provides with its prepackaged quality
programs. "They put them in the plant to create excitement,"
says Jerry Romanoff, president. The company also provides a
bingo set. For every week of no-defect production or
no-accident production, managers draw five more balls for a
plantwide bingo game. Winners can choose among goodies like
10 New York strip steaks, a four-pound Chateaubriand or, for
vegetarians not watching their weight, two 4 1/2-pound
cheesecakes.
   Why don't people just offer cash? "If I were to give you
$500, what would you do with it?" asks Clark Smaha, a
regional sales manager for Sony Corp. of America. "If I give
you a TV set, every time you turn it on, you think of the
company." Sony products are part of many incentive programs;
sales people who exceed quotas accumulate points they can use
to buy products.
   A tiny Sony Watchman television set is "the essence of
premiums," he says. "You wouldn't buy it for yourself, but if
you could win it, you'd love to have it."
   For some products at the show, success seems an unlikely
prospect. One man promotes devices that stores could use to
record audio messages; hidden within aisle displays, they
play their ads when they detect a person walking by. "The fun
begins and the sales follow]" gushes a flyer of the producer,
Hometown Marketing USA, of Manhasset, N.Y. Are any stores
using the devices now? Replies Jim Boyle, Hometown's
representative, "If they were, I wouldn't be here selling
them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   U.S. Unit Ends Session Little Changed
   As Traders Ponder Many Uncertainties
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar ended little changed against major
currencies as the market pondered a full slate of
uncertainties, including German monetary unification, today's
U.S. employment data, local British elections and Sunday's
meeting of the Group of Seven industrial nations.
   Holidays in Japan yesterday and today added to the
market's caution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With so many reasons for restraint, "people are being very
slow about what they're doing," commented Charles Spence,
vice president of foreign exchange at First Interstate Bank
of California in Los Angeles.
   Dollar dealings against the mark were muted as the market
digested Wednesday's accord on monetary merger between the
Germanys, traders said.
   The agreement, which will take effect July 2, is
encouraging participants to maintain long mark positions in
anticipation of an eventual rise in West German interest
rates to cope with the pact's possible inflationary
consequences, Mr. Spence said.
   Participants also think they can't sell the mark too
aggressively because recent drops in the West German currency
against the dollar have proved temporary, said Joe Sabbagh,
chief trader at European American Capital Corp. in New York.
   Confidence in the Bundesbank's willingness to raise rates
when it becomes necessary, along with the understanding that
the full impact of monetary unification will take some time
to disclose itself, will help the mark weather short-term
uncertainty over the effects of monetary unification, Messrs.
Sabbagh and Spence agreed.
   For these reasons, the mark isn't likely to fall steeply,
as the yen did when the market was waiting for the Bank of
Japan to raise interest rates, Mr. Spence added.
   The Bundesbank central bank council didn't raise rates at
its fortnightly meeting. After the meeting, Johann Wilhelm
Gaddum, a director of the Bundesbank, said the central bank
can support the monetary union agreement, explaining it isn't
too different from the bank's original concept of monetary
unification.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6827 marks, down from 1.6848 marks late Wednesday, and
at 158.05 yen, up from 157.95 yen late Wednesday. Sterling
was quoted at $1.6410, down from $1.6425 late Wednesday.
   Despite the factors supporting the mark, traders said an
improving economic picture in the U.S. and the possibility of
higher U.S. interest rates will keep the dollar from slipping
against the German currency, resulting in a stalemate of the
two units.
   The market is watching today's release of U.S. employment
data for April as an indicator of what action, if any, the
Federal Reserve might take on interest rates, Messrs. Spence
and Sabbagh said.
   Economists expect nonfarm payrolls to have risen by
384,000, compared to an increase of only 26,000 in March. The
unemployment rate is seen remaining unchanged from March at
5.2%.
   The figures probably will give the dollar a boost if they
are in line with expectations or better, but will cause the
U.S. unit to weaken if they are worse than expected, by
inspiring speculation that the Fed might lower interest
rates, Mr. Sabbagh said.
   And in spite of a statement by a senior U.S. Treasury
official that the G-7 finance ministers and central bankers
aren't likely to take new action to support the yen, the
market is treading cautiously in the area of yen rates. They
fear a surprise announcement on the Japanese currency after
Sunday's meeting in Washington, participants said.
   Meanwhile, participants interested in the pound are
waiting to see how British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's
Conservative Party fared in yesterday's local council
elections. In early returns, the party was losing heavily.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery rose $1.90 to $371.40 an ounce. Estimated volume was
a light 1.8 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong early Friday, gold was quoted at $371.25 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CalMat Settlement
   Of Holders' Suits
   Cleared by Court
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CZM A.BRY J.ONC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- CalMat Co. said it received state court
approval for a settlement of shareholder lawsuits against the
company and certain directors that claimed the defendants
used unfair tactics to block a 1988 takeover attempt by
Brierley Investments Ltd.
   In a statement, CalMat denied any liability on the claims.
Dan Mogin, a lawyer for the shareholders, said plaintiffs'
experts said the settlement has a potential value ranging
from $30 million to more than $100 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The partial settlement ends the involvement of CalMat, its
directors and a subsidiary of Onoda Finance Co. of Tokyo, but
claims are still pending against New Zealand financier Sir
Ronald Brierley and his Brierley Investments, as well as
certain of the New Zealand company's officers and
subsidiaries. A suit was filed against those defendants in
federal court in San Diego alleging violation of federal
anti-racketeering and securities law in February, Mr. Mogin
said. Brierley officials didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.
   The settlement calls for CalMat to pay a special dividend
of at least 10 cents a share to certain shareholders of
record on a stipulated date, and to buy back one million
shares of common stock within 120 trading days. Within 30
months, CalMat must spend at least an additional $30 million
to buy back more shares, pay additional special dividends, or
both.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
CalMat closed at $32.50 a share, up 50 cents. The
construction-materials company has about 30 million common
shares outstanding.
   CalMat will spend at least 50% of the net proceeds of its
real estate divestiture program through Dec. 31, 1991, to pay
for the repurchase of stock and the special dividends. It
wasn't clear how much real estate CalMat intends to sell, and
CalMat executives weren't immediately available to clarify
the settlement. Mr. Mogin said it is impossible to say how
much CalMat will eventually pay out to shareholders covered
by the suit.
   The complex settlement includes, among other things,
changes in CalMat's handling of any acquisition queries and
calls for a shareholder vote on an anti-greenmail resolution.
   The shareholder suits stemmed from events in late 1987 and
1988 that included CalMat's rejection of an unsolicited
$40-a-share takeover bid from Brierley. In July 1988, CalMat
announced a major restructuring that scuttled the bid, which
had an indicated value of $987 million.
   As part of the restructuring, the company agreed to sell a
cement subsidiary to Onoda Cement Co. of Japan. The
transaction included the repurchase of a "significant" number
of CalMat shares.
   The shareholders claimed the defendants disguised an
indirect greenmail payment to Sir Ronald, in which the
investor sold his stake in Calmat to Onoda at a premium to
the market price, and Onoda promised to sell the stake to
CalMat at a profit. The shareholders also claimed Onoda
bought the CalMat assets for less than their true value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Venezuela's Inflation Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   CARACAS, Venezuela -- Prices rose 2.6% in April, bringing
the year's accumulated inflation rate to 9%, the Venezuelan
Central Bank announced.
   Inflation came to 1.8% in March. The government estimates
1990 inflation at slightly below 30%, compared with 80.7%
last year, when stringent economic reforms were implemented.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch --
   Lithuania:
   So Gallant,
   So Embarrassing
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The voice of conscience was soft but firm. "Even the
world's darling does not have the monopolistic right to
decide the fate of other nations," said the Lithuanian prime
minister, reading from her handwritten notes. The congressmen
grinned at that crack about Mikhail Gorbachev.
   There she went again, Kazimiera Prunskiene, making herself
a most inconvenient person. Here she is, with that wide
smile, saying things few really want to hear. A city
convinced of Mr. Gorbachev's unerring judgment is getting a
second opinion. An administration hoping for a cosy summit
May 30 suddenly must confront 40 years of Republican "Captive
Nations" rhetoric. Wouldn't you know, this 47-year-old former
economist shows up as the needy but unwanted relative, a
twinge of conscience amid cold-blooded calculations of
national interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A back-seat conversation driving through town reveals
something more: She feels she's a cold-blooded realist too.
"I want to emphasize the mistake Western countries make when
they talk about the threat to Gorbachev," she says, her voice
tensing as if this is her main point. "They don't recognize
that the pressure being imposed on Gorbachev is coming from
two different directions."
   The forces of old reaction are contending with newer
"democratic forces" that want radical reform and are growing
in strength. Mr. Gorbachev has walked a delicate line between
them, she says, but sooner or later he must choose. By
squeezing Lithuania, Mr. Gorbachev sides with the
reactionaries. But the democrats all across the Soviet
"empire" support Lithuanian self-determination. "The
democratic forces understand that the question of whether we
have a democratic Soviet Union, a democratic Russia, is being
decided today in Lithuania," she says.
   What about George Bush's fear of a military coup? Pressure
from the West regarding Lithuania actually helps, rather than
hinders, Mr. Gorbachev's reform efforts, the prime minister
explains. If he sides with the democrats, he will become
stronger and have more allies to fight off the reaction.
Besides, she adds, he's firmly in control of both the
military and KGB.
   Lithuanians are willing to compromise, but only Western
pressure will ensure that Mr. Gorbachev also bargains in good
faith. She isn't asking for much nor talking about "Munich."'
What she wants are "international guarantees" to mediate the
dispute and perhaps some help to "neutralize" the Soviet
embargo.
   Her principal target, George Bush, at least avoided Gerald
Ford's Solzenitsyn mistake. President Ford's refusal to
entertain the storied Russian dissident became a metaphor for
the obsequious detente of the 1970s.
   Not that Mr. Bush or his aides had sought Mrs.
Prunskiene's company. They'd hoped she'd have the good taste
to wait until after the Bush-Gorbachev summit (and weeklong
photo-op). Lithuanian sources say her first response from the
State Department in Moscow was to wait until June. Only after
that story leaked did State find a visa, they say.
   And only after criticism from senators did the White House
join the publicity queue. Joseph Kazickas, a
Lithuanian-American who arranged her visit here, got his
first White House call Monday afternoon. Hand-wringing
National Security Council staffers had known she was coming
for days. (Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater says the White House
received its first formal request Monday and assented the
next day.) As a mere "private" visitor, Mrs. Prunskiene was
also denied any U.S. security or transport. Her entourage had
to weave its own way through traffic in five $45-an-hour
rented sedans.
   Mr. Bush did give Mrs. Prunskiene 45 minutes, even
addressed her as "prime minister." Mr. Bush may refuse her
request for formal recognition, but he is unfailingly
cordial. If small captive nations were people, Mr. Bush would
invite each one for dinner and a movie, and hope there'd be
no hard feelings.
   Congress embraced Mrs. Prunskiene more eagerly, though
hardly with the acclaim accorded Lech Walesa or Vaclav Havel.
Perhaps it's part of Congress's psyche to prefer winners to
long shots. Still, she had breakfast and lunch on the Hill,
and spoke before the body's Helsinki human rights commission,
framed by the American and the gold, green and red Lithuanian
flags.
   The only sour note came from Ed Markey, the Massachusetts
liberal, who lectured her for having the gall to endanger the
estimable Mr. Gorbachev. His performance had even senators
rolling their eyes and Lithuanians in the audience applauding
when Sen. James McClure, the Idaho Republican, begged to
differ. Mr. Markey is the sort who's a moralist about all
causes but the freedom of Balts or Russians; about that he's
a realist manque.
   The Markey malarkey at least had the virtue of candor
about Washington's probable intentions. No one wants to do
very much to help Mrs. Prunskiene. Even Dante Fascell, the
House Foreign Affairs Chairman who hosted breakfast for her,
mostly spoke of the things the U.S. couldn't do to help -- no
economic sanctions, no oil or gas sealift during the Soviet
embargo. His proposal to postpone the summit didn't fly with
Mr. Bush. Mrs. Prunskiene's cause may be just, but what she
wants is so very inconvenient.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BizMart 4th-Quarter Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   BZMT
</CO>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Texas -- BizMart Inc. said its sales for the
fourth quarter ended April 28 more than tripled to about
$45.1 million, from $14.8 million a year ago.
   The office-products chain, which now has 32 stores, said
its sales for the fiscal year were about $132.8 million, up
from $33.5 million in fiscal 1989. BizMart opened its first
store in May 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it expects to have been profitable in the
fourth quarter, despite store-opening costs, poor weather
conditions and increased competition. But it said it will
post a net loss for the fiscal year when it reports its
results in mid-June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Summagraphics Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUGR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SUMMAGRAPHICS Corp. (Seymour, Conn.) -- Two vice
presidents were named senior vice presidents in connection
with the acquisition of the Houston Instrument division of
Ametek Inc. William J. Greene became senior vice president,
chief financial officer and treasurer. Robert B. Sims became
senior vice president, secretary and general counsel. In
addition, Paul D. Smith, senior vice president, chief
technical officer, will now supervise all technical aspects
of four newly created divisions of the computer peripheral
products maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The 1990 Civil Rights Bill Is Wrong
   ----
   By Abigail Thernstrom
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Opposing a bill that has been named "The Civil Rights Act
of 1990" is not politically easy; the deck has already been
rhetorically stacked. But the proposed legislation is deeply
flawed. The title of the bill and the voices of Coretta Scott
King and others in support of it all suggest continuity with
the great civil rights statutes of the 1960s. In fact, the
issues the 1990 bill raises have none of the moral simplicity
of those earlier days.
   It is the attempt to overturn last term's Supreme Court
decision in Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio that is most
troubling. Employment patterns in an Alaskan salmon cannery
were the issue in Wards Cove. The "non-cannery" jobs were
generally held by whites, while Filipinos, Eskimos and Aleuts
filled most of the unskilled "cannery" positions. The
plaintiffs charged discrimination. But how telling was the
disproportionate concentration of minority employees in the
lower paying jobs? Not as telling as the plaintiffs claim,
the Supreme Court said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Civil rights groups depict the decision as a betrayal; the
court reneged on an earlier commitment, they say. And indeed,
Wards Cove has made it harder for minority plaintiffs to
prevail. A 1971 decision (Griggs v. Duke Power Co.) forced
employers to defend their hiring practices as a "business
necessity" if plaintiffs could point to a "racially disparate
impact"fewer blacks than whites passing, say, an aptitude
test.
   The problem with Griggs was the assumption that numbers --
the number of blacks in one job category and the number of
whites in another -- tell much of what you want to know in an
employment discrimination case. And the strength of Wards
Cove was that it refined -- in an elementary, common-sense
manner -- the statistical rule. Minorities may be
disproportionately concentrated in unskilled positions or may
disproportionately fail an aptitude or other test, the court
said, but the relevant question is the size of the pool of
minority candidates qualified to fill the jobs in question.
And if the numbers alone tell less than the Griggs court
assumed they would, then a showing of disparate impact should
not place the burden of proof on employers to demonstrate the
"business necessity" of their hiring procedures. Plaintiffs
who charge discrimination should have to prove their case.
   Within limits, numbers are telling in discrimination
cases. No one would argue otherwise. But only in exceptional
circumstances should they be regarded as conclusive, or
nearly so. The 1965 Voting Rights Act is instructive in this
regard. It was precisely the point of the act to substitute a
statistical rule of thumb for the extended and complex
judicial process by which Fifteenth Amendment questions were
traditionally decided. The act identified a violation
wherever voter registration or turnout in the presidential
election of 1964 fell below 50% and a literacy test was used
to screen potential registrants. All states and counties
fitting those criteria were "covered" and thus subject to a
set of stringent remedies.
   At the time, critics complained that justice could not be
measured by percentages and that fair enforcement of the
Fifteenth Amendment required the precise identification of
offenders, which the statistical formula did not provide. But
in fact the act did not rely excessively on numerical
indicators. Framed with meticulous care, informed by years of
litigation experience, the 1965 statute swiftly accomplished
what no previous law had achieved: the enfranchisement of
Southern blacks.
   The statistical test allowed the finding of vote denial by
a simple formula, eliminating the need to ferret out
constitutional violations in states with abominable records
with respect to black voting rights. By 1965 the excessive
cost and limited effectiveness of the traditional judicial
route had become abundantly clear. And what the framers of
the act wrote into law was only what the litigators had
learned in the field. The statistical test simply
acknowledged the proven link -- proven in countless suits --
between fraudulently administered Southern literacy tests and
low levels of voter participation. Aware that literacy tests
were the chief means of disfranchising Southern blacks, the
framers of the 1965 act used voter registration and turnout
figures to devise a statistical means to identify the
discriminatory use of literacy tests.
   But those circumstances were unique. In 1965 low voter
registration rates were an almost infallible guide to the
intentionally discriminatory use of literacy tests. Equally
important, citizens over 18, with few exceptions, have a
right to vote; that's what democracies are all about.
Employment is very different. Statistical information is not
a comparably reliable sign of intentional discrimination --
of a desire to exclude blacks from certain jobs. And no one
is entitled to a particular category of job in a particular
place of employment.
   Thus, when it comes to jobs, numbers can serve to alert
employers, employees and courts to the possibility of
discrimination. But numbers should only set off an inquiry.
Other questions must then take over. Again, the history of
the Voting Rights Act is instructive. In the enforcement of
the statute, the initially legitimate use of numerical
indicators has expanded to one that is highly questionable.
Courts and the Justice Department have arrived at a new
statistical rule of thumb: Where minority officeholding is
disproportionately low in relation to the minority
population, electoral exclusion can almost be assumed. Only
blacks can represent blacks, it is apparently believed, and
black candidates lose elections for only one reason: race.
   Those assumptions last week informed the Justice
Department decision to throw out Georgia's system of electing
judges. True, the number of superior court judges in the
state is disproportionately low in relation to the black
population. Even in majority-black Atlanta, only three out of
11 judges are black. But how large is the pool of qualified
attorneys eager for judgeships? How many black voters bother
to cast ballots in judicial elections -- contests that are
often ignored by almost everyone? And how often does any
candidate -- white or black -- win against an incumbent?
Again, the numbers raise questions. But, as the court in
Wards Cove understood, they don't provide the answers.
   In voting rights cases, electoral defeat is not conclusive
evidence of inadequate electoral opportunity, and opportunity
should be the question. Likewise, the failure to pass an
employer's test is not strong evidence of a system closed to
minority aspirations. The point of antidiscrimination laws is
not to protect black candidates from white competition --
whether the job in question is in politics or industry. Their
point is to provide access, and, again, only in the most
extraordinary circumstances can access be gauged from
statistical evidence. Access normally raises a question about
process, not results. Is the electoral- or hiring-process
distorted by racism? Has opportunity been blocked by racist
assumptions?
   An emphasis on opportunity, or fair process, squares with
our traditional and continuing understanding of what
Americans are entitled to. To focus on numerical results is
to invite quotas. And quotas amount to reserved seats for
scheduled castes, as in India where the horizons of trust do
not extent beyond ethnic boundaries. That, too, is a lesson
contained in the history of the Voting Rights Act. We can
take the path of pessimism -- of assuming that members of
minority groups cannot get a "fair shake" and must be given
their "fair share."
   Or we can structure our legal system -- our electoral and
employment processes, among others -- to deliver a message
that minority groups amount to separate nations and separate
nations require distinct treatment. That message runs through
much civil rights discussion these days. But it should not
inform our law.
   ---
   Mrs. Thernstrom is the author of "Whose Votes Count?
Affirmative action and Minority Voting Rights," (Harvard
University Press, 1987).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS -- Global Focus
   ----
   Compiled by the staff of American Demographics magazine
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST CANDA LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Traditional Households
   Are Fading World-Wide
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE U.S. ISN'T the only country in which nontraditional
households are becoming mainstream.
   The rise in numbers of single parents, unmarried couples,
and people living alone isn't unique to the U.S. A Bureau of
Labor Statistics study found that these situations are common
to most countries in the developed world. The difference is
in the pace at which these trends are progressing.
   Four main factors have changed the look of households and
families in the past two decades: Women are having fewer
children, more women are having children out of wedlock,
populations are aging, and marriage is down while divorce is
up.
   Japan remains the most traditional of the 13 developed
nations studied, with low rates of divorce and low rates of
out-of-wedlock births. It also has the largest share of
married couples.
   Sweden and Germany have the largest shares of
single-person households, in part because they have older
populations.
   Scandinavia has been setting the pace for out-of-wedlock
births and cohabitation. Sweden and Denmark have the largest
shares of births to unmarried women. Yet they don't have the
highest shares of single parents, because many unmarried
mothers in these countries live with partners.
   It's not clear which country has the highest share of
cohabiting couples because some countries now include them
with married couples in official household statistics. One
estimate shows that virtually all young Swedes cohabit before
they marry.
   The U.S. tops the list for single parents, partly because
of high divorce rates, but also because American single
parents are more likely to be young never-married women on
their own, rather than cohabitors.
                                                                                                       

   If Time Is Money,
   Soviets Need More
                                                                                                       

   CONTRARY to popular opinion, Japanese men don't work more
than everyone else. It is Soviet men who hold this dubious
honor.
   Researchers at the University of Michigan compared time
use in eight countries -- Japan, the U.S., U.S.S.R., Finland,
Hungary, Norway, Denmark, and Sweden -- and found that the
average Soviet man spends 54 hours a week earning a living,
compared with 52 hours for Japanese men and 44 hours for
American men. Danish men spend only 33 hours.
   Danish men consequently have the most leisure time, an
average of 54 hours a week. Japanese men have 40 hours of
leisure time while American men have 41. Soviet men, who work
more because of low wages, have only 35 hours of free time.
   Personal care, including eating and sleeping, ranges from
67 hours a week for men in Denmark to over 72 hours for those
in Japan, Finland and Hungary.
   Their other time-eater is the age-old women's activity:
housework. Swedish men are the most egalitarian in this,
doing 18 hours of housework a week. American men spend 14
hours a week on household chores, and Soviet men contribute
12 hours. Japanese men do just 3.5 hours a week.
   In all of the countries studied, women spend less time
than men earning a living and more time doing housework. True
to stereotypes, women also spend more time than men on
personal care, except in Japan and Hungary. Women have about
the same amount of leisure time as men in the U.S., Japan,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark. In the Soviet Union, Finland, and
Hungary, however, women have less leisure time than men.
                                                                                                       

   Stacking Up the Cities
   For U.S. Expatriates
                                                                                                       

   IF YOU HAD to relocate, which international city would be
the most like home in terms of living costs? Hint: Have a
vodka.
   Runzheimer International, a management consulting firm in
Rochester, Wis., measured living costs in major cities around
the world. The yardstick was a family of four, with annual
income of $75,000, living in Everywhere, U.S.A., where costs
are average for the nation. The study included costs for
housing, transportation, and goods and services such as food
and clothing. It didn't include taxes, whose impact varies
greatly with employer policy.
   To maintain the family's standard of living, it would cost
$74,200 in Moscow, putting that city on a par with home. Rome
also comes close, with a cost of $73,600. Warsaw is the
bargain basement among cities studied, with a comparable cost
of $40,800.
   In Toronto and Mexico City, the comparable cost of living
is lower than in the U.S., at $62,900 and $63,900
respectively. Stockholm is higher, at $83,800.
   The highest costs of all are in Asia. To maintain a family
of four in Seoul would take twice as much as it does in the
U.S., $151,300. In Tokyo, the costs skyrocket to $207,200 --
but that figure is based on a six-room home, a serious luxury
in land-scarce Japan.
                                                                                                       

   It Isn't Just the Geese
   Migrating From Canada
                                                                                                       

   AS OF THE 1980 Census, there were 843,000 Canadian-born
people living in the U.S. In the other direction, the 1981
Canadian census found 302,000 U.S.-born people living in
Canada, according to Statistics Canada, an Ontario agency.
   During the past few decades, migration between the two
countries has slowed, due to immigration restrictions on both
sides. Currently, about 16,000 Canadians move to the U.S.
each year, and fewer than 10,000 Americans move to Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Expectations
   Exceeded Sales
   At 2 Retailers
   ---
   Wal-Mart Posts 7% Increase
   For Revenue in April;
   Penney Result Fell 2.8%
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WMT JCP S MES MST TJX
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two of the country's biggest retailers, Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and J.C. Penney Co., reported lower-than-expected April
sales.
   At Wal-Mart, sales at stores open more than a year rose
7%, while comparable-store sales dropped 2.8% at J.C. Penney.
Although the increase at Wal-Mart outstripped gains at other
retailers, it was a relatively disappointing showing by the
fast-growing retailer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Wal-Mart dropped $1.50 to $49.75, while J.C. Penney fell 37.5
cents to $63.25.
   "Both chains were below plan for the month, and it appears
that men's and women's apparel was in part to blame," said
Robert Buchanan, an analyst with Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.,
Baltimore. "Both chains were at or above their plans from
January through March. They hit an air pocket in April."
   Four other major retailers, including Sears, Roebuck &amp;
Co., reported mixed results for April.
   Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Ark., had posted a 27%
surge in total sales and 12% same-store sales increases in
March. For the the 13-weeks ended April 28, comparable-store
sales rose 11%.
   Analysts attributed the softer April sales to heavy rains
that have plagued the South and Southwest, the discount
retailer's strongest regions, for much of the past month.
William W. Whyte, analyst for Stephens Inc. in Little Rock,
Ark., said that Wal-Mart's sales of higher-margin
Easter-related products were strong, but sporting goods, home
and garden and some apparel sales suffered because of the
weather. He said he is still predicting that the company will
earn 44 cents a share in the quarter ended April 28, compared
with 35 cents a year ago.
   "Any stock that trades at a premium is going to get hit
when expectations aren't met or exceeded," he said.
   At Dallas-based J.C. Penney, comparable-store sales in
April dropped 2.8% compared with April 1989, while comparable
store sales for the 13 weeks ended April 28 were up 4.3%.
   "J.C. Penney switched a major promotion aimed at Penney
credit card holders from April to March, so you had to expect
April sales wouldn't be good," said Mr. Buchanan.
"Nonetheless, I was surprised by the 2.8% decline. Home
furnishings were especially weak, and apparel was also soft."
J.C. Penney "did do well in children's apparel and children's
shoes. Overall, however, it wasn't a good picture," he said.
Mr. Buchanan added that he has reduced his estimate for
Penney earnings for the year to $6.50 a share from $6.60.
   "It's not a catastrophe, but they were down," added Stacy
Ruchlamer, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. "I was
surprised to see the decrease in sales."
   William R. Howell, J.C. Penney's chairman, said that if
March and April sales results were combined, revenue was up
4.4% and comparable store sales gained 3.3%.
   "March and April should be evaluated together in order to
take into account the shift in Easter from March in 1989 to
April in 1990," he said.
   Analysts, however, said they believe it is still too early
to determine whether this will be a good year for most
retailers. "April sales were basically favorable, although
year-to-year comparisons were aided by the celebration of
Easter in mid-April compared to March 26 in 1989," said
Jeffrey Feiner, an analyst with Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. "We still
believe the overall retailing outlook will be generally
sluggish. The good news is that retailers are intent on
maintaining strong control over inventory and expenses. We
expect industrywide profitability to show gradual improvement
on a quarter-to-quarter basis during the year."
   In recent weeks, several major retail chains have been
sold at very full prices. Both Marshall Field's and Saks
Fifth Avenue brought more than $1 billion each, an indication
that interest in top performing retailers is still strong.
"What this shows is that premiere properties will still bring
premiere prices," said M. Jeffrey Branman, managing director
of Financo Inc., a New York investment banking company that
specializes in retailing.
   Mr. Branman, noting that Federated Stores Inc. yesterday
removed Bloomingdale's from the auction block, said that
bankers are still wary of financing retail leveraged
buy-outs. "You're going to see fewer deals this year," he
said. "The banks have been burned too often. The only
transactions which will get done are those retailers which
have a compelling story to tell."
   Meanwhile at Sears, the nation's biggest retailer, sales
at stores open at least a year rose 3.1% in April on a
restated basis. For the 13 weeks ended April 28, the Chicago
company said comparable-store sales were up 2.1% on a
restated basis.
   "They were basically on plan, but I don't like the company
going forward," said Mr. Buchanan, the Alex. Brown analyst.
"Sears is in too many categories and spread too thin."
   Not reporting were such key stores as Limited Inc., K mart
Corp., and Gap Inc. Their sales figures will be available
next week.
   ---
                   Four-week April period
                                                                                                       

                           a-'90 sales   '89 sales   b-%
                            millions      millions  change
                                                                                                       

   Wal-Mart ................ 2,383.0       1,982.0  + 20.0
   c-Sears ................. 2,213.4       2,152.9  +  2.8
   J.C. Penney ............. 1,040.0       1,057.0  -  1.7
   Melville ................   618.7         507.6  + 21.9
   Mercantile Stores .......   168.2         154.3  +  9.0
   TJX Cos. ................   174.6         163.3  +  6.9
                                                                                                       

                   13 weeks of Fiscal Year
                                                                                                       

                           a-'90 sales   '89 sales   b-%
                            millions      millions  change
                                                                                                       

   c-Sears ................. 6,685.5       6,577.4  +  1.6
   Wal-Mart ................ 6,762.0       5,373.0  + 26.0
   J.C. Penney ............. 3,271.0       3,104.0  +  5.4
   d-Melville .............. 2,235.6       2,018.0  + 10.8
   Mercantile Stores .......   497.9         483.4  +  3.0
   TJX Cos. ................   513.8         466.5  + 10.1
                                                                                                       

   a-Total U.S. store and catalog sales, excluding
supermarkets, from continuing operations. b-Based on exact
sales. c-1989 numbers restated to reflect discontinued
merchandise lines. Operates on a calendar year for fiscal
reporting. d-These figures represent sales for the four
months ended April 28.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Partnership Peril:
   Chip-Making Pioneer
   In U.S. Found Grief
   In Seiko Joint Venture
   ---
   Micro Power's John Hall Says
   His Loss of the Firm Shows
   Dangers in Japanese Deals
   ---
   Charges of Poor Management
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   SANTA CLARA, Calif. -- As John Hall drives his
well-traveled Buick coupe past his former office at Micro
Power Systems Inc., he can only stare wistfully at its
handsome Spanish-colonial front. The semiconductor pioneer
founded Micro Power and invested 15 of his most productive
years in it. In the process, he gave his Japanese partners,
the Seiko group, a huge head start in advanced chip
technology.
   Then, his world crashed around him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seiko, the big watch and personal-computer maker, fired
him. He lost control of the company and the technology he had
spent so long developing. He poured almost all his savings
into suing his former associates at Seiko. His old company
countersued him, warned customers of his fledgling new
company against doing business with him and charged him with
stealing trade secrets. His Japanese wife, a former Tokyo
nightclub hostess, left him.
   Now, financially and emotionally exhausted, he has agreed
to settle his complaint for just a fraction of the $110
million in damages he originally sought.
   The 57-year-old engineer is a bear of a man, but his voice
quavers a bit as he relates his story. As he tells it, he was
preparing to take Micro Power public in mid-1986 when Seiko,
fearful of losing unfettered access to his technology, ousted
him and shooed off prospective underwriters.
   He flew to Tokyo for a face-to-face meeting with Ichiro
Hattori, then Seiko's president, to negotiate his termination
settlement. As Mr. Hattori spoke in his mahogany-paneled
suite, his words chilled Mr. Hall to the bone. "He said he
controlled enough wealth in this world to win any lawsuit he
should be forced into," Mr. Hall recalls. Undeterred, Mr.
Hall returned to Santa Clara and sued Seiko in state court
here.
   Mr. Hall's discharge and more than three years of
litigation provide a startling counterpoint to American
entrepreneurs' current enthusiasm for high-tech partnerships
fueled by low-cost Japanese capital. Of course, Silicon
Valley offers many examples of smoothly operating
U.S.-Japanese joint ventures. But, noting that they are
almost all younger than his operation, Mr. Hall says the
Americans in those ventures may eventually wind up not so
enchanted with their partners.
   "The Japanese don't always honor their obligations," he
charges. "They'd strip American companies of their
technology, send it back to Japan and use it to increase
their own sales in the U.S."
   That accusation hasn't been proved. But Mr. Hall's tale
certainly challenges the image of Japanese executives as
eager to avoid litigation at all costs. Seiko has spent
millions of dollars fighting the case.
   "Mr. Hall made an unreasonable demand, and we did nothing
wrong," contends Tsuneto Enami, the managing director of
Seiko Instruments Inc., one of Seiko's four major units.
"What we want is an end {to the court suit} with an
understanding that we did nothing wrong."
   Finally, Mr. Hall's tale illustrates the difficulties of
cross-cultural partnerships. Seiko tried to turn a brilliant
engineer from West Virginia into a Japanese corporate
loyalist. Mr. Hall tried to go along. But when tough problems
arose, Mr. Hall reacted like many an American and sued.
Seiko, feeling betrayed, lashed back.
   There was little in Mr. Hall's background to prepare him
emotionally for his immersion in a Japanese corporate family.
In the early 1960s, the shy young engineer focused on
semiconductor devices and quickly became a hot ticket for his
work at General Electric Co., Honeywell Inc. and Union
Carbide Corp.
   In 1967, working at Intersil Inc. with another industry
wizard, Jean Hoerni, he won his first job for Seiko. The
Japanese watchmakers asked him if he could design a tiny chip
for their new quartz models. The engineers at one unit, Seiko
Epson Corp., doubted it could be done. In nine months, he
says, he delivered the devices.
   Seiko asked Mr. Hall to come work in Japan. But he didn't
want to give up his dream of founding his own semiconductor
company. Eventually, they struck a compromise and started a
joint venture in Santa Clara, calling it Micro Power.
   Seiko still wanted to make Mr. Hall one of its own. So,
before starting the venture, it took him to Tokyo in the fall
of 1970. For half a year, he tutored Seiko engineers by day
and drank with them by night. He soon became a trusted
sword-bearer for the Hattori family, taken along to the
geisha houses where crucial business deals are struck.
Masukatsu Hamamoto, a Seiko executive whose career included
interpreting for Hideki Tojo, Japan's wartime prime minister,
became his mentor.
   Mr. Hall quickly learned that Seiko, one of Japan's
largest privately held corporate empires, was divided into
bitterly competing fiefs. Two of its companies, Seiko
Instruments and Seiko Epson, make watches for world-wide
distribution by Hattori Seiko Co., the group's only publicly
traded company. Yet the two units compete at selling other
products, such as printers and robotic equipment, in the U.S.
"That was mostly Shoji's doing," says Mr. Hall, referring to
Ichiro Hattori's father, who made Seiko a global force in
watchmaking. "He thought that competition brought out the
best in his companies."
   Because Mr. Hall was brought into the group by Seiko
Instruments, his relations with Seiko Epson were chilly from
the start. In addition, he says, Seiko Epson engineers had
"lost face" because he had bested them with his fast delivery
of innovative watch chips.
   Epson denigrated Mr. Hall's work as trivial. But Pentagon
analysts trace Seiko's upsurge in the powerful computer
chips, called complementary metal oxide semiconductors, to
his time in Japan in the early 1970s. "Before that, they had
nothing. But after Hall, they had a lot," one Defense
Department chip expert says.
   Two powerful personal forces entered Mr. Hall's life in
Japan. One was Fumiyo Endo, an entertainer at the Mikado, a
glamorous theater-restaurant and favorite watering hole of
Tokyo businessmen. Mr. Hall left his wife, set up Ms. Endo in
an apartment and eventually married her.
   The other new force was Ichiro Hattori, the president of
both Seiko Epson and Seiko Instruments. Though about the same
age, the two men differed greatly. Mr. Hall is a soft-spoken
introvert at ease only in his workshop; Mr. Hattori, who died
three years ago, was a handsome, charming aristocrat; at
school, he had been a tennis partner of the Japanese emperor.
He also was a Yale-educated internationalist who was proud of
the 1,800 jobs that Seiko had created in the U.S. and who
urged other Japanese businessmen to be "good neighbors" with
the Americans. Yet, in private, Mr. Hattori was "autocratic
and impulsive," Mr. Hall recalls.
   After opening for business in 1971, almost alone amid
Santa Clara's orange groves and tomato farms, Micro Power
grew along with the business of making analog integrated
circuits, which measure light, heat, sound and other physical
properties (unlike digital devices, which simply count).
Micro Power's sales soared from about $250,000 in 1972 to
more than $25 million in 1985; analog devices now account for
20% of the semiconductor market.
   Mr. Hall made chips for Sharp Corp.'s first hand-held
calculators and a low-power chip for Medtronic Inc. that
could run a pacemaker for 10 years in a patient's chest
without maintenance. But best-known were his designs for the
use of molybdenum or tungsten gates to interconnect the
multitude of transistors in semiconductor devices. His
patents for molybdenum gates are assigned to Micro Power and
thus effectively under the control of Seiko, the majority
owner of Micro Power. Mr. Hall contends that the patents
eventually could be worth as much as $10 billion; Seiko
values them in the low millions.
   Mr. Hall also supplied high-performance chips to two
"Stars Wars" contractors, Aerojet-General Corp. and Hughes
Aircraft Co. One of Micro Power's biggest sales was $7
million of modules for the B-1 bomber's phased-array radar,
he says.
   His very success with technology, Mr. Hall believes,
sparked his dispute with Seiko. In 1980, Seiko was seeking to
extend its right to sell watches in China. In return, he
says, the Chinese demanded some of his high-speed flash
converters, semiconductors that can switch rapidly between
analog and digital operations. Mr. Hall, who made six trips
to China between 1980 and 1984, says he dropped the project
after the Central Intelligence Agency warned him that the
converters could greatly improve the accuracy of China's
missiles.
   Seiko, in a written statement to this newspaper, says Mr.
Hall's account of the China matter is "totally wrong" and
"slander." It adds that when asked under oath about this as
part of the litigation, "Mr. Hall couldn't show any fact as
proof."
   Courtney Hart, a former Micro Power engineer, says he
hasn't any direct knowledge that the China project was
scrapped because the CIA intervened but confirms that the
agency tracked the company's dealings with China closely. A
CIA spokesman declines to comment.
   After Mr. Hall dropped the project, he says, his relations
with Mr. Hattori began to cool. That cast a pall over another
Hall objective: to sell Micro Power stock to the public to
raise the value of the shares and make the company more
independent. Mr. Hall contended in his lawsuit that the late
Seiko president induced him to produce more technology for
the Seiko group with false promises of support for a public
offering. Seiko denies the charge, saying it never tried to
block the offering.
   But in 1985, Mr. Hall, assuming that Seiko would go along,
contacted investment bankers about taking Micro Power public.
In addition, Arthur Trueger, who heads the San Francisco
branch of Berkeley Govett Ltd., a British investment firm,
injected $7 million into Micro Power by buying preferred
stock.
   Mr. Trueger turned out to be a demanding partner,
constantly sending deputies to monitor accounts and pushing
for a management shakeup. So, Micro Power's board hired
Michele Giammarino, a retired Texas Instruments Inc.
executive, to help Mr. Hall manage the company.
   Whether a public offering would have succeeded isn't
clear. Yasuo Sakaniwa, the former president of Seiko
Instruments' U.S. subsidiary, who is acting as a spokesman
for the Hattori family on the Hall matter, says he invited 10
investment banks to manage a stock offering. "They all told
me that Micro Power wasn't ready for it," he says.
   Yet a financial adviser retained by Micro Power who asked
not to be identified says three major Wall Street firms --
Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities
Corp., and Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. -- expressed
interest. Then, he says, "Giammarino came in, and suddenly
there was no deal."
   Clifford Gookin, who was then at Bear Stearns in San
Francisco, says his initial impression was that Micro Power
was in shape to go public. "Then I was told the owners had
changed their minds," he recalls. Wendy Lane, who worked on
Micro Power for Donaldson Lufkin, says she can't recall
whether the company was ready to go public. A Smith Barney
spokesman says the officials involved have left the firm and
can't be reached.
   To the board's dismay, Mr. Giammarino and Mr. Hall
squabbled from the start. The board first kicked Mr. Hall
upstairs to be chairman. Then, in June 1986, it charged that
Mr. Hall had "misappropriated" money and suspended him as
chairman. A month later, it fired him, although he retained
his stock. Despite losing both his job and his wife, he
received little consolation from industry colleagues.
   "We do a lot of business in Japan," admits the chairman of
a major semiconductor manufacturer. "It wouldn't be helpful
for us to get involved in this matter."
   Over two years, two judges and a court-sanctioned master
denied Seiko's request to dismiss most of Mr. Hall's
complaints. Another judge did dismiss much of Mr. Hall's suit
but left standing his claims of defamation and wrongful
termination. Meanwhile, Micro Power, in its countersuit in
the state court, accused him of stealing trade secrets -- a
charge that he denies. Micro Power also said he used company
funds to support his wife. He says the company permitted the
expenditures and deducted them from his salary.
   John Hadluck, Seiko's chief litigator in the case,
concedes that the court record reads a bit like "Rashomon,"
the film classic in which villagers and a samurai in old
Japan recount wildly differing versions of the same event.
Seiko tells a different tale from essentially the same set of
facts.
   Mr. Hadluck says one of Mr. Hall's main deficiencies was
his inability to produce consistent profits. "He would come
up with an occasional product which would produce a burst of
revenue, but that's not running a company," he says. "He just
loved to tinker with new ideas."
   Seiko contends that "poor management" justified the
1985-86 crackdown on Mr. Hall. But those were bad years for
the entire semiconductor industry: Advanced Micro Devices
Inc., a leading producer of analog devices, lost $8.9 million
in 1985 and $95.2 million in 1986. And Mr. Hall insists that
Micro Power did reasonably well under his leadership. He says
that its sales increased at an average of 25% a year to
nearly $30 million in 1986 and that it reported profits of up
to $1.6 million for eight consecutive years before he was
fired.
   Seiko also declines full responsibility for the actions of
Micro Power's board. At the time of Mr. Hall's ouster, Seiko
voted only 50% of the company's stock, although it was
supported by other shareholders, including Mr. Trueger.
   "I'm sorry for John," says Mr. Sakaniwa, the former Seiko
Instruments official and a close friend of both Mr. Hall and
the Hattori family. "Micro Power was his baby; so, I can
understand why he couldn't take it." Mr. Sakaniwa says he
respects Mr. Hall's "creative genius" but attributes much of
the trouble at Micro Power to what he sees as his lack of
"common sense or business sense." He denies there was any
Seiko conspiracy to oust Mr. Hall and prevent Micro Power
from going public. "I know deep in my heart that Seiko never
intended to deceive him," he says.
   Still being debated are whether Seiko transferred some of
his technology without the necessary license and whether that
data subsequently was reshipped to China, where it might have
wound up in the missile program. The Commerce Department's
initial investigation found nothing to substantiate that
complaint. Seiko says it did look over some of Micro Power's
data for manufacturing high-speed flash converters but didn't
find the information good enough to use. Seiko Instruments'
Mr. Enami says the company also was cleared of Mr. Hall's
charges by Japan's Ministry of International Trade and
Industry.
   But the Pentagon's technology-watchers believe that some
data transferred to Japan may have been of military
significance. And Mr. Hall says the Commerce Department's
investigators heard Seiko's side of the story but never
called him back. Rep. Helen Bentley, a Japan-bashing Maryland
Republican, has asked both the Commerce Department and the
U.S. Customs Service to reopen the investigation.
   Now, as Mr. Hall contemplates a disappointing settlement
of the dispute, his former wife is little better off. "It's a
very hard time for me. Seiko can't help me. John can't help
me," Ms. Endo says in a Tokyo telephone call. "I was very
miserable last year. I felt so sorry for John."
   Mr. Sakaniwa, the former Seiko executive, says this sad
dispute shows that "we have to be more careful about
personalities when we choose our partners." He adds: "In the
U.S. system, it is very easy to sue for trifling reasons."
   Oddly, Mr. Hall comes to much the same conclusion.
American entrepreneurs, he advises, should look beyond the
individuals with whom they strike agreements and consider
whom they might deal with in the future. "If Shoji were still
alive, this probably wouldn't have happened," he says,
invoking the name of Seiko's patriarch. "If Ichiro didn't
die, this case would've been settled long ago."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Buehrmann-Tetterode:
   Dutch Company Purchases
   2 U.S. Office Supply Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N.BUT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dutch paper and packaging group Buehrmann-Tetterode N.V.
said it has acquired two U.S. office supply companies through
its subsidiary BT-USA Inc.
   The two companies, Bushart Office Products Inc. and E.W.
Curry Co., have combined annual sales of about $55 million,
according to Buehrmann-Tetterode.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisitions will be integrated with three other U.S.
office supply companies that Buehrmann-Tetterode has
purchased since 1987.
   Total U.S. sales by the group should reach $300 million
annually, Buehrmann-Tetterode said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Profit Slide Isn't Over,
   But Some See a Turnaround Soon
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX MO SGP AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The profit recession among U.S. corporations
isn't over yet, but look for a turnaround this quarter,
investors and strategists say.
   First-quarter earnings for the more than 700 stocks in the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 7.5% to $41.5 billion from
$44.9 billion a year earlier. For the second quarter, the
earnings are expected to rise about 0.8% to $47.5 billion
from $47.2 billion a year earlier, according to Zacks
Investment Research.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First-quarter earnings fell about 3% short of analysts'
expectations, according to Zacks. It was bad earnings news
and rising interest rates that sent stocks tumbling again
last month.
   Negative earnings "surprises" were generally larger than
positive ones. For those companies with disappointing
profits, earnings averaged 58.5% below the consensus estimate
of at least three analysts. By contrast, positive earnings
surprises averaged 36.6% above analyst predictions.
   Investors and strategists don't expect a big rebound in
profits in the current quarter. But by the second half,
profits -- and the stock market -- could be climbing more
discernibly. Meanwhile, it's still smart to hang on to growth
stocks that may perform better than the overall market, some
investors say.
   For example, earnings at many computer companies, such as
Compaq Computer Corp., are growing at a rate of 15% a year or
more, and computer stocks are significantly ahead of the
market this year. As of yesterday's close, the computer-stock
group including International Business Machines Corp. was up
11.2% so far this year, compared with a decline for the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index of 5.2%.
   Strategists at Shearson Lehman Hutton are bullish on the
outlook for corporate profits. Inventory rebuilding, capital
spending, and stable consumer demand will continue to keep
the economy growing, says Michael Sherman, chief investment
strategist at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   "We're betting that the economy will continue to grow and
that profits will recover and that this will continue through
next year," says Mr. Sherman.
   But earnings aren't expected to snap back robustly for all
companies. "It's not like we are coming out of a recession
and everybody is lean and mean, and profits soar," says A.
Marshall Acuff Jr., portfolio strategist at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co. "There will continue to be stocks that
slip and slide."
   An earnings rebound may be seen in companies that produce
basic materials, such as aluminum and chemicals, because
inventories are tighter and prices are heading up. But
investors are cautious about these stocks, showing there
isn't widespread conviction that earnings will surge ahead
sharply.
   "I haven't done much on the commodity-producing and
cyclical-stock side," says Michael Schonberg, managing
director at Chase Investors Management Corp. "The timing is
still questionable. The turn in earnings will be a slow
turn."
   Mr. Schonberg says growth stocks have been leading the
market this year and he expects them to continue to in that
role for the time being. Some of his favorites in that
category include Waste Management, Philip Morris and
Schering-Plough.
   But despite a negative earnings surprise in the
financial-services group of 6.3%, Mr. Schonberg is prepared
to pick through the rubble in search of a good investing
opportunity. He says he has found one in American Express
Co., and has plunked down a "major" amount of money recently
for some shares. As of yesterday's close, the
financial-services industry group was down 13.4% on the year,
while American Express is down 24%.
   "This is a stock that is historically sensitive to turns
in earnings; the travel-related services business is a good
growth story masked by a brokerage business that has been in
a terrible trend."
   ---
            Earnings Surprises By Industry
                                                                                                       

   Top positive and negative earnings surprises -- the
percentage difference between actual earnings from continuing
operations and analysts' average estimated earnings -- among
the Dow Jones industry groups for the first quarter 1990.
                                                                                                       

         Heavy machinery           10.9%
         Computers                 10.2%
         Railroads                 10.0%
         Oil service                5.2%
         Insurance                  2.5%
         Diversified technology     2.4%
         Building materials         1.3%
         Electrical components      1.1%
         Major oil companies        1.0%
         Conglomerates              0.9%

         Telephone systems        - 4.3%
         Industrial services      - 5.4%
         Textiles &amp; apparel       - 6.0%
         Financial services       - 6.3%
         Electric utilities       - 6.5%
         Steel                    - 9.1%
         Banks*                   -18.4%
         Office equipment         -21.1%
         Auto parts               -21.3%
         Media                    -35.0%
                                                                                                       

   *Includes money-center and regional banks.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ITT Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ITT Corp. (New York) -- Dr. James F. Wittmer was elected a
vice president. He continues as director-health, environment
and safety. ITT is an industrial and defense products,
financial services and hotels concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Justice Reaches Into Allenwood
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   When grocery store owner Ira Waldbaum decided to sell the
chain bearing his name, he told his sister, who told her
daughter, who told her sister, who told her husband, who
either did or did not tell his stockbroker -- who bought the
company's stock. This may sound like a flimsy scenario to
establish insider trading, but it was enough to make the
posse of former U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani and the
Securities and Exchange Commission saddle up. On Wednesday, a
federal appeals court ruled that this case should never have
been brought.
   The news reached Robert Chestman in his cell at Allenwood.
He was doing time there for the crime that he did not commit
-- and that the judges ruled does not exist. The case against
Mr. Chestman, the former broker, would be laughable if it
weren't for his anguish and the confusion his conviction
caused about what if anything "insider trading" means. Here's
what happened:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1986, the Waldbaums decided to sell their stores to
A&amp;P. Ira Waldbaum called his sister to have her gather her
stock certificates. Elderly and in poor health, she asked a
daughter who lived with her to drive her to get the
securities. The daughter called her sister, Susan Loeb, to
arrange car pooling for their children. Mrs. Loeb was anxious
that her mother might be ill, but the mother said the trip
was just to pick up the certificates. Mrs. Loeb told her
husband. The prosecutors claimed that Mr. Loeb then called
his broker, Mr. Chestman, to say he had "some definite" but
undisclosed information that Waldbaum stock would rise. Mr.
Chestman bought the stock.
   This was not an obvious
suitcases-of-cash-for-inside-information crime a la Ivan
Boesky. Indeed, Mr. Chestman claimed all along that he bought
the stock because of takeover rumors and before speaking to
Mr. Loeb. He would have been a fourth-level tippee of market
information. The prosecutors insisted that Mr. Chestman
violated their "misappropriation theory," which essentially
says that anyone who has more information than someone else
is a potential criminal.
   Mr. Chestman was indicted and convicted on 31 counts of
insider trading, perjury and mail fraud. The legal theory was
that he had aided and abetted Mr. Loeb in violating his duty
to his family. In May, trial Judge John Walker Jr. threw Mr.
Chestman in the slammer for two years and fined him $250,000
"to send a message to Wall Street and the financial community
that those who cheat the markets out of greed must pay a
price for their conduct." The SEC took away Mr. Chestman's
broker license. Because he couldn't get a job doing anything
until he'd done his time, he went to jail pending the appeal.
   On Wednesday, the appeals court rejected the entire
prosecution case. The most stunning reversal came when two of
the three judges invalidated an SEC rule adopted in 1980 that
has been the favorite of overzealous regulators. Rule 14e-3
makes it a crime for someone to trade if he simply possesses
"material information," even if it was someone else who
violated a duty to get it.
   Judge Daniel Mahoney said the SEC does not have the power
to issue a rule criminalizing trades where the defendant did
not himself breach some fiduciary duty to get the
information. Judge Mahoney emphasized the "rule of lenity,"
which holds that people mustn't be convicted when the law is
vague and unpredictable.
   The Second Circuit in New York has upheld many 14e-3
convictions. We suspect the accumulated abuses in this and
other Giuliani white-collar cases persuaded judges in this
case to send a message. When the judges reviewed the record
of the trial, they found slim evidence that Mr. Loeb had even
spoken with Mr. Chestman before the trades, and that there
was much evidence that he hadn't. They threw out the perjury
convictions. And they rejected the mail-fraud charges because
Mr. Chestman had not committed any fraud at all.
   The 14e-3 issue aside, all three judges said that even if
Mr. Loeb had passed on information that Waldbaum stock would
rise, this would not have made Mr. Chestman a criminal.
"After passing through several family channels, it cannot be
said that the information was confidential to any degree or
was any more than `family gossip,'" Judge Roger Miner wrote
for the court.
   At least in the New York jurisdiction, the law again makes
sense: Do not trade information if you have a contractual or
other legal duty not to steal the information, but it's safe
again to dig out and analyze information in the markets
without worrying about Allenwood. Faced with many appeals of
convictions in other 14e-3 cases, the SEC will probably lobby
the New York prosecutors to appeal. Or maybe Congress will
finally write a clear, bright-line definition of insider
trading; we'll cross our fingers that Congress doesn't make
the law more confusing.
   If there's any justice, U.S. v. Chestman will be a
precedent for more reversals as other questionable
convictions make it to the appeals courts. It may be
coincidence that this decision comes a week after the Milken
plea. But prosecutions under the vague "misappropriation
theory" are the foundation on which many created the larger
notion that the whole market now consists of significant
illegal activity. No one rode this harder than Rudolph
Giuliani, who prosecuted Mr. Chestman shortly after the
Boesky conviction. Now the court has made clearer who in the
market is a criminal and who is not a criminal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bush Drops Plan for New Arms in Europe
   ---
   President Says U.S. Is Ready
   For Talks With Moscow
   To Cut Existing Missiles
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush, in a move as important for
its political symbolism as its military substance, said the
U.S. would scrap plans to put new short-range nuclear
missiles in Western Europe.
   Mr. Bush also announced the U.S. is prepared to open talks
with the Soviet Union more quickly than previously planned on
cutting existing short-range nuclear missiles. And he
declared that the U.S. won't put new nuclear artillery shells
into Western Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "As democracy comes to Eastern Europe and Soviet troops
return home, there is less need for nuclear systems of the
shortest range," Mr. Bush said at a news conference. He also
called for a meeting of leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization this summer to talk about broader questions of
European security in the wake of the past year's changes in
Eastern Europe.
   The president's steps, which Secretary of State James
Baker disclosed to America's European allies at a meeting in
Brussels at the same time Mr. Bush announced them here,
amounts to an attempt to get political mileage out of
disarmament steps that had become inevitable.
   Support had collapsed in both West Germany and in the U.S.
Congress for building the new short-range nuclear missiles,
which would be a modernized version of the existing Lance
missile. The missiles, which were to be based on German soil,
seemed anachronistic because they would be targeted at East
European countries that have shed their Communist governments
in the last year.
   Moreover, with East Germany and West Germany rushing
toward unification, there is little chance leaders of either
country would tolerate the deployment of new nuclear-tipped
artillery shells anywhere in Germany, as once anticipated.
   While the steps Mr. Bush announced are being forced on
him, the administration thinks that packaging them as a new
American initiative gives Washington a better chance of
steering the rapid changes in Europe. By formally dropping
plans for new short-range nuclear weapons, and particularly
by accelerating talks on removing existing weapons, Mr. Bush
hopes to keep up with public opinion in Western Europe. He
also hopes to prevent a Soviet campaign to quickly drive all
nuclear weapons out of Western Europe.
   In addition, U.S. officials hope that announcement of the
disarmament moves now will help ease some of the Soviet
Union's fears about allowing a new, unified Germany to become
a full-fledged member of NATO, the Western military alliance.
The U.S. badly wants the new Germany firmly planted in the
Western camp, but Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has
repeatedly objected to that idea.
   The U.S. previously had been planning to hold talks
eventually with the Soviet Union on cuts in short-range
nuclear missiles. But until yesterday's announcement, the
Bush administration hadn't been planning to open the talks
until a treaty slashing U.S. and Soviet conventional forces
in Europe was completed and was being implemented -- probably
around 1992.
   Mr. Bush now is declaring that he's ready to open talks
with the Soviets on short-range nuclear weapons as soon as
the conventional arms treaty is finished -- probably this
fall -- without waiting for it to be implemented.
   More broadly, the president's message is that the future
of nuclear weapons in the new Europe should be worked out
jointly by the U.S. and its allies, and shouldn't be decided
precipitously. "The future of the United States cannot be
separated from the future of Europe," Mr. Bush said. "And so,
along with our allies, we must prepare for the magnificent
opportunities that lie ahead."
   But actually agreeing with the Soviets on reductions in
short-range nuclear weapons won't be easy. Such weapons were
left untouched by the accord Mr. Gorbachev and former
President Reagan signed in 1987 to eliminate
intermediate-range nuclear weapons.
   One sticking point in the new negotiations will be the
Bush administration's hope to maintain an arsenal of nuclear
weapons carried on planes even as ground-based nuclear
weapons are cut.
   In addition, it isn't clear whether the U.S. is willing to
negotiate cuts in existing nuclear-tipped artillery shells as
well as nuclear missiles. And Mr. Bush didn't say whether the
ultimate American goal is reduction or elimination of
short-range nuclear weapons in Europe.
   On a related issue, Mr. Bush again defended his decision
not to impose sanctions on the Soviet Union for its crackdown
in Lithuania, and said he is glad Lithuania's leaders are
indicating a willingness to suspend some laws they passed to
buttress their declaration of independence from the Soviet
Union.
   Mr. Bush said he considers it "very, very positive" that
Lithuanian President Vytautas Landsbergis has shown interest
in a proposal from France and Germany that Lithuania suspend
the effects of some of its new laws in hopes of launching
negotiations with the Kremlin. Mr. Bush spoke just before
meeting privately with the prime minister of the
self-proclaimed Lithuanian government, Kazimiera Prunskiene.
The White House meeting was Mr. Bush's first direct contact
with a leader of Lithuania's independence movement.
   The president insisted that he wasn't choosing between
siding with Mr. Gorbachev or Lithuania. "Of course, we favor
self-determination" for Lithuania, Mr. Bush said. "I don't
think that's new, my saying that. And of course, we favor
democracy and freedom."
   But Mr. Bush again implied that he considered securing
agreements with Mr. Gorbachev on issues such as getting
Soviet troops out of Eastern Europe so important that the
issue of Lithuania shouldn't interfere with that effort.
"There's a lot at stake in all of this," he said. "There's
complications in all of this. Poland, Eastern Europe -- I
want those troops out. And I want to see the firming up of
the democracies in Eastern Europe."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Three Stock Exchanges Mount
   Sharply Aggressive Ad Campaigns
   ----
   By William Power
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WPPGY TBSA HTG OMCM
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trade stocks here] Trade stocks here]
   For the first time, the nation's three major stock markets
will be mounting big advertising campaigns simultaneously in
which they boast about themselves and belittle their
competition. The campaigns reflect how competitive Wall
Street has gotten as trading volume has shriveled since the
1987 stock market crash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock exchanges have run ads for some time, of course. But
there are several twists to the current binge -- including
first-ever television ads by the Nasdaq over-the-counter
market, in which it declares the high-technology Nasdaq is
"The Stock Market for the Next 100 Years." Meanwhile, the New
York Stock Exchange (the stock market for the past 200 years)
has raised eyebrows among competitors with a renewed
aggressiveness in its ads, which focus on swaying not just
investors and corporate America, but financial journalists as
well.
   The American Stock Exchange, a distant third behind the
others, joined the ad frenzy this week by announcing it had
retained an agency to launch a major campaign of its own.
   "Today, the exchanges are being very competitive," says
the New York Stock Exchange's top public-relations man,
Richard Torrenzano. "You want to make sure people are aware
of what's going on, the kinds of companies listed with you
and why they want to list."
   The Big Board has two sets of ads. One set includes
corporate chieftains, including such Nasdaq "defectors" as
Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., saying nice things
about the Big Board. The other campaign is a copy-heavy
description of the exchange and its workings that is meant to
establish it firmly as America's main market. This campaign
has even run in journalist trade publications, as part of
what the exchange says is a bid to sway "opinion leaders."
   The Big Board ads are striking because they specifically
criticize the OTC market, and even take shots at regional
stock exchanges that have been eating into the Big Board's
market share. Some of the Big Board ads contain what amounts
to a warning against trading stocks on regional exchanges. "I
don't know why they have to do that," protests the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange's president, Nicholas Giordano,
who says all stock exchanges should cooperate to try to lure
back small investors.
   But the main PR fight going on so far is between the Big
Board and the sprawling Nasdaq market. By far the two biggest
stock markets in the U.S., they have fought for years for
listings of prized companies. The Big Board would love to
snare such brand-name Nasdaq companies as Apple Computer, MCI
Communications and Intel, and Nasdaq knows it.
   Nasdaq has three TV ads so far, produced by the Messner
Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer agency, that have run in the
New York City area starting with the Masters golf tournament
last month. Its print ads include testimonials from the heads
of Apple and MCI, and a new one will feature the Ben &amp;
Jerry's Homemade Inc. ice cream entrepreneurs.
   One of the TV ads is a downright Big Board basher. With a
solemn soundtrack of medieval chanting, the ad shows a
slow-motion scene of a trading floor in which
maniacal-looking brokers are waving their arms and barking
orders; one broker appears to be foaming at the mouth. The
narration: "Is there a rational alternative to the
traditional trading floor? Yes. Not having one." Fade in on
the Nasdaq logo.
   Brian Holland, senior vice president of marketing for the
National Association of Securities Dealers, which runs
Nasdaq, says that despite appearances, his market isn't
personally attacking the Big Board. It's merely trying to
"build awareness in the public" that the Nasdaq market is
available, and more importantly, that the Nasdaq system is
separate from the OTC marketplace as a whole. "People don't
realize, based on our research, that there are other ways to
trade" besides the traditional stock exchange, Mr. Holland
says.
   As for the Big Board's ads, Mr. Holland, like the
Philadelphia exchange's Mr. Giordano, says the Big Board is
"quite strident in their attacks. Personally, I think we're
all in this together."
   Is the stately Big Board really strident? Mr. Torrenzano
of the Big Board says such a complaint must mean his
exchange's ads, designed by its longtime agency, WPP Group's
Lord, Geller, Federico, Einstein Inc. unit, are "very
powerful," as they should be.
   The Big Board hasn't advertised on TV so far, says Mr.
Torrenzano, because it doesn't think the medium is worth the
money. But the exchange doesn't rule out TV ads in the
future.
   Both the Big Board and Nasdaq campaigns will cost each
market millions of dollars. Neither will say exactly how
much. Meanwhile, the American Stock Exchange has just hired
the two-year-old agency Follis &amp; Verdi to prepare what the
exchange calls a "high-gear" ad effort of its own.
   The American exchange's message will be that it's the
"marketplace for the '90s," says exchange Chairman James R.
Jones, an ex-congressman who knows about swaying public
opinion. The Amex used to be a strong challenger for the Big
Board, but these days it relies on its strong niche in the
options market to maintain its status as a major exchange.
   The Big Board and Nasdaq are eagerly awaiting what the
Follis &amp; Verdi agency comes up with. The agency -- which used
to work for the Commodity Exchange and is responsible for the
current, powerful National Basketball Association ads about
child abuse -- isn't so sure that ads such as the Big Board's
and Nasdaq's are as good as they could be.
   "CEOs are looking for service, visibility and market
quality," says Ellis Verdi, Follis &amp; Verdi president. "I feel
strongly there are a few significant messages that need to be
made, and very few have been made and made effectively yet."
   ---
   TV News at Supermarkets
                                                                                                       

   Turner Broadcasting System's Cable News Network &amp; Headline
News and Act Media Inc., as expected, entered into a
partnership to supply supermarkets with television newscasts
at checkout lines.
   The advertiser-supported service, "The Checkout Channel,"
will be test marketed in 12 stores in six cities from August
through October. Representatives of Act Media, a unit of
Heritage Media, and Turner Broadcasting said the channel will
be available nationally in 5,000 supermarkets by the first
quarter of 1991.
   The programming will be eight minutes in length with
two-and-a-half minutes of commercials. The supermarkets will
receive TV sets and satellite dishes and will share in the ad
revenue. The news can be updated every eight minutes.
   ---
   Ad Note. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ASSIGNMENT: Converse Inc., North Reading, Mass., named
Ingalls, Quinn &amp; Johnson, Boston, to handle ads for its Evolo
by Converse women's performance shoe line. Billings are
estimated at $2 million. Ingalls Quinn is Converse's main
agency for its line of sneakers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   States Try
   To Balance
   Job, Family
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   New Jersey employers are scrambling to figure out how to
comply with a new state law requiring them to give time off
to employees with pressing family needs.
   The Family Leave Act, which goes into effect today, sets
the most generous leave policies in the nation and is a model
for similar initiatives being considered in other states.
Advocates say it is in the forefront of "family friendly"
labor laws intended to attract and retain employees,
particularly women.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "American businesses need to recognize that workers have
both work responsibilities and family responsibilities, and
they need some accommodation of these competing needs," says
Helen Norton, staff attorney for the Women's Legal Defense
Fund in Washington, D.C.
   But many New Jersey employers view the new law with
concern and confusion. "It's going to be very difficult for
employers, particularly in smaller companies where every
employee is key," says James Morford, vice president of the
New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. In applying the law to
companies of different sizes, he notes, "there's no
flexibility."
   In its first year, the law requires companies with over
100 employees to provide 12 weeks of unpaid leave with
benefits every two years to employees facing the birth or
adoption of a child or a serious illness in their immediate
family. Upon returning, employees must be given the same or
an equal job at the same pay.
   Next year, the law will be extended to companies with more
than 75 employees and, the year after that, to companies with
50 or more employees. At that time, the law will affect
roughly 10,000 companies in New Jersey and about half the
state's employees. Employers who fail to comply can be fined
up to $5,000 per violation and be sued for punitive damages.
   The law is part of a legislative trend in many states --
as well as recent efforts in Congress -- toward mandating a
new balance between the workplace and employees' families.
Since 1972, 25 states and Puerto Rico passed laws that in
some form protect employees who must leave their jobs
temporarily for family reasons.
   Another 14 states have legislation pending. Most are
variations of New Jersey's law, but some go further.
Lawmakers in Pennsylvania are considering a measure that
would require companies with only 10 employees to provide up
to 18 weeks of unpaid family leave and 26 weeks of unpaid
medical leave, with job-back guarantees. In Massachusetts,
state legislators are considering similar leave provisions
requiring employers to offer them with pay.
   But New Jersey's law is the broadest. Most such laws
address only maternity leave. The concept of family leave --
applying both to time off due to babies and seriously ill
family members -- is still foreign to many employers. And in
almost every state where leave benefits are mandatory,
employees must assume the cost of company benefits, such as
health insurance premiums, while on leave.
   New Jersey is the only state that both mandates generous
leave provisions and requires companies to pay for benefits
while the employee is out. That worries many employers,
business groups and labor management lawyers.
   "This totally ignores the realities of business," says
Marvin Goldstein, an attorney with the Roseland, N.J., labor
law firm of Grotta, Glassman &amp; Hoffman, which represents
management.
   Proponents say such laws are long overdue. More than half
of new mothers -- married women with children under a year
old -- have jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Traditional households with a working husband and
a wife at home are at an all-time low -- 5% of all married
couples. Laws such as New Jersey's, proponents say, are
necessary as more women build careers and as fathers assume
more responsibility for child rearing. The laws also
recognize that, with the population growing older and both
spouses working, employees increasingly need time off to care
for aging relatives.
   Companies complain that New Jersey's law is going into
effect without regulations defining its scope. It isn't
clear, for example, whether an employee is only someone
working in the state or is anyone employed by a New
Jersey-based company, even those working outside the state.
   Employers also say that exemptions from the law are
unclear and there is potential for abuse by employees. "There
are a lot of people out there who wouldn't mind taking 12
weeks off, particularly with benefits and job reinstatement,"
says Steven W. Suflas, a labor attorney at Archer &amp; Greiner,
a Haddonfield, N.J., law firm.
   The civil rights division of the state Attorney General's
office is expected to issue a legal opinion today answering
some of these questions, and regulatory guidelines will
follow this summer.
   Many employers say that state laws governing employee
benefits are anti-competitive, expensive and disruptive,
particularly for companies in highly specialized fields.
"Employers need flexibility to structure a mix of wages,
salaries and benefits in order to keep good workers," says
Ann Hurwitt, incoming president of the New Jersey Association
of Women Business Owners, which opposes the law. "Mandated
benefits ignore the diverse needs of employees and limit the
options available in employment negotiations."
   Unpaid leave could create special problems for small
companies in New Jersey and other states that follow its
lead, says Carolyn Miller, a lobbyist for the National
Federation of Independent Business in Washington, D.C. The
federation, which represents small businesses and claims
570,000 members nationwide, including 5,000 in New Jersey,
has mounted intense lobbying efforts against family-leave
legislation. For smaller companies, particularly if the work
involved is highly skilled, the ill-timed absence of one or
two employees can be critical, says Ms. Miller.
   At United Medical Corp., which specializes in providing
24-hour electrocardiogram analysis and heart pacemaker
monitoring, job training alone takes four to six weeks, says
Marian Wissman, the company's personnel director. The
Haddonfield, N.J., company has 500 employees, including 170
in New Jersey. "People don't just walk into this job," she
says.
   Some large companies in New Jersey, such as Johnson &amp;
Johnson in New Brunswick and Campbell Soup Co. in Camden,
already offer leave benefits that equal or surpass the new
state requirements. But many companies, employers say, may
have to scale back on other benefits in order to meet the
costs of complying with the law. Some employers also predict
a new reluctance to hire and promote employees, particularly
women, who they think may be more likely to need leaves.
   "Employers will have to make these calls," says Mr.
Morford of the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. "It adds
another foggy dimension to hiring and promotion practices."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Capitol Bancorp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CAPB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CAPITOL BANCORP. (Boston) -- This bank holding company
added four directors to its board, expanding it to 15
members: Phillip Ciolfi, president of Selecterm Inc.,
Watertown, Mass.; Harold Gold, president of Graphic Leasing
Corp., Waltham, Mass.; Donato Pizzuti, a private real estate
developer in Boston; and Paul Roiff, president of Heath
Management Co., also of Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Antitrust Suit Planned
   Against Cinema Firms
   In Kansas City Area
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AEN
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department announced that it
will file a civil antitrust suit against American
Multi-Cinema Inc. and Mid-America Cinema Corp., two Kansas
City-area film exhibitors.
   The two companies entered into a management agreement in
December 1988 in which AMC, which is a unit of Kansas City,
Mo.-based AMC Entertainment, obtained power to set admission
prices and film rental fees for MAC's theaters in the Kansas
City metropolitan area, according to a Justice Department
statement. The statement also said that the two companies
have a combined market share that exceeded 65% of all
first-run admissions in 1989, and that this poses a
significant risk to competition in the Kansas City area, in
both Missouri and Kansas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spokesmen for the companies could not be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IMF Sees Economies
   Slowing World-Wide
   Without Recession
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund reported
that world economic growth is slowing this year to an average
rate of 2.25% from 3% in 1989 and 4% in 1988, but it said "no
recession is in sight."
   "We don't see a broadly based downturn in industrial
countries," said Jacob Frenkel, the IMF's chief economist, at
a news conference called to discuss the fund's latest "World
Economic Outlook" report. Mr. Frenkel and other IMF
economists forecast that the real, or inflation-adjusted,
world economic growth rate will "rebound" next year to an
average of around 3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The IMF noted that "inflation remains a major concern in
many industrial countries, despite the economic slowdown
stemming from the generalized tightening of monetary
conditions since 1988." It added that interest rates are
likely to remain relatively high, so long as monetary
restraint isn't supported by fiscal restraint, particularly
in countries such as the U.S. that have high budget deficits.
   Assuming that exchange rates for major currencies remain
at about current levels, the IMF economists predicted that
the U.S. current-account international payments deficit,
which declined last year to just under $106 billion, will
widen to $113.4 billion in 1990 and to nearly $130 billion in
1991.
   It said Japan's surplus will total about $57.4 billion
this year, little changed from last year's figure, but will
widen to $73.4 billion in 1991. West Germany's surplus, which
amounted to $52.8 billion last year, will increase this year
to $62.3 billion and grow further to $68.2 billion in 1991,
the IMF said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Germany Faces the Jury
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Tomorrow, ministers from the four victorious Allies of
World War II meet in Bonn to discuss a unified Germany's
security policy. Though the clear wish of the German people
is to be a part of NATO, the Soviet Union seems ready to try
to thwart that goal. Instead, the Soviets want the equivalent
of continued four-power occupation. When you look at this
week's events in Red Square, with infuriated Soviet citizens
trying to break Moscow's grip, that sounds a bit disengaged
from reality.
   The three Western Allies, with some reservations, think
that the Germans are entitled to have their own country once
more. West Germany has earned that right with 45 years of
responsible democratic behavior. East Germans won it with
their courageous break with Moscow and vote to join the West.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the Soviets seem prepared to cling to the past,
treating Germany like a just-conquered vassal. After early
hints of reasonableness, they now call the German desire to
remain in NATO "absurd." Last month in the German weekly Der
Spiegel, Valenin Falin, Mr. Gorbachev's adviser on German
affairs, rumbled, "Either the GDR . . . fulfills its mandate
and the agreements and obligations that it entered into with
the Warsaw Pact and Soviet Union, or the latent rights of the
Soviet Union will become an acute question."
   That sort of old-fashioned Soviet bullying, familiar to
Lithuanians, suggests NATO is not obsolete. The Soviet
position rests on a denial of reality. As if the democratic
revolutions of the past year never happened, they insist that
the military demarcation of Europe should continue to run
down the middle of Germany.
   The Soviets say they might remove their troops from East
Germany if the Allies remove theirs from West Germany. But
then Germany would be in limbo, unattached to the community
that West Germany helped build. Can the Russians really think
that would be a stable situation?
   Some Westerners seem bent on matching the Soviet mind
games. NATO Minister Gianni de Michelis of Italy has praised
Czech President Vaclav Havel's idea of a single European
army, with the British RAF and the KGB under a single
command. German Chancellor Kohl has suggested a single
security structure that would stretch from Iceland to
Vladivostok. European diplomats talk about a NATO that would
shake off its military aspect and become a political
alliance, whatever that means. East German President Lothar
de Maiziere talks about a NATO that would be disarmed and
militarily eviscerated.
   Before the 4+2 diplomats emerge and issue a communique
saying that the law of gravity has been repealed, it may be
worth returning to the fundamental realities.
   Germany is a mature democratic nation, whose future should
not be determined by pie-in-the-sky diplomatic maneuverings.
The 4+2 structure, by revivifying World War II, has done
little more than add legitimacy to the presence of unwanted
Soviet troops on German soil. It has complicated German
unification and provided the Soviets with a forum in which to
claim sovereignty over Germany.
   Negotioholics think that by reshaping negotiating
structures they are reshaping the world. But when diplomacy
doesn't reflect reality there is only trouble ahead.
   The goal that NATO officials should set before them is to
speed Soviet withdrawal from Germany. And the voters of
Germany should tell their leaders that, with all the
rebuilding that has to be done in the East, they are not
willing to spend one billion Deutsche marks a year to support
an occupation army.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fleet/Norstar Had
   First-Quarter Loss
   Of $98.1 Million
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FNG
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc., stung by a sharp
increase in troubled assets, reported a first-quarter loss of
$98.1 million, or 92 cents a share, compared with profit of
$92.4 million, or 84 cents a share, for the year-earlier
quarter.
   The quarterly loss -- the company's first since 1974 --
stemmed from a $367 million provision for possible loan
losses. The loss would have been larger had it not been for
$90 million in pretax gains from the sale of part of the
Providence, R.I., company's credit-card portfolio and a
change in the investment structure of its pension plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Wall Street, where investors had worried about the
outcome of federal regulators' recent examination of the
bank, the news apparently wasn't as bad as feared. In active
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Fleet/Norstar closed at $19.25, up 50 cents.
   The results are "nothing to jump up and down about
obviously," said Dennis Shea, an analyst with Morgan Stanley
&amp; Co. "But it's nice to see there wasn't an extraordinary
degree of deterioration" in underlying earnings and in asset
quality. Mr. Shea noted that several of the company's
nonbanking financial service operations continued to perform
strongly.
   But Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it placed on CreditWatch
with negative implications its ratings on about $2.2 billion
of Fleet/Norstar's long-term debt. The rating company said
the results "show a higher-than-expected increase in
nonperforming assets, confirming that regional economic
troubles, especially in real estate, have not abated."
   Terrence Murray, chairman and chief executive officer,
said in an interview that Fleet/Norstar expects to be
profitable in the next three quarters, and to show a profit
for the full year. He declined to be more specific. Mr.
Murray said federal regulators have completed their
examination of the bank and "are aware of" the company's
earnings statement, but haven't submitted their final report
on the exam.
   Nonperforming assets jumped to $928 million, or 4.3% of
related assets at March 31. That's up sharply from the $400
million, or 1.8%, at Dec. 31 -- but still below the
proportions at New England's other big commercial banks. Of
the March 31 total, $552 million is related to commercial
real estate, the company said. The total includes $275
million in foreclosed real estate, compared with $80 million
at Dec. 31. Assets in that category are written down to
market value.
   Mr. Murray said he sees "no signs of a turnaround" in the
New England real estate market. "I think it's been on a slide
for a year and it will continue to slide through the rest of
the year."
   But he predicted that many of the assets classified as
nonperforming will prove to be sound. "Historically, less
than 25% of nonperforming loans are actually lost through
nonpayment," he said.
   The first-quarter loan-loss provision brings total
reserves to $595 million, or 91% of nonperforming loans and
64% of total nonperforming assets. Nonperforming assets
include those on which payments are past due, or that seem
likely to become delinquent because of market trends or the
borrowers' financial condition. Some $412 million of the $928
million in nonperforming assets were contractually current or
past due fewer than 90 days, according to John Flynn, chief
financial officer. Mr Flynn said the company's regulators had
used "conservative" assumptions in evaluating loan quality.
   Fleet/Norstar said its mortgage banking operation, Fleet
Mortgage Group, contributed $10 million in net income, or 77%
more than a year earlier. Earnings for Fleet Finance, the
company's Atlanta-based consumer finance subsidiary, rose
19%, to $11 million.
   Mr. Murray said the company increased its liquid assets by
more than $5 billion, mainly in the form of Treasury bills,
since late last year. Fleet/Norstar relies on commercial
paper and other outside funding sources for its nonbanking
operations, analysts note, so the extra liquidity would help
if commercial-paper buyers turn skittish.
   Fleet/Norstar also declared the usual quarterly dividend
of 35 cents a share, payable July 1 to stock of record June
15.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, May 3, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 1/4% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.30% 30 to 59 days; 8.275% 60 to 89 days;
8.25% 90to 119 days; 8.225% 120 to 149 days; 8.20% 150 to 270
days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.37%
30 days; 8.40% 60 days; 8.45% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.82% one month; 7.89% two
months; 7.94% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.36% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.40% one month; 8.60% three months;
8.80% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.23% 30 days; 8.32% 60days; 8.32% 90
days; 8.36% 120 days; 8.36% 150 days; 8.35% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/2% - 8 3/8% one month; 8 5/8%
- 8 1/2% two months; 8 11/16% - 8 9/16% three months; 8
13/16% - 8 11/16% four months; 8 15/16% - 8 13/16% five
months; 8 15/16% - 8 13/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/2% one month;
8 11/16% three months; 9% six months; 9 3/8% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.91% 13 weeks; 8.03% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.607%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.56%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.25%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.81%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Senate Democrats
   Ask Public Funding
   Of All Campaigns
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats unveiled a campaign-finance
proposal that would take most of the special-interest money
out of politics and replace it with public funds.
   "We have to slow down the money chase," said Sen. David
Boren (D., Okla.), an architect of the plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Democratic plan would require Senate candidates to
adhere to spending limits, based on the voting-age population
of their state. In return, they would receive a
taxpayer-financed subsidy to run their campaigns, as well as
reduced mail and broadcast costs.
   The Democratic plan would also prohibit contributions to
U.S. Senate candidates by political action committees. This
proposal follows the lead of Republican senators, who earlier
this week submitted a campaign-finance plan that would
abolish PACs altogether.
   It was unclear yesterday how many Democrats had actually
signed onto the plan for public funds, which will be
vigorously opposed by Republicans. Majority Leader George
Mitchell said he expected a "substantial majority" of
Democrats to embrace it.
   The plan would cost at least $120 million per election
cycle, according to estimates by Democratic Senate aides. The
funds would come from a voluntary taxpayer checkoff similar
to the system used for financing the presidential election.
The checkoff probably would be increased to $3 per individual
from $1 to cover the cost of congressional campaigns.
   But Republican critics immediately contended that the plan
would be far more costly. If House races were added, Sen.
Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.), who led a filibuster against
campaign-finance legislation two years ago, predicted the
Democratic plan would cost $400 million. "They surely must
know this isn't going anywhere," Sen. McConnell said
yesterday.
   "Their plan sounds more like a campaign rip-off than
campaign reform," said Republican Sen. Pete Wilson of
California.
   Many Republicans also oppose spending caps because most
incumbents are Democrats, and challengers usually need to
raise more money to win an election.
   To be eligible for the public funds under the Democratic
proposal, Senate candidates would have to raise a threshold
level of private funds (10% of the general election spending
limit in their state, at least half of which must come from
in-state individuals in amounts of $250 or less). Candidates
also would be permitted to exceed the spending limits by 25%
with small contributions ($100 or less) raised within the
state.
   In an effort to woo moderate Republicans, the Democratic
plan embraces broadcast provisions endorsed by Sen. John
Danforth (R., Mo.). Candidates would receive vouchers for
prime-time television advertisements of one to five minutes
during the eight weeks leading up to a general election. They
also would be required to appear on camera at the end of
their ads to take responsibility for the content. These
proposals would curb negative, "hit-and-run" campaign ads,
Sen. Boren said.
   The Democrats also proposed clamping down on large
contributions made by wealthy individuals to state political
parties, known as soft money, which isn't restricted by
federal laws.
   Several public-interest groups, including Common Cause and
Public Citizen, praised the Democratic plan.
   But almost everyone predicts difficult negotiations ahead.
"This can lead to a new system that fundamentally changes the
way business is conducted in Washington," said Common Cause's
Fred Wertheimer, "or it can lead to stalemate and status quo,
a disastrous result for the country."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Takes
   Bloomingdale's
   Sale Sign Down
   ---
   Concern Over Tax Liability,
   Reluctance to Cut Price
   Took Retailer Off Block
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Federated Stores Inc. pulled its Bloomingdale's
chain from the auction block, a move that observers and
analysts have been expecting since January.
   Federated, the Campeau Corp. unit that holds Federated
Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp., said
retaining Bloomingdale's is in the best interests of its
creditors, customers and employees. Federated and Allied
sought protection from creditors in January under Chapter 11
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Bloomingdale's had been up for
sale since early September, but the committee that was
supposed to spearhead the sale disbanded in January after
efforts to restructure Federated and Allied outside of
bankruptcy court failed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federated said it intends to "aggressively" manage the
17-store chain to take advantage of its "future potential."
But Bloomingdale's potential for expansion is weak and that
was a big reason why Federated wasn't able to sell the
division at a price it wanted, said Kurt Barnard, publisher
of New York-based Retail Marketing Report, an industry
newsletter.
   "Bloomingdale's is a store that depends on a certain
panache that is associated with New York," Mr. Barnard said.
That makes it difficult to take the chain to other cities,
especially because U.S. retail customers are becoming more
conservative in their spending, he said.
   "Bloomingdale's will have to find an identity that is
captivating, but sets it apart from the crowd," he said.
   Federated's announcement comes little more than one week
after Investcorp International Inc. agreed to buy Saks Fifth
Avenue from B.A.T Industries PLC for $1.5 billion. It is
possible that Federated didn't want to be "deeply
embarrassed" by selling Bloomingdale's at a bargain-basement
price when Saks went for a price at which Campeau Corp.
Chairman Robert Campeau once bragged he could sell
Bloomingdale's, Mr. Barnard said.
   Federated officials won't say what bids, if any, were
received for Bloomingdale's, but industry observers say
offers may have been as low as $800 million. Janet Mangano,
analyst with Josephthal &amp; Co., said that Federated may have
decided to keep Bloomingdale's to avoid a huge tax liability.
Federated may be better off keeping Bloomingdale's and its
cash flow, which is the highest of Campeau's nine retail
chains, as it tries to restructure under bankruptcy law.
   Federated said "market circumstances" and Federated's
financial status have "changed significantly" since
Bloomingdale's was put up for sale. Mr. Barnard said
Federated management and creditors probably would have
preferred to sell Bloomingdale's if bids had topped $1
billion. Observers agreed that with Bloomingdale's back in
the Federated fold, it is likely that other Federated or
Allied assets will take its place on the auction block.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Avon Products Inc.
   Is Urged to Review
   Takeover Defense
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   AVP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Avon Products Inc. shareholders, rejecting
advice of management, urged reconsideration of the company's
anti-takeover plan.
   Although the two votes aren't binding on the board, they
provide further evidence of weak shareholder support for the
cosmetic company's management, which last year and this has
faced calls for a takeover and threatened proxy contests by
several groups.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Avon recently averted a proxy contest from its largest
holder, Chartwell Associates L.P., by agreeing to put two
Chartwell representatives on its board. The agreement also
called for the formation of a special committee to seek ways
to maximize shareholder value. The committee will include two
Chartwell representatives and four incumbent Avon board
members.
   But Chartwell didn't sign a standstill agreement, and has
since been acquiring more Avon shares. Chartwell has control
of nearly 12.5% of Avon, and has about 16.6% of the common
shares.
   About 60% of shareholders who voted endorsed two separate
proposals concerning Avon's anti-takeover plan. One
recommended that the plan be redeemed or submitted to a
shareholder vote; another sought a vote on the plan. About
29% of holders voting abstained from voting on those
measures.
   A spokesman for Avon said the vote wasn't unexpected. "I'm
sure the board will take the vote into consideration," he
said. He said that a shareholder proposal to put the
anti-takeover plan to a vote passed last year. Shareholders
also supported a proposal to institute confidential voting,
but voted against one to establish a shareholders' advisory
committee.
   Chartwell Associates consists of oil heir Gordon Getty,
cosmetics rival Mary Kay Corp., Mary Kay's vice chairman,
John Rochon, and the Fisher real estate family of New York.
   The compromise between Avon and Chartwell called for
supporting a slate of nominees to the board that included two
Chartwell representatives, as well as James E. Preston,
Avon's chairman and chief executive officer, and Charles S.
Locke an incumbent board member. That slate was approved at
the meeting. Mr. Rochon, who will leave his post at Mary Kay,
will advise the committee.
   Avon recently attempted to stiffen its anti-takeover plan,
proposing to lower the ownership threshold that would trigger
the plan; a federal judge blocked that attempt. Avon is
appealing the ruling. At the same time, Avon sent a letter to
Chartwell suggesting the group refrain from acquiring more
shares in the company, because Avon believed the purchases
would unfairly influence its desire to maximize shareholder
value.
   "I'm pleased to see it passed; poison pills are in general
inappropriate," said Robert L. Renck Jr., president of R.L.
Renck &amp; Co., a New York brokerage firm and Avon shareholder.
   Mr. Preston, the Avon chairman, said the special committee
would "review all the options," including a possible sale of
Avon. But he said Avon isn't for sale, and stressed that
there aren't any "hostile relations" between Chartwell and
Avon.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Avon shares closed at $36.375, down 75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Water Works Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AWK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN WATER WORKS Co. (Voorhees, N.J.) -- William O.
Albertini, president of Bell Atlantic Enterprises Corp., and
Paul W. Ware, president of Penn Fuel Gas Inc., were elected
directors of this utility holding company. They succeed
Samuel H. Ballam Jr., who reached the mandatory retirement
age of 70, and John H. Ware 4th, who resigned to pursue other
interests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Composite Adds 1.86 Points
   As Technology Shares Lead the Market
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks extended their winning
streak, but traders cautioned the market might be due for
some profit-taking next week, if not today.
   Technology stocks continued to fuel the OTC market. The
Nasdaq 100 index of large industrial issues, which includes
some large computer stocks, gained 0.76%, again outpacing the
broader Nasdaq Composite Index gain of 0.4%, or 1.86, to
425.44. Advancing shares continued to lead declining stocks,
979 to 848, while 94 issues climbed to new highs and 89 hit
new lows. Volume was 160.9 million shares, up from 143.2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The market still looks like a million bucks to me," said
E. E. "Buzzy" Geduld, president of Herzog, Heine, Geduld Inc.
of New York. But he added, "That doesn't mean I won't take
some profits." Mr. Geduld said he saw increasing
institutional demand for selective stocks across all industry
groups.
   Dick Holden, manager of the OTC department at Alex. Brown
&amp; Sons, Baltimore, said the continuing strength in technology
shares surprised him, adding that he saw resilience in the
group even as the market faded somewhat at the end of the
day.
   Among other issues, Mr. Holden pointed out that the
improving bond market helped some interest-sensitive stocks.
The Nasdaq insurance index closed up 0.3%. The index of 100
Nasdaq financial shares and a smaller-company financial index
both rose slightly.
   While the market's bias was on the demand side, Mr. Holden
added, "It's not so aggressive that you get the sense this
market is going through the roof. It's a good mix right now."
   Acquisition news fueled some of the day's leaders. Subaru
of America sped ahead to 8, up 1 5/8, after Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. of Japan sweetened a $6-a-share bid for
shares of the Cherry Hill, N.J., automaker that it doesn't
already own. Fuji offered a minimum cash payment of $8.50 a
share.
   SHL Systemhouse jumped 3/4 to 5 1/4 after the Canadian
developer of computer-based information systems said it's
seeking a buyer.
   Oracle Systems continued to trade heavily, closing up 1
3/8 at 17 1/4 after Jeffrey L. Walker, chief financial
officer, raised the company's estimate for fourth-quarter
revenues, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report. Mr. Walker told investors at a Hambrecht &amp; Quist
technology conference in San Francisco that the Belmont,
Calif., maker of data base software now expects revenue for
the fourth quarter ending May 31 of $330 million to $355
milion, up from a previous estimate of $300 million to $320
million.
   An initial public offering of more than 2.5 million shares
of Dynasty Classics, a Carson, Calif., maker and distributor
of lighting fixtures, was well received. Priced at 11 1/4 in
an underwriting led by Morgan Stanley and Salomon Brothers,
Dynasty shares closed up 1 at 12 1/4 on 2.1 million shares.
   Liqui-Box climbed 5 1/2 to 59 after the Worthington, Ohio,
packaging-materials concern posted net income for the first
quarter ended March 31 of 96 cents a share, up from 71 cents
a year earlier. The company said its sales increase reflects
its acquisition last year of another packaging materials
firm, B-Bar-B of New Albany, Ind.
   Adaptec rebounded 2 to 18 7/8 after the Milpitas, Calif.,
maker of computer data flow systems reported net income for
the fourth quarter ended March 31 of 43 cents a share, up
from 10 cents a year earlier. Mr. Holden explained that some
investors had been concerned about the earnings, but said
they "came in smack dab on target."
   Other active technology stocks were Intel, up 1/8 at 1
3/8, Seagate Technology, up 1/4 at 12 5/8, Microsoft, up 3/4
at 59 and Apple Computer, up 1/4 at 40.
   Hologic spurted 1 1/4 to 21 1/2 after the newly public
developer of X-ray systems reported net income for the second
quarter of 17 cents a share, up from 13 cents a year earlier.
The Waltham, Mass., company made an initial public offering
March 1 at $14 a share.
   Enstar gained 3/8 to 2 1/2 after the financial-services
concern reported net income for the first quarter ended March
31 of 14 cents a share compared with a year-earlier loss from
continuing operations of seven cents a share.
   Shares of Respironics, a Monroeville, Pa., maker of
medical respiratory products, surged 4 1/4 to 24 after the
company reported Wednesday that net income for the third
quarter ended March 31 of 33 cents a share, up from 15 cents
a year earlier.
   Gantos extended its slide, falling 1/4 to 9 1/4. Citing
disappointing sales, the Grand Rapids, Mich., specialty
retailer estimated a loss for the first quarter ending May 5
of 15 to 20 cents a share, compared with year-earlier net
income of 20 cents a share.
   Campeau fell 7/8 to 1 1/2 after the company's troubled
Federated Department Stores unit said it won't sell its
Bloomingdale's department store division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Faces
   Vote by Machinists
   On St. Louis Pact
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR MD LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   About 11,000 Machinists at McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s
jet-fighter factory in St. Louis will vote this weekend on a
three-year contract proposal that union leaders have called
"woefully inadequate."
   The union bargaining committee has called on the rank and
file to reject the offer, and it's expected they will do so.
The membership already has authorized a strike, though any
stoppage wouldn't begin for seven days, giving the company
more time to offer another package. The current contract
expires at midnight Sunday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal, according to the Machinists, calls for a
5.5% wage increase in the first year of the accord, and 3%
gains in both the second and third years. In addition,
one-time lump-sum bonuses of 4% would be handed out all three
years.
   On their face, those terms match what the Machinists at
McDonnell Douglas's transport aircraft subsidiary in Long
Beach, Calif., approved late last year. They are less
generous than what ultimately was settled upon at Boeing Co.
after a 48-day strike by the Machinists last fall. And they
are more bountiful than what was reluctantly agreed upon in
March by 18,000 Lockheed Corp. union members at three sites.
   McDonnell Douglas, like Lockheed, must contend with a
slumping military market. Like Boeing, which is highly
profitable, it also has commercial aircraft programs; but
McDonnell Douglas's jetliner operations have been losing lots
of money because of production glitches.
   Cassell Williams, president of Machinists District Lodge
837, said in an interview that the union and company were
still far apart on several key points. He said the basic
economic provisions would be adequate for his members, who
currently make $14.90 an hour on average. But, he said, the
company's plan wouldn't allow workers at the low end of the
wage scale to fold any cost-of-living adjustments into their
salary calculations. That means that any future wage
increases would be figured from a lower base.
   Mr. Williams said that even at McDonnell Douglas's
troubled commercial unit, all of the Machinists got to fold
their COLAs into the contract they ratified.
   A spokesman for McDonnell Douglas declined to comment on
the specifics of the pact. But he said the company was
"disappointed that the offer was rejected" by the bargaining
committee "especially in light of uncertainties around
defense spending."
   Given such a shaky environment, another issue that the
union still hopes to address is job security.
   Meanwhile, the Machinists at Lockheed Corp.'s aircraft
service unit in Ontario, Calif., which repairs and retrofits
Navy and Air Force planes, continue to walk the picket lines.
Their strike started March 11 after rejecting a three-year
contract offer that was deemed too skimpy.
   "We're still apart on the essentials," Bob Gregory, the
union's top negotiator, said. A company spokesman said
despite the labor disruption, Lockheed has managed to get
every plane delivered on schedule by using supervisors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arrow Automotive Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AI
</CO>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- Arrow Automotive Industries Inc. said
it obtained credit approval and commitments for replacement
financing for its working capital and real-estate loans.
   The rebuilder of auto replacement parts had been seeking
replacement financing for about $21 million in credit
facilities because of problems at its lead lender, Bank of
New England, Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It declined to disclose details of the financing or name
the lenders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   THE SOUTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT'S choice to head state-run
Korea Broadcasting System, Soh Ki Won, identified in an
earlier edition as a crony of former dictator Chun Doo Hwan,
served in the Chun government between 1980 and 1982. But the
government says Mr. Soh wasn't a close associate of Mr. Chun,
the post was ceremonial and Mr. Soh had little influence. Mr.
Soh later worked with Seoul Shinmun newspaper.
   (See: "International: South Korean Labor Peace Is
Shattered --- Crackdown Helps Market But Spurs Sympathy Acts"
-- WSJ May 2, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   CLARK CLIFFORD AND ROBERT ALTMAN were incorrectly
identified in artwork accompanying a page one article
yesterday on Bank of Credit and Commerce International. The
illustrations of the two men were transposed.
   (See: "Rogue Bank: BCCI Took Deposits From Drugs, Noriega,
And Now Is in the Red --- Offshore Operator Cultivated
Powerful U.S. Friends and Hired Clark Clifford --- Sting at
the Mazur `Wedding'" -- WSJ May 3, 1990)
   ---
   A SOUTHERN CO. REQUEST to the Georgia Public Service
Commission for a $413 million rate increase was made to
recover the company's investment in the No. 2 unit of its
Vogtle nuclear power plant, as well as other costs of
providing services. In earlier editions it was misstated that
the $413 million was for cost overruns at the plant.
   (See: "Southern Co.'s Net Slumped by 43% in First Quarter"
-- WSJ May 3, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Eastern Airlines said it flew 1.58 billion
revenue passenger miles in April, a better than tenfold
increase over its year-ago traffic.
   Eastern, a unit of Houston-based Texas Air, said the
results of this year's numbers aren't comparable to last year
because in 1989 the airline was still reeling from a March
strike that nearly grounded the carrier. In the year-ago
period, Eastern said it flew 153 million revenue passenger
miles. A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown
one mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This year's load factor, or percentage of seats filled,
was 63.9%, compared with last year's 42.25%.
   For the first four months of 1990, Eastern flew 6.34
billion revenue passenger miles, compared with 4.51 billion
in the year-earlier period. Load factor for the year to date
was 63.4%; in 1989, it was 54.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel Votes to Give Soviet Union
   More Access to High-Technology Goods
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Foreign Affairs Committee approved
a bill that would give the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
greater access to Western high-technology than the Bush
administration is prepared to offer.
   The bill would eliminate all export controls from
computers and other high-technology products that the U.S.
and other industrialized democracies currently ship to China
and would thus make those products available to the Soviet
Union and certain Eastern European countries as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House is proposing to offer to sell to the
Soviets computers that are only half as powerful as those
being sold to China. And the administration is insisting that
Eastern European countries that want to import the more
powerful computers must agree to certain safeguards against
the unauthorized use of those products.
   The House bill also contains a so-called sunset provision
that would terminate controls on all 120 currently restricted
product categories by Oct. 1, 1992, unless the administration
deems it necessary for security reasons to reinstate those
restrictions.
   The U.S. can't change such export-control rules unless it
does so in concert with other allies. The U.S. and its allies
are scheduled to discuss potentially significant changes in
these rules at a high-level meeting of the Coordinating
Committee for Multilateral Controls, or Cocom, in Paris next
month.
   The Bush administration said it is opposed to much of the
House committee's legislation, claiming that its own
proposal, announced Wednesday, is a more effective way of
responding to political changes in Europe. The Senate Banking
Committee, which has jurisdiction over export regulations,
said it won't be ready to begin work on a comparable bill
until next month.
   The computer industry expressed support for the House
bill, saying that it addresses the market potential in
Eastern Europe more effectively than the White House plan.
   "It's a bold and necessary step," said Marian Korenz, the
spokeswoman of the Computer and Business Equipment
Manufacturers Association.
   The Electronic Industries Association, although supportive
of the bill, said it could be improved if it made a clearer
distinction between the so-called dual-use products that have
both civilian and military applications and those that are
more properly classified as weapons. The electronics industry
is concerned that the State Department and the Pentagon,
which are responsible for clearing weapons exports, sometimes
intrude unnecessarily in the licensing of dual-use items.
   The House bill also would create a "license-free zone" in
Cocom by Sept. 30, 1991. Such an arrangement would enable
technology producers in the 17 Cocom countries to exchange
goods without any licenses. Although licensing requirements
for inter-Cocom trade has been reduced in recent years, the
computer industry is urging that such paper work be
eliminated except for the most sensitive products.
   The bill also provides for other benefits for exporters,
including giving them notice of decisions by Cocom, which
operates for the most part in secrecy, and periodic reviews
to trim the list of controlled items. The House proposal,
moreover, would give a Cocom seat to the Commerce Department,
which is directed to weigh both national security and
competitiveness needs. Currently, the State Department does
most of the negotiating for the U.S. in Cocom.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hughes Aircraft Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GMH GM F
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General
Motors Corp., was given a combined $52.5 million Navy
contract for forward-looking infrared equipment and torpedo
spare parts.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Motor Co. got an $18.4 million Navy contract for
forward-looking infrared equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EBS OHM
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edison Brothers Stores Inc., offering of up to about two
million common shares.
                                                                                                       

   NSC Corp., subsidiary of OHM Corp., initial offering 1.29
million common shares, via Oppenheimer &amp; Co. and Raymond
James &amp; Associates Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Pit Stop Auto Centers Inc., initial offering of 300,000
units, each consisting of two common shares and one common
stock purchase warrant, via Paulson Investment Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England
   Unit Signs a Consent
   With U.S. Comptroller
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- Bank of New England-Old Colony N.A., a
unit of Bank of New England Corp., said it signed a consent
cease and desist order with the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency.
   The Bank of New England unit said the consent order deals
"comprehensively with the development and implementation of
plans, policies and procedures at the bank, and details
improvements to be made in the operations of the bank."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Bank of New England parent company signed a similar
consent order with the Federal Reserve, and two of its larger
units, Bank of New England N.A. and Connecticut Bank &amp; Trust
Co. N.A., have signed similar orders with the Comptroller.
   Two other banking units, Maine National Bank Corp. and
Bank of New England-West N.A., are expected to sign similar
orders with the Comptroller shortly, Bank of New England
said.
   The Old Colony unit said many of the requirements and
standards called for in the cease and desist order "are well
under way or have already been met."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Household Reports
   Net Slipped 5%
   In First Quarter
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   HI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Household International Inc. reported
first-quarter net income slipped 5%. But profit from
continuing operations rose 18% despite a doubling of the
finance concern's provision for loan losses.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. has said it is reviewing
Household's debt ratings for possible downgrade, citing rapid
loan growth, among other things. But Donald C. Clark,
chairman and chief executive officer of Household, told a
meeting of securities analysts here that he has no plans to
slow the pace of growth. Mr. Clark said he expects 1990
profit to surpass the record, reached in 1988, of $246.7
million, or $6.80 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net income for the Prospect Heights, Ill., company's first
quarter fell to $52.2 million, or $1.36 a share, from $55.2
million, or $1.51 a share. The year-ago results include
profit from discontinued operations of $11 million.
   The provision for loan losses in the latest quarter was
$93 million, more than twice the $44.3 million set aside last
year. The increase was to cover higher charge-offs and to
increase the reserve for future losses because of rapid loan
growth.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Household stock closed unchanged at $42.50 a share. The
shares have fallen sharply since last month, when Moody's
said it was reviewing Household's credit ratings.
   Problem commercial real estate assets, which include
nonperforming loans and property foreclosed on or otherwise
taken to satisfy debt, jumped about 16% during the quarter to
$268.9 million. Mr. Clark said that figure may grow further
during the year but that by year end it would be back down to
the 1989 level of $231 million.
   One area that concerns Moody's is Househhold's commercial
real estate loan portfolio, which totaled $760.8 million at
March 31. Another area of concern is so-called highly
leveraged transaction loans, used to finance leveraged
buy-outs, which stood at $1.1 billion. Mr. Clark said none of
those were nonperforming.
   Household's biggest and most profitable business, consumer
lending, continued to grow rapidly during the quarter, with
loans rising to $17.2 billion from $16.1 billion at year end.
That includes first and second mortgages, unsecured personal
loans and credit card loans. Profit rose only 9% in the
business, however, because of losses at Household's British
and Australian operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cyprus Minerals Picks
   Stone to Be President;
   Barr Named Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CYM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Cyprus Minerals Co. named a new chairman and
president and reorganized its top management structure.
   The mining company appointed former president Kenneth J.
Barr as chairman, succeeding John C. Duncan, 69 years old,
who was named vice chairman. Mr. Barr, 63, will remain as
chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chester B. Stone Jr., 55, was named president in Mr.
Barr's place, as expected. Mr. Stone, formerly senior vice
president for coal and iron ore, will also take the new title
of chief operating officer. Mr. Stone, who had been chief
financial officer until mid-1989, took over the coal and iron
ore operations last year in preparation for his naming as
president.
   Appointed to new executive vice president positions were
Donald P. Bellum, 57, and Thomas A. Williams, 54. Mr. Bellum
was senior vice president for metals, and Mr. Williams has
been senior vice president for specialty metals and
industrial minerals. Messrs. Bellum and Williams will report
to Mr. Stone, as will F. Steven Mooney, president of Cyprus
Copper Co., and Donald P. Brown, president of Cyprus Coal Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Clenched Fist
   KO's Mutual Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your March 26 page-one article "Global Reach: Cross-Border
Alliances Become Favorite Way to Crack New Markets" makes a
critical point: Strategic alliances will indeed be "a
hallmark of business in the 1990s." In fact, around the
world, the number of business alliances is at least doubling
annually. Yet alliances take a mind-set that is quite
different from what the article suggests.
   In two decades of planning, advising on, working in,
teaching about, and sometimes managing strategic alliances
around the world, I've never encountered a successful
alliance in which partners "shake hands with {their} right
hand, while making a fist with {their} left."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To be sure, each firm must protect its separate interests
by safeguarding core strengths such as critical know-how or
market-access channels, prized brand names or a key position
in the value-added chain.
   But the implicit threat connoted by the image of "making a
fist" weakens an alliance because it damages mutual trust.
   Even steadfast rivals can build successful alliances. A
key is first to segregate their areas of competition from
those of their mutual interest. One need only look at Ford
and Mazda, Apple and DEC, and GE and SNECMA, which compete
head-to-head for military customers while cooperating
intensely and successfully in the commercial market.
   Jordan D. Lewis
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bindley Western Industries
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   BIND KR
</CO>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- Bindley Western Industries Inc. said it
reached an agreement with Peyton Distributors, a unit of
Kroger Co., to be the primary supplier of pharmaceuticals to
Peyton.
   The drug wholesaler said the agreement, effective last
Tuesday, is expected to add revenue of more than $150 million
annually. In 1989, Bindley had revenue of $1.56 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bindley also said that as a result of its strategies to
improve performance and the continued growth of
pharmaceutical sales, it is "comfortable with {Wall} Street
expectations" for the current year. The company said analysts
are currently forecasting per-share earnings of 85 cents for
1990, compared with 41 cents in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   London Stock Prices Fall After Two-Day Rally,
   As Voters Cast Ballots in Elections Nationwide
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Share prices ended a two-day technical rally
mostly lower as investors took to the sidelines, while U.K.
voters went to the polls nationwide to cast ballots in local
elections.
   Meanwhile, the Tokyo market was closed yesterday and will
be closed today for holidays.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 share index
finished down 2.7 points at 2134.9, below the intraday high
of 2145.2 reached within the first half-hour of official
trading and better than the minimum of 2130.2 around midday.
   The Financial Times 30 share index fell 1.4 points to
1676.6. Volume was a thin 392.8 million shares, compared with
433 million Wednesday.
   In the futures market, the June Financial Times-Stock
Exchange 100 index contract closed at 2166, up 7.5 points.
   Dealers said the market rebounded from its midday low
largely on strength in stock-index futures buying, which
underpinned the underlying FT-SE 100 equities. Additionally,
scattered buying in selected blue chips gave support, as did
a steady opening on Wall Street.
   The upswing, however, wasn't sustained in the face of
potential market uncertainties presented by the local U.K.
elections, the largest nationwide vote since parliamentary
polling three years ago, traders said.
   Political pundits viewed the election as a potential
mandate for the future of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's
Conservative Party, even though the results only apply to
municipal councils rather than the central government
leadership.
   Among corporate news, pharmaceutical concern Wellcome fell
11 pence to 665 pence (18 cents to $10.91) despite reporting
a 28% rise in pretax profit for the six months ended March 3,
results that were at the higher end of market forecasts.
   Dealers said the market was expecting a more bullish
statement from the company on its flagship drug, Retrovir,
used in the treatment of acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
   Elsewhere, oil stocks were mixed after news of a temporary
production accord by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.
   British Petroleum added 4 1/2 pence to 412 1/2 pence;
Burmah dropped 4 pence to 560 pence after announcing that it
would change the ratio of its American depository receipts to
ordinary shares to 2-to-1 from 4-to-1; Enterprise was
unchanged at 583 pence after several days of strong gains;
Lasmo sank 7 pence to 362 pence; and Shell rose 1 1/2 pence
to 439 1/2 pence.
   Among strong gainers, Britain's largest chemical concern,
Imperial Chemical Industries, gained 10 pence to #11.05;
Reuters rose 27 pence to #10.98 on heavy American buying;
Carlton Communications climbed 7 pence to 504 pence,
continuing the upward trend after taking a severe drubbing in
recent weeks; and Anglo-Dutch food maker Unilever jumped 9
pence to 634 pence after being "beaten up" recently, one
dealer said.
   Decliners included tobacco and financial services
conglomerate B.A.T Industries, which fell 6 pence to 685
pence as market makers knocked down the share price amid a
surplus of stock, one trader said. Several other stocks were
affected by the same problem, this trader added: British
Aerospace dropped 9 pence to 512 pence and Associated British
Foods fell 7 pence to 378 pence.
   Standard Chartered Bank lost 10 pence to 477 pence after
news about trouble at another U.K. retailer, one in which the
bank has reportedly extended #40 million in credit.
   Pilkington, a major glass maker, shed 7 pence to 191 pence
after its U.K. distributor, Solaglas Ltd., was acquired by
France's Cie. de Saint-Gobain.
   Electricals concern BICC dropped 10 pence to 396 pence on
an unconfirmed report of a brokerage firm's downgrading, one
trader said.
   Elsewhere, prices closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Milan; and mixed in
Brussels. South African gold stocks closed lower.
   Meanwhile, stocks closed higher in Singapore, Wellington
and Seoul; lower in Sydney, Taipei and Manila; and mixed in
Hong Kong.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                             May 2      May 1      Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ...................    309.0      307.1     - 4.9
 Britain ................    633.5      628.3     -12.1
 Canada .................    367.7      365.8     -15.0
 Japan ..................   1281.6     1260.7     -22.6
 France .................    578.5      574.1     + 2.0

 Hong Kong ..............   2204.2     2191.3     + 5.1
 Switzerland ............    198.4      196.7     -10.1
 Australia ..............    297.0      291.5     -10.3
 World index ............    483.3      477.9     -14.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Tambrands Stock Is Making Strong Showing
   Although Many Analysts Can't Figure It Out
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   TMB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The impressive performance of Tambrands stock
-- it hit an all-time high of 82 1/2 yesterday and is up 18%
this year -- has some Wall Streeters scratching their heads.
They can't figure out how Tambrands has managed it,
especially in a punk market environment with the average
stock down about 6%.
   To be sure, lots of good things are happening at
Tambrands. Earnings, which faltered in 1989, are bouncing
back. The consensus (according to Zacks Investment Research)
calls for profit of $4.65 a share this year and $5.64 in
1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And the new managers who took the helm last year, led by
chief executive officer Martin Emmett, are much more
shareholder-oriented than previous management. They have sold
off Tambrands's two money-losing divisions, Physicians
Formula (cosmetics) and Hygeia Sciences (First Response
pregnancy-detection kits). They have jettisoned the corporate
jet. Most important, they have had Tambrands actively buy
back stock.
   But despite all of this good news, many analysts and money
managers are puzzled why the stock has gotten so high. After
all, Tambrands basically is a one-product company (Tampax
brand tampons), and the U.S. market for tampons isn't growing
significantly.
   Thus, Tambrands's profit surge comes mainly from
aggressive cost-cutting (including sharp reductions in the
number of employees) and stock buy-backs. Most analysts
praise those steps, but it's not as if such measures can
continue forever.
   Meanwhile, the stock has climbed to 23 times the past 12
months' earnings, and about 18 times what analysts figure it
will earn this year. It sells for 15 times cash flow
(earnings plus depreciation). By contrast, says Smith Barney
analyst Joseph Kozloff, Procter &amp; Gamble and Gillette, two
other highly regarded consumer products companies, sell for
10 times cash flow. The stock also trades at roughly three
times sales and seven times book value (assets minus
liabilities), both unusually high ratios.
   "It's a fine company with a dynamite franchise," says Mr.
Kozloff. "But, geez, the stock's expensive." He rates it a
hold.
   Brenda Landry, analyst with Morgan Stanley, rates
Tambrands a buy. But after the recent price surge, she is
beginning to see the upside as limited. "If everything goes
well they will make $5.50 to $6 next year," she says. "You
have a $90 to $100 stock."
   Merrill Lynch's Deepak Raj and Goldman Sachs' Jack Salzman
are also Tambrands boosters. Mr. Salzman is especially
impressed with Tambrands's free cash flow, which he pegs at
$60 million a year.
   Heavy buying by three Fidelity mutual funds has also
pushed up the stock. Fidelity analyst Arieh Coll compares
Tambrands to Walt Disney in the mid-1980s -- a great consumer
franchise that had temporarily lost its spark. New management
is "revitalizing it and running {it} the way it should be
run."
   But money managers who have sold the stock recently say
that all good things come to a price limit. Kenneth Hackel,
president of Cash Flow Investors, sold his Tambrands holding
about a month ago. Mr. Hackel almost never owns a stock that
sells for more than 20 times free cash flow. When Tambrands
crossed that threshold, he sold. (The multiple now is 22, he
says.) Mr. Hackel says he'll occasionally make an exception
to his sell rule if a stock's free cash flow is rising
unusually fast. But Tambrands's free cash flow is "growing
very, very slowly," about 3.8% a year, he says.
   Tambrands has figured from time to time in takeover talk,
but few analysts or money managers seem to take the rumors
seriously. Tambrands won't comment on this.
   Paul Konney, Tambrands's corporate secretary and
spokesman, says the stock's strength shows that investors are
pleased Tambrands "has adopted this new mission of focusing
on our core business." Although unit growth in the U.S.
sanitary protection market is only about 1% a year, Mr.
Konney says, "We think that the core business has substantial
growth potential."
   Over the five years 1990-1994, Tambrands thinks it can
increase its share of the tampon market to 65% from 60%. It
figures Tampons can grow 0.5% a year at the expense of
sanitary pads. And the company expects price increases will
add another 4% a year or so. Foreign growth is faster but
harder to quantify. Tambrands hopes to increase its foreign
sales (recently 39%) as a percentage of total sales.
   Tambrands won't project earnings. But the foregoing
figures suggest the company expects U.S. earnings (aside from
cost-cutting and stock buy-backs) to grow at about a 7% clip.
Foreign growth might raise the total to 10% or so. That could
look nice in the kind of sputtering economy many investors
expect. But it's not the kind of growth for which investors
usually pay the premium price that Tambrands commands.
   ---
   Tambrands
   (NYSE; Symbol: TMB)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Feminine hygiene products
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $583.4 million
   Net income: $1.7 million*; or 8 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: $1.02 vs. 81 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 95,572 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 22.1 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes one-time net charge of $60 million related to
restructuring
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australian Mutual's Assets Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- Australian Mutual Provident Society, the
country's largest insurance concern, said its assets under
management rose 89% to 57.6 billion Australian dollars
($43.34 billion) in 1989, from A$30.4 billion a year earlier.
   The funds don't include assets of Pearl Group PLC, a
British life-insurance concern that AMP acquired in the past
year for #1.24 billion ($2.04 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMP said its total premium income rose 24% to A$4.6
billion from A$3.7 billion, and total income rose 22% to A$10
billion from A$8.2 billion.
   Pearl's income totaled A$3.2 billion in 1989.
   AMP has total reserves of A$5.4 billion, which have risen
from A$4.6 billion in 1988. Reserves total A$13.1 billion
including Pearl's reserves.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   GM Begins Quest to Win Back Consumer Confidence
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. is launching a marketing
blitz aimed at regaining the good will of millions of
American consumers turned off by its lackluster cars and cold
customer relations during the 1980s.
   The campaign will involve not only newspaper and
television advertising, but an effort to encourage GM's 1.2
million salaried and blue-collar workers, retirees and dealer
sales personnel to talk up the company and its products. And
these workers and retirees will even be urged to serve -- on
a voluntary basis -- as semi-salesmen, referring customers to
local dealers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Behind the campaign, estimated to cost more than $40
million, is a realization by GM executives that a large
number of American consumers are fed up with domestic cars in
general, and GM cars in particular.
   One report circulating inside GM shows that among owners
of domestic cars who have had eight or more problems with
their vehicle in a year, only 40% would buy the same brand
again. By contrast, the survey, by California market research
firm J.D. Power &amp; Associates, found that 66% of the owners of
Japanese and other Asian cars encountering the same level of
trouble would nonetheless buy the same brand again.
   GM executives have been remarkably candid of late in
acknowledging they sold a lot of trouble-plagued cars during
the 1980s, including the Chevrolet Citation and Pontiac
Fiero. Persuading consumers to come back to GM will be "a
hard sell," says Chairman-elect Robert C. Stempel.
   Now, the hard sell is beginning.
   GM is launching the advertising side of its attack with
four-page newspaper advertisements in USA Today, the New York
Times, the Los Angeles Times and papers in 20 cities where GM
has factories.
   The ads feature pictures of employees under the headline:
"You told us you'd consider buying a new GM car or truck if
we changed more than just the looks." The rest of the pages
detail GM's case that its vehicles now are much more reliable
and better designed than those the company sold during the
mid-1980s.
   In television ads, which also begin running today, GM
employees will be shown vouching for the quality of the
products they build. "All American cars are better than
people think," says tool maker John Balogh, according to a
script of the spot. Adds designer Jerry Palmer: "GM cars have
a whole new standard of dependability and trouble-free
performance." The tag line will be: "Putting quality on the
road." Later this month, more television spots will link this
theme to GM's individual car divisions, a GM spokesman said.
   In many ways, GM's new ads echo Ford Motor Co.'s
long-running "Quality is Job One" campaign, which also uses
Ford workers to tout the car maker's commitment to quality
products. The campaign also has certain parallels with recent
Chrysler Corp. ads that feature Chairman Lee Iacocca.
   But GM's campaign is far more specific than its
competitors' efforts. For one thing, GM's ads are remarkable
in their acknowledgment that, as the company spokesman said,
"we've still got a way to go" to surpass Japanese quality
levels.
   GM print ads include a chart showing that GM's defects per
100 cars have dropped from just under 800 in 1980 to about
200 in 1989. But the same chart shows that Japanese auto
makers still lead in this basic measure of quality.
   GM has been working on this overhaul of its corporate
marketing effort for months, using the New York offices of
McCann-Erickson Worldwide and its traditional corporate
advertising agency, Ayer Inc., to develop the campaign.
   The effort initially caused friction inside the company,
as some divisional marketing officials expressed reservations
about the ads featuring their products. One early draft of a
Chevrolet ad, for example, showed a line of cars starting up
in cold weather. "It looked like a battery commercial,"
complained one Chevy employee.
   Other GM officials worried that it was risky to say that
the company sold products in the recent past that weren't
that good. They were also concerned about raising the quality
issue at a time when most independent surveys and even GM's
own studies show many of the company's cars don't measure up
to the standards set by the best Japanese manufacturers.
   All this apparently delayed some parts of the campaign.
Expectations were that the ads would begin running in
mid-April. Now, the divisional ads won't air until later this
month. The campaign "has been updated and changed and honed
to be as good as it can be," a spokesman said.
   Simultaneously, GM has also begun an effort to mobilize
its army of workers and retirees to get out and talk up their
employer and its products.
   GM has made videotapes featuring pep talks from Mr.
Stempel; Stephen P. Yokich, head of the United Auto Workers
union's GM department; and leaders of other unions. Over the
past few days, the No. 1 auto maker has distributed the
videotapes to its 9,700 U.S. dealerships and to all its U.S.
plants. GM also has sent special editions of in-house
newspapers to the dealerships, which employ about 365,000
people, to some 330,000 retirees, and to about 500,000 active
U.S. workers.
   "People who own GM cars and trucks like them, and are much
happier than the average buyer in the new car market thinks
they are," Mr. Stempel says in the tape. Adds Mr. Yokich: "We
have to make sure the American public gets a quality
product."
   GM's goal is to get the 1.2 million members of the "GM
family" to "update themselves on GM's quality and ask them to
go forth and spread the word," the company spokesman said.
   This internal marketing push comes in addition to several
other efforts to regain customer trust and win back some of
the market share GM has lost. Through the first four months
of 1990, GM's share of all U.S. car and truck sales moved up
to an estimated 35.8% from 35.1% a year ago, but that's still
well below the mid-40% share GM had in the 1980s.
   One effort to boost sales is a new program to enlist GM
employees as volunteer sales representatives, referring
potential buyers to GM dealers. GM says employees helped sell
some 10,000 cars last year. (In total, the auto maker sold
5.1 million vehicles in the U.S. last year.)
   Employees don't get paid for selling cars. Instead, they
get what GM calls "an expression of appreciation," such as
company jackets or pen-and-pencil sets.
   Separately, GM is trying a program that allows dealers to
fix some defects for free, even if the warranty has expired.
   Under a pilot program called "GM Cares," launched last
November in Cincinnati, about 42 GM dealers can offer a
disgruntled patron not only a free repair, but free use of
another car until the work is done -- a benefit that isn't
called for in the standard GM warranty. Other car makers
already have similar programs, but GM's pilot is said to be
the most aggressive in the industry, dealers say.
   GM officials decline to discuss the Cincinnati program but
the company signaled in its annual report that the program
"will be expanded to other locations."
   Dealers can't wait. GM spends "hundreds of millions of
dollars in advertising to try to capture market share," says
John Sieve, a Cincinnati Pontiac dealer. "And then they lose
{customers} over relatively small repair issues."
   ---
          Customer Satisfaction: U.S. Cars Trail
                                                                                                       

   Percentage of owners who are very satisfied with their
cars:
                                                                                                       

                                 Number of Car Problems
                                       In Last Year
                              -----------------------------
                              0 to 3    4 to 7    8 or More
                                                                                                       

   Owners of American Cars      77%       54%       29%
   Owners of Asian Cars         87        78        48
   Owners of European Cars      84        68        39
                                                                                                       

   Percentage of owners who would probably buy the same make
again:

                                 Number of Car Problems
                                       In Last Year
                              -----------------------------
                              0 to 3    4 to 7    8 or More
                                                                                                       

   Owners of American Cars      74%       58%       40%
   Owners of Asian Cars         80        73        66
   Owners of European Cars      73        66        48
                                                                                                       

   Source: J.D. Power &amp; Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Contract for Quaker State Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   KSF AEP
</CO>
<LP>
   OIL CITY, Pa. -- Quaker State Corp. said its Valley Camp
Coal Co. subsidiary received a five-year contract to supply
390,000 tons of coal annually to the Philip Sporn electric
generating plant at New Haven, W.Va.
   The power plant is owned by two units of American Electric
Power Co., Columbus, Ohio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The coal will be produced by a mine at Shrewsbury, W.Va.,
which will be reopened after having been closed in late 1986.
In addition, the mine will produce 100,000 tons annually of
stoker coal, a grade used in industrial boilers and other
facilities. The mine will employ 90 miners by September,
Valley Camp Coal said.
   The utility contract provides for flexible delivery rates
and allows the buyer to extend the contract by an additional
three to five years, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SHL Systemhouse
   Seeks to Be Brought;
   Stock Price Increases
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   SHKIF BCE NT X.KIN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- SHL Systemhouse Inc., a computer-systems
integration concern with a troubled parent, has put itself up
for sale.
   Systemhouse said it has net book value of 257.5 million
Canadian dollars (US$220.8 million). Its shares outstanding
have a current market value of $195.3 million. The shares
rose 75 cents yesterday to close at $5.25 a share in national
over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Systemhouse said it retained Wood Gundy Inc. of Toronto
and Prudential-Bache Capital Funding of New York to seek a
buyer for all of its shares outstanding. A spokesman declined
to estimate how much the company might sell for.
   Ownership of the company has been in doubt since March,
when "severe financial difficulties" were reported by a
holding company controlled by Systemhouse's chairman and
chief executive officer, Roderick Bryden. Mr. Bryden couldn't
be reached yesterday.
   The closely held holding company, Kinburn Corp., said it
was unable to make payments on about C$816 million of loans.
Kinburn owns 50.1% of Systemhouse, and has pledged the shares
against the loans. The loans include C$415 million due to BCE
Inc. of Montreal, which owns 12.4% of Systemhouse.
   Talks between BCE and Kinburn broke down last month, and
an effort to find a buyer for Systemhouse was widely
expected. Raymond Cyr, chairman and chief executive of BCE,
said yesterday that it was too early to say whether his
company would be interested in bidding for Systemhouse.
   BCE's interests include a majority stake in Northern
Telecom Ltd., a large telecommunications equipment maker.
Systemhouse designs and installs integrated computer systems.
   Systemhouse reported net income of C$15.3 million for the
fiscal year ended Aug. 31, on revenue of C$630.8 million. It
reported a net loss of C$34.3 million in the second quarter
ended Feb. 28, including a C$25 million write-down of assets
and a C$6.9 million provision against debt owned or
guaranteed by Kinburn and Kinburn subsidiaries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Ministers
   Of OPEC Agree
   On Output Cuts
   ---
   Nearly 1.5 Million Barrels
   A Day to Be Trimmed;
   Markets Are Skeptical
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- OPEC's oil ministers pledged to cut their
combined output by nearly 1.5 million barrels a day in an
urgent effort to shore up sagging petroleum prices.
   If all 13 members of the Organization of Petroleum
Countries conscientiously honor their promises, they'd
essentially wipe out the full amount of OPEC's recent
over-ceiling production, which is blamed for most of the 25%
drop in world oil prices this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even if they don't, substantial compliance with the
unanimous agreement could at least ease the current oil glut.
   The development, nevertheless, was greeted with skepticism
in oil markets. Despite the fact that the mere scheduling of
the session had halted a worsening price slide in late April,
prices fell yesterday on reports of the agreement. The June
contract for West Texas Intermediate crude dropped 69 cents
to $17.99 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
   The accord came early on the second day of the emergency
talks here, in keeping with the ministers' hopes for a
display of swift and decisive action. They have reasoned that
oil markets would be calmed by a brief and controversy-free
meeting. Ironically, the session was OPEC's first in some
time at which ministers had to address sharing output cuts,
rather than increases.
   Puzzled by the new price declines, the oil ministers still
held that their intent to reduce sharply the flow of oil
would eventually restore stability to volatile markets and
firm up prices.
   "Prices will definitely improve; I'm willing to put my
money on it," Ginandjar Kartasasmita, Indonesia's oil
minister, said in an interview.
   With the agreement calling for each country to make a
contribution, OPEC calculated the overall reduction at
1,445,000 barrels a day. That would bring production down to
22,055,000 barrels a day from April's estimated 23.5 million
barrels a day, and would make it about equal to the
organization's widely ignored first-half ceiling.
   The pledged cuts are effective for the months of May, June
and July. The idea is to remove enough oil -- at least one
million barrels a day -- from a glutted market to stabilize
prices until OPEC is beyond the current quarter, which has
been characterized by sluggish oil demand. During the third
quarter, world-wide use of petroleum generally begins to
rise.
   Pressure at the meeting for output reductions fell most
heavily on big overproducers such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and
the United Arab Emirates. Both Saudi Arabia and Kuwait
obligated themselves to cut back to their quotas of 5.4
million and 1.5 million barrels a day, respectively.
According to working figures used by other oil ministers in
calculating total reductions, that suggests cuts of 430,000
barrels a day for Saudi Arabia and 400,000 barrels a day for
Kuwait from recent actual rates.
   The United Arab Emirates, which had been flatly refusing
to recognize its quota in any manner, in effect rejoined OPEC
by agreeing to participate in the cutback plan. Mana Said
Otaiba, the UAE oil minister, told reporters: "We are
producing 2.1 million {barrels a day}. We promise to cut
200,000 {barrels a day}. So we will produce 1.9 million until
the end of July."
   Some questions arose about previous promises made by the
ministers of Kuwait and UAE, both chronic quota violators.
OPEC sources said Ali Khalifa Al-Sabah of Kuwait wouldn't
accept a cutback here unless the UAE dropped down at least
300,000 barrels a day and other overproducers also returned
to their quota limits.
   Mr. Otaiba was finally pushed to the point that he asked
his government for permission to cut, but only by 200,000
barrels.
   To salvage what seemed to be a shaky situation, Mr.
Ginandjar, the Indonesian minister, then proposed trimming
Indonesia's production by 40,000 barrels a day, even though
it isn't currently producing its full quota.
   Other volunteers also chipped in to help offset the UAE's
"missing" 100,000 barrels and satisfy Kuwait. At one time
during tense negotiations that went into the morning, the
Iranian and Iraqi ministers returned from a private
conference to offer cuts of 20,000 barrels a day each. Both
countries, like Indonesia, are also producing under-quota.
   "The principle is that everybody participates, no matter
how small," said OPEC's Secretary-General Subroto.
   The marketplace actually may have already accomplished
some of the cuts OPEC is counting. Members' sales of crude
oil recently have slackened, because buyers' storage
facilities are filled to their brims. By one estimate, OPEC's
output already has dropped as much as 500,000 barrels a day
from April's 23.5 million average.
   Still, some ministers suggested that "real" cuts of around
one million barrels a day would soon be evident in the oil
markets. "That should be enough," said one.
   Sadek Boussena, Algeria's oil minister and acting OPEC
president, disclosed that OPEC's next ministerial conference
was postponed to July 25 from a June date. At that meeting,
OPEC will determine production levels and country quotas for
the remainder of the year. By then, he said, demand for
OPEC's oil should be increasing again. "Some forecasts are
that it could be at least 24 million {barrels a day} in the
fourth quarter," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Gain as Traders Cover Short Sales;
   Yield on 30-Year Treasury Issue Falls Below 9%
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MER EUROP X.PAH HENG FRE
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Traders pushed bond prices moderately higher
as they rushed to cover short-sale positions ahead of today's
potentially market-moving employment report.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended nearly 1/2
point higher, a gain of about $5 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, slipped below 9% and finished at
8.97%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Municipal bonds, mortgage-backed securities and high-grade
corporate bonds ended as much as 1/2 point higher. Most junk
bonds were unchanged.
   Institutional investors remained on the sidelines, which
is typical prior to the release of the employment report.
   But dealers and speculators were active buyers as they
moved quickly to unwind money-losing short positions. In a
short sale, dealers sell borrowed securities and later seek
to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed with cheaper
securities. Essentially, these dealers are betting that
prices will fall.
   Many short positions were placed early Wednesday, on
speculation that bond prices would fall after the Treasury
announced details of next week's quarterly refunding, where
the government will sell $30.5 billion of securities. But
when bond prices rose instead, they were forced to enter the
market to buy bonds at higher prices.
   Analysts said another reason for the dealers cashing out
their short positions was fear that the employment report
will have a positive impact on the bond market and cause
prices to rise even higher.
   Although economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report believe nonfarm employment rose a strong 384,000 last
month, the increase was distorted by an estimated 211,000
census workers, according to the economists. The unemployment
rate is expected to be unchanged at 5.2%.
   Statistics in line with expectations shouldn't have much
impact on bond prices. But the jobs data, considered one of
the most important of the monthly economic releases, are
difficult to predict, and surprises often jar the bond
market. The April statistics are seen as especially
significant because they are likely to set the tone at next
week's Treasury refunding.
   Meanwhile, the federal funds rate again drifted below the
Federal Reserve's target rate of 8 1/4%. The funds rate,
which banks charge each other on overnight loans, is closely
watched by analysts because the Fed often uses it to signal
changes in credit policy. But the rate sometimes moves for
technical reasons.
   In recent days, the rate has fallen under 8% because of
technical factors related to commercial banking matters. The
rate was 8 1/8% for most of yesterday.
   Typically, such weakness in the rate would prompt the Fed
to drain reserves from the banking system in an effort to
push the rate up to its target level.
   Some economists said the Fed didn't push the rate higher
because it didn't want to raise speculation that it is in the
process of tightening monetary policy. Others, however, said
the funds rate is expected to rise above the target level in
the next day or two as tax-related payments flow out of the
banking system. Therefore, they said, the Fed doesn't want to
drain reserves it will soon need to replace.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury notes and bonds ended as much as 1/2 point
higher. The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 95
1/32 to yield 8.97%, compared with a price of 94 19/32 to
yield 9.01% on Wednesday. The latest 10-year notes ended at
96 21/32 to yield 9%, compared with 96 10/32 to yield 9.05%
on Wednesday.
   Short-term rates eased slightly. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills fell to 7.86% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 8.11%, while the rate on six-month
bills fell to 7.98% for a bond-equivalent yield of 8.41%.
   The government sold $10 billion of 52-week Treasury bills
at an average discount rate of 8.05%. That was much higher
than the average rate of 7.72% at the previous 52-week bill
auction April 5 and was the highest average rate at an
auction since 8.18% on June 1, 1989.
   Here are auction details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                          52-Week Bills

   Applications .......................  $30,408,160,000
   Accepted bids ......................  $10,035,740,000
   Accepted at low price ..............              93%
   Accepted noncompetitively ..........   $1,067,725,000
   Average price (Rate) ...............   91.861 (8.05%)
   High price (Rate) ..................   91.871 (8.04%)
   Low price (Rate) ...................   91.861 (8.05%)
   Coupon equivalent ..................            8.70%
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated May 10 and mature May 9, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Following several days of brisk trading, the junk bond
market was quiet.
   The only exception was the bonds of PA Holdings Corp.,
which started to rise Wednesday on news that Henley Group
Inc. plans to spin off its two biggest units, Fisher
Scientific Group Inc. and Pneumo Abex Corp., in tax-free
distributions.
   PA Holdings' 13 3/4% senior subordinated notes due in 1999
gained five points to close at 75, while its 12 3/4% senior
extendible notes were bid five points higher at 95. The
securities represent bonds issued on behalf of Pneumo Abex.
   Henley Group Chairman Michael Dingman said that before the
spinoff, Henley will take a number of steps to inject equity
and remove debt from the units.
   Those steps to "de-leverage" the units, he said, would
make them viable companies and would boost the value of
Pneumo's junk bonds outstanding.
   Traders said activity was muted, in part, because some
investors wound down operations for the week as they headed
to Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s annual high-yield conference, which
began last night in Phoenix, Ariz.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Bolstered by another big day of derivative mortgage-backed
issuance, active mortgage issues gained 11/32 to 3/8 point
and matched the advance in the intermediate Treasury market.
   There were $2 billion of real estate mortgage investment
conduits offered in five offerings, following the $2.2
billion announced Tuesday.
   The heavy Remic issuance reflects continued investor
demand for mortgage securities, which carry relatively high
yields and top credit ratings.
   Dealers noted that there recently has been a very light
supply of corporate bonds, a traditional alternative to
mortgage securities for many institutional investors.
   The lack of corporates has meant that institutions with
money to invest have had little choice but to buy Treasurys
or mortgage securities. Because mortgage securities yield on
average about one percentage point more than Treasurys,
mortgages have been the focus of strong demand.
   Traders said the demand for derivative mortgage securities
doesn't appear to be diminished by rumors that the office of
the Comptroller of the Currency soon will issue regulations
clamping down on bank purchases of risky derivative mortgage
issues.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
May delivery ended at 93 3/4, up 3/8, and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp. 9 1/2% securities were at 96 9/32, up 11/32.
   The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 10.06% to a 12-year
average life assumption, as the spread above the Treasury
10year note narrowed 0.01 percentage point to 1.06.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were up as much as 1/2 point, amid stifled
trading activity.
   "It's torture sitting here doing nothing," one New York
trader said, adding that trading was sparse and few
bid-wanted lists were visible in the market.
   In negotiated dealings, a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
group priced $67.3 million of Ohio Water Development
Authority Series A and Ohio Air Quality Development Authority
Series B State of Ohio collateralized pollution control
revenue refunding bonds on behalf of the Toledo Edison Co.
Project.
   Also in the negotiated sector, the pricing of $158 million
of District of Columbia general obligation bonds has been
rescheduled to next week, said an official with lead
underwriter R.W. Corby &amp; Co.
   No large competitive issues were priced.
   Among active bonds, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20%
issue of 2018 was up 1/4 at 95 1/4 bid to yield 7.60%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. launched the first mark-denominated
zero-coupon bond the West German market has seen in 2 1/2
years. Merrill offered 100 million marks ($59.4 million) of
10-year securities that were priced at 43 3/4 to yield 9.26%.
The securities are non-callable.
   Rival syndicate houses said the issue was "too tightly
priced," meaning the yield was low relative to government and
quasi-government bonds that are used as market benchmarks.
One trader, for example, noted that a top-quality World Bank
issue yields 9.08%, only 0.18 percentage point less than the
Merrill issue.
   An investment manager said the Merrill Lynch issue is
unattractive at a time when investors still fear higher
interest rates, but Merrill officials said the issue was
prompted by demand from West German retail customers.
   Zero-coupon bonds pay no interest but are issued at a deep
discount. Investors' gains come from the difference between
the discounted purchase price and the face value received at
maturity.
   In trading yesterday, West German government bonds rallied
on news that the Bundesbank would leave interest rates
unchanged for the time being.
   But many analysts remain bearish about the market's
long-term prospects. And many economists believe that the
Bundesbank will eventually tighten monetary policy, possibly
in July.
   Bonn's 7 3/4% bond due 2000 rose 0.30 point to 93.25 to
yield 8.80%, while the 8% notes due in 1995 were up 0.13
point to 95.85 to yield 9.09%.
   In Britain, bond prices jumped as technical analysts told
customers the market was ready to rally.
   The Treasury's benchmark 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 rose
one point to 95 18/32 to yield 12.37%, while the 12% notes
due in 1995 rose 1/2 point to 95 5/32 to yield 13.38%.
   Japanese financial markets were closed yesterday in
observance of Constitution Memorial Day, and they will remain
closed today for Children's Day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Saint-Gobain:
   Concern to Buy Glass Unit
   From South Africa's PGSI
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cie. de Saint-Gobain said it agreed to buy the British
glass group Solaglas Ltd. for #96.5 million ($158.5 million)
from its South African parent PGSI.
   The French glass and building materials group said the
agreement also calls for it to sell its European automotive
glass repair businesses to PGSI's Autoglass group unit for
#16 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Solaglas generated revenue of about #173 million for the
fiscal year ended March 31, mainly from its operations in
flat glass processing, glazing, tempered glass, laminated
glass, mirrors and double glazing.
   Saint-Gobain's auto glass repair businesses, based in
France and Germany, had 1989 revenue equivalent to #17
million.
   Both transactions are subject to regulatory approval.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chinese Interest-Rate Outlook
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW DELHI -- China's central bank governor said yesterday
that a further decline in interest rates is unlikely and also
ruled out the likelihood of a further devaluation of the
yuan.
   Li Guixian expressed satisfaction at the results achieved
by December's 22% cut in the value of the Chinese currency.
He said China's exports have improved satisfactorily, while
imports have been restrained, allowing a rise in the
country's foreign exchange reserves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think the effects are positive," he stated, but added
that "We don't have any plans to continue this kind of
practice," referring to prospects for a further devaluation.
   Mr. Li was in India to lead his country's delegation to
the 23rd annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, which
is being attended by more than 2,000 delegates, bankers and
government officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Average Increases 6.53
   In Advance of April Jobs Report
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices added to this week's string of
gains, with the broad market performing better than blue-chip
issues for a change.
   However, prices finished well off session highs as the
market absorbed some profit-taking and futures-related sell
programs in advance of the April employment report.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which rallied past 2700
in early trading after some opening hesitation and peaked at
midday with a gain of nearly 22 points, ended with a gain of
just 6.53 at 2696.17.
   But the ratio of advancing to declining issues on the New
York Stock Exchange weighed more heavily in favor of
advancers than it had Wednesday, when the Dow industrial
average rose 20.72 points.
   In the latest session, 901 Big Board issues recorded
gains, while 557 finished with losses. In Wednesday's
trading, advancers outpaced decliners 864 to 612.
   Additionally, broader averages recorded sharper advances
than did the Dow industrial average in percentage terms. The
30-stock average had a 0.24% gain. Standard &amp; Poor's
500-Stock Index went up 0.33%, and the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index climbed 0.34%.
   The S&amp;P 500 added 1.09 to 335.57, the Composite Index rose
0.63 to 183.97, while the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
advanced 1.00 to 312.40.
   Trading activity remained moderate as caution in advance
of the employment report, scheduled for release before
today's opening, weighed on the market. Volume on the Big
Board amounted to 145,570,000 shares, little changed from
Wednesday's total of 141,610,000.
   "The market just drifted during the afternoon from a lack
of interest," said W. Daniel Williams III, a vice president
of trading at Dillon, Read &amp; Co. "Something is keeping people
on the sidelines, and that's really uncertainty."
   The April employment data is expected to show that nonfarm
payrolls swelled during the month, primarily from the hiring
of temporary census workers. The consensus of economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report calls for a
payroll increase of 384,000, with census employees accounting
for 211,000 of the gain, and an unchanged jobless rate of
5.2%.
   The Dow industrial average shows a gain of 51.12 points,
or 1.9%, for the week and has moved higher in six of the past
seven sessions.
   But in assessing the rally, some analysts have pointed to
weakness in measures of the market's breadth -- the
relationship between advancers and decliners -- as a sign
that its gains might prove to be short-lived.
   Gene Jay Seagle, director of technical research at Gruntal
&amp; Co., said the market's latest performance represents "the
first sign of real improvement in breadth that we've seen in
some time."
   Mr. Seagle added that the evidence of buying interest in a
broad range of issues increases the chances for stocks to
continue rising once the market absorbs the employment data
and next week's $30.5 billion Treasury refunding.
   General Motors rose 3/8 to 45 1/8 on Big Board composite
volume of 1.1 million shares. Although the company's
first-quarter earnings dropped 54% from the year-earlier
level, the latest results were at the high end of analysts'
expectations. Separately, GM reported that its late April
U.S. car sales rose 4.1%.
   On the other hand, American International Group dropped 2
to 88 on 1.3 million shares despite reporting that earnings
for the first quarter rose 3.5%.
   N.V. Philips skidded 2 7/8 to 17 1/8 on 1.5 million in
response to its first-quarter report, which showed that gains
from the sale of most of its European defense units accounted
for almost all of its profit. Also, the company backed off
from earlier, optimistic forecasts.
   Wal-Mart Stores retreated 1 1/2 to 49 3/4 on 1.6 million
shares after a disappointing April sales report.
   J.C. Penney, whose April sales dropped 1.7% from a year
earlier, lost 3/8 to 63 1/4. Texaco rose 1/8 to 59 1/8 on 2.9
million shares, with one pair of institutional trades
designed to capture the next quarterly dividend payment on
the stock accounting for two million of the total. The oil
company's shares carry a 5% dividend yield and go without the
dividend today.
   Shares of single-country mutual funds extended a rally
that got under way Wednesday. Germany Fund rose 1 1/8 to 15
3/8, New Germany Fund advanced 1 to 15 1/8, Future Germany
Fund gained 1 to 16 1/8, Austria Fund rose 1 1/8 to 15 1/8,
Korea Fund rose 1 5/8 to 21 1/8, and Thai Fund climbed 1 1/4
to 22 1/4.
   Sundstrand, which surged 4 1/2 Wednesday, added 5 1/2 to
75 3/4. Speculation that the company may receive a takeover
bid of $100 to $110 a share from Westinghouse Electric fueled
the two-day rally, traders said. Both companies declined to
comment on the rumors.
   Fleet/Norstar Financial Group, which declared its regular
dividend of 35 cents a share despite reporting a
first-quarter loss, rose 1/2 to 19 1/4. The company also said
it anticipates returning to profitability in the second
quarter.
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi rose 5/8 to 5 3/8 on a report in the
Financial Times that the company is understood to have agreed
in principle to a management buy-out of its Hay Group
consulting unit. The report said the company had turned down
a bid from Bernard Krief Consultants, a French firm.
   Apple Bancorp climbed 2 1/2 to 44 1/8. The company,
targeted in a $38-a-share takeover bid by New York
real-estate investor Stanley Stahl, said several other
parties have expressed an interest in submitting rival
offers.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.74
to 344.97. Volume totaled 11,120,000 shares compared with
11,710,000 Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Air, Pan Am Join Other Airlines
   In Posting Losses for the First Quarter
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX PN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   A difficult first quarter for the airline industry
resulted in steep losses at two of the most troubled
carriers, Texas Air Corp. and Pan Am Corp.
   They were the last in the industry to report results. Hit
by high fuel costs, eight of 10 U.S. airline holding
companies posted losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Houston-based Texas Air, buffeted by losses at its Eastern
Airlines unit and by the fuel cost increases, had a net loss
of $107.1 million, or $2.80 a share. A year earlier, a strike
and Chapter 11 filing at Eastern pushed the parent's loss to
$255.5 million, or $6.56 a share. Revenue fell 1.1% to $1.86
billion from $1.89 billion.
   Texas Air said its operating loss narrowed to $92.5
million from $174 million.
   The company said the deficits, which were expected, were
attributable to the problems at Eastern. While Eastern, still
in bankruptcy court, narrowed its loss, revenue declined 10%.
The loss narrowed to $136.5 million on revenue of $557.2
million from the year-earlier $255.2 million on revenue of
$620.6 million. Eastern has blamed the lower revenue on its
inability to attract high-paying business travelers, who were
scared off by the labor unrest.
   Such markedly lower revenue was one reason Eastern's
unsecured creditors last month pushed to oust Texas Air from
its day-to-day management of Eastern and a bankruptcy judge
appointed a trustee to run the airline. Texas Air said that
under generally accepted accounting principles, Eastern's
results will be excluded from Texas Air's future operating
results.
   Texas Air's other unit, Continental Airlines, recorded a
profit of $21.3 million, mostly the result of a one-time gain
of $69.7 million from settlement of a lawsuit. Continental
had a loss of $16.5 million a year earlier.
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Texas Air stock rose 12.5 cents to $6.50.
   In New York, Pan Am said its net loss widened to $190.7
million, or $1.29 a share, from $151.1 million, or $1.05 a
share, a year earlier.
   Although Pan Am's loss was slightly greater than what Wall
Street analysts were expecting, industry observers said they
were encouraged by a 15% surge in revenue to $845.8 million
from $733.5 million. The jump was among the largest by major
carriers in the quarter.
   "They regained some of their first-class and
business-class business," said John Eichner, chairman of
Simat, Hellisen and Eichner Inc., a New York-based airline
consulting firm.
   Many customers jittery from the December 1988 Pan Am crash
over Lockerbie, Scotland, are just returning to the carrier,
Mr. Eichner said.
   Despite a positive outlook for the second and third
quarters, the best period for Pan Am's big transatlantic
business, the carrier is still under the gun.
   "The pressure is still on them," said Mr. Eichner, noting
that Pan Am is likely to face more troubles in the fourth
quarter, when its traffic typically falters.
   Pan Am struggled through a difficult winter. Pan Am was
bruised by fuel and oil costs 36% higher than a year earlier.
They rose to $171.1 million from $126.2 million. This
contributed to a 15% rise in the operating expenses to $995.8
million from $862.2 million.
   Pan Am also cited aircraft and ground rentals among its
biggest expenses. It said these costs rose largely because of
an increase in fleet size to 165 jets from 141.
   In the quarter, the carrier was forced to obtain
agreements with three big creditors to postpone the start of
collection of $106.4 million in bills until later this year.
   Pan Am stock rose 12.5 cents to close at $2.75 a share in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Genzyme Unit's Initial Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   IGLI GENZ
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- IG Laboratories Inc., a unit of
Genzyme Corp., said it is offering 1,875,000 common shares in
its initial public offering at $7.50 a share. All of the
shares are being offered by the company.
   Upon completion of the offering, IG Laboratories will have
about 5.1 million shares outstanding and will be 56% owned by
Genzyme, a Boston-based maker of health-care products. IG
Labs provides genetic testing services to hospitals and other
health-care providers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oppenheimer &amp; Co. is the managing underwriter of the
offering.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters -- Getting Started:
   A Guide for Choosing the Right Mortgage
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   {An Occasional Look at Financial Fundamentals}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Interest rates are on the rise again, but home buyers
shopping for a loan this spring may be in for a pleasant
surprise: Mortgage rates are still lower than they were a
year ago.
   Unfortunately, that won't make choosing the right mortgage
less of a chore for most people. In addition to figuring out
what they can afford, home buyers have to weigh the amount of
risk they're willing to tolerate, where they are in their
lives and careers and how long they plan to stay in the new
home.
   Lenders don't make it any easier. Besides the basic choice
between fixed-rate and adjustable-rate loans, they are
offering a variety of permutations -- including biweekly
payments, 15-year mortgages and something new called the
"seven-year two-step."
   But choosing a mortgage doesn't have to be a bewildering
experience, if you focus clearly on your own needs and the
choices available. "It's like buying a car," says Arthur D.
Ringwald, executive vice president of Sears Mortgage Corp., a
unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. "You buy a sports car for one
purpose, a pickup truck for another and a four-door sedan for
yet something else."
   Here, with some pointers from financial professionals, is
a look at the principal options:
                                                                                                       

   Adjustable-Rate Mortgages. Called ARMs for short,
adjustable-rate mortgages generally offer lower initial rates
than fixed-rate home loans. But the rate and the monthly
payment move up and down, in line with an index tied to
short-term interest rates.
   That makes ARMs particularly popular among young people
who expect their incomes to grow enough to cover potential
increases in monthly payments and among those who don't
expect to remain in the same home more than a few years. "The
ARM buys you a bigger buying opportunity" because of the
lower introductory rate, says Anthony Neal, a senior vice
president of Central Trust Co. in Cincinnati.
   At the same time, ARMs can be risky. "What looks like a
very affordable situation may not look so good after a year,"
says Mr. Neal. The monthly payment on a $100,000 mortgage,
for instance, would rise from $768.92 to $914.74 if the
interest rate went from 8.5% to 10.5%.
   For an ARM to be worth the risk, many financial
professionals say, the initial rate should be at least two
percentage points lower than the fixed rate. With fixed-rate
mortgages currently at about 10.6% and the average initial
rate on ARMs at about 8.5%, the spread is a bit wider than
two percentage points.
   Typically, the interest-rate adjustment is made every six
months, annually or once every three years. While three-year
adjustables often are considered more desirable because they
are more predictable, a shorter adjustment period looks a lot
better when interest rates are falling.
   On six-month and one-year ARMs, the interest rate can
usually rise or fall a total of two percentage points a year,
and five or six percentage points over the life of the loan.
   Lenders in the East and Midwest tend to favor an index
based on Treasury securities, often the one-year T-bill,
while the monthly cost-of-funds index issued by the Federal
Home Loan Bank of San Francisco is more common in western
states. A specified amount, usually 1.5 to 2.5 percentage
points, is added to the index to determine the mortgage rate.
   Some adjustable-rate mortgages are convertible into
fixed-rate loans during a specific period, usually between
the second and fifth year.
   One thing to avoid: ARMs that provide for "negative
amortization." That's when a lender limits increases in a
borrower's monthly payments in such a way that they aren't
sufficient to cover the principal and interest actually being
charged, and the difference is added to the balance of the
loan. The homeowner can end up owing more than the original
mortgage.
                                                                                                       

   Fixed-Rate Mortgages. These are generally considered a
good choice for people who plan to remain in a home for a
while. They know what their payments will be and can budget
for the long term, making it possible to put aside money for
children's education, for instance, or for a regular
investment program.
   "It takes all of the uncertainty out," says Mr. Ringwald
of Sears Mortgage. "As time goes on, the mortgage payment
becomes a smaller and smaller percentage of income. The
payments will get easier and easier to make and you'll get
more and more solvent."
   But the price for that certainty is a higher monthly
payment to start, which may make it harder for some people to
qualify. Lenders typically require that housing expenses,
including real estate taxes and monthly maintenance payments
on a cooperative apartment or condominium, not exceed 28% of
the homeowner's gross income.
   The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is the stalwart of the
industry, probably the kind your parents had and maybe even
your grandparents had. The payments are predictable, and
equity builds up steadily.
   For those with more disposable income, there's the 15-year
mortgage. In return for slightly higher payments, the home is
paid off in half the time. Timothy Chase, a financial planner
with Baltimore accountants Wolpert, Smullian &amp; Blumenthal,
says it's the mortgage of choice for people nearing
retirement. "Nobody wants to be making mortgage payments when
they're 70 years old," he says.
   Because a borrower can often get a slightly lower rate on
a 15-year mortgage, the difference in monthly payments is
smaller than might be expected. On a $150,000 mortgage, for
instance, homeowners would pay $1,372.11 on a 10.5% 30-year
mortgage. Assuming they could get 10.25% on a 15-year loan,
the monthly payment would be $1,634.94. With the 15-year
mortgage, they'd also save almost $200,000 in interest.
   An alternative for people who want to pay off their
mortgage faster is biweekly payments. The biweekly payments
are half what a monthly payment would be, but there's the
equivalent of one extra monthly payment a year, so equity
builds up more quickly. The mortgage can be paid off in 18 to
20 years, at a considerable savings of interest.
                                                                                                       

   Seven-Year Two-Step. No, this isn't that hot new dance
from Brazil. It's a mortgage that offers a fixed monthly
payment for the first seven years at a rate that's usually a
quarter to half a percentage point lower than the rate on a
30-year fixed-rate mortgage. The rate is adjusted to market
levels after seven years.
   "Young buyers who are pretty sure they're going to move
might as well take advantage of the lower rate," says Warren
Lasko, executive vice president of the Mortgage Bankers
Association. On a $150,000 loan, half a percentage point
means more than $50 a month. The risk, however, is that if
the homeowner doesn't move, he or she may find rates
considerably higher in seven years.
   ---
                Mortgage Rates Now and Then
                                                                                                       

                                           SIX       12
                                        MONTHS   MONTHS
                              CURRENT      AGO      AGO
                                                                                                       

   ARM*                         8.52%    8.58%    9.43%
   15-year                     10.35     9.78    10.89
   30-year                     10.63    10.03    11.13
                                                                                                       

   *Initial rate on one-year adjustable rate loan
   Source: HSH Associates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ionics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ION WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   IONICS Inc. (Watertown, Mass.) -- Arthur L. Goldstein,
54-year-old president and chief executive officer of this
maker of water-purification equipment, was named to the
additional post of chairman. He succeeds Averell E. Daniell,
75, who was named chairman emeritus.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apple Bancorp
   Says It May Get
   Several Offers
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Apple Bancorp Inc. said it received
indications that parties other than the real estate investor
Stanley Stahl might be interested in taking over the bank
holding company.
   The bank has rejected Mr. Stahl's $38-a-share takeover
offer. Mr. Stahl controls 30.6% of Apple; his tender offer,
which he made late in March, values the rest of the company
at about $121.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The parent of Apple Bank for Savings said it will provide
nonpublic data to these third parties. The bank declined to
identify either the possible suitors or the terms of any
possible proposal.
   The bank also is asking bank regulators to again review
Mr. Stahl's regulatory filings. In a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, the company disclosed two letters that its
attorneys, Thacher, Proffitt &amp; Wood, based here, sent to the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the office of the New
York state superintendent of banks.
   The bank's attorneys ask the regulators to make a "current
and careful reconsideration" of the November 1988 filings Mr.
Stahl made when he sought clearance to boost his stake in
Apple past 10%.
   The letters refer to recent published reports, which note
that Mr. Stahl once was convicted of bribing an Internal
Revenue Service agent, but the conviction was reversed on
appeal. Mr. Stahl had two retrials, the first ending in a
hung jury and the second in an acquittal. He previously
disclosed the matter to regulators.
   The articles note that he also is part-owner of
Manhattan's Ansonia Hotel; tenants there have had a longtime
battle with management about repairs.
   "Adverse public perceptions of the competence, experience
or integrity of any acquiring person, such as Mr. Stahl or
the members of the Stahl Group, would not be in the best
interests" of the bank's depositors or the public, one letter
says.
   Through a spokesman, Mr. Stahl declined to comment on the
letters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia Posts Budget Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   CANBERRA -- The Australian government reported a budget
deficit of 1.45 billion Australian dollars (US$1.09 billion)
for the first nine months of this fiscal year ending June 30,
narrowing from a budget deficit of A$2.05 billion in the
year-earlier period.
   For the full fiscal year, the government has predicted a
record budget surplus of A$9.33 billion. Much of its revenue
is collected in the final few months of the fiscal year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ralph Willis, finance minister, said in a statement that
revenue for the first nine months rose 7.6% from a year
earlier, while spending rose 6.3%.
   Mr. Willis said the growth in cumulative spending and
revenue is "broadly in line with the budget forecast" made
last August.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cigna Corp., Citing
   Storm Losses, Reports
   Net Fell 51% in Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   CI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Cigna Corp.'s first-quarter net plunged
51% to $42 million, or 54 cents a share, due to catastrophe
losses and continued weak pricing in the property-casualty
market.
   The results were slightly worse than some analysts
expected, but were attributed to losses caused by severe
winter storms in Europe. Of the multinational insurers that
have reported first-quarter results so far, Cigna had the
largest exposure. The insurer's after-tax results were
reduced by $34 million, or 43 cents a share, because of these
catastrophe losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's entire property-casualty group had a $24
million loss, compared with earnings of $42 million in the
1989 first quarter.
   "Assuming a normal level of catastrophes, I expect overall
earnings for the remainder of the year to be better than
1989," said Wilson H. Taylor, Cigna's chairman and chief
executive officer.
   Udayan Ghose, an insurance-industry analyst at Shearson
Lehman Hutton in New York, said some of the weakness in the
results can be attributed to seasonal factors, such as a drop
in Cigna's group health earnings to $5 million from $15
million a year ago, excluding any investment gains. Yet, he
believes the shortfall will be made up during the rest of the
year and he doesn't plan to change any of his earnings
estimates for the company.
   Cigna's health maintenance organization, or HMO,
operations reported a profit of $7 million, compared with a
loss of $14 million a year ago.
   Revenue rose to $3.9 million from $3.7 million in the
year-ago quarter. The 1990 results included an after-tax net
realized investment gain of $2 million, compared with a gain
of $1 million in the 1989 period. The year-ago quarter also
included profit from discontinued operations of $13 million.
   Cigna completed the acquisition of Equicor, a Nashville,
Tenn.-based health-care company, in March, but it didn't
affect results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Inquirer Ordered to Pay Huge Libel Award
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   KRI CCI MDEST CBS MCA ASH
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BANKS (BNK)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In one of the largest judgments ever in a libel case
brought by a public figure, a jury ordered the Philadelphia
Inquirer to pay $34 million in damages to a former chief
assistant district attorney in Philadelphia.
   The award, which the Inquirer said it will appeal,
concerned a series of stories published in 1973 about Richard
A. Sprague, now a lawyer in private practice. The jury
awarded $2.5 million to compensate Mr. Sprague, 64 years old,
and the remainder, $31.5 million, to punish the Inquirer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The verdict, after a 10-week trial in Philadelphia's Court
of Common Pleas, is the second against the Inquirer in the
case. Mr. Sprague won $4.5 million in damages, including $3
million in punitive damages, in 1983. The Inquirer won a new
trial because the judge permitted jurors to draw adverse
inferences against the Inquirer when the reporters involved
exercised their right not to testify about information
gathered from unidentified sources.
   The stories suggested that as a top prosecutor, Mr.
Sprague quashed a homicide investigation in 1963 because the
son of a police captain had been in the apartment of the
victim, a homosexual, the night of the murder. The principal
author of the series, Greg Walter, who died last year, had
previously been successfully prosecuted by Mr. Sprague for
tape recording telephone conversations illegally and was
known among friends to hold a deep grudge. Mr. Sprague was a
friend of the father of one of the suspects.
   Although the appeals court ordered a second trial, it also
ruled that the series quoted sources out of context,
misidentified documents, was factually in error and omitted
evidence in favor of Mr. Sprague, including, in one article,
his own denial. At the second trial, attorneys for Mr.
Sprague introduced some of Mr. Walter's tape-recorded
interviews for the stories, showing that he coaxed statements
damaging to Mr. Sprague from sources.
   The jury, however, was not permitted to see a state
attorney general's report published after the Inquirer series
that found that the police did not thoroughly investigate the
1963 homicide and raised questions about Mr. Sprague's role.
Philadelphia Common Pleas Judge Charles P. Mirarchi ruled the
report inadmissible because Inquirer reporters and editors
did not rely on it for their series.
   In a prepared statement, Executive Editor Eugene L.
Roberts Jr. said the report was relevant and complained that
the judge excluded much of the newspaper's defense from the
trial. Judge Mirarchi, he noted, was the subject of a 1983
inquiry by the paper into nepotism in Philadelphia courts.
   Mr. Sprague said the damages reflected the jury's outrage
at the abuse of power by the media. He criticized the paper
for not covering its own trial.
   ---
   EX-CITIBANK OFFICER convicted of stealing $25 million in
stock from vault.
   A federal jury in Manhattan convicted Mario Rios Pinochet,
formerly a Citibank vice president, of embezzling five bearer
securities valued at $5 million each. He also was found
guilty of interstate transportation of four of the five
securities and of trying to sell the stock through a
PaineWebber Inc. broker. The fifth security hasn't been
found.
   Mr. Pinochet was in charge of safeguarding assets at
Citibank, a unit of Citicorp. He is accused of stealing the
securities Jan. 25 while inspecting a vault in Manhattan as
part of an effort to improve Citibank's securities
procedures. Two days later, Mr. Pinochet turned the four
securities over to a broker, who then discovered that
Citibank had reported the stocks missing. Mr. Pinochet was
fired after he was arrested Feb. 1.
   Mr. Pinochet's attorney, James F. Gill, said he plans to
appeal. Citibank officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   SHAH OF IRAN'S SON files suit over family investments.
   Reza Pahlavi, son of the late shah and heir-in-exile to
Iran's Peacock Throne, filed suit in Virginia state court
against Ahmad Ali Massoud Ansari, who until last year managed
the Pahlavi family's money in the U.S.
   The complaint alleges that Mr. Ansari improperly placed
liens on Mr. Pahlavi's $3.1 million residence in McLean, Va.
It also asks for a full accounting of all funds entrusted to
Mr. Ansari. The total is estimated at more than $20 million,
according to Mr. Ansari's lawyer Richard Tomar, a partner in
the Washington firm of Margolius, Mallios, Davis, Rider &amp;
Tomar.
   Mr. Tomar said the liens were necessary to generate the
cash needed to maintain the Pahlavi family's investments. He
said Mr. Ansari is willing to provide an accounting of the
money, but "it's complicated. It was a lot of money over a
long period of time. We're, in fact, surprised that he would
want to make public all of his expenditures." He declined to
elaborate.
   Mr. Pahlavi's attorney, Thomas Cawley of Hunton &amp;
Williams, declined to confirm the amount of money involved.
He said that the suit, which was previously filed in federal
court and then withdrawn, was filed in Virginia court for
jurisdictional reasons on Wednesday. Mr. Pahlavi's case faced
potential jurisdictional obstacles in federal court because
Mr. Pahlavi would not declare himself to be a citizen of any
country.
   Asked whether Mr. Pahlavi is a citizen of Iran, Mr. Cawley
replied, "He is not a citizen of the United States."
   ---
   COPYRIGHT LAW doesn't protect analysis of historical
events, court rules.
   The U.S. Court of Appeals in Chicago last week upheld a
lower court's dismissal of a $10.5 million lawsuit filed by
Chicago author Jay Robert Nash. It was the first time that
the appeals court had clearly ruled that copyright law does
not protect historical analysis, said Paula Litt, a Chicago
lawyer who represented defendants CBS Inc., MCA Inc.,
Universal City Studios Inc., and the writers and producers of
the television series "Simon and Simon."
   Mr. Nash had alleged that a "Simon and Simon" episode
violated his copyright of several books about John Dillinger,
former Public Enemy No. 1, who was killed by FBI agents in
1934 as he emerged from the Biograph Theater in Chicago.
   In his books, Mr. Nash argued that Mr. Dillinger did not
die at the Biograph. Instead, he maintained that Mr.
Dillinger learned about the FBI trap, sent a small-time
hoodlum to the theater in his place, and then retired to the
West Coast.
   In the "Simon and Simon" episode, private detectives Rick
and A.J. Simon investigate the murder of a retired FBI agent
who believed Mr. Dillinger did not die at the Biograph.
   The appeals court ruled that the TV show had used Mr.
Nash's work as a source for the episode. But the court ruled
that the producers of "Simon and Simon" did not violate Mr.
Nash's copyright. The panel said the copyright law protects
an author's words and presentation, not the historical event.
"The first person to conclude that Dillinger survived does
not get dibs on history. If Dillinger survived, that fact is
available to all," the court wrote.
   E. Leonard Rubin, a Chicago lawyer representing Mr. Nash,
said he felt the court's decision was too broad and could
have serious implications for other authors. "Copyright law
says you can't protect facts. But without an exhumation of
Dillinger's body, it's difficult to tell whether Mr. Nash's
supposition is theory or fact. Theories should be protected
or else there's not a lot of incentive to spend time
researching," said Mr. Rubin.
   He said his client has not decided whether to appeal.
   ---
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT settles voting rights suit in New
Mexico.
   The suit was brought on behalf of Pueblo and Navajo
Indians against the state of New Mexico and Sandoval County.
According to the suit, the native Americans were denied full
access to voter information under the Voting Rights Act's
bilingualism provisions.
   The Justice Department alleged that the state and county
failed to adequately provide voter information in the Native
American languages spoken by the tribes. The voting law
requires that this information be provided orally to American
Indians because their languages are historically unwritten.
   Under the settlement, voter information will be provided
through radio announcements and other nonwritten means by a
full-time language coordinator who speaks Keres, the primary
Pueblo language of that area, and a second language
coordinator who speaks Navajo, who will be hired for nine
months prior to any general election. The state also will be
required to provide several officials to assist in the
bilingual program.
   Herman Agoyo, chairman of the All-Indian Pueblo Council, a
confederation of 19 New Mexico pueblos, said the settlement
will "open the door to more participation by the Indian
people in the voting process."
   ---
   ON THE STAND: Former Ashland Oil Chairman Orin Atkins took
the witness stand in a case involving the sale of company
secrets to Iran. Mr. Atkins, who pleaded guilty last year for
his role in the scheme, is testifying against Charles
Barnett, a Florida lawyer. Mr. Barnett is accused of helping
Mr. Atkins arrange the sale of the documents, which Iran
planned to use in a suit against Ashland. In federal court in
Manhattan, a jury was shown a secretly made videotape in
which Mr. Atkins said he was having financial difficulties
and told an associate to "make the best deal you can." He
also referred to Mr. Barnett's work on the negotiations,
which Mr. Barnett's attorney has described as legitimate and
legal.
   ---
   Amy Dockser Marcus contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Deutsche Lufthansa AG:
   Airline to Hire 500 Workers
   From Bankrupt Air Carrier
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Deutsche Lufthansa AG Chairman Heinz Ruhnau said the West
German airline will hire approximately 500 employees of
German Wings, a Munich-based private air carrier that filed
for bankruptcy this week.
   Mr. Ruhnau told reporters that Frankfurt-based Lufthansa
had planned to add 3,500 employees this year anyway. He said
he ordered personnel directors to give priority to job
applicants from German Wings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Lufthansa chairman said the company has little
interest in taking over German Wings's six leased McDonnell
Douglas Corp. MD-83 twin jets, because they don't fit into
Lufthansa's own fleet.
   With regards to Interflug, the East German national
airline, Mr. Ruhnau said he favored increased cooperation
between the two German carriers, but foresees a future where
both continue to operate independently, even after the
planned unification of the two Germanys.
   Lufthansa is in the process of acquiring a 26% stake in
Interflug; the two companies have also set up a catering
joint venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Schering AG:
   Pharmaceutical Firm's Net
   Rose 14% in First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SCH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Schering AG said first-quarter net income rose 14% as
sales grew 4%.
   The German pharmaceuticals and chemicals group said net
was 125 million Deutsche marks ($74.2 million), up from 110
million marks a year earlier. In April, the company had
expressed some caution about its earnings and sales prospects
for 1990. Sales grew to 1.7 billion marks from 1.64 billion
marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Schering said group sales grew strongest in West Germany,
where they were up 6.5% to 412 million marks as foreign sales
gained 3% to 1.289 billion marks.
   The company nonetheless was hurt by the negative impact of
the mark's strength. Price pressure in some markets also
damped earnings growth.
   Indeed, while many companies in the European chemicals
industry are seeing the physical volume of their products
sold rise, negative currency and price factors in competitive
markets have led to flat or downward trends in money terms.
   Schering noted that if not for the negative impact of
currency translations, group sales would have risen 9%. That
would indicate that the company's underlying sales growth
remains firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IFEI
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Imagine Films Entertainment Inc. named Tova
Laiter as senior vice president, motion pictures. She was
president of Freddie Fields Productions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Crude Oil Prices Tumble in Spite of Promises
   That New OPEC Agreement Will Be Effective
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Crude oil prices skidded, even as OPEC oil ministers were
saying the pact they struck yesterday would prop up prices.
   At an emergency meeting of the group's monitoring
committee -- a parley that lasted less than two days --
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
agreed to cut total production by 1.4 million barrels a day.
But the reduction, which was supposed to send positive
signals to the market, instead caused the futures price of
crude for June delivery to tumble by 69 cents a barrel.
Gasoline and heating oil prices retreated as well.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Market participants were somewhat disappointed that OPEC
ministers didn't accomplish anything more than reducing
output back to the official quota level of 22.08 million
barrels a day established at last November's meeting. By
OPEC's own reckoning, current demand for its oil is less than
21 million barrels daily.
   In addition, inventories world-wide are burgeoning and
storage facilities are loaded to the brim, industry officials
say.
   "There was a reluctance to sell before the meeting in case
OPEC did something unexpected,' said James Fiedler, vice
president for energy brokering at E.D.&amp; F. Man International
Futures Inc. "There was always the possibility that OPEC
would pull a rabbit out of its hat," as it has in the past.
   Oil prices had initially rallied somewhat on news of the
OPEC pricing pact. Particularly positive were reports that
the United Arab Emirates, a flagrant violator of its OPEC
quota of about one million barrels daily, had agreed to slash
output by 200,000 barrels a day. Industry experts as well as
OPEC officials had pegged current UAE production at 1.9
million barrels daily.
   Howver, after the agreement had been struck, UAE Oil
Minister Mana Otaiba said that production by the Emirates
actually stood at 2.1 million. "In just one sentence, Otaiba
torpedoed the whole meeting," said Peter Gignoux, director of
Shearson Lehman Hutton's energy desk in London. "He was
producing more than anyone, including OPEC, thought he was."
   Industry officials and traders say they have little faith
that the cartel's members will actually rein in production.
But OPEC ministers, cognizant of the doubts, say that
yesterday's price decline is only temporary -- prices will
rise gradually in the weeks ahead as they honor their
agreement.
   Also depressing oil prices was a report issued by the U.S.
Energy Department Wednesday night. The agency estimated that
crude oil stocks in the U.S. increased by 4.2 million barrels
in the week ended April 27. The American Petroleum Institute
had reported Tuesday that crude stocks during that period
declined.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices eased. The May contract was off
1.10 cents an ounce to $1.2020. July declined 0.55 cent an
ounce to $1.1160. As a result, the May premium over July was
reduced 0.55 cent to 8.60 cents. The price decline didn't
reflect any change in the current supply tightness, but
instead was influenced by softness in London caused by a
London Metal Exchange examination of recent trading there,
according to William O'Neill, vice president of research for
Elders Futures Inc., New York. The Metal Exchange asked all
brokers to turn their trading cards over to the exchange by 6
a.m. EDT today, according to Mr. O'Neill; he said the
exchange was looking into any trading beyond the bounds of
rules that might have affected the premium of the cash
position price over that of the three-months' delivery. On
Tuesday, that premium widened sharply and then was reduced on
Wednesday, Mr. O'Neill noted. In Peru, mine and smelter
workers of Southern Peru Copper Corp. remained on strike
despite an order Wednesday signed by the Peruvian President
Alan Garcia ordering them back to work by yesterday. The
National Federation of Mine Workers said that a meeting of
the member unions took place yesterday and that the result of
the talks would be announced at a news conference today. A
New York spokesman for the company confirmed yesterday's
union meeting had taken place and that today's union news
conference was scheduled, but said that Southern Peru had
repeated that the federation didn't represent the five unions
involved in the strike.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rose. June delivery gold
was up $1.70 an ounce to $373.70. July silver edged up 0.8
cent an ounce to $5.0730. July platinum advanced $2.70 an
ounce to $483.20. Some support for gold came from a Knight
Ridder report that the International Monetary Fund wouldn't
sell gold for the next two to three years to make up for
defaults on loans by some member nations. The gold these
nations have contributed to the IMF as part of their
membership will, instead, be used as collateral to back loans
to these nations, according to the report. This alleviated
fears of gold sales by the IMF, as had been proposed by the
U.S., an analyst said. There was also growing concern over
the increasingly unstable political situation in South Africa
and the possibility of violence, the analyst said. The South
African Bureau of Mines' latest report indicated gold
production in that country was up last month, but slightly
lower for the first quarter than last year. Gold output
during March amounted to 47,560 kilograms, up 4% from the
45,724 kilograms in February but below the 48,733 kilograms
of March 1989. For the first quarter, gold production
amounted to 148,226 kilograms, down 1% from the 150,133
kilograms a year earlier. A kilogram is about 2.2 pounds.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices closed lower on profit-taking
following Wednesday's rally. The decline was also in response
to crop estimates released by a widely followed
futures-research concern, Sparks Commodities Inc., in
Memphis, Tenn. Soybean futures for July delivery dropped 7.75
cents a bushel to close at $6.44 following the release of
Sparks's estimate of the Brazil soybean crop at 19.5 million
metric tons -- higher than many other private estimates,
futures analysts said. Heavy rains across many Brazilian
growing regions in recent weeks, while farmers were trying to
harvest their soybeans, had led many analysts to predict a
reduction in the Brazilian crop. Wheat futures prices had
been higher early in the trading session on worries that
heavy rains in Texas and Oklahoma winter-wheat growing
regions had damaged the crop. Continued expectations for
imminent export orders also supported prices. But July wheat
futures finished the session down 0.75 cent at $3.4675 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, partly in response to
Sparks's estimate of a bumper wheat crop this year. Sparks,
which doesn't comment on its estimates, said the winter-wheat
crop would total 2.05 billion bushels and that the U.S.'s
total wheat crop would reach 2.72 billion bushels -- both
figures being higher than those of many other analysts. Corn
futures prices, influenced by the action in the adjoining
futures pits, dropped two cents a bushel for July delivery to
close at $2.87.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wellcome PLC:
   British Drug Firm's Profit
   Gained 28% in Six Months
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wellcome PLC said pretax profit rose 28% for the six
months ended March 3 helped by improved profits in all of the
company's major operations.
   The British pharmaceuticals group said pretax profit rose
to #164.1 million ($269.5 million) from #128.2 million, at
the top end of market expectations of #155 million to #165
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Wellcome dropped 21 pence to 655 pence on London's
Stock Exchange, as analysts said they were expecting a more
bullish report on the company's Retrovir drug, which is used
to fight acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
   Profit after tax and minority interests, or profit
attributable to shareholders, was #97.8 million, up from
#76.2 million. Per-share earnings increased to 11.5 pence
from nine pence.
   Wellcome declared an interim per-share dividend to 1.5
pence, up 15% from 1.3 pence.
   Sales rose 9% to #733.4 million from #672.7 million.
Excluding #92.9 million from its discontinued Coopers Animal
Health subsidiary, the group's latest sales figure improved
28%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Leo's Industries Inc.:
   Company Completes Sale
   Of 442,500 Common Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   LI
</CO>
<LP>
   Leo's Industries Inc. said it completed a private
placement of 442,500 shares of its common stock to several
investors, primarily European banks and insurance companies.
   Leo's, which operates a chain of consumer-electronics
stores and resells cellular phones, abandoned an initial
public offering early this year that had tried to offer a 33%
stake of its cellular-phone unit, Twentieth Century Cellular,
and raise more than $20 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the time the offering was withdrawn, the Long Beach,
Calif., company said it would revert to its initial,
smaller-scale strategy of selling stock privately.
   The company's chief financial officer, Merrill Lyons, said
the slight discount given to the buyers was only to
accommodate a two-to-three week holding period until the
shares are registered. He said the proceeds of the sale,
which he wouldn't quantify, would be used for general
coorporate purposes to "strengthen the balance sheet."
   In composite trading yesterday on the American Stock
Exchange, Leo's shares closed yesterday at $17.75, down 87.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan:
   Federal Regulators Approve
   Ailing Thrift's Capital Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VFED
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association said federal
regulators approved its plan for meeting capital
requirements, but as part of the plan the big thrift must
raise $125 million to $150 million from outside investors by
June 1991.
   Scott Braly, president and chief executive officer of
Valley, Van Nuys, Calif., said investors currently have
little interest in buying stakes in S&amp;Ls because of the
industry's problems and a huge backlog of insolvent thrifts
that the government is trying to sell. But he said investors
may be more interested by mid-1991. If Valley can't meet the
terms of the capital plan, regulators can seek sanctions
against the lender, including seizure of the institution.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Valley, which has assets of about $3 billion, earned
nearly $10 million in the first quarter, with about half of
the profit coming from the sale of branches. Mr. Braly said
the other half of the net income represented core earnings,
adding that he expected the first-quarter trend to continue
through out the year, indicating full-year core earnings of
roughly $20 million before special items. The thrift will
continue to operate under a "lockdown" order from federal
regulators, prohibiting new lending. Mr. Braly said the order
wouldn't affect expected profitability.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Tucson Electric Power Co.:
   Pima County Authority
   Issues $20 Million in Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   TEP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tucson Electric Power Co., Tucson Ariz., said the
Industrial Development Authority of Pima County issued $20
million in tax-exempt bonds on behalf of the utility. The
variable-rate bonds, issued via Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets, have an initial interest rate of 7%, and final
maturity is 2025.
   Proceeds initially were used to acquire a guaranteed
investment contract, which provides credit enhancement until
it is replaced by a letter of credit the utility is
negotiating. Tucson Electric said it expects to have a $350
million master credit agreement in place by the end of June.
After that, the bond proceeds will be used to pay
construction costs of distribution facilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Copperweld Corp.:
   Procedural Reasons Delay
   Meeting to Vote on Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   COS F.IME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Copperweld Corp. said the special meeting to vote on the
proposed merger of Copperweld into Imetal, a French concern
that already controls Copperweld, will be delayed for
procedural reasons.
   The meeting was set for June 6 but will be postponed until
early July, the Pittsburgh company said. Copperweld said it
won't have required materials from the Securities and
Exchange Commission until late this month, which wouldn't
allow time to mail proxy materials for a June 6 meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Copperweld is a producer of wire, tubing and other
specialized metal products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   NBC Disposes of Its Stake
   In a New Zealand Network
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WBK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Broadcasting Co. disposed of its 14.7% stake in a
New Zealand network after bankers withdrew financing from the
foreign concern.
   NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., Fairfield, Conn.,
said it tendered or "put" its minority stake in New Zealand's
TV-3 to other partners in the venture. New Zealand law bars a
foreign entity from managing or controlling the network, and
NBC therefore declined to pump more money into the venture.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms weren't disclosed. J.B. Holston III, the NBC vice
president who had negotiated the stake, didn't return calls
seeking comment. NBC's stake was "put" to the brokerage firm
Ord O'Connor Grieve Ltd. and to TV-3 shareholders Metro Media
Ltd. and South Pacific Travel Ltd. after TV-3's main banker,
Westpac Banking Corp., withdrew funding.
   It is unlikely that NBC will make a profit on its
investment, whose size wasn't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prime Motor Inns Inc.
   Reports 98% Plunge
   In Third-Quarter Net
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   PDQ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prime Motor Inns Inc., as expected, reported
that fiscal third-quarter profit plunged 98%, citing "intense
competition in the hotel industry."
   And Chairman Peter E. Simon said he expects Prime's
results to be "under pressure over the next several quarters"
-- a near-term outlook shared by "virtually every other"
hotel company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the quarter ended March 31, Prime reported net income
of $209,000, or one cent a share, down from $18.2 million, or
55 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue dropped
17% to $82.4 million from $99.9 million. Last month, the
company had estimated that per-share net dropped
substantially for the quarter.
   Mr. Simon also said that Prime completed the sale of
long-term notes receivable to an affiliate of Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co. and received $40 million from the sale of a hotel.
Total proceeds of these transactions plus two previous debt
financings are $110 million, $57 million of which went to pay
bank debt and the rest for general purposes.
   Prime also said it will concentrate its resources on its
AmeriSuites all-suite properties and Wellesley Inn
limited-service hotels, operations where market demand has
been strong.
   The company thus reported no fees from contracting work it
does on properties, known as development income, nor any
gains on sales of properties. In the year-earlier period,
development income and property-sale gains were $13.6 million
and $6 million, respectively.
   Prime owns, operates or manages 139 hotels in the U.S.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Prime shares fell 12.5 cents to $7.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Reliance Group Holdings Inc.:
   First-Period Net Fell 64%
   On Revenue Increase of 8%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   REL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Reliance Group Holdings Inc. said earnings declined 64% in
the first quarter primarily because of "difficult market
conditions in some lines of business."
   Profit fell to $9.6 million, or 13 cents a share, from
$27.1 million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue
rose 8% to $924.7 million from $854.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit from property and casualty insurance operations
dropped 66% to $22.7 million from $67 million. New York-based
Reliance blamed price competition and a decline in premiums
written in 1990. However, income from life insurance as well
as title and mortgage insurance rose.
   Reliance has reported that its $630 million sale of its
General Casualty Insurance Co. subsidiary will result in a
$380 million pretax gain in the second quarter.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Reliance closed at $5.625 a share, down 12.5 cents.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   RELIANCE GROUP HOLDINGS Inc. said first-quarter earnings
declined primarily because of a large year-earlier gain from
the sale of an equity investment. Yesterday's edition
incorrectly attributed the drop mainly to market conditions.
   (WSJ May 8, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lillian Vernon Corp.:
   Net Rose 23% in Quarter;
   New Catalog's Sales Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LVC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lillian Vernon Corp. said its fiscal fourth-quarter net
income climbed 23% to $3.1 million from a year earlier,
reflecting improved operating efficiency and sales from a new
catalog.
   The specialty catalog retailer's net income in the quarter
ended Feb. 24 rose to $3.1 million, or 50 cents a share, from
$2.5 million, or 41 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue
rose 9.8% to $42.3 million from $38.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings advance reflects, in part, better inventory
management, said Lillian Vernon, chief executive officer of
the Mount Vernon, N.Y.-based company.
   Sales also benefited from the introduction of the firm's
new At Home catalog, featuring upscale decorative home
accessories. Introduced in July 1989, that catalog was mailed
to 3.5 million homes. Lillian Vernon's core catalogs offer
primarily inexpensively priced gifts and housewares.
   Lillian Vernon shares closed yesterday in composite
trading on the American Stock Exchange at $23, up 87.5 cents.
   Fiscal 1990 net rose 33% to $10.8 million, or $1.75 a
share, from $8.1 million, or $1.32 a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 10% to $154.7 million from $140.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British &amp; Commonwealth Holdings:
   Concern Is Seeking Buyers
   Of Assets to Reduce Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.K. financial services group British &amp; Commonwealth
Holdings PLC said it is seeking buyers for its core merchant
banking and related financial services operations.
   The concern disclosed last month that massive losses at
its Atlantic Computers unit would require it to begin
disposing of assets in a bid to reduce group indebtedness and
stay in operation. The company said S.G. Warburg &amp; Co., the
British merchant bank, has been hired to find buyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said a number of potential purchasers have
already expressed interest.
   Officials declined to say how much they expected to
generate from the sales, or when deals would be completed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Murdoch Puts Global Imprint on Books
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Rupert Murdoch wants to prove that global is
better in books.
   Bigness and globalism have attracted other giants in the
book business, including Bertelsmann AG of West Germany,
Hachette S.A. of France and the Simon &amp; Schuster division of
Paramount Communications Inc. But in just a few years, Mr.
Murdoch has come to rival them in size, assembling publishing
operations in the U.S., Europe, Australia, New Zealand and
Canada. The book publishing arm of his News Corp. pumps out
everything from novels to Bibles to road atlases, bringing in
annual revenue of more than $1 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Driving this empire is a sometimes-disputed belief that
globalism, especially in the English-speaking world, is the
smartest course for future growth. And behind the wheel is
George Craig, a tall, rumpled Scotsman, who is president and
chief executive officer of News Corp.'s book operations, soon
to be called Harper Collins Publishers.
   The two principal entities within Harper Collins are New
York-based Harper &amp; Row and London-based Collins Publishers.
When News Corp. paid $300 million for Harper &amp; Row in 1987,
it was a stodgy, medium-sized company that was barely making
money. Today, it is humming along profitably, and publishing
more best sellers than ever before, a total of 12 in 1989.
Collins, a large, well-respected general publisher known for
its reference books, was family-run for generations until Mr.
Murdoch bought into it, raising his stake to 100% last year
from 40% in 1981.
   To build his book empire, Mr. Murdoch tapped Mr. Craig,
the son of a Glasgow steel worker, who got started in
publishing by reorganizing a huge book printing factory for
Collins in the 1970s.
   Mr. Craig isn't of the gliterati literati set often found
in the publishing world. He is a businessman first and a team
builder, with a fondness for seeking everyone's ideas on how
to solve problems. The 49-year-old Mr. Craig has a grand
design to exploit synergies between the far-flung operations.
For example: Harper's children's book authors may soon
contribute to books for the Scott, Foresman &amp; Co. division,
which puts out textbooks; Collins marketing practices that
doubled British sales of Agatha Christie mysteries are being
applied to Harper paperbacks in America; Mr. Craig borrowed
some of the U.K. management from Collins's successful line of
datebooks and diaries to start a similar business in
Philadelphia.
   The bigger-is-better philosophy has its skeptics. Many
veteran publishers insist there are few if any economies of
scale in this low-margin, cyclical business, where each book
is a new risk. Moreover, many in the industry worry about the
loss of independence and a separate identity for publishing
concerns swallowed up by giants such as News Corp.
   "You can't move ideas, techniques and technologies from
another country and jam them down people's throats," says
Charles Elbaum, a publishing consultant in New York. Mr.
Elbaum notes how Bertelsmann lost money when it tried to run
the Literary Guild and other U.S. book clubs the way it runs
its German book clubs. If Harper Collins "will create
semi-autonomous operating units and allow them the discretion
to customize market and product, globalization has a decent
chance of working," Mr. Elbaum adds.
   News Corp.'s $6 billion in debt is likely to hamper Mr.
Craig's more ambitious expansion plans; Harper Collins's own
heavy debt is forcing the company to sell about $500 million
of publishing assets, including a bookstore chain in
Australia and its Philadelphia-based J.B. Lippincott medical
publishing unit.
   Critics at competing publishing houses add that profits at
Harper Collins also will be squeezed by the hefty advances
the company has paid to win best-selling authors. In starting
up a new paperback arm at Harper's, Mr. Craig spent $1
million on the rights for one novel alone, "Billy Bathgate"
by E.L. Doctorow. (Mr. Craig justifies the big advances by
saying: "We're acquiring authors, not just books.")
   In going global, Mr. Craig has stepped on toes. The
decision to adopt the name Harper Collins and use a standard
logo and typeface on every book jacket, in addition to
imprints like Harper &amp; Row, was viewed as so demoralizing
that it helped drive the head of Collins to resign.
   Sonia Land, former chief executive of Collins, says she
told Mr. Craig: "Collins built its reputation on that name.
It would be terribly wrong to change that." Mr. Craig's
response, says Ms. Land, was: "But we are a world-wide
publishing group. International branding is what we're all
about."
   (Mr. Craig will say only that they had "differences of
opinion.")
   "I think the name change could crank up the argument that
publishing is now run by faceless conglomerates," says a
recently departed Collins division head. "But I think most
people do recognize that publishing is global now. Still, the
people who work at Collins have had a lot of changes to come
to terms with, and I think the task ahead is to convince them
of the benefits of globalization."
   And how to do that? "You get the right people together and
keep them communicating," says Mr. Craig, a former accountant
who came to Collins after stints at computer and detergent
companies.
   Mr. Craig is known for gathering managers into
brainstorming sessions. Standing next to his trademark flip
chart, he scribbles down everybody's ideas. The free-flowing
debates may address the pros and cons of mergers and even the
renaming of the company.
   An open cross-fertilization is getting results. Harper
Collins bilingual dictionaries will soon be sold to high
schools and colleges through Scott Foresman, the textbook
company that News Corp. bought late last year. Scott
Foresman, in turn, publishes Robert's Rules of Order, which
Harper &amp; Row is better equipped to market.
   Meanwhile, Zondervan, the big religious publisher acquired
by News Corp. in 1988, has had trouble placing some of its
titles in regular bookstores, but is doing better with the
help of Harper, which will also co-publish some. Coming in
August: the autobiography of former football coach Tom
Landry, an evangelical Christian.
   In the U.K., Collins has a reputation for aggressive
marketing (sales of its road atlases soared after posters
reading "Get Collins or Get Lost" went up near major
roadways) while Harper &amp; Row has been viewed as unimaginative
in that area. To inject marketing sizzle here, Scotsman Eddie
Bell has been imported from Collins to run the new
mass-market paperback business. In England, Mr. Bell used
focus groups to pinpoint why sales were dropping for Agatha
Christie novels. One problem was the covers, which looked too
much like stock, violent mysteries. The jacket art was redone
in a stylish, art deco design and the price was raised
considerably; sales of the newly classy Christie's doubled in
one year. Now that Harper has bought U.S. paperback rights
for about 30 Christie titles, it may be able to transfer some
of Mr. Bell's knowledge.
   Mr. Craig is a big proponent of buying "English-language
rights world-wide" for books, so that printing and marketing
can be executed globally, but he realizes that approach isn't
always practical or desirable. Some of Harper's recent best
sellers (such as "Barbarians at the Gate") weren't picked up
by Collins in England, while others ("Roseanne] My Life as a
Woman") were.
   Although Mr. Craig believes global transference makes
better sense for children's, religious and reference books,
it doesn't seem likely that Harper Collins textbook
subsidiaries in the U.S. and the U.K. will ship books back
and forth. The differences in the two countries' teaching
practices and curricula are too great.
   There are useful ties developing between Harper Collins
and other News Corp. holdings. Mr. Murdoch owns New York
magazine, whose editor sits on Harper's editorial board. It
was clearly helpful to Harper to have a profile of author Dr.
Bernie Siegel ("Love, Medicine and Miracles") on the cover of
New York magazine last June, right before his second book was
published.
   And there is Mr. Murdoch's fledgling television network,
Fox, whose show "America's Most Wanted" was the subject of a
best-selling Harper paperback. In recent weeks, the creator
of Fox's new animated hit, "The Simpsons," left another
publisher to sign on with Harper for a reported seven
figures. Cartoonist Matt Groening was being pursued by a pack
of publishers, but was wooed to Harper with the extra
persuasion of Fox executives.
   ---
                Murdoch's Divisions United
                                                                                                       

   BOOK BUSINESSES           DIVISIONS/IMPRINTS
                                                                                                       

   Trade/U.S.                Harper &amp; Row
                             Harper &amp; Row San Francisco
                             Harper Paperbacks
                             Harper Perennial
                             Basic Books
                             Harper &amp; Row Children's Books
                             Collins Publishers
                             Harper Audio
                             Harper Business
                                                                                                       

   Trade/Canada              Harper Collins Publishers
                                                                                                       

   Trade/Britain             Grafton
                             Collins
                             Times Books
                             Thorsons
                             Bartholomew
                                                                                                       

   Trade/Australia           Angus &amp; Robertson
                                                                                                       

   Religious/U.S.            Zondervan
                             Harper &amp; Row San Francisco
                                                                                                       

   Religious/Britain         Collins
                             Marshall Pickering
                                                                                                       

   Religious/Australia       Collins Dove
                                                                                                       

   School/U.S.               Scott, Foresman
                                                                                                       

   School/Britain            Collins
                                                                                                       

   College/U.S.              Harper &amp; Row
                             Scott, Foresman
                             Little, Brown
                                                                                                       

   Medical/U.S.*             J.B. Lippincott
                             Facts &amp; Comparisons
                                                                                                       

   Medical/U.S.*, Britain*   Gower Medical
                                                                                                       

   *Up for sale
   ---
                 Some Recent Best Sellers
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   The Broken Cord by Michael Dorris
   Barbarians at the Gate by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar
   Roseanne] My Life as a Woman by Roseanne Barr
   Love, Medicine and Miracles by Bernie Siegel, M.D.
   I Want to Grow Hair, I Want to Grow Up, I Want to Go to
     Boise by Erma Bombeck
   The 8-Week Cholesterol Cure by Robert Kowalski
                                                                                                       

   HARPER PAPERBACKS
                                                                                                       

   A Thief of Time by Tony Hillerman
   Billy Bathgate by E.L. Doctorow
                                                                                                       

   HARPER SAN FRANCISCO
                                                                                                       

   Codependent No More by Melody Beattie
                                                                                                       

   COLLINS (In Britain)
                                                                                                       

   Roseanne] My Life as a Woman by Roseanne Barr
   C.S. Lewis by Ian Wolfson
   Clear and Present Danger by Tom Clancy
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money-Market Funds
   Decline $2.14 Billion
   As Taxpayers Dip In
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Assets of the nation's 509 money-market
mutual funds fell $2.14 billion, to $385.72 billion, for the
week ended Wednesday, after individual investors raided their
fund accounts to pay their taxes.
   The drop, the sixth in a row, was the largest since the
$5.04 billion at June 1, 1988. The numbers for the previous
week were revised to show an $840 million decline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Investment Company Institute, a trade association
based here, said that assets of 161 institutional funds
advanced $1.71 billion, to $92.32 billion; 246
general-purpose funds fell $912.6 million, to $132.70
billion; and 102 broker-dealer funds sank $2.94 billion, to
$160.7 billion.
   "The tail end of the tax season continued to be reflected
in last week's changes of money-market fund assets," said
Jacob Dreyer, vice president and chief economist at the
institute.
   "Checks drawn on money-market funds and mailed (to the
Internal Revenue Service) by last-minute filers were
presented for payment last week and caused a sharp drop in
assets held in individual accounts" -- the broker-dealer and
general-purpose categories, he said.
   "At the same time," Mr. Dreyer added, "institutional
assets shot up, partly in response to a dip in the federal
funds rate," the interest rate that banks charge each other
on overnight loans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Washington Post Co.:
   First-Quarter Net Drops 6%,
   Hurt by Advertising Slump
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WPO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Washington Post Co. posted a 6% drop in first-quarter net
income, hurt by the nationwide slump in newspaper
advertising.
   The results were slightly worse than analysts had
expected. Net fell to $39 million, or $3.16 a share, from
$41.5 million, or $3.22 a share. Analysts had expected
per-share earnings from $3.25 to $3.30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales dropped slightly to $341 million from $341.9
million. At the Washington Post, the flagship paper that
provides more than half of the company's total revenue, ad
linage dropped 6%, although higher ad rates kept revenue
flat.
   At Newsweek magazine, the second-largest source of company
revenue, sales declined 5% as ad pages fell 14%. Revenue at
the broadcast division dropped 8%. But cable revenue rose
11%, while revenue from Kaplan Educational Center was up 17%.
The company doesn't disclose earnings of the individiual
divisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seagull Energy Gas Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SGO SWN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Seagull Energy Corp. said it made a natural-gas
discovery off the Texas coast.
   The Brazos 399G-2 well was drilled in 60 feet of water 15
miles south of Freeport, Texas, in the Gulf of Mexico,
encountering production at intervals ranging from 7,155 to
8,000 feet. The zones tested flowed 22 million cubic feet of
gas a day through chokes ranging from 18/64 to 22/64-inch, at
flowing tubing pressures ranging from 1,700 to 2,575 per
square inch.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seagull operates the well and has a 37.5% working
interest, and other partners include Ashland Exploration Inc.
with 37.5% and Southwestern Energy Co. with 25%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New NATO:
   Europe Will Rely Less
   On U.S. for Security,
   More on Own Devices
   ---
   As Soviet Military Recedes,
   Treaty Organization Seeks
   Expanded Political Role
   ---
   Bush's Pullback on Missiles
   ----
   By Philip Revzin and Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- A new vision of European security is taking
shape, one that promises an altered -- and diminished -- role
for the U.S.
   The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, for 41 years the
spearhead of the West's fight against communism, will soon
find itself in victory smaller, weaker and battling for
political influence in the new Europe. Assuming current
political trends hold, most of the 305,000 American troops
that have stood guard here for decades will be going home.
What's more, the armed forces of the European NATO members
will shrink sharply as the Soviet Union pulls back its own
forces. As its military role recedes, NATO will scramble to
become more of a political body, seeking to settle regional
conflicts far from Europe and verifying arms control
treaties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And what's expected to crowd into NATO's domain? Two
forces: the increasingly unified 12-member European
Community, which wants to add security to its mandate, and
the separate Conference on Security and Cooperation in
Europe, an existing 35-nation group that includes the U.S.
and the Soviet Union. Indeed, some European politicians are
calling for NATO to give way entirely to a new security
alliance based on the CSCE.
   Moves to pare NATO began in earnest on two continents
yesterday. In Washington, President Bush publicly conceded
that, because of political opposition in Europe and a
diminished threat from the East Bloc, the U.S. won't deploy a
new generation of nuclear weapons in Germany. And in
Brussels, Secretary of State James Baker, meeting with the 15
other NATO foreign ministers, kicked off an unprecedented
series of meetings which, over the next few months, will try
to salvage NATO's influence by cooking up new political
missions for the organization and deciding how to shrink its
military component in an orderly fashion.
   "NATO will remain vital to America's place in Europe," Mr.
Bush says. "It is a proven structure upon which to base our
security, and from which to promote a stable, cooperative
European order." But he called for a NATO summit meeting this
summer "to launch a wide-ranging NATO strategy review for the
transformed Europe of the 1990s."
   European officials reacted favorably to Mr. Bush's
announcement, especially the part about no new nuclear
weapons. Many European leaders, particularly those in West
Germany, would have faced serious political trouble trying to
sell a new arsenal to their publics. NATO Secretary-General
Manfred Woerner said the U.S. proposals received "very strong
and broad support."
   Clearly, NATO is unlikely to disappear completely. Many
Europeans want a continuing link to the U.S., and the U.S. is
warning privately it won't help defend Europe without NATO.
Most important, NATO is widely seen as the only force able to
counter both resurgent German nationalism and a Soviet Union
that will remain Europe's major military power -- an unstable
giant bristling with nuclear weapons and millions of troops a
train ride from Western Europe.
   "NATO will remain an essential element of security for the
West and possibly for a larger number of countries," says
Italian foreign minister Gianni De Michelis. But he adds,
"This must be seen as a transition period for the alliance,
an evolution from the military to a political viewpoint."
Says NATO's Mr. Woerner: "The alliance must "move beyond
confrontation to cooperation."
   Europe is more ambivalent about the American presence here
than at any time since World War II. It is both more willing
and more able to pay for and manage its own defense. With a
united Germany at its heart, Europe will naturally shift its
political attention to European-dominated institutions. The
EC recently took a significant step by endorsing a French and
German initiative that could lead to joint decision-making on
political and defense matters within three years, and could
even lead to a pan-European Army of sorts in the next
century. Both France and West Germany back a greater role for
the CSCE, as a way to include both the new democracies of
Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union in European political
matters.
   The U.S. strategy, by contrast, is to endorse the European
Community and CSCE security roles generally, but work to
limit them in practice to relatively marginal matters -- such
as mediating disputes within Europe -- that will leave NATO
with the broader role.
   "It's our hope and belief that these institutions can act
in a complementary but not a competitive way," says Mr.
Baker.
   But sorting all this out won't be easy. One thing that's
certain is that the new Europe will have far fewer soldiers
and far fewer nuclear warheads on its soil. With Soviet
troops gradually returning home from East Germany, Hungary,
Poland and Czechoslovakia over the next five years, the U.S.
military presence will drop to perhaps 50,000 troops. Those
Americans who remain will likely find themselves working
closely with French, British and Italian soldiers, perhaps
even in internationally mixed regiments, which don't exist in
NATO today. NATO's supreme commander -- until now an American
-- will probably be a European. East and West German armies
will be combined into a force that could be limited to as few
as 200,000 men in total, a cut of more than 50% from the
500,000 soldiers in the current German armies.
   Mr. Bush's decision yesterday not to replace the Lance
missile is part of a package that will eventually eliminate
the 88 launchers and 700 nuclear warheads already in Germany.
Similarly, the decision not to deploy improved nuclear
artillery shells is part of a broader plan to scrap those in
Europe now. France will almost certainly abandon its
short-range Hades missile, leaving only British and French
long-range missiles in Western Europe -- buttressed by the
threat of American nuclear weapons fired from U.S. territory
or carried on airplanes and submarines. German officials of
all parties say privately that it will be much easier to gain
public acceptance of airborne nuclear weapons based in
Germany, rather than ground-based ones.
   Any breakup of the Soviet Union or violent domestic unrest
there could, of course, give NATO a fresh lease on life.
Neither the U.S. nor its European allies will make major
political concessions or embark on a new security structure
until the Soviet Union's future becomes clearer.
   Assuming there is no cataclysmic event in the Soviet
Union, the move to a new European security structure will
have to consider a dizzying array of national agendas on a
continent that, prior to NATO's reign, exploded into war
twice in this century. France, which withdrew its army from
NATO's control in 1966, will spend the 1990s trying to
bolster the European Community as a sort of board of
directors for all European matters -- including security.
That approach would maximize Paris's influence and confine
both the U.S. and the Soviet Union to ancillary institutions
-- NATO or the CSCE.
   "We all have to get rid of our old ideas about NATO," says
former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing. "In the new
political climate France and Germany must move ever closer.
There will certainly be more cooperation on the production
and procurements of arms. Europe will be more European, but
we must keep a sort of U.S. presence that's less military and
more politically intense." That's a touchy issue: Both
Britain and Germany have recently asked France to help cement
a U.S. role by rejoining NATO's integrated military command;
Paris politely declined.
   Europe's growing political clout is already evident. Last
month, French President Francois Mitterrand and German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl issued a joint letter to Lithuanian
President Vytautas Landsbergis urging him to suspend the
republic's declaration of independence, and thereby avoid
destabilizing Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Mr.
Landsbergis responded favorably.
   For its part, Germany needs some kind of communal security
grouping as a sort of parole organization to reassure the
victims of its earlier invasions. "There's an important case
for Germany staying in an alliance so it's not perceived by
its neighbors as being a rogue elephant," says John Roper,
head of the new Institute for European Security Studies in
Paris. Many German politicians, including Foreign Minister
Hans-Dietrich Genscher and Socialist Party leaders, are more
attracted to the idea of an all-European security system in
the CSCE that could eventually replace NATO. They like the
thought of having Moscow inside the security system along
with the U.S., something only the CSCE permits.
   The emerging Warsaw Pact nations, led by Czechoslovakia's
charismatic President Vaclav Havel, also would like to dump
NATO in the long run. To them, it represents the bad old days
of the cold war and they believe Moscow would try hard to
keep them from joining the old alliance even if it invited
them in. So the East Europeans will be pressing in a few
years for a new CSCE structure with such features as a
peacekeeping force.
   Moscow, in turn, with only the dead Warsaw Pact to rely
on, has latched onto the idea of a strong CSCE. Its goal is
to replace NATO and the Warsaw Pact with a grouping in which
the Soviet Union would be a player and Germany could be
constrained. Indeed, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze is likely to insist this weekend at German
unification talks that steps toward German unity be
"synchronized" with the development of such a structure. The
West rejects that stand.
   The U.S., having "won" the cold war, is determined to
retain its influence in Europe even as its troops go home. To
do that, it must maintain the primacy of the only European
organization which is both controlled by Washington and
off-limits to Moscow: NATO. But until this week's
initiatives, Washington seemed slow to react to the quick
pace of change in Europe. The White House and State
Department had brushed off the talk of competing security
systems, and failed to make a persuasive case in Brussels for
NATO's new role.
   But yesterday, Mr. Baker formally endorsed the idea of
using the CSCE to resolve intra-European disputes and said
"we don't see a major problem with the fact that the EC would
be talking about some sort of security discussion or
component." He will be using a series of future NATO meetings
to try to cut deals reserving the most important security
decisions for NATO.
   In the end, NATO will have to find a way to live with the
competing groupings and coordinate its policies with them.
Some suggest that NATO might become a subgroup of the larger
CSCE. Others see the European Community as a bridge between
the two.
   Mulling this over after yesterday's NATO meeting, Italy's
Mr. Michelis suggested a smaller NATO might form the center
of a series of "concentric circles" of security encompassing
select countries. "Everything must be connected," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sales of U.S. Cars
   Advanced 2.8%
   In Late April
   ---
   Industry Says Strong Finish
   To Disappointing Month
   Isn't Likely to Continue
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MZD C.HYU J.MOT SBRU G.VOW J.IZM VOLVY
G.BMW J.SUZ S.SAA G.AUD J.DHM G.POR F.PEU I.ALR G DAI TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of domestically built cars and trucks
rose 2.8% in late April, giving an upbeat finish to an
otherwise disappointing month.
   Overall, Americans bought 381,469 cars, trucks and vans in
the April 21-30 period, down from 371,153 vehicles a year
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The seasonally adjusted annual selling pace of cars alone
was 7.1 million vehicles in late April. While that trailed
the 7.7 million-car pace a year ago, the latest figure was
well above the annual rate of 6.6 million cars for the first
two-thirds of the month.
   The late-April sales pace also exceeded analysts'
expectations of a 6.8 million-car selling rate for the
period.
   The gain, however, didn't overcome the car-market's
sluggishness earlier in the month. For all of April,
Americans purchased 1.2 million cars and trucks (domestic and
imported), down more than 9% from the 1.3 million bought a
year ago. Thus the industry's reaction to the late-April
results was tempered.
   "We aren't anticipating a big increase in industry sales,"
said David N. McCammon, Ford Motor Co.'s vice president for
finance. The company still expects overall car and truck
sales of 14.5 million vehicles this year, with the sales pace
in the year's second half slightly exceeding that of the
first half.
   Perhaps the most striking aspect of April's sales results
was the huge disparity of performance among individual
companies. Chrysler Corp.'s car and truck sales plunged
nearly 32% in the month, more than three times the decline in
the overall market.
   The company's share of combined car and truck sales
dropped 3.5 percentage points in April to 10.7%. That's about
what Chrysler's share of car sales alone has been in recent
years. And in cars, excluding trucks and minivans, Chrysler
was outsold by both Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. --
dropping Chrysler to fifth place in that category for April.
   Chrysler officials have blamed the decline on several
factors, including the company's refusal to engage in
unprofitable sales to daily-rental fleets. The company also
said that, after over-producing in 1989, it cut production of
some models too much this year.
   "We cut back inventory levels too low," a Chrysler
spokesman said. "We over-corrected for what dealers perceived
as an overstocked condition. We're trying like a dog to cure
that problem."
   General Motors Corp. fared substantially better. GM, whose
U.S. market share collapsed during the 1980s, increased its
share 0.7% during April. For the first four months of this
year, GM took 35.5% of U.S. car sales, slightly better than a
year earlier.
   GM posted strong sales of such models as the Pontiac Grand
Am and Grand Prix, Buick Skylark, Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme,
and the redesigned Chevrolet Caprice, which was launched in
April. Several of these models carried very generous buyer
incentives.
   Ford, meanwhile, saw its car-market share drop one
percentage point, to 22% in April, though its share of
combined car-and-truck sales dropped just 0.1% to 25.2%. Ford
officials said the company's market share has suffered
because Ford is just starting to launch two key models, a
version of the Ford Escort and a four-door Jeep-like vehicle
called the Ford Explorer.
   "We believe our shares will improve as the supply of our
new 1991 products increases over the next few months," the
company said in a statement released with first-quarter
earnings results.
   Among Japanese auto makers, results likewise were mixed.
Toyota was the clear winner with an 11.4% sales increase,
leading all major companies, domestic and import. Honda,
though, posted an 8% sales drop. A Honda spokesman said that
in April 1989 the company was running a dealer-incentive
program that helped boost sales, particularly toward the end
of the month. However, Honda didn't have any incentive
promotions this past month, the spokesman said.
   Several of the smaller Japanese auto makers also had sales
declines, although the U.S. marketing arm of Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. posted a 67% sales increase.
   Mercedes-Benz of North America had a 12.5% sales increase
in April, and so far this year its sales are running slightly
ahead of a year ago. Volkswagen AG's Audi of America
subsidiary, which has had a precipitous sales drop in recent
years, saw sales jump nearly 43% in April. The company is
aggressively promoting car-leasing programs.
   ---
           Percentage of Total U.S. Car Market
                                                                                                       


  Make                  1990    1989    1990     1989
                                                                                                       

 General Motors-a ....  36.2    35.5    35.5     35.3
 Ford-a ..............  22.0    23.0    21.5     23.2
 Chrysler-a ..........   7.8    10.9     8.7     10.7
 Toyota-a ............   9.0     6.2     9.2      6.1
 Honda-a .............   9.0     8.7     8.3      7.4
 Nissan-a ............   4.5     4.6     4.7      5.1
 Mazda-a .............   2.6     2.4     2.9      2.5
 Hyundai .............   1.3     1.8     1.4      2.0
 Mitsubishi-a ........   1.8     0.8     2.0      0.9
 Subaru-a ............   1.2     1.4     1.1      1.5
 Other Imports .......   4.9     4.5     4.8      4.9
 Total Domestic ......  73.4    73.4    72.7     72.7
 Total Imported ......  26.6    26.6    27.3     27.3
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes imported and domestically made models.
   ---
        RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                  1990     1989   %Chg.    1990       1989
                  APR.     APR.   Month   To Date    To Date
                                                                                                       

 General Motors 443,398   472,718 -  6.2 1,676,433 1,688,410
   Domestc car  277,922   306,103 -  9.2 1,059,165 1,101,159
   Import car    16,457    16,620 -  1.0    63,713    51,550
     Total car  294,379   322,723 -  8.8 1,122,878 1,152,709
   Domestc trk  148,935   149,252 -  0.2   553,018   532,777
   Import trk        84       743 - 88.7       537     2,924
     Total trk  149,019   149,995 -  0.7   553,555   535,701
                                                                                                       

 Ford           303,331   336,418 -  9.8 1,147,748 1,229,151
   Domestc car  173,074   202,134 - 14.4   657,970   726,296
   Import car     5,559     7,155 - 22.3    23,714    29,061
     Total car  178,633   209,289 - 14.6   681,684   755,357
   Domestc trk  124,698   127,129 -  1.9   466,064   473,794
                                                                                                       

 Chrysler       128,849   188,817 - 31.8   579,348   675,422
   Domestc car   58,565    88,821 - 34.1   253,444   308,122
   Import car     4,583    10,747 - 57.4    20,987    39,399
     Total car   63,148    99,568 - 36.6   274,431   347,521
   Domestc trk   64,481    86,081 - 25.1   299,146   315,670
   Import trk     1,220     3,168 - 61.5     5,771    12,231
     Total trk   65,701    89,249 - 26.4   304,917   327,901
                                                                                                       

 Toyota          86,824    77,924 + 11.4   346,652   270,661
   Domestc car   29,437    16,292 + 80.7   110,850    54,535
   Import car    43,379    40,501 +  7.1   178,898   145,339
     Total car   72,816    56,793 + 28.2   289,748   199,874
   Import trk    14,008    21,131 - 33.7    56,904    70,787
                                                                                                       

 Honda           72,847    79,221 -  8.0   263,182   242,733
   Domestc car   39,361    40,844 -  3.6   144,229   124,678
   Import car    33,486    38,377 - 12.7   118,953   118,055
                                                                                                       

 Nissan          52,944    52,609 +  0.6   205,875   224,147

   Import car    27,799    34,298 - 18.9   117,868   132,673
     Total car   36,224    41,524 - 12.8   148,514   166,988
   Domestc trk   14,027     9,401 + 49.2    46,893    47,234
   Import trk     2,693     1,684 + 59.9    10,468     9,925
     Total trk   16,720    11,085 + 50.8    57,361    57,159
                                                                                                       

 Mazda           28,127    28,765 -  2.2   114,348   111,706
   Domestc car    5,566     4,085 + 36.3    25,490    14,762
   Import car    15,647    17,373 -  9.9    64,812    68,133
     Total car   21,213    21,458 -  1.1    90,302    82,895
   Import trk     6,914     7,307 -  5.4    24,046    28,811
                                                                                                       

 Hyundai-b       10,411    16,808 - 38.1    44,822    66,499
                                                                                                       

 Mitsubishi      16,745    10,020 + 67.1    74,194    40,310
   Domestc car    4,400     1,939 +126.9    17,592     5,817
   Import car     9,978     5,728 + 74.2    45,806    24,590
     Total car   14,378     7,667 + 87.5    63,398    30,407
   Import trk     2,367     2,353 +  0.6    10,796     9,903
                                                                                                       

 Subaru           9,409    12,529 - 24.9    33,984    50,308
   Domestc car      463         0    ...       872         0
   Import car     8,946    12,529 - 28.6    33,112    50,308
                                                                                                       

 Volkswagen      10,755    11,349 -  5.2    41,310    41,983
   Import car    10,138    10,847 -  6.5    39,192    40,504
   Import trk       617       502 + 22.9     2,118     1,479
                                                                                                       

 Isuzu            8,752     9,337 -  6.3    35,842    35,698
   Import car       294     1,520 - 80.7     1,130     6,069
   Domestic trk   1,444         0    ...     2,560         0
   Import trk     7,014     7,817 - 10.3    32,152    29,629
     Total trk    8,458     7,817 +  8.2    34,712    29,629
                                                                                                       

 Volvo-b          7,980     8,677 -  8.0    30,205    33,998
                                                                                                       

 Mercedes-b       6,611     5,877 + 12.5    23,740    22,899
                                                                                                       

 BMW-b            5,828     5,844 -  0.3    20,220    23,236
                                                                                                       

 Suzuki           1,788     2,076 - 13.9     7,637    11,168
   Import car       448       414 +  8.2     2,053     2,000
   Import trk     1,340     1,662 - 19.4     5,584     9,168
                                                                                                       

 Saab-b           2,175     2,670 - 18.5     8,481    10,549
                                                                                                       

 Audi-b           1,510     1,058 + 42.7     6,451     5,675
                                                                                                       

 Jaguar-b         1,599     1,344 + 19.0     6,343     5,827
                                                                                                       

 Daihatsu-b       1,168     1,055 + 10.7     5,841     4,395
   Import car       811     1,055 - 23.1     4,459     4,395
   Import trk       357         0    ...     1,382         0
                                                                                                       

 Yugo-b             590       873 - 32.4     2,584     3,331
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Sterling-b         302       351 - 14.0     1,705     2,135
                                                                                                       

 Peugeot-b          449       538 - 16.5     1,570     1,939
                                                                                                       

 Range Rover-c      262       408 - 35.8     1,357     1,599
                                                                                                       

 Alfa Romeo-b       179       203 - 11.8       756     1,239
                                                                                                       

 Total cars     813,384   909,639 - 10.6 3,165,206 3,261,682
   Domestic     597,213   667,444 - 10.5 2,300,258 2,369,684
   Import       216,171   242,195 - 10.7   864,948   891,998
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks   390,461   418,638 -  6.7 1,518,796 1,545,931
   Domestic     353,585   371,863 -  4.9 1,367,681 1,369,475
   Import        36,876    46,775 - 21.2   151,115   176,456
                                                                                                       

 Total veh    1,203,845 1,328,277 -  9.4 4,684,002 4,807,613
                                                                                                       

 a-Totals include all vehicle sales reported in the period
except tourist-delivery sales of imported models.
   b-Imported cars only. c-Imported trucks only.
   e-Estimated.
   Note: There were 25 selling days in the most recent month
and 25 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                             1990          1989      x-%
                           Apr 21-30    Apr 21-30    Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles .....    176,827      167,610    + 5.5
   Domestic car ........    113,801      109,331    + 4.1
   Imported car ........      6,603        5,621    +17.5
     Total car .........    120,404      114,952    + 4.7
   Domestic truck ......     56,393       52,407    + 7.6
   Imported truck ......         30          251    -88.0
     Total truck .......     56,423       52,658    + 7.1
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles ...    116,322      108,103    + 7.6
   Domestic car ........     64,851       63,838    + 1.6
   Imported car ........      2,156        2,240    - 3.8
     Total car .........     67,007       66,078    + 1.4
   Domestic truck ......     49,315       42,025    +17.3
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh ....     50,258       69,269    -27.4
   Domestic car ........     21,866       33,014    -33.8
   Imported car ........      1,891        3,774    -49.9
     Total car .........     23,757       36,788    -35.4
   Domestic truck ......     26,114       31,277    -16.5
   Imported truck ......        387        1,204    -67.9
     Total truck .......     26,501       32,481    -18.4
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car ....     17,822       21,439    -16.9
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles .     11,678        7,657    +52.5
   Domestic car ........      4,576        3,663    +24.9
   Domestic truck ......      7,102        3,994    +77.8
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car ....      1,856        1,820    + 2.0
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ..........      1,772          730   +142.7
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car ...        277            0   +100.0
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ..        946            0   +100.0
                                                                                                       

 Total cars ............    252,249      253,085   -  0.3
   Domestic ............    241,599      241,450   +  0.1
   Imported ............     10,650       11,635   -  8.5
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks ..........    140,287      131,158   +  7.0
   Domestic ............    139,870      129,703   +  7.8
   Imported ............        417        1,455   - 71.3
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh ....    381,469      371,153   +  2.8
                                                                                                       

 Total vehicles ........    392,536      384,243   +  2.2
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 8 selling days in the most recent period and
8 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily sales
rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp.:
   Earnings for 2nd Quarter
   Won't Meet Year-Ago Net
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   KBH
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kaufman &amp; Broad Home Corp. said that because of aggressive
efforts to hold its share of the softening California housing
market, net income for the second quarter ending May 31 isn't
expected to match last year's $20 million, or 57 cents a
share.
   In an interview after the annual meeting, Bruce Karatz,
president and chief executive officer, said he couldn't
predict how sharply earnings might fall in the current
period. Noting new strength in the past eight weeks in
California, which accounts for 60% of Kaufman &amp; Broad's
business, he said he also couldn't say yet how second-quarter
revenue will compare with last year's $246 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Los Angeles-based company, which reported a 15% rise
in first-quarter net income to $13.3 million, or 40 cents a
share, previously had forecast annual net income below last
year's record $81.4 million, or $2.44 a share, because of the
impact of the company's marketing actions on profit margins.
But Mr. Karatz said after the meeting that profit still would
exceed the $48 million, or $1.76 a share, that the home
builder earned in the year that ended Nov. 30, 1988. Revenue
this year will rise from last year's $1.27 billion, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemper Unit
   Faces Damages
   Of $38.2 Million
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A former public-finance executive with a
company now owned by Kemper Corp. won a $38.2 million
arbitration award in an employee-contract dispute.
   The award to Robert Kanuth by a three-member arbitration
panel of the National Association of Securities Dealers is
one of the largest such awards in the securities business,
attorneys said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The magnitude of the award -- which included $1 million
each for defamation and punitive damages -- stunned attorneys
for Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben Inc., the Kemper unit that lost
the case.
   "This will set the arbitration process back 50 years,"
said Edward Foote, a lawyer for Chicago-based Winston &amp;
Strawn, who represented Prescott. "It's an outrage -- the man
deserves nothing."
   Attorneys representing Prescott declined to say whether
the award will be appealed. But winning appeals in
arbitration cases is very difficult because the Federal
Arbitration Act provides a narrow window for reversing such
decisions.
   "Historically, there is a finality" to arbitration awards,
says Richard P. Ryder, editor of the Securities Arbitration
Commentator, a Maplewood, N.J., newsletter. "The idea is that
an arbitration panel wouldn't be overturned unless you can
prove that in some way the arbitrators were manifestly
unjust."
   The case grew out of a dispute following the sale of Mr.
Kanuth's public financing underwriting business to Prescott
in September 1987. The contract provided for an upfront
payment of $11.3 million to Mr. Kanuth, in addition to a
series of payments over five years relating to the profit of
the company, which was to be run by Mr. Kanuth and
incorporated as a unit of Prescott.
   But after a series of disputes between Mr. Kanuth and
various Prescott executives, Mr. Kanuth filed a federal court
suit alleging breach of contract. He was fired shortly
thereafter.
   In turn, Prescott filed an arbitration case before the
NASD seeking damages for, among other things, alleged breach
of fiduciary duty by Mr. Kanuth in his role as an officer of
the Prescott public finance unit.
   The case, consolidated before the NASD panel, was complex:
Arbitrators heard testimony from 40 witnesses over 22 days of
hearings comprising nearly 7,000 pages of written transcript
and about 1,200 exhibits.
   The arbitration panel found that Prescott "acted
improperly" in dismissing Mr. Kanuth, noting that the
employment contract permitted dismissal only "upon very
limited circumstances." It thus awarded Mr. Kanuth salary
over five years and incentive compensation totaling more than
$33 million.
   Moreover, the panel found that Prescott -- in telling the
NASD that Mr. Kanuth was terminated for corporate waste and
mismanagement -- defamed Mr. Kanuth. It thus awarded him an
additional $1 million.
   Thomas Gottschalk, Mr. Kanuth's attorney at Kirkland &amp;
Ellis in Washington, said Prescott officials also "threatened
to suffocate" his client's business, and told him he would
"never earn a dime" if he pursued his claim.
   "The conduct of Prescott . . . was extreme and
outrageous," the panel's findings said, and caused Mr. Kanuth
emotional distress. The result: An additional $3 million
award, plus $1 million for punitive damages.
   The panel ordered Prescott to file within 30 days an
amended termination report with the NASD, reflecting that Mr.
Kanuth's termination resulted from a contractual dispute --
not from corporate waste or other mismanagement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   OPEC PLEDGED to cut oil production by nearly 1.5 million
barrels a day in an urgent effort to shore up sagging
petroleum prices. But oil futures prices skidded as the pact
was announced. The June contract for the U.S. benchmark crude
fell 69 cents to $17.99 a barrel.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Motors profit fell 54% in the first quarter, while
Ford reported a 69% drop. Separately, industry car and truck
sales rose 2.8% in late April.
                                                                                                       

   GM is launching a marketing blitz aimed at attracting
Americans turned off by its lackluster cars and cold customer
relations during the 1980s.
   ---
   Bush invited House and Senate leaders to a meeting Sunday
that he hopes will pave the way for talks on a bipartisan
pact to sharply cut the budget deficit. But the odds of
enacting big spending cuts and tax increases were rated as
only even.
   ---
   William Taylor is expected to be named to succeed William
Seidman as head of the S&amp;L bailout agency. Taylor is a Fed
official.
   ---
   An arbitration award of $38.2 million was won by a former
public-finance executive with Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben, a firm
now owned by Kemper Corp. It was one of the largest such
awards in the securities industry.
   ---
   Two big retailers reported lower-than-expected April
sales. Wal-Mart's sales at stores open more than a year rose
7% while J.C. Penney had a 2.8% decline on the same basis.
   ---
   Drexel Burnham may be hit with a $25 million fine by the
Big Board, according to people familiar with the proceeding.
The exchange also may start proceedings against Drexel's
chief executive and other top officers.
   ---
   Bloomingdale's was pulled from the auction block by
Federated Stores, which said retaining the retailer was in
the best interest of creditors, customers and employees.
   ---
   The SEC is investigating possible insider trading linked
to Genentech's $2.1 billion merger plan with Swiss drug giant
Roche Holding. The inquiry focuses on a possible leak by the
wife of Genentech's president.
   ---
   N.V. Philips earnings plunged in the first quarter,
reflecting a sharp decline in its computer business.
   ---
   A Treasury official said corporate tax receipts were lower
than forecast, and individual tax receipts higher, since the
1986 Tax Reform Act because corporate profits trailed
expectations while individual incomes outstripped forecasts.
   ---
   Bond prices rose modestly despite uncertainty over today's
government report on April employment. Stock prices rose,
with the Dow Jones industrials gaining 6.53 points to
2696.17.
   ---
   Subaru of America will add at least $61 million to Fuji
Heavy Industries' $147 million bid for the rest of Subaru.
   ---
   Westcoast Energy said it expects to proceed with a $429.2
million expansion of its pipeline system.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 145,570,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2696.17, up 6.53; transportation 1140.47, up 1.78; utilities
206.11, up 1.32.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3242.95, up
20.02.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.66, off 0.08;
spot index 134.90, off 0.23.
   Dollar: 158.05 yen, up 0.10; 1.6827 marks, off 0.0021.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Farah Inc.:
   Ex-Chairman Sues Concern,
   Directors and Top Officers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA
</CO>
<LP>
   William F. Farah, who was removed as chairman of Farah
Inc. last week, sued the company, directors and top officers
to prevent them from cutting him off from the El Paso, Texas,
clothing manufacturer he helped manage for 53 years.
   Mr. Farah, a company director and the company's largest
stockholder with one million shares, or about a 15% stake, is
asking an El Paso county court for a temporary restraining
order to keep other board members and Farah's top management
from restricting his role as a board member and company
consultant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Farah charges that board members have threatened to
terminate his three-year consulting services contract. He
resigned as president and chief executive officer of the
company last year and was succeeded by Richard C. Allender.
   In an interview conducted before the suit was filed, Mr.
Allender declined to discuss the company's relationship with
Mr. Farah. But when asked about Mr. Farah's pending lawsuit,
Mr. Allender said: "I can't afford to be concerned about what
Willie {Mr. Farah} may or may not do. I have a business to
run."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MER
</CO>
<LP>
   MERRILL LYNCH &amp; Co. (New York) -- Eugene H. Rotberg will
resign as an executive vice president of this brokerage firm,
effective July 31. Mr. Rotberg, formerly vice president and
treasurer of the World Bank for 19 years, said he will devote
time to teaching, to international public policy and to
identifying investment opportunities in developing countries.
The position will be left vacant, the firm said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shearson Lehman Hutton
   Considers a Name Change
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc., whose
name has been tarred in recent months, is thinking about
getting a new one to forge a new identity.
   Officials of the big securities firm, a unit of American
Express Co., have had what one calls "very preliminary"
discussions about changing the company's name, or at least
shortening it. One of many possibilities is going back to
"Shearson/American Express," Shearson's name for a brief time
after its takeover by American Express in 1981.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The discussions about a name change began last summer
before the recent spate of negative publicity about Shearson;
but the bad press is now one of the factors behind a possible
change, people familiar with the discussions said.
   One change that Shearson is seriously considering is a new
name that more strongly links it with parent American Express
-- a link that Shearson has already been trying to emphasize
in a new advertising campaign as it tries to polish its
image.
   In recent months, Shearson has been battered by a series
of problems. Its chairman and president both resigned earlier
this year; American Express installed new management and
injected more than $1 billion in new capital, acting to boost
its 61% stake in Shearson to 100%.
   A Shearson spokesman declined to comment on the
name-change talks, which were first reported in Investor's
Daily.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.DIS DIS FREST EUROP Z.SR R.AAI K.SAI C.SSY
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AIRLINES (AIR)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   EURO DISNEYLAND'S PLANS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Euro Disneyland SCA has decided to increase the total
estimated investment for the first phase of construction of
the theme park outside Paris to 16.3 billion francs ($2.88
billion) from 14.9 billion francs, Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer John H. Forsgren said.
   Mr. Forsgren said the 9.4% rise in funds allocated to the
period of construction that terminates when the park opens in
the spring of 1992 will be used to expand capacity by 15%
through the addition of new attractions. He said Euro
Disneyland will raise the additional 1.4 billion francs
through a combination of cash resources and bank financing.
   The executive noted that the company hasn't revised its
estimated attendance level of 11 million visitors during the
first year of operation, nor has it upgraded its earnings or
income projections for the park. "We aren't increasing our
attendance figure in the first year, but we're positive about
exceeding {subsequent projections} if the demand is there,
and we feel it will be there."
   Euro Disneyland has no current plans to tap the equity
markets for more financing, Mr. Forsgren said. "The company
is very well-financed with our current equity base," he said.
                                                                                                       

   NO WELCOME IN HONG KONG
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong is unlikely to allow the Goddess of Democracy
ship to enter its waters and take on provisions before
broadcasting dissidents' messages to China, an official of
the British colony said. The vessel's spokesman said
Wednesday in Singapore that the ship would seek permission
from Hong Kong to take on a transmitter, food, fuel and
water. The ship had been previously scheduled to stop in
Taiwan to refuel, but the spokesman said it turned out that
no ship agency in Taiwan wants to help with provisioning.
Hong Kong reverts to Chinese sovereignty in 1997.
                                                                                                       

   BOOST FOR BELGIUM
                                                                                                       

   German unification should provide a shot in the arm for
Belgium's economy, according to a study by the Banque
Nationale de Belgique. Increased demand in East Germany as
consumers acquire new buying power as well as investments in
infrastructure and new industries should fuel a boom in
Belgian exports, the study said. The growth in exports will
boost Belgium's external surplus and stimulate employment,
the study concluded.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINE EMERGENCY ORDER
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines goes on daylight-saving time May 21 to
further conserve electricity, the presidential palace
announced. President Corazon Aquino signed a
national-emergency order for energy conservation and directed
the Office of Energy Affairs to put out the guidelines. When
the order goes into effect, the Philippines will advance its
official clock one hour for both government and private
sectors. The new measure comes three weeks after the
government called for a four-day work week to save
electricity.
                                                                                                       

   HELP FROM NORTH KOREA
                                                                                                       

   South Korean's Ssangyong Cement Industrial Co. signed a
contract to import 120,000 tons of cement from North Korea.
Company officials said the North Korean cement would be
imported by June at the latest through a Hong Kong trading
firm. South and North Korea, bitter rivals, do not trade
goods directly. South Korea faces a serious cement shortfall
this year because of a construction boom.
                                                                                                       

   FIGHTING RACISM IN FRANCE
                                                                                                       

   France's National Assembly approved a bill that would bar
anyone who provokes racial hatred or violence from holding
elected office and government jobs for five years. The bill,
targeted at the extreme-right National Front party, was
passed by the Assembly 307-265; it now goes to the Senate,
where it can be revised before being returned to the lower
house. It must be signed by President Francois Mitterrand to
become law.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN AIRLINE ALLIANCE
                                                                                                       

   Swissair, Austrian Airlines, Finnair and Scandinavian
Airlines System announced an agreement to cooperate in such
areas as customer service, marketing, sales and technical
fields.
   The announcement said the four companies will coordinate
schedules and are considering a joint cargo center in Vienna,
as well as check-in collaboration at various airports.
   Together, the four airlines carried 30 million passengers
last year on 250 aircraft. The alliance will make the group
of airlines the leading conveyer of air-passenger traffic
between East and West Europe, according to the announcement.
   Swissair President Otto Loepfe was quoted as saying that
"by working together, we can have an influential say in the
technical specifications for new aircraft, especially when it
comes to exhaust emission and noise-reduction criteria."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Beginning this Sunday, May 6, London's telephone system
will have two new areas codes -- 71 for inner London and 81
for outer London -- in place of the familiar 1. A call from
the U.S. will involve dialing 011 (international code), 44
(country code), 71 or 81 (city code) plus the seven-digit
number. . . . Prisoners in a Bathurst, Australia, jail broke
into an office during a guards' strike and ordered 312 pizzas
to be delivered from a local Pizza Hut outlet. One hundred
and forty had been delivered -- in three cars -- before
guards canceled the rest of the order.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Profits in U.S.
   Will Decline, Survey Says
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Corporate profits in the U.S., Canada and
Britain will slide this year, while earnings growth will
continue in the other major economies, according to a global
survey of economists.
   The survey, compiled by Consensus Economics Inc.,
predicted that U.S. corporate profitability will slump by
3.3% this year, the U.K.'s by 0.6%, and Canada's by 7%. As
for other major industrial economies, the group predicted
that West Germany's corporate profitability would grow by 9%
this year, Italy's by 8.7%, and France's by 7.2%. Japanese
corporate profitability is expected to jump by 11.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's usually considered healthy when economies don't move
in lockstep. When economic cycles are syncopated, companies
in slowing economies can look to markets in still robust
countries to tide them over.
   In 1991, according to Consensus Economics, profitability
will expand for all seven of the big industrial countries,
and at rates fairly close to one another. For 1992, the group
predicted that corporate profitability would increase most in
Britain, where it forecast a jump of 10.9%. Meanwhile Japan
would show an increase of only 6.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Increases Push for Action on Budget Gap
   Amid Fears Rising Rates May Cripple Economy
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration, convinced that the
major political danger it faces is an economy crippled by
rising interest rates, is exploring a deficit-reduction deal
with Congress more intensely than ever before.
   To hasten the start of negotiations, President Bush
invited the majority and minority leaders of both houses to
meet with him at the White House Sunday afternoon. "What we
have to do is start talking process, and how we go forward,"
Mr. Bush said yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The White House clearly hopes Sunday's huddle will pave
the way for talks on a bipartisan pact to slash the budget
deficit and reshape the federal budget process. But top
congressional Democrats remain wary, and the odds of enacting
a package of big spending cuts and, especially, significant
tax increases -- essential to any accord -- in this election
year are still no better than even.
   The president's invitation caps weeks of intense wooing of
Congress by Budget Director Richard Darman, among others.
With White House blessing, two Democratic insiders -- power
lawyer Robert Strauss and former Ohio congressman Thomas
Ashley -- are working behind the scenes. The two men have
talked privately with Mr. Bush about the deficit. Though both
insist they aren't presidential emissaries, they have been
telling key congressmen that the time for a budget summit is
at hand.
   "I've been telling both sides that it's time to come to
the table," says Mr. Ashley, a friend of the president and
now head of a bank trade association. "Without carrying
messages, I can at least give a careful description of the
interests of the various parties." Mr. Strauss has been doing
the same, cornering Senate Budget Committee Chairman James
Sasser (D., Tenn.) at a recent black-tie dinner to try to
persuade him that the White House is sincerely ready to
bargain.
   Sen. Sasser isn't convinced. "I see no real evidence that
they're interested," he said yesterday. "If they're
interested in another conspiracy to get by with a slideby
budget, I'm not interested."
   Even if the two sides are ready to bargain, the political
obstacles are high. "You face very tough choices," House
Budget Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.) says. "The politics
have prevented these choices from being made. The politics
are still the same."
   Democrats, who have excoriated Mr. Bush for proposing
steep cutbacks in Medicare, farm-subsidies and other
entitlements, would almost certainly have to swallow such
entitlement cutbacks -- and might even have to agree to trim
Social Security.
   In return, Democrats would insist that Mr. Bush eat the
"no new taxes" pledge that has been so politically potent.
And their price for accepting Mr. Bush's cut in capital-gains
tax rates, Democrats say, would be an increase in the top
marginal tax rate for the richest Americans, which many
Republicans are certain to oppose. (The richest taxpayers now
pay a top rate of 28%, even though many less-wealthy
taxpayers face a 33% top rate.) The White House is still
resistant. Some Republicans on Capitol Hill are toying with a
compromise -- which would neither gain nor lose revenue --
that would set the top rate at 31%, a tax cut for those now
paying 33% and a tax increase for those paying 28%.
   Despite all these obstacles, administration offficials
figure congressional Democrats may be receptive to talks now
that the Senate Budget Committee and the full House have each
agreed on their own budget plans. Congressional Democrats say
their progress is also motivating the White House. "We have
sent a signal to the White House that instead of the process
collapsing, it was going forward," says Rep. Panetta.
   To get talks going, the two budget chairmen say, the
president himself must persuade Senate Democratic Leader
George Mitchell and House Speaker Thomas Foley that he is
willing to share the blame for raising taxes and cutting
spending. "You can't get into a situation where one side
accuses the other of putting something on the table," Rep.
Panetta stresses.
   The economic fundamentals also are pushing the parties
toward each other. "The deficit projections are such that
they have the Congress gasping a little bit, and the
administration, too," Mr. Ashley says. Just three months ago,
Mr. Darman said a deficit-reduction package of $35.6 billion
would avoid triggering across-the-board budget cuts this fall
under the Gramm-Rudman law. With federal revenues falling
short of projections and interest rates rising, he now says
it will take $45 billion or maybe even $55 billion.
   White House officials also fear that rising interest rates
world-wide, caused largely by the resuscitation of Eastern
Europe, also threaten to cut short the economic expansion on
which Mr. Bush's re-election hopes rest. "Japanese capital
available for investment here may be contracting somewhat,"
Mr. Darman said in a speech at Harvard this week. "European
capital is looking more Eastward and inward. U.S. borrowing
for the S&amp;L (savings &amp; loan) mess is temporarily soaring."
The administration figures the only move it can make to bring
down interest rates is to reduce the government's appetite
for debt.
   Last year's summit between the administration and
congressional leaders is now widely viewed, both in the White
House and on Capitol Hill, as a model to avoid. It
accomplished little significant deficit-reduction and left a
bitter aftertaste in Congress. If Sunday's meeting leads to a
fullfledged summit, all parties agree, this one should
include the chairmen of the powerful tax-writing and
appropriations committees to assure that the resulting
agreement is enacted.
   The administration and many in Congress also want to use
any bipartisan talks to change the federal budgeting process.
Democrats, stung by charges that they are raiding the Social
Security trust fund to reduce the deficit, want to alter
budgetary accounting for Social Security. Mr. Darman wants to
close loopholes in the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law,
among other changes to restrain growth in federal spending.
   "Knowing what I know," he told his Harvard audience, "I
can't help whistling the Arlo Guthrie song . . . `You can get
anything that you want at Alice's Restaurant.' This really
should not be what comes to an OMB (Office of Management and
Budget) Director's mind as he walks to work."
   ---
         Cutting the Deficit: Plans on the Table
                                                                                                       

                  (In billions of dollars)
                                                                                                       

                                          SENATE
                                          BUDGET
                                   BUSH   COMMITTEE  HOUSE
                                                                                                       

 Cuts in defense outlays ........  $3.2   $13.0      $11.5
 Cuts in nondefense discretionary
   spending .....................    .2     3.6       +3.7*
 Cuts in entitlements such as
   medicare, farm subsidies .....  12.0     4.3        0.4
 Increased user fees ............   3.2     6.2        2.5
 Interest, unspecified savings ..   1.4     2.0        9.7
 New taxes and other revenues ...   9.4    13.9       16.3
                                                                                                       

 Total Deficit Reduction ........  29.4    43.0       36.7
                                                                                                       

   *House proposes increase
   NOTE: Cuts refer to reductions in spending from
projections that include adjustments for inflation.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Senate Budget Committee Republican staff
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Increased in Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for state unemployment
insurance rose 24,000 in the week ended April 21 to a
seasonally adjusted 372,000 from an unrevised 348,000 the
previous week, the Labor Department said.
   In the week ended April 14, 2,474,000 persons were
receiving state unemployment benefits, up 172,000 from the
previous week's unrevised 2,302,000. The number of persons
receiving unemployment benefits as a percentage of those
covered by unemployment insurance rose to 2.4% in the week
ended April 14 from 2.2% the week before.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The week ended April 21 followed the reporting period that
included the Good Friday holiday, in which there were fewer
days to file jobless claims. Initial claims for state
unemployment insurance typically rise in weeks that follow
major holidays.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Melville Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MES WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MELVILLE Corp. (Rye, N.Y.) -- This specialty retail
concern named Ronald S. Staffieri president of its Kay-Bee
Toy &amp; Hobby Shops subsidiary, succeeding Saul Rubenstein, who
retired late last year. Mr. Staffieri was previously
president of Things Remembered Inc., a unit of Cole National
Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. IS SCRAPPING plans to place new short-range
missiles in Europe.
   Citing recent political changes in Eastern Europe, Bush
announced that the U.S. was dropping plans for a modernized
version of the existing Lance missile because "there is less
need for nuclear systems of the shortest range." The missiles
were to be based in West Germany. The president, speaking at
the White House, also declared that the U.S. won't put new
nuclear artillery shells into Western Europe, and said the
administration is prepared to open talks with the Soviet
Union more quickly than previously planned on cutting
existing short-range nuclear missiles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. and its Western allies agreed to hold NATO and
East-West summits this year to negotiate a pact reducing
troops and non-nuclear arms.
   ---
   Lithuania's premier urged Bush to formally recognize the
Baltic republic's independence from Moscow. But following an
Oval Office meeting, Kazimiera Prunskiene expressed doubt
about what position the president would take. The White House
issued a statement expressing support for the republic's
"self-determination."
                                                                                                       

   Latvia's legislature opened debate on whether to emulate
Lithuania and declare independence from the Soviet Union. A
vote on the move is expected today, and the separatist
People's Front said it could muster the two-thirds majority
needed. In Armenia, legislators voted to suspend the draft of
young men into the Soviet armed forces.
   ---
   Bush said the U.S. will try to discover the fate of four
Iranians kidnapped in Lebanon in 1982. The president,
speaking in Washington, expressed hope that the offer will
satisfy Tehran's call for a U.S. gesture of thanks for its
help in winning the release in Beirut of two U.S. hostages.
Six Americans remain missing in Lebanon.
                                                                                                       

   Iran's President Rafsanjani branded the Bush
administration a "stubborn, frustrated child," and he said
officials in Tehran "aren't prepared to talk to America."
   ---
   Scientists have grown human brain cells in laboratory
dishes for the first time, providing a tool to study and
possibly treat nerve disorders including Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's diseases. Using tissues from a child, the
test-tube culturing of a colony of cells was achieved at
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
   ---
   A jury in Philadelphia ordered the Inquirer newspaper to
pay $34 million in damages to a former chief assistant
district attorney, in what was considered one of the largest
judgments in a libel case brought by a public figure. The
stories suggested that as a prosecutor, the official quashed
a 1963 homicide inquiry.
   ---
   De Klerk and Mandela reported progress in talks aimed at
clearing the way for fullscale negotiations on black-white
powersharing. South Africa's president and the African
National Congress leader made their remarks in a joint
communique issued after a second day of talks in Cape Town.
The discussions are scheduled to conclude today.
   ---
   Egyptian President Mubarak said that Syria's President
Assad is prepared to meet with his main Arab foe, PLO leader
Arafat. Mubarak, who met with Assad during a trip to
Damascus, also said he wants to help end a dispute between
Syria and Iraq and persuade Syria's leader to attend a
planned summit of Arab leaders in Baghdad.
   ---
   Israeli settlers held a religious ceremony at a Jewish
seminary in the West Bank city of Nablus, and the army
imposed a curfew to thwart Arab protests. In Jerusalem,
former Defense chief Rabin publicly challenged Peres's Labor
Party leadership.
   ---
   West Germany's president paid homage to the victims of the
Nazi Holocaust, retracing their path from the Warsaw Ghetto
to the Treblinka camp, where more than 800,000 Jews were
killed. The pilgrimage came during a four-day visit to Poland
by von Weizsaecker, who vowed that a united Germany wouldn't
violate Poland's borders.
   ---
   Thatcher's Conservatives sustained heavy losses to the
Labor Party in local British elections, early returns showed.
An unpopular new local tax was a crucial issue. The balloting
was the first comprehensive opinion test since the prime
minister won a third consecutive term in 1987.
   ---
   A House panel approved a bill giving the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe greater access to Western high-technology than
Bush is prepared to offer. The Foreign Affairs Committee
measure would eliminate all export controls from computers
and other high-tech products currently shipped to China.
   ---
   The FDA approved use of the anti-AIDS drug zidovudine, or
AZT, by children three months to 12 years old. The drug,
manufactured by Burroughs-Wellcome Co., is the only treatment
found to have extended the lives of patients 13 years and
older.
   ---
   Died: Patriarch Pimen, 79, head of the Russian Orthodox
Church who presided over the faith's reawakening after
decades of repression under Soviet rule, in Moscow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Makes Gesture to Iran
   With Inquiry on Abduction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush, attempting to make a
goodwill gesture toward Iran without negotiating for
hostages, said the U.S. will try to discover the fate of four
Iranians kidnapped in Lebanon.
   Mr. Bush's offer, made at a news conference, doesn't have
much practical effect. U.S. officials and analysts from other
nations have thought for some time that the four Iranians --
three diplomats and a journalist -- have been dead since
shortly after their abduction in 1982. They disappeared near
a checkpoint in Beirut run by Christian militiamen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Bush clearly hopes that his offer will satisfy
Iran's call for a gesture of thanks from the U.S. for its
help in winning the release of two Americans held hostage in
Beirut. "Here's something we can do" without violating U.S.
policy against negotiating for release of hostages, the
president said. Six Americans remain captive in Lebanon.
   Iran has long complained that the West, while pressing for
release of its own citizens held hostage in Beirut, has been
silent about the fate of the four Iranians. Mr. Bush said
that the U.S. would "go back and get any information" that
might "relieve the anxieties of the loved ones" of the four
Iranians.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan Stock-Dealer Firm
   Is Bankrupt, Says Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The sharp plunge in Japanese share prices this
year has forced stock dealer Akebono Kikaku Co. into
bankruptcy, a credit research agency reported.
   Teikoku Data Bank Ltd. said Tokyo-based Akebono has
accumulated debt exceeding 210 billion yen ($1.33 billion)
and had allegedly issued bad notes twice since March 28. But
it is also possible that the $1.33 billion represented debts
by Akebono and several other companies controlled by two
major stock market speculators, Komei Tai and Seikichi Endo.
Whatever the source, it is the third-largest bankruptcy case
on record in Japan, the agency said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite a partial recovery in recent trading sessions,
share prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange are more than 20%
below what they were at the start of the year. Teikoku Data
Bank said Akebono had been unable to meet margin calls
because of the steep fall in stock prices.
   Akebono, founded in 1979, dealt in speculative trading in
about 20 stock issues, including those of chemical,
electric-power and pharmaceutical companies, according to the
Kyodo News Service. The company also managed hotels in the
downtown Tokyo district of Shinjuku.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Albert Frere Is Expected
   To Get Top Petrofina Post
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS B.PET B.GBL
</CO>
<LP>
   Belgian financier Albert Frere is expected to be named
today as chairman of Petrofina S.A., the big Belgian oil
company.
   Mr. Frere will succeed Jean-Pierre Amory, who is retiring.
It is a job Mr. Frere has been pursuing for more than a
decade, associates say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Mr. Frere has clearly reached the top, however, he
may have to keep striving to maintain his prestige and power.
For one thing, investment analysts say, he faces a big
challenge in trying to improve the mediocre performance of
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert S.A., or GBL, the holding company he
heads. GBL, which is Petrofina's biggest shareholder, is
still recovering from the collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert
Group Inc., in which the Belgian firm had a stake of about
25%.
   To keep his grip on GBL, meanwhile, Mr. Frere will need to
remain on good terms with another reclusive and strong-willed
tycoon, Paul Desmarais Sr., chairman of Power Corp. of
Canada. The families of Messrs. Frere and Desmarais recently
announced that they jointly control Pargesa Holding S.A., a
Geneva holding company that holds big stakes in GBL and
Petrofina and is thus the key to Mr. Frere's empire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   A.C. Nielsen Can't Explain
   Data on TV Viewing Drop
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A.C. Nielsen Co. yesterday told executives
from the television networks and advertising agencies that it
has no idea why its recent TV ratings show a sharp decline in
television viewing.
   Nielsen ratings, which dictate how billions of dollars are
spent on television advertising each year, indicate that TV
viewing is down 8.1% for daytime programming, off 2.2% in
prime time and is down a sharp 14% for nightly newscasts for
the three networks in recent months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nielsen, which met privately with about 100 members of the
advertising and broadcast community in a 90-minute session at
a New York hotel yesterday, pledged to research the ratings
drop further. But some executives remain dissatisfied. "I
don't feel Nielsen has given us anything new," said Michael
Eisenberg, a vice president at CBS Inc. "We still think there
really is a problem."
   Executives of Nielsen, a Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. unit,
declined to comment on the meeting yesterday, although one
conceded privately that the "magnitude of these changes {in
viewing} is the largest in recent memory and warrants serious
examination."
   Even ad executives, who in the past have tended to dismiss
the network complaints about the Nielsen people meters,
express concern at the latest numbers. "There is a fly in the
ointment," said Joel M. Segal, executive vice president at
the ad agency McCann-Erickson, a unit of Interpublic Group of
Cos. "It's madness. We can't figure out {the demographics}
we're buying."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDA Clears Use of AZT
   By Children With AIDS
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.WCM
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration approved
use of the anti-AIDS drug zidovudine, or AZT, by children
three months to 12 years old.
   The drug, manufactured by Wellcome Foundation Ltd.'s
Burroughs Wellcome Co. unit of Research Triangle Park, N.C.,
has been marketed since 1987 to acquired immune deficiency
syndrome patients who are 13 and older. In addition, since
1989 Burroughs Wellcome has made AZT available to children
free of charge through an FDA program in which drugs for
life-threatening diseases are distributed on an experimental
basis. For younger children, the company produces a
strawberry-flavored syrup version of the drug. AZT normally
is marketed to adults in capsule form.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Free distribution of AZT for children will be phased out,
according to Kathy Bartlett, a company spokeswoman for
Burroughs Wellcome. She said the yearly wholesale cost of the
drug likely will average $1,750 a child, but "that will
certainly vary depending on the size of the child."
   In a prepared statement, Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan said the FDA's approval "should
encourage more insurance providers to reimburse for
zidovudine's use in pediatrics." The FDA will alter required
AZT labeling to recommend specific dosage for children.
Insurance companies sometimes refuse to reimburse for drugs
lacking FDA dosage recommendations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   From an article by editor Hendrik Hertzberg in the May 14
issue of the New Republic:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Congress invigorated by frequent infusions of new blood
would be a more responsive, more democratic, more varied
place. So would a Congress whose majority regularly changed
from one party to the other, which a term limit would
unquestionably promote. However bad this might be for the
short-term partisan interests of Democrats like me, it would
be good for the long-term interests of the country -- and the
party too. Critics of the term limit idea argue that it would
"weaken" Congress; and so it would, but in ways that would
strengthen both its most useful functions and democratic
governance in general.
   The one-party Congress has become a world unto itself, and
the long period of Republican control of the presidency and
Democratic control of Congress has produced an insidious
mentality on Capitol Hill. The leaders of the Democratic
congressional majority, veterans of decades of supremacy in
their own little universe, no longer constitute an
opposition. They conceive of themselves as ins, not outs-as
leaders of one-half a permanent coalition government.
   They may imagine that their own fiefdoms are secure, but
their party is reaping almost all of the penalties of
incumbency and almost none of the benefits. The foundations
of Democratic congressional dominance are being relentlessly
undermined, and once the structure topples, as eventually it
must, rebuilding it will seem as hopeless a task as
destroying it does now. A Congress shaped by a term limit
would have a different and healthier mentality. During
periods when it was controlled by the party that also
controls the White House, it would be energetic in pursuit of
that party's program; when in opposition, it would -- for a
change, and just as energetically -- oppose.
   ---
   From an article in the May issue of Commentary by Charles
Horner, executive vice president of the Madison Center:
                                                                                                       

   {O}f all the artificial divisions that exist in the world,
the one between Canadians and ourselves is the least natural,
the one least grounded in genuinely divisive forces. It is a
division which, so far as one can see, is of no practical
benefit to anyone anywhere, though it continues to provide
some people somewhere with emotional comfort.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CMS Enhancements Stock Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CME
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TUSTIN, Calif. -- CMS Enhancements Inc. said directors
approved a plan under which the company would buy back as
much as nearly 5% of its common stock outstanding.
   CMS, a maker and distributor of a broad line of
enhancement products for personal computers, said it feels
its stock is undervalued. In December, in an effort to boost
the stock price and attract institutional investors, CMS
holders approved a 1-for-4 stock split, reducing shares
outstanding to about 3.2 million from about 12.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Monday, CMS said third-quarter earnings fell 62% to 13
cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West German Industry Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BONN -- West Germany's industrial production dropped a
seasonally adjusted 0.7% in March from February but was up
3.7% from a year earlier, the Bonn Economics Ministry said.
   It added, however, that in a later update, an upward
revision of the monthly data by as much as 1.5 percentage
points can be expected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Cook to Step Down
   As Chief Executive
   Of Tribune Co.
   ----
   By Andrew Patner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Tribune Co. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Stanton R. Cook said at the company's annual meeting
that he would step down as chief executive and as publisher
of the company's flagship paper, the Chicago Tribune.
   Mr. Cook, who will remain as chairman of the media giant,
said Charles T. Brumback, currently president and chief
operating officer of Tribune, would succeed him as chief
executive officer. Mr. Brumback is 61 years old. The changes
will be effective on Aug. 1, following Mr. Cook's 65th
birthday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Cook, a 39-year veteran of the company, has led
Tribune through a period of strong growth since he was named
chief executive in 1974. Mr. Brumback, former president of
Tribune's Orlando Sentinel and of the Chicago Tribune, became
Mr. Cook's heir apparent when he was named president and
chief operating officer of the parent company last year.
   Mr. Brumback gave shareholders a "sober" forecast for
1990. He said the soft newspaper advertising market is
expected to mean only modest revenue gains for most Tribune
publications and a decline in revenue at the company's
beleaguered New York Daily News, which is in bitter contract
negotiations with its unions. Newsprint manufacturing
operations also are expected to show a decline in profits,
and even with continued growth in Tribune's broadcast
operations, an earnings gain for the company this year will
be "difficult," Mr. Brumback said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Tribune stock closed at $39.75 a share, down 12.5 cents.
   Tribune had 1989 earnings of $242.4 million, or $3.17 a
primary share, on revenue of $2.45 billion. For the first
quarter of 1990, earnings fell 9%. Mr. Brumback attributed
the decline to higher operating losses at the Daily News and
the declining market for newsprint.
   Mr. Cook defended the company against criticism of its
management of the Daily News made by leaders of the Allied
Printing Trades Council of Greater New York and the Chicago
Pressmens' Union, who attended the meeting as shareholders.
Mr. Cook also defended the company's hiring of King &amp; Ballow,
a Nashville, Tenn., law firm that has been sharply attacked
by newspaper labor unions, to handle its negotiations with
the 10 Daily News unions.
   Pickets from the Chicago Federation of Labor and from the
New York union group surrounded the meeting's site at the
headquarters of First Chicago Corp., protesting the company's
labor practices at the Daily News and the Tribune.
   John W. Madigan, 53 years old, currently president and
chief executive officer of the Chicago Tribune, will succeed
Mr. Cook as publisher of the paper, the top-circulation paper
in metropolitan Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NASD Expels Five Securities Concerns,
   Levies Fines for OTC Rules Infractions
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3A
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The National Association of Securities
Dealers, the self-regulatory agency for the over-the-counter
markets, expelled five firms and fined companies and
individuals as much as $365,000 for rules violations.
   AmeriMutual Corp. and a registered principal, Rosemary
Grady, both of Boca Raton, Fla., were fined a total $365,000.
The firm was expelled and Ms. Grady was barred from
membership in the NASD for, among other things, charging
unfair prices for securities and employing a person who was
disqualified from association with a member firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   David-Maxwell Co. of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., was expelled
and principal Howard Caplan of North Miami Beach was barred.
They also were fined a total $200,000. The NASD charged them
with marking up certain securities prices by 10.29% to 200%
above prevailing market prices.
   R.C. Williams Capital &amp; Securities Corp. was expelled as a
member of NASD, and the firm and an associate, Cheryl E.
Hagan, both of Arlington, Texas, were fined a total $100,000.
Ms. Hagan was barred until she qualifies as a general
securities principal; Kenneth D. Simmons, an Arlington
principal, was fined $50,000 and barred; Donald C. Pinkus, a
Davie, Fla., principal, was fined $10,000 and suspended for
six months; and Lyle David Baldridge, a Fort Worth, Texas,
principal, was fined $5,000 and suspended 60 days. Messrs.
Pinkus and Baldridge must requalify as general securities
principals. The firm, among other things, charged unfair
prices and covered a short position by buying unregistered
and restricted securities, the NASD charged.
   W.N. Whelen &amp; Co. was expelled, and principal William N.
Whelen Jr. was suspended for two months and barred as a
principal. The NASD also levied $15,000 fines against both
the firm and Mr. Whelen, both Georgetown, Del. The agency
alleged that they charged unfair prices and failed to pay
customers in a timely manner for certain shares that were
sold, among other things.
   Foxhall Group Securities Inc. and Matthew J. Yetman, both
Silver Spring, Md., agreed to a total $5,000 fine without
admitting or denying wrongdoing. The firm was expelled, and
Mr. Yetman, a financial and operations principal, was
suspended 40 days. The NASD found that the firm charged
excessive prices for securities and disseminated to potential
investors certain false and misleading data regarding an
offering of debt by the firm's parent, Foxhall Group Inc.
   In other NASD disciplinary actions:
   Pan Oceanic Investments Inc. and Robert Leon Westmoreland
Jr., both of Honolulu, and Brian Alex Henry of Days Creek,
Ore., were fined a total $307,972. The firm and Mr. Henry
also were fined a total of $15,000. Mr. Henry, a principal,
was barred, and the firm was suspended from making markets in
securities or executing principal transactions for six
months. Mr. Westmoreland, a principal, also was fined
$10,000, suspended for a year, and required to retake an
exam. Also, Jeffrey Alan Dunster, a Honolulu representative,
was fined $75,000 and suspended for 10 days.
   Pan Oceanic was charged with, among other things, buying
and selling common stock without telling customers that the
issuer of the shares and the firm were controlled by the same
entity. The NASD also charged the firm with unfairly pricing
certain securities.
   Dunhill Investments Ltd. of Englewood, Colo., and William
K. Schroff, a Palm Springs, Calif., principal, were fined
$25,000 each. The firm was suspended from conducting a
securities business for 20 days, while Mr. Schroff was
suspended from associating with any NASD member for 20 days.
Dunhill failed to tell the NASD that the firm had a
part-owner who was statutorily disqualified, the NASD
alleged.
   Sheffield Securities Inc. of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; John
Francis Lasala, a Pompano Beach, Fla., principal; and Allen
Weinstein, a Hollywood, Fla., principal, were fined a total
$50,000, and each was suspended for 15 business days. The
NASD alleged that the firm charged unfair prices, with
markups ranging 11.7% to 66.6% over the prevailing market.
   Guardian International Securities Corp. of Miami, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, agreed to a $5,000 fine and
a suspension from certain retail transactions for five
business days. The NASD charged the firm with unfair pricing
of securities, with markups ranging 15% to 51% over the
prevailing market.
   The following firms and individuals agreed to sanctions
without admitting or denying wrongdoing:
   Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. agreed to a $25,000 fine,
based on allegations tied to the use of certain ads and sales
literature by the firm or predecessor firms.
   Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. was fined $15,000. Ronald
L. Olexy, a Jackson, Miss., representative, was fined
$10,000, suspended for a year, and required to retake an
exam. The NASD charged, among other things, that Mr. Olexy
suggested and executed certain program transactions without
reasonable grounds to believe that the transactions were
suitable for the customers.
   Swink &amp; Co. was fined $25,000; Jack F. Brantley Jr. and
Gary F. Granger were suspended for two weeks each, and Jim D.
Swink was suspended for a week. The NASD charged the firm
with filing certain inaccurate reports. The firm and
executives are in Little Rock, Ark.
   Escalator Securities Inc. of Willow Grove, Pa., and Howard
A. Scala of Meadowbrook, Pa., were fined a total $27,500.
Among other things, the firm failed to promptly forward
certain checks to a bank escrow agent, and it sold securities
at unfair prices, the NASD charged.
   First Montauk Securities Corp. of Eatontown, N.J., and
Herbert Kurinsky of Toms River, N.J., were fined a total
$15,000. Mr. Kurinsky also was suspended for 10 business
days. The NASD alleged that the firm charged unfair prices
and filed inaccurate reports, among other things.
   Kettler &amp; Co. of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Paul Kettler
of Chicago were fined a total $10,000, while Randal Craig
Forman of Boca Raton, Fla., was fined $5,000 and suspended
for five business days. The firm charged unfair prices, and
Mr. Kettler failed to properly supervise Mr. Forman, the NASD
alleged.
   RJO Securities Inc. of Chicago was fined $10,000, based on
allegations that certain sales literature contained
exaggerations and misleading statements.
   The following individuals were barred by the NASD. Fines
are noted:
   Richard H. Ostberg, Englewood, Colo., $150,000; Michael R.
Pulver, Rockville, Md., $75,000; Clarence Joseph Law Jr.,
Lubbock, Texas, $70,000; Mark Russell Boyle, Overland Park,
Kan., William G. Corrigan, Glendale, Ariz., Ronald F. Harris,
Littleton, Colo., and Mark A. Lebamoff, Dearborn, Mich.,
$50,000 each.
   Also, Arthur J. Curry, Chicago, $45,000; John Edward
Johnson, Solvang, Calif., $35,000; Mark B. Schrutt, Toronto,
$27,900; Thaddeus L. Daber, Durham, N.C., Jay Frederick
Keeton, Seattle, David A. Villars, Hurricane, W.Va., and
Lawrence William Walsh, Kissimmee, Fla., $25,000 each;
Jeffrey L. Bornstein, Pottsville, Pa., and Eric August
Pomeroy, Boca Raton, Fla., $20,000 each.
   And Thomas A. Edgeton, Des Moines, Iowa, $18,014; Alan
Keith Ellis, Dunwoody, Ga., David D. James, Radnor, Pa., and
Stephen D. Jones II, Falls Church, Va., $15,000 each; Alan
Paul Boullt, Houston, Jeff Cohen, Franklin, Mass., Jeffrey
Nissim Funes, Seattle, Michael Allen Henry Sr., Pensacola,
Fla., Kevin Michael Hunt, Fort Myers, Fla., and John Espey
Oberg, Seattle, $10,000 each.
   Also, Michael S. DeJesus, Malvern, Pa., Kenneth Letzgus,
Sterling Heights, Mich., Steven Sechrest, Sarasota, Fla., and
Gary Douglas Taylor Jr., Orlando, Fla., $5,000 each; Sunhae
Lee, Oreland, Pa., no fine.
   Mr. Keeton has appealed the matter to the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
   Albert W. Houseman Jr., Carlisle, Pa., Charles A. Valenti,
Birmingham, Mich., Anthony Volante, Chicago, and Paul Joseph
Landry, Baton Rouge, consented to a bar without admitting or
denying wrongdoing. Messrs. Houseman and Valenti were fined
$75,000 and $7,500, respectively. Mr. Landry may reapply for
membership in five years.
   Other fines and suspensions include:
   Joseph K. Daley, Chapel Hill, N.C., $5,000, suspended for
six months, barred as general securities principal, must
retake an exam; Madhu Paruchuri, Oak Brook, Ill., barred as
principal or supervisor; Stephen Franklin Hilsenroth,
Sarasota, Fla., $5,000, 10 business days, must make $8,906
restitution; and Robert A. McMahon, San Diego, $10,000, six
days, must requalify as representative.
   And Louis Pastrana Marin, Evanston, Ill., $15,000 and 20
days; Patrick G. Keel, New Orleans, $10,000 and 30 days; Paul
M. Spiller, Tampa, Fla., $10,000 and 20 days; Joseph Buckmon
Largen, Jacksonville, Fla., $7,500 and 15 business days;
Ronald Irwin Brill, Tampa, Fla., $2,000 and five business
days.
   Norman R. Greer of Gary, Ind., was fined $5,000, suspended
six months and ordered to make $8,500 restitution and retake
an exam. He has appealed to the SEC.
   The following didn't admit or deny wrongdoing:
   Brian M. Cohen and Herbert Kurinsky of Toms River, N.J.,
and William J. Kurinsky of Lakewood, N.J., a total $12,500.
Messrs. Kurinsky both must requalify by exam. For Herbert
Kurinsky, this is a separate proceeding from the one above.
   Also, Barry Allen Roman, Alexandria, Va., and Michael Ian
Roman, Arlington, Va., $15,000 each and must requalify by
exam; Mark Donald Allison, Issaquah, Wash., $10,000 and five
days; Joseph Anthony Atencio, San Bruno, Calif., $5,000
jointly with a member firm and two weeks; Judd S. Pollock,
Denver, $5,000 and five business days; Randal Craig Forman,
Boca Raton, Fla., in a proceeding separate from the one
above, $5,000 and five business days.
   And Dennis Ray Thuernau, St. Louis, $2,500 and 30 days;
Walter Anthony Turner, Clemson, S.C., $2,500 and five
business days; Harold R. Vizethann, Palm Beach, Fla., $2,000
and five business days; Gene Wilbur Williams Jr., Rocklin,
Calif., $1,000 and 10 days; John B. Bonifay, Memphis, $1,000
and one week; Pamela Lynn Rutherford, Boca Raton, Fla., $500
and five business days; Charles E. Safford, Kenner, La.,
three months.
   At Prudential-Bache, a spokeswoman said, "The events
underlying this occurred well over three years ago. We
discovered the problem, terminated the employee, and we
settled the matter to put it behind us."
   Mr. Keeton said, "No NASD rules or regulations were
willfully or knowingly violated. No written supervisory or
underwriting NASD guidelines existed at the NASD member
broker-dealer I was formerly associated with. . . . No
investors or issuers of securities have incurred any damages
or filed any claims alleging damages related to this NASD
action." Mr. Keeton added that "a claim for compensatory
damages" against an NASD member and the NASD itself "is being
prepared."
   At RJO Securities Inc., President Robert O'Brien Jr. said,
"RJO and its employees always have made a good-faith effort
to comply with NASD rules, and any violation was entirely
inadvertent. The matter was settled to avoid the cost of
litigation and to avoid the distractions and disruptions in
normal business which would occur during such litigation."
   Mr. Edgeton said that he disagrees with the NASD's
findings and that he didn't have an opportunity to present
his side because he was unable to go to the hearing in
Chicago. He added that "there was a misunderstanding about
some things that happened."
   At Shearson, a spokesman said, "This involves a number of
procedural issues, and we agreed to the fine to put the
matter behind us. We have an ongoing system of monitoring all
advertising and sales literature to ensure compliance with
all appropriate regulations."
   Mr. Swink declined to comment on behalf of Swink &amp; Co.
W.N. Whelen also declined to comment.
   Messrs. Houseman and Allison declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fuji Bid for Subaru
   To Be Sweetened
   By Target Itself
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   SBRU J.FJH NSANY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Troubled Subaru of America Inc. will add at least $61
million to Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.'s $147 million bid for
the 50.4% stake of Subaru it doesn't already own.
   The addition, from the proposed sale of Subaru's
auto-lease portfolio, should help wrap up the deal, which
Fuji proposed in January. Some Subaru shareholders had
complained about the initial price, because it didn't reflect
much of a premium on Subaru stock. Some of the holders filed
lawsuits opposing the terms of the takeover.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the unusual definitive agreement, Tokyo-based Fuji
will stick to its original $6 a share offer for full control
of the U.S. company that sells cars Fuji builds. But Subaru
will add to the offer a minimum of $2.50 a share.
   Subaru officials said they don't have a buyer lined up for
the leases, but set the $61 million minimum value on the
advice of their investment bankers.
   In a joint announcement with Subaru, Toshihiro Tajima,
chairman and president of Fuji, said, "Our decision to
increase our offer reflects the desire by Fuji Heavy to
conclude this transaction."
   The deal, which the companies expect to complete in the
third quarter of 1990, illustrates a consolidation among
Japanese auto makers smaller than Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan
Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.
   The larger Japanese car and truck companies are
increasingly pressuring their smaller competitors for sales
and market share. Partly in reaction to this, the smaller
companies are looking for more help from overseas partners
and even from some of their larger domestic competitors.
   Fuji is a prime example. About three months after Fuji
launched its offer for Subaru, Mr. Tajima announced he would
step down from Fuji's top jobs in favor of Isamu Kawai, a
former top executive with Nissan, Fuji's largest shareholder.
   The moves amount to a Nissan rescue of Fuji, which
estimated it would complete the year ended March 31 with an
operating loss of nearly 23 billion yen ($145.3 million).
That's seven times more than it forecast last fall.
   The management changes and Fuji's financial difficulties
added uncertainty to the Subaru offer Fuji launched in
mid-January. Subaru officials had already balked at the bid
because it offered a thin premium above the market value of
the stock. The potential class-action suit filed in
opposition to terms by some holders was settled as part of
the definitive agreement.
   "It was clear that shareholders and management weren't
ready to accept the lower initial price," said Scott Merlis,
an auto analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "Throwing in
proceeds from the sale of the leasing operations was a clever
compromise in very tough negotiations."
   Other analysts said the $8.50 a share aggregate offer is
much higher than they expected for Subaru shares. The higher
offer pushed Subaru shares higher by $1.625, to close at $8
in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Subaru hit its sales peak in 1986. But since then, sales
have rapidly deteriorated, forcing Subaru to ante up large
buyer and dealer incentives. Subaru's sales dropped 34%
between last year and 1986. The financial shock led to huge
losses in that period for Subaru, the only publicly traded
distributor of Japanese cars in the U.S.
   Fuji officials, with the full backing of Nissan, say they
expect to improve Subaru's performance and communications
between the U.S. and Japanese operations.
   "It's very, very important that we have clearer
coordination between product development and sales," said
Akira Soejima, a Fuji senior managing director in a telephone
interview. "We're now thinking of new products for the U.S.
market and we're trying hard to assist our 750 dealers all
over the U.S. market."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spanish Equities Stage a Comeback,
   But Analysts Are Unsure About Future
   ----
   By Caitlin Randall
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- After tumbling nearly 15% in the first three
months of 1990, Spanish equities are staging a comeback. But
analysts are split on how long the rally will last in the
face of some troubling questions about the immediate future
of Spain's economy.
   A number of factors dogged Spanish stocks during the first
quarter, including persistent concerns about inflation and
the trade deficit, the sluggish stock-market performance
world-wide and general weakness in the Spanish banking sector
-- which accounts for nearly 31% of the main market
barometer, the Madrid Stock Index.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But some of these trends have since turned around. Bank
shares are now recovering, thanks in large part to strong
first-quarter earnings. Foreign money, which according to
some estimates makes up as much as a quarter of the Madrid
market, is beginning to trickle back as prospects on other
world bourses deteriorate and euphoria about Eastern Europe
subsides.
   In addition, some market bulls say that the government's
budget, announced on March 1, is less restrictive than
anticipated. They note that a projected 40% rise in
infrastructure spending could give some sectors, particularly
construction, a hearty boost.
   And while economists aren't predicting a sharp drop in
Spain's inflation rate nor a significant narrowing in the
current international payments account deficit any time soon,
some contend both are heading lower.
   "No one is saying everything in the garden is rosy, but
the trend looks better . . . the rate of deficit growth is
slowing as well as the inflation rate," says Amanda Sisson at
Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd. in London.
   Forecasts for the market over the next three months vary,
with some bulls predicting the Madrid Index will climb back
over the 300 level, where it was before the market entered a
tailspin in January.
   But others contend that without more clear-cut signs of
economic cooling, a sustained stock market rally isn't
likely. The market's bears see the index holding at around
270 before losing some ground.
   Yesterday, the index closed at 273.79, up from 272.22 on
Wednesday. It had slipped to about 250 in early April from
above 300 in January and 340 at its peak last year.
   Among the factors contributing to the market's dismal
first-quarter performance, analysts say, was the diversion of
investor interest to the hefty returns -- ranging from 14% to
16% -- on fixed-income securities.
   Unease over Spain's recent economic performance also
contributed to a slip in the volume of foreign interest.
   Economists point to the big jump in February inflation as
especially worrying.
   Despite the government's determined efforts to cool
Spain's economy, the nation's year-on-year inflation rate
jumped to 7.3% in February from 6.7% in January and 6.2% a
year earlier.
   But Judith Kleinman, an analyst with Capel, argues that
February's inflation figures may have been no more than "an
aberration" in view of March data that showed year-on-year
inflation easing back to 7%.
   Analysts say the key to the market's resurgence lies with
bank stocks. The banking sector has already begun to dig
itself out of the doldrums, Capel's Ms. Kleinman says.
   The banks had the wind knocked out of their sails early
this year when, in a bid to put the brakes on Spain's booming
economy, the government imposed stringent credit controls on
private-sector lending.
   The central bank also introduced a 30% mandatory deposit
requirement on foreign currency borrowings by Spanish
companies early last year to discourage them from raising
funds abroad. Most companies expected the requirement to be
lifted early in 1990; the government's decision to keep the
controls in place added to the market's woes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   Small Firms Fear Credit Squeeze, Minimum Wage Law
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   THE CREDIT SQUEEZE on small business stirs congressional
concern.
   Members of the House Small Business Committee headed by
Democrat John LaFalce of New York applaud the Comptroller of
the Currency's tougher regulation of banks in the wake of the
savings and loan scandal. But some question whether the
agency's "swat teams" are cutting off credit lines to small
businesses with overly strict regulation. "You don't have to
kill the economy to regulate it," said Rep. Ronald Machtley
(R., R.I.) at a hearing last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The comptroller's office insists it isn't targeting
small-business loans or telling banks to whom they can lend.
But experts say the agency effectively sets economic policy
because banks take implicit instructions from its regulatory
practices. Comptroller officials "focus on real estate
assets, but 95% of small businesses pledge real estate assets
{as collateral}, so they're affected to a great degree," says
Joseph Blair, executive director of the Massachusetts
Industrial Finance Agency, which issues bonds to small
concerns.
   Of 228 small businesses responding to a survey by the
Massachusetts agency, 106 said they had significant problems
getting credit in the last six months.
   ---
   MINIMUM-WAGE EXEMPTIONS for small businesses are
threatened.
   Small concerns that think they are covered by the new
minimum wage law's exemption for businesses grossing under
$500,000 a year may not really be exempt, says the National
Restaurant Association and other groups. The reason:
Last-minute changes in the law mean that some workers at many
small businesses will have to be paid at least the new
minimum wage of $3.80 an hour after all. The Labor
Department, which will enforce the provision, says workers
involved in any kind of interstate commerce, even handling
credit-card receipts or interstate phone calls, must be paid
the new minimum wage.
   "An amendment meant to simplify the small-business
exemption has complicated it to the point where it's
useless," asserts Bud Rusitzky, the restaurant group's
president. Small-business interests hope Sen. James Jeffords
(R., Vt.), who sponsored the exemption for smaller firms,
will sponsor a technical correction measure to save the
endangered exemptions. But his spokesman says he won't seek
any changes now. Many lawmakers fear a revision would reopen
debate on the controversial Fair Labor Standards Act. But the
White House supports a revision.
   If Sen. Jeffords won't sponsor the technical correction,
"we'll have to get another horse," says David Rehr, a
National Federation of Independent Business lobbyist.
   ---
   AMENDMENTS TO EASE small-business concerns about the
potential costs and liabilities of legislation to prohibit
discrimination against the disabled are pursued in the House.
This week, the Judiciary Committee approved changes in rules
governing the hiring and serving of the disabled. The
changes, which were sought by small business, tightened the
definition of a job's "essential functions" and made a
building's owner, not a renter, responsible for required
structural changes. But the panel narrowly rejected an
amendment to delay enforcement of the law until two years
after final rules are written. It also ruled out adding a
$5,000-a-year tax credit for small companies' compliance
costs. Both proposals will be pressed in other committees and
on the House floor.
   ---
   BUSINESS LUNCH BUNCH: The Senate Democratic Leadership
begins holding regular luncheon meetings with members of the
business community on a broad range of issues. Members of the
Senate Small Business Committee, as well as the National
Federation of Independent Business, National Small Business
United and other small-business groups will be regular
participants, along with representatives of large concerns.
   ---
   HARD TO SWALLOW: Small wineries protest a plan for a big
tax increase.
   Trade groups representing the alcoholic-beverage industry
contend that a proposal by the White House budget office to
raise the occupational tax on wineries and breweries could
put many small wineries out of business. The plan would boost
the annual tax on small wineries to $19,000 from $500, the
industry says. John Volpe, the National Wine Coalition's
executive director, says 1,300 of the nation's 1,500 wineries
gross less than $300,000 a year. "I'm not sure the people who
devised this {tax rise} understand this would cut into the
viability of those businesses," he says.
   "If this goes through, you can say goodbye to small
wineries in the U.S.," says Tacie Saltonstall, one of the
owners of King Ferry Winery Inc. in King Ferry, N.Y. Larger
concerns, which now pay a $1,000-a-year tax, also would owe
about $19,000 annually. Overall, the increased tax is
projected to collect about $200 million a year from
alcoholic-beverage producers, wholesalers and retailers, up
from $135 million now. Beer and wine producers say they are
being penalized because many retailers haven't been paying
their taxes up to now; they say the proposal assumes they
could pass along the increase to retailers.
   The budget office says the tax increase is just one of
several proposals it is considering to try to make up for the
taxes not paid by retailers.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: Businesses owned by husbands and wives are the
fastest-growing business segment in the U.S., up 92% from
1980 to 1987, says the Small Business Administration Office
of Advocacy. . . . Green politics and entrepreneurship?
Democratic Rep. Joseph Kennedy 3rd of Massachusetts waxes
that "credit is the sunlight of economic growth. {Small}
businesses require credit like the sea requires the energy of
the sun."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Insider Trading
   Is Under Scrutiny
   In Hong Kong
   ----
   By Jesse Wong
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- An insider trader, as defined in a law
proposed by Hong Kong authorities, is someone who is
"connected with a corporation" and "knowingly in possession
of relevant information" while trading in that company's
stock.
   By most accounts, that definition would make an insider
trader out of a corporate director every time he buys or
sells stock in his company, regardless of whether he uses
insider information.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The janitor who vacuums the corporate boardroom also might
fit the bill, as might the investor who subscribes to stock
research not generally available to the public.
   "The definition of insider is a problem," says Stephen
Cheong, a member of the Legislative Council, Hong Kong's
legislature. "It's so sweeping that, if abused, we could
become the laughing-stock of the financial world."
   His voice is but one among a growing chorus of concern
over the draft legislation. Not that the legislation sounds
much fuzzier than existing law. And like existing law, it
stops short of calling the practice a crime.
   But the draft bill does differ from current law in one
significant way. Whereas insider traders now face no
consequences other than embarrassment from official
disclosure of their misconduct, they would be subject to
fines and even banishment from corporate office under the
proposed ordinance.
   With such a threat looming, Hong Kong's financial
community is combing through the proposal. And objections are
being raised not just by habitual critics of market
regulation. The Hong Kong Stock Exchange, no pushover when it
comes to policing the market, sees flaws in the proposal as
well. In the process, what started as an assault on trading
malpractices has turned into a forum on the dangers of
regulatory overkill. And it has put the government on the
defensive.
   "I don't deny that there's a fashion out there for saying
that all is well and that there is no need for change," says
David Nendick, the government's secretary for monetary
affairs. "But I do not accept that there is too much
regulation. I would be failing in my duty if I sway with
public sentiment."
   Public opinion, indeed, seems to have taken an abrupt
turn. The global stock crash of October 1987 drew wide
attention to pitfalls in Hong Kong's hands-off regulatory
approach. Insider trading, though not part of the problem on
that occasion, has since been targeted by the government as
one of many malpractices that require tougher policing. But
the entire reform exercise appears to be facing stiff public
resistance as memory of the crash fades.
   The apparent vacillation underscores to some extent Hong
Kong's conflicting priorities. As regional rivalry for
investor attention grows, the colony is keen to move away
from its image as a financial center in which just about
anything goes. But given the territory's 1997 return to
China's rule, tough new laws inevitably invite concern that
they could be abused by future administrations. That makes
insider trading -- by consensus a widespread practice that
can't be tackled without tough new laws -- the focus of an
acute dilemma.
   "It's a very difficult subject," says Derek Murphy,
formerly Hong Kong's deputy securities commissioner and
currently an executive with First Pacific Co., a diversified
investment concern. "And with 1997, it becomes even more
important to get the legal niceties right."
   The burden for getting those niceties right falls for now
on Mr. Cheong, a businessman who heads the legislative
committee reviewing the draft. Given growing public concern,
he has asked the government to clarify several troublesome
clauses. As a result, the draft may not be cleared in time
for approval by the full legislature before it recesses in
July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management:
   Executives Who Dread Public Speaking
   Learn to Keep Their Cool in the Spotlight
   ----
   By Jolie Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   So the long-winded chief executive at this year's annual
meeting put you to sleep? You're lucky. For him, that speech
may have been sheer torture.
   In this garrulous, smooth-talking world, many executives
and professionals are afflicted with what specialists call
presentation phobia, or stage fright. A far cry from
butterflies in the stomach, it's sometimes severe enough to
slow careers to a stop.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fear can strike not only the chief executive facing a
hall of shareholders but also the manager asked to "say
something about yourself" at a staff meeting. Most are closet
sufferers who take great pains to hide their problem, and
often succeed.
   But as treatment becomes more effective and widely
available, more people are getting help. Clinics that sprang
up in the past decade to treat agoraphobia (fear of being in
open or public places) and other anxieties have refined the
diagnosis and treatment of public-speaking problems.
Companies now hire consultants to conduct speech training for
their managers, from the merely apprehensive to the secretly
petrified.
   "Of the full range of anxiety disorders," says Charles
Melville, an Atlanta psychiatrist, "people can most
predictably overcome a fear of public speaking."
   Training or treatment can range from practical tips --
speak and breathe slowly -- to medication. But it isn't
cheap: Consultants may charge close to $1,000 a person for
group counseling, and more for private assistance.
   There's a big audience. Speech phobia, the most disabling
version of these fears, affects up to 2% of Americans,
according to the National Institute of Mental Health. Bert
Decker of Decker Communications, a San Francisco consulting
firm, estimates that "roughly half the business" population
labors under milder forms of the anxiety and tries to avoid
speaking in public.
   But unlike people terrified of, say, flying or insects who
can often dodge the problem, many business people reach a
point where they can no longer run from the podium. "I can't
tell you how many executives have called and said they {had
to have help or} would have to give up their career," says
Roger Callahan, a therapist in Indian Wells, Calif.
   Miles Collier, managing partner of Collier Enterprises in
Naples, Fla., says he always kept his head down in school. "I
always worked on the theory, `Don't ask a question, or
volunteer, and you can still get A's.'" But his shaking knees
and churning stomach were real obstacles when his development
firm became tangled in local environmental conflicts. Four
years after Mr. Decker began teaching him to pace and hold
himself differently, Mr. Collier considers speaking to an
audience of 100 "a piece of cake" and appearing on television
bearable.
   Public-speaking fears can start any time -- when a child
is humiliated reciting in class, for example, or when a
critical presentation is the last straw for an executive
already under high stress. When the panic hits, the nervous
system unleashes a flood of chemicals in the adrenaline
family, creating an acute "fight or flight" state, just as if
the speaker were about to be mugged or run over.
   The person's thoughts become gripped by fears that others
will see the panic, making an impostor of the "competent,
capable professional," says Dr. Melville. Whether the speaker
stumbles off the dais, or -- much more common -- keeps his
fears masked, even one episode reinforces the anxiety -- and
likelihood -- that it will recur.
   As a result, executives often avoid any opportunities to
speak, even pushing others into the limelight instead.
Conversely, some appear to be the "eager beaver," says Tom
Harrison, a therapist at the Phobia Center of the Southwest
in Dallas, always jumping in first to get beyond the dreaded
event.
   Most treatment tries to short-circuit the cycle, first by
cutting through the stigma attached to such fears. Many
people feel more shame about the condition than if they "had
just killed a family member and buried them," says Burt
Rubin, a lawyer who has fought the phobia himself and runs
eight courses a year at Roundhouse Psychiatric Center in
Alexandria, Va. An attorney in his group remembers that "it
was helpful from the minute I walked in there and looked at
the other seven people {and thought}, `They look normal.'"
   Counselors try to make people realize that, despite their
symptoms, they, too, appear quite normal when speaking. As
Mr. Rubin repeats constantly: "Nobody else is hooked up to
the inside of your nervous system." A vital tool is the
videotape. Michele Felde, a marketing manager at Ingres
Corp., an Alameda, Calif., software firm, found it a
comforting surprise to watch herself on tape in a Decker
class. "I may feel nervous," she says, "but I don't look like
a bumbling fool; I'm not sweating up a storm" on tape.
   It takes repeated practice and feedback to make the
message stick. A college administrator in Mr. Rubin's group
tells of great anxiety over an impromptu presentation before
visiting dignitaries. Her talk, she says sheepishly, "wasn't
the most coherent {or} logical." Mr. Rubin immediately, but
gently, chastises her: "We can be sure that you were very
coherent and lucid, as you always are here."
   Indeed, the paradox is that those who suffer most usually
have the least to fear. They are successful for the same
reason they are anxious: fierce perfectionism. Mr. Harrison
tells clients, "The reality is, you wouldn't have this
problem if you'd just screw up more."
   Gina White, media relations coordinator for the National
Mental Health Association, says the most important thing she
learned in Mr. Rubin's group was "right before you get up {to
speak}, to mentally forgive yourself if you blow it. The
degree to which you don't forgive yourself is the degree to
which you {become anxious}."
   Such simple techniques can prove very powerful. One goal
is to get people to pull away from the emotions and symptoms
that flood them by focusing on the immediate moment. Mr.
Rubin, for example, coaches clients to concentrate on
fingering the wood grain of a lectern.
   Mr. Decker stresses the fundamentals of presentation: body
language, expression, putting a real smile on your face.
"Change the behavior," he says, "and the confidence will
follow." Still, some techniques are similar. Ms. Felde says
she was helped most in her Decker class by learning "the
pause": that "it's OK to take five to eight seconds to just
breathe and rest." Not everyone, she realized, is thinking,
"Oh, she forgot what she was going to say."
   Going to a group like Toastmasters, where people polish
their skills by speaking to each other, may be a lot cheaper.
Decker Communications charges $975 a person for a two-day
corporate course, and $3,500 for a day alone with Mr. Decker.
Mr. Rubin charges $750 a person for a 12-week course, or $85
for a private hour. But, while many counselors suggest going
to Toastmasters to practice good habits, most believe people
first need specialized techniques and support.
   Some therapists also use Inderal or other "beta blockers,"
which counter the flow of chemicals, allowing a client to get
through a "must" talk or work on techniques without being
overwhelmed physically. But others warn that the drugs can
create dependency, reinforcing people's fears that they can't
function.
   Whatever the treatment, anxieties rarely evaporate
completely. Even success stories, however, often remain as
hidden as the anxiety itself. "Clients don't want to think
their attorney has any doubts," says one prominent
Washington, D.C., lawyer, explaining why she won't give her
name despite her triumph over the problem. "There'd be utter
disbelief from the people who know me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Agency Seeks
   To Cut Costs, Weighs
   Consolidating Offices
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Office of Thrift Supervision is
considering scaling back its extensive bureaucracy, including
possibly paring down its regional presence to mirror that of
banking regulators.
   The agency said that one of its highest priorities under
its new director, Timothy Ryan, will be cutting costs. The
office is examining, among other possibilities, trimming its
12 regional offices to five, in the same six cities where the
Comptroller of the Currency has offices. The comptroller
regulates federally chartered banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pending legislation would combine the thrift and banking
regulators; the moves proposed yesterday could be a prelude
to such a merger.
   Not surprisingly, the thrift industry favors reducing its
regulatory costs. Banks and thrifts pay their regulators a
fee, based on their sizes, to cover the cost of examinations.
"The cost per institution, as opposed to the Comptroller's,
is extraordinarily high," said James Grohl of the U.S. League
of Savings Institutions. According to the trade group, the
S&amp;L regulatory costs are more than double that of banks.
   The trade group opposes combining the banking and thrift
regulatory apparatus, however.
   The thrift office also proposed a regulation yesterday to
ban the sale of debt securities in S&amp;L offices. The proposal
is primarily in reaction to sales of bonds issued by
Phoenix-based American Continental Corp. at its Lincoln
Savings &amp; Loan Association subsidiary. Some holders of $200
million in now-worthless debt have testified before Congress
that they believed they were buying insured certificates of
deposit at Lincoln, in Irvine, Calif.
   The agency is seeking public comment on the proposals and
expects to have a decision by mid-June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East German Market
   Open to All Members
   Of EC, Says Minister
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN -- Economics Minister Helmut Haussmann, trying to
ease fears among other European Community members, said
Thursday that all EC countries should have the same
opportunities as West Germany in developing the East German
market.
   Mr. Haussmann said Bonn is advising the East German
government to provide tax incentives not only to West German
companies wanting to do business there, but also to all
interested companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He pointed out that the planned German monetary and
economic union will open up great opportunities for foreign
industry. "From July onwards, every company that's active in
West Germany can also become active in East Germany," he
said.
   The freedom of competition in East Germany was a source of
concern expressed by some EC leaders at their Dublin summit
meeting Saturday.
   Mr. Haussmann said he had reached agreement with EC
officials that in the current first phase of German
unification, the EC wouldn't have any powers to veto or limit
aspects of continuing negotiations between the two countries.
   Regarding reconstruction of the East German economy, Mr.
Haussmann stressed the need to speed up plans to
denationalize the country's state-owned industries, but he
admitted that many details remain to be worked out. He said
privatization is essential to cope with a large number of
unemployed expected to result from the planned July 1
introduction of the Deutsche mark in East Germany.
   One problem in a large-scale privatization is the
impossibility to set an attractive price for key industrial
properties, because asset value is extremely limited. "And of
course, the earnings value of many big companies is small,"
said State Secretary Dieter von Wuerzen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Said
   To Seek Big Fine
   Against Drexel
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange is seeking to
impose a $25 million fine on Drexel Burnham Lambert, even
though the securities firm is liquidating itself, people
familiar with the proceedings said.
   The Big Board also has indicated that it may bring
separate disciplinary proceedings against Drexel Chief
Executive Frederick H. Joseph and other top officers of the
firm in connection with the securities fraud and other crimes
that Drexel and its former junk-bond chief, Michael Milken,
have already admitted to, the people said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among other charges, the exchange is considering
disciplining Mr. Joseph and other Drexel officials for
allegedly failing to properly supervise Mr. Milken and
others, the people said. Such proceedings can result in fines
and suspension from the Big Board.
   The Big Board has stepped up its investigation of Drexel
in recent weeks and has subpoenaed several individuals to
testify about wrongdoing by Drexel and Mr. Milken, according
to individuals familiar with the matter.
   Securities-industry experts said that a $25 million fine
would be the largest ever imposed on a securities firm by the
Big Board. In 1985, after E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. pleaded guilty to
felonies in a check-kiting scheme, it was fined $400,000 by
the exchange. If the Big Board does fine Drexel, it would
likely be the first time the exchange has ever fined a
securities firm that is in liquidation, as Drexel is.
   Drexel Burnham Lambert Group filed for bankruptcy-law
protection Feb. 13; its broker-dealer subsidiary, Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., is liquidating itself.
   While experts said that the Big Board has the right to
sanction Drexel, some questioned the exchange's timing in
doing so now. "It seems like they're beating a dead horse,"
said Alan Bromberg, who teaches securities law at Southern
Methodist University's law school. "I can't see any remedial
purpose to it. Nobody thinking about doing Drexel all over
again will be deterred by this particular fine."
   Harvey Pitt, a Washington securities lawyer, said that to
fine Drexel now would be akin to "locking the barn door after
the horses have already gotten out." He said, however, that
"The failure-to-supervise issue has been a significant
question" and one that may be more relevant because many of
Drexel's senior officials may remain in the securities
industry.
   The Big Board first privately brought disciplinary charges
against Drexel Burnham Lambert Group and its broker dealer
subsidiary last November; charges haven't been brought
against any of the firm's officials. Drexel is entitled to
fight those charges through a process that includes a
hearing.
   In a meeting late last year, Big Board officials said they
wished to fine Drexel $50 million, people familiar with the
matter said. But after Drexel's bankruptcy-law filing, Big
Board officials told the firm that the exchange would be
willing to accept half that amount.
   A Drexel spokesman issued the following statement
yesterday: "We understand the stock exchange's need to
project an image of being a strong self-regulator. However,
that should be balanced with a sense of fairness in
evaluating the company's and management's behavior. The
standard ought to be `Was Drexel's compliance as good, or
better, than other firms on the Street and were the systems
diligently used?' We believe they were.
   "Moreover, we now know the transgressions chiefly involved
verbal agreements that were not disclosed to the firm and
which no amount of diligence could have detected. It's clear
that there were things that went wrong, but the firm and its
shareholder-employees have already paid dearly for them. Any
further penalties would be added, unnecessary punishment for
creditors and shareholders and could be viewed simply as
piling on."
   The New York Stock Exchange declined to comment.
   Before its February bankruptcy-law filing, Drexel pleaded
guilty last year to six felony counts relating to
securities-law violations and agreed to pay $650 million in
fines and restitution. Drexel also signed a sweeping
settlement agreement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission that required a complete overhaul of the firm's
supervisory and compliance procedures.
   Mr. Milken also pleaded guilty last week to six separate
felony counts and agreed to pay $600 million in fines and
restitution. Mr. Milken also agreed to settle SEC civil
charges against him.
   The SEC hasn't brought any charges or administrative
proceedings against Mr. Joseph or other senior Drexel
officials. Mr. Joseph wasn't implicated in the criminal case
against Drexel and Mr. Milken.
   At the time Drexel settled with the SEC last year, some
critics of the settlement pact said they believed Mr. Joseph
should have been sanctioned by the SEC, as many of the crimes
Drexel pleaded guilty to occurred on his watch. But Mr.
Joseph has argued that Drexel had some of the best compliance
procedures in the securities industry, and that all the
crimes committed were so well hidden that they would have
been impossible to detect.
   The Big Board has already scheduled a hearing in
connection with its disciplinary charges against Drexel,
people familiar with the matter said. If the exchange's board
of directors approves sanctions against Drexel, the firm
could appeal to a federal court in Manhattan. If the exchange
files charges against Mr. Joseph and others, they would also
be entitled to a Big Board hearing and could later appeal any
sanction to a federal court.
   If a Drexel fine is upheld, the Big Board could become yet
another unsecured creditor, bankruptcy lawyers say. While
Drexel shareholders aren't expected to receive much money --
if anything -- for their holdings, the firm's outside
creditors are expected to collect most of what is owed them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Owls &amp; Old Forests vs. Timber &amp; Jobs
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 9 editorial "Owls Are People, Too" arrived at
exactly the wrong conclusion about the effectiveness of our
political system. It is functioning exactly as it was
intended to. The people have had it with extinction.
Extinction of the Carolina parakeet, extinction of the condor
in the wild, extinction of the ivory-billed woodpecker, the
passenger pigeon. So they got their act together and took a
leaf from industry's, labor's and agriculture's book and
formed a pressure group of their own. We are a government by
pressure groups.
   Pat Ware
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Naples, Fla.
   ---
   You lament the potential loss of 9,000 to 60,000 logging
jobs. If it were not for the Forest Service's giveaway of
timber assets owned by all of the American people, many of
these jobs wouldn't have existed to begin with. This welfare
program, conducted under the guise of timber leasing, results
in the demeaning of the value of timber owned by individuals
and corporations. Here in the East, despite an abundance of
quality timber, builders still use lower-quality timber from
the Northwest because of its subsidized, cheap price.
   Frank A. Wickes Jr.
   Red Lion, Pa.
   ---
   The Forest Service routinely runs deficits of about a
billion dollars a year in its timber operations. So you and
I, the taxpayers, are subsidizing the destruction of our
national forests.
   Jason R. Plater
   Winter Park, Fla.
   ---
   Every logger and timber-industry dependent is an
environmentalist. The ground they work is their livelihood.
Most of these people are avid outdoorsmen, caring for their
surroundings. We need the forest-products industry. The U.S.
is dependent upon this industry for products ranging from
framing lumber to tissue paper, computer paper to cleaning
solvents. The products derived from timber make our world a
better place. We need a constant supply of timber.
   Chris Blythe
   Eugene, Ore.
   ---
   I have hiked these forests more than 50 years and there
has never been so much of the state treeless. Now we have
areas that require an advance reservation to take an
overnight hike. And you can't get a reservation. There are
other jobs at stake. The outdoor equipment and sports
companies generate jobs. The "multiple-use" policy of the
Forest Service is a single-use policy when the forest is
given to logging.
   David C. Hutchinson
   Redmond, Wash.
   ---
   The lumber industry in the Pacific Northwest is the major
supplier of high-quality construction lumber for most of the
U.S., and a major supplier to the entire Pacific Rim.
Wood-products sales from here are a major favorable item in
the balance of trade. Virtually everyone involved in the
forest-products industry is very concerned with the state of
our forests, and the wildlife it supports.
   In Oregon at least, there are now many more new trees
planted each year than are cut; there is more board footage
of new timber growing than is cut.
   Everyone here and everywhere knows the cutting of a
magnificent, 80-year-old tree is very sad. The planting of a
new seedling in its place seems inadequate next to the huge
stump. People who live in and around the woods are more
sensitive to this than those who look at the photos in a
slick fund-raising brochure.
   The people who live here are the loggers, and forest road
builders and sawmill workers and truckers and grocers and
doctors and lawyers and longshoremen, but we are also the
most prolific of pleasure users of the forests. You can bet
that those who work here would be blocking the roads and
joining hands to save the trees if they were being cut merely
to clear land. You should hear the negative local comments
when some "Easterner" moves in and cuts down a big tree in
his yard merely to enhance his view of the ocean.
   Bril Nokes
   Brookings, Ore.
   ---
   Even if we locked up enormous areas to protect the owl, we
would eventually fail. We cannot convert a natural system
into a museum where nothing changes. All the nature shows on
TV and the news photos of Hurricane Hugo and Mount St. Helens
hammer home the lesson that, in all environments, change is
constant and inexorable. The habitats that are now thought to
be favorable to the owl will sooner or later become
unfavorable.
   James M. Vardaman
   Jackson, Miss.
   ---
   If it is so important for Rep. Jim Jontz and other
environmentalists to protect the habitat of the spotted owl
then I suggest the citizens of Indiana and other states share
in the cost that the citizens of Oregon now bear alone.
(After all, the Indiana corn growers are paid through
farm-support programs.) It seems only fair that the whole
nation shares the cost of relocation of families, job
training and welfare that will be caused by this act.
   Dennis V. Moar
   Portland, Ore.
   ---
   We share the planet with animals but not as one of them.
Yes, the environment must be managed, but the needs of people
on a one-to-one basis must be considered above the rights of
seeing a particular species in abundance. People cannot be
herded into territories by the needs of animals and put on
the public dole because of an owl species.
   Unless saneness replaces scientific fanaticism all sense
of respect will be lost to the environmentalists.
   M. Elena Gerard
   Hamden, Conn.
   ---
   Your editorial about the spotted owl further exacerbates
the tension between those who do and those who do not want to
save some of our little remaining old forests. It is
unfortunate that it had to become a legal question of saving
owls, when the more important issue is to deter the lumber
industry from completely ravaging the balance of America's
old forests. It's wrong to continue the last cutting of our
200-year-old monarchs, either with or without the inhabiting
owls.
   Stuart Lane
   Austin, Minn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   If Banks Turn Surly
   Ask It for Collateral
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your March 22 page-one article about banks getting tough
with their small-business customers is ironic ("Credit
Crunch: As Banks Get Tough With Borrowers, Fears of a
Recession Rise").
   Now that the highfliers have gone bad, the banks clamp
down on the little guy -- the solid citizens of American
Business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Is the small-business man the "bread and butter" of the
banks? Only when it comes to deposits and monthly bank
charges. Perhaps small-business men should consider imitating
the highfliers of land development. Free gold at a new
resort? Free membership at our health spa?
   I think the next time any small-business man makes a
banking decision, he had best ask the bank for the same
information it wants from him. How good is your collateral,
Mr. Banker? Would you give me a personal guarantee on any
losses in my account, Mr. Banker? Deposits are a loan. Let
the lender beware.
   James T. Gleeson
   President
   Southeastern Fibers Inc.
   Tucker, Ga.
   ---
   The current credit crunch illustrates a fact that neither
lenders nor borrowers like to admit: The longer you are with
a lender, the more vulnerable you are to having your credit
terminated.
   That's because eventually every lender's credit policy
will change, and any tightening always hurts small and
midsize companies the most. Meanwhile, you've lost touch with
other lenders and let your loan-presentation skills become
rusty.
   We urge middle-market companies to maintain contact with
several lenders -- do business with more than one, if
possible. And just because you've been with the same lender
for 10 or 20 years, don't think you're secure.
   Russell Hindin
   Managing Director
   Hindin/Owen/Engelke Inc.
   Los Angeles
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill Lynch Unit,
   Goldome to Sell 21%
   Stake in Leslie Fay
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   LES GDM MER BSC Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Leslie Fay Co. said its largest shareholder,
Goldome Savings Bank, and a Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. unit plan to
sell a 21% stake in Leslie Fay shares, with a current market
value of $45.9 million.
   In a registration statement filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the women's apparel maker said the
holders plan to sell 4,125,000 of their 19.1 million common
shares outstanding. The prospectus said that Goldome, and its
related Goldome Foundation, plan to sell a total of 3.5
million of the four million Leslie Fay shares they own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Leslie Fay spokesman said that it filed the statement
because Goldome approached the company about selling the
shares it owns. According to the spokesman, Goldome became a
limited partner in a New Jersey partnership that in 1984 took
Leslie Fay private in a leveraged buy-out. In 1986, when
Leslie Fay went public again, the partnership interest was
exchanged for Leslie Fay shares.
   Goldome, Buffalo, N.Y., declined to comment. The thrift
has been taking a number of actions to improve the company's
capital position in order to meet minimum capital
requirements as it focuses on consumer banking.
   According to the filing, Merrill Lynch Interfunding Inc.
plans to sell 655,435 of the 1.44 million Leslie Fay shares
it owns. Merrill Lynch didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.
   Leslie Fay shares closed yesterday in composite trading on
the New York Stock Exchange at $11.125, down 25 cents.
   The selling shareholders have granted the underwriters of
the offering -- Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and First Boston Corp. --
the right to purchase up to an additional 595,150 shares to
cover over-allotments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Production Plans
   Of U.S. Auto Makers
   Fell 10.7% This Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC J.MZD NSANY TOYOY GM F C J.MOT SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The ten major U.S. auto makers planned to build
136,600 cars this week, down 10.7% from 153,030 a year ago.
   Domestic car makers said all of their facilities are
scheduled to operate next week, with several plants working
overtime.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Motors Corp. said it planned daily and weekend
overtime at its assembly plants in Wixom, Orion and
Hamtramck, Mich., Janesville, Wis., and Lordstown, Ohio.
   Ford Motor Co. has scheduled daily and weekend overtime at
its Lorain, Ohio; Twin Cities, Minn.; St. Louis, Mo.; and
Louisville, Ky., assembly plants.
   But Mazda Motor Corp. said it reduced its production
schedule for June and July by 1,300 cars. Mazda made the
adjustment because of an identical drop in orders for Probe
cars, which it builds for Ford at Mazda's assembly plant in
Flat Rock, Mich.
   In April, the ten major U.S. auto makers built 828,430
cars and trucks, down 16.9% from 997,926 the same month a
year ago.
   U.S. car output dropped 21.2% in April and truck and bus
production was down 9.3% compared to the year-earlier month.
   ---
              This   Last   Yr. Ago   -Yr. to Date-      %
             Week-e  Week-r   Week  1990        1989    Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM          65,000  58,538 71,426  862,989 1,270,195   - 32
 Ford        31,119  35,856 38,258  506,069   687,903   - 26
 Chrysler    15,800  16,346 21,312  213,435   361,953   - 41
 Honda        8,950   8,810  7,684  154,597   138,323   + 12
 Nissan       1,580   1,571  2,283   37,728    40,318   -  6
 Nummi-f      4,200   5,110  4,262   72,283    70,554   +  2
 Mazda        2,129   3,644  4,425   64,631    86,038   - 25
 Diam.Star    2,945   2,853  1,186   49,211    15,266   +222
 Toyota       4,428   4,412  2,194   77,955    27,945   +179
 Suba-Isuz      449     422    0      6,633      0       d
 TOTAL      136,600 137,562 153,030 2,045,531 2,698,495 - 24
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
   ---
                   AUTO PRODUCTION MONTHLY
                                                                                                       

                        Apr       Apr      4 Mos.     4 Mos.
 U.S. Output            1990      1989      1990       1989
                                                                                                       

 GENERAL MOTORS
   Cars .........    233,819   312,369   851,570  1,196,027
   Trucks-buses..    133,015   134,084   499,135    575,830
   Total ........    366,834   446,453 1,350,705  1,771,857
                                                                                                       

 FORD MOTOR
   Cars .........    122,522   160,202   480,854    646,645
   Trucks-buses .    123,304   141,113   449,716    579,558
   Total ........    245,826   301,315   930,570  1,226,203
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER CORP.
   Cars .........     48,013    86,972   206,049    340,641
   Trucks .......     47,166    65,833   199,347    254,863
   Total ........     95,179   152,805   405,396    595,504
                                                                                                       

 HONDA
   Cars .........     35,210    30,633   147,370    130,549
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN
   Cars .........      6,380     8,479    36,470     38,036
   Trucks .......     12,543     9,330    51,327     44,359
   Total ........     18,923    17,809    87,797     82,395
                                                                                                       

 NUMMI-f
   Cars .........     16,660    16,202    50,065     65,886
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA-a
   Cars .........     18,469     7,843    74,359     32,883
                                                                                                       

 MAZDA
   Cars .........     14,206    20,112    61,689     81,613
                                                                                                       

 DIAMOND STAR
   Cars .........     13,497     4,754    35,742     14,108
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU-ISUZU
   Cars .........      1,784        0      6,268        0
   Trucks .......      1,842        0      6,527        0
   Total ........      3,626        0     12,795        0
                                                                                                       

 INDUSTRY
   Cars .........    510,560   647,566 1,950,436  2,546,388
   Trucks-buses-x    317,870   350,360 1,206,052  1,454,610
   Total .........   828,430   997,926 3,156,488  4,000,998
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes Toyota Camry cars only. f-Includes Chevrolet
Prizm and Toyota Corolla. x-Includes only buses and trucks
built by auto makers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Icahn Said to Threaten
   Transfer of TWA's
   Domestic Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA AWAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNT KISKO, N.Y. -- Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl
Icahn is threatening to transfer many of the carrier's
domestic operations to America West Airlines unless the
pilots union makes concessions, officials at the pilots union
said.
   In a Tuesday meeting, first reported in the St. Louis
Post-Dispatch, Mr. Icahn and officials of the TWA pilots and
machinists unions met with America West President Mike Conway
at Mr. Icahn's offices here to discuss the action, the union
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   America West is a small Phoenix-based airline that is
mostly nonunion. It wasn't clear what if anything America
West would pay for TWA's operations.
   It's also uncertain how serious Mr. Icahn is about the
move. The pilots and Mr. Icahn have been feuding over wage
concessions for months. He has been threatening to trim the
airline if the pilots don't accept $80 million in
concessions. He has already sold several planes. After the
Tuesday meeting, however, union officials continued to rebuff
Mr. Icahn.
   Officials at America West and TWA's machinists union
weren't available for comment. Mr. Icahn didn't return calls
to his home.
   Pilots union officials said they were presented with a
plan for America West to assume TWA's St. Louis hub of
operations. Union officials said details were sketchy.
   TWA relies primarily on its international operations and
has struggled for several years to establish a strong
domestic system that could feed overseas routes. Pilots union
officials told members that Mr. Icahn said he plans to sell
the airline's international routes after America West assumes
control of the domestic operations.
   Although Mr. Icahn has alluded to such a proposal in
recent weeks, this was said to be the first time he formally
presented it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900504-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900504-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/03/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   FG WSTNA PHSY CGNX FLM AAL VLID CBU ZNT SO NREC HAL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  USF&amp;G Corp            $ .50  $ .45 (4)  $ .45  (8)   11.11
  Roy F Weston Inc        .05    ...        .03  (3)   66.67
  Pacificare Health       .33    ...        .27  (8)   22.22
  Cognex Corp             .32    ...        .28  (3)   14.29
  Fleming Cos Inc         .90    ...        .84  (5)    7.14
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Alex &amp; Alex Svc       $ .13  $ .29 (3) $  .33  (6)   55.17
  Valid Logic System     (.21)   ...        .09  (5)    ...
  Commodore Intl          .01    ...        .20  (4)   95.00
  Zenith Natl Insur       .35    ...        .61  (3)   42.62
  Southern Co             .36    ...        .58  (5)   37.93
  NAC Re Corp             .40    ...        .61  (3)   34.43
  Halliburton Co          .34    ...        .36  (8)    5.56
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
