<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CRSS Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CRX
</CO>
<LP>
   CRSS Inc. (Houston) -- Richard L. Daerr, recently
appointed president and chief operating officer of this
design and construction services concern, was elected a
director, expanding board membership to 11.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coffee, Sugar &amp; Cocoa Exchange
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A membership on the Coffee, Sugar &amp; Cocoa
Exchange was sold for $81,000, up from $80,000 paid Friday,
but down from $125,000 on Aug. 1, 1989. Seats are currently
quoted at $81,000, bid, and $85,000, asked, an exchange
spokeswoman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Real Estate:
   Theme Parks Boom in Japan as Investors
   And Consumers Rush to Get on the Ride
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.NIP MCA J.GAK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   KITAKYUSHU CITY, Japan -- At the foot of a glitzy space
dome, attendants in gold-colored suits hawk tickets for a
cruise through a black hole. Lunar creatures flap their wings
outside a rumbling space ship. The only reminder that this
gleaming fantasy land is on Earth is the rusting hulk of a
blast furnace atop a nearby hill.
   Welcome to Space World, a 30 billion yen ($200 million)
attempt by giant Nippon Steel Corp. to revitalize the
declining industrial district in this smokestack city 500
miles southeast of Tokyo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It was a big decision for us to move into the leisure
industry," says Tsutomu Koike, president of Space World Inc.,
a subsidiary of Nippon Steel. His shift two years ago from a
job managing the company's steel operations to running the
theme park was like "an encounter with the unknown," he
jokes. Today, the former steel center has roller coasters,
space training camps for children and a pair of goggle-eyed
mascots, Lucky and Vicky Rabbit. In the year ending next
April, the company hopes to lure two million visitors to this
rundown factory town.
   Nippon Steel is in the vanguard of a movement shaking up
industrial Japan. Thanks to corporate diversification and
consumers' increasing craving for leisure activities, at
least nine parks are opening in Japan this year, and as many
as 100 more are on the drawing board. Analysts expect
receipts from Japan's amusement-park industry, which this
year will total about 360 billion yen, to double in the next
several years.
   Trading houses, railroad companies and even stodgy
shipbuilders are striving to create their own theme parks.
Old-line companies looking for new businesses "are all
attracted to the leisure industry," says Yuji Nemoto, who
studies theme parks for the Japan Development Bank. "They
have the land, the people and the resources to spare."
   Everyone's dream is to enjoy the enormous success of Tokyo
Disneyland, the country's first large theme park. Since it
was built seven years ago, the Japanese home of Snow White
and Mickey Mouse has been mobbed. Nearly 15 million people
visited the park in the year ended March 31, boosting sales
by 12% from a year ago to 133 billion yen.
   Straining for good ideas, many Japanese companies are
tapping American theme park operators and consultants,
providing a lucrative market for the U.S. entertainment
industry. Risk-averse companies are looking to import
ready-made U.S. successes. A Japanese version of Sesame
Place, a children's park with Sesame Street characters, is to
open this fall. Another possibility is an import of MCA
Inc.'s Universal Studios. Others are paying such American
planners as Sequoia Creative Inc. and Ride &amp; Show Engineering
Inc. to come up with ideas including coal mine tours and boat
rides complete with pirate attacks.
   With all the added competition, some parks surely won't
make it. "After natural selection, the question is which ones
will survive," says Mr. Nemoto.
   Simply setting a theme for the parks isn't enough to
attract a crowd, says Kenji Sugiura, general manager of the
business department at Ride &amp; Show's Japanese joint venture
operation. "They have to provide an out-of-the-ordinary
experience."
   As novice Japanese entrepreneurs reach the construction
stages for their proposed theme parks, more may turn to U.S.
entertainment companies, Mr. Sugiura says. Using its
knowledge from planning projects for Disneyland and Universal
Studios, the company hopes to have sales of 40 billion yen
within the next few years.
   The rush to create new parks has led to some far-fetched
ideas for attractions, such as a Mongolian tent village and
an indoor wind-surfing pool. Madarao Bi-Lingual Land, a theme
park planned to open in two years by English-school chain
BiLingual Co., will welcome guests by sending them through a
mock customs and immigration department. The 9.5 billion-yen
park will have an old European flavor, with a lilac-colored
castle by a lake, and the Japanese waiters and hotel
receptionists will speak to visitors only in English.
   So eager are companies to participate in the boom that
some are setting up temporary parks for the summer. Gakken
Co., a publishing company, in a project with other Japanese
companies, rented a convention hall outside Tokyo and set up
a dinosaur-theme attraction. Among the displays are the
bones, borrowed from a Canadian museum, of 21 dinosaurs, as
well as six samples of fossilized droppings. The attraction
will close in early September.
   With so many plans cropping up at once, though, there is
some replication: two Spanish villas and a pair of
Scandinavian towns soon will be built. Four northern Japanese
towns squabbled over rights to build a Santa Land in Japan,
crushing plans by two of the contenders.
   Some of the parks may have a way to go to satisfy Japanese
consumers, many of whom are used to Disneyland's thoroughly
planned extravaganza. Some visitors wonder if Space World's
monotonous silver buildings and drawings of space objects on
the walls can persuade customers to make a second trip. And
the metal buildings reflected so much heat that visitors
demanded water fountains around the park.
   "The place is rather cheap-looking," says Toshiaki Fujii,
a disappointed 41-year-old who runs a 7-Eleven convenience
store in a nearby city. "If there were real space ships and
space shuttles, or even something close, it would have been
another thing."
   "I thought this would be a bit bigger," says Akihiro
Yanagida, a 31-year-old security guard from nearby Fukuoka,
looking up at the 58-meter replica of the space shuttle
Discovery. Even after learning that the full-sized model
blasts fire three times a day for show, Mr. Yanagida still
isn't impressed.
   For congested Japan, at least, transportation won't be a
problem for some visitors at the Narita Japan Village. The
park, to be built next to the international airport outside
Tokyo, will allow tourists to take a tour of "Japan" without
even having to take the two-hour bus ride into Tokyo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   St. Paul Cos.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS STPL
</CO>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL Cos. (St. Paul, Minn.) -- Ian A. Martin, a
director of Grand Metropolitan PLC and head of its U.S.
operations, and Lawrence E. Honig, vice chairman of May
Department Stores Co., were named directors of this insurance
company, filling vacancies on the 15-member board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ITT Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ITT
</CO>
<LP>
   ITT Corp. (New York) -- Dale Comey, executive vice
president, has been given responsibility for two additional
major business areas, ITT Electronic Components and ITT Fluid
Technology. With the new responsibilities, Mr. Comey will
have four of ITT's nine operating businesses reporting to
him.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials End Down 5.70 Points
   As Prices Swing Widely in Trading
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market, which had been in retreat
since Iraq invaded Kuwait last week, put the brakes on its
slide by finishing mixed in heavy trading.
   But prices moved sharply in both directions as market
players reacted to the day's flow of news reports and
speculation about the situation in the Middle East. News
reports of the impending U.S. troop deployment in Saudi
Arabia caused wide price fluctuations in the closing minutes
of trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It doesn't take much to shake the market up in here,"
said Jeffrey Kaminsky, head of block trading at Mabon, Nugent
&amp; Co. He added that stocks appear headed for "treacherous
waters" until the situation is clarified.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which swung within a
range of about 65 points, fell 5.70 to 2710.64. The average
would have been little changed if not for declines in its
five oil-related stocks, which were among the energy issues
hit with profit-taking after surging in the wake of the Iraqi
invasion.
   Broader measures posted slight gains, as Standard &amp; Poor's
500-Stock Index rose 0.40 to 334.83, the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index added 0.13 to 183.45 and the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index rose 0.47 to 310.08.
   Declining issues outnumbered advancers by 845 to 740 on
the Big Board, where trading was brisk for the fourth
straight session. Volume totaled 231,580,000 shares; on
Monday, 240,400,000 changed hands.
   Prices peaked just after the opening as market players
reacted favorably to reports that foreigners in Iraq and
Kuwait might be permitted to leave. The Dow industrials
climbed about 35 points within the first 15 minutes of
trading.
   The market gradually gave back its gains throughout the
morning and then fell to session lows at midafternoon amid a
round of selling sparked by rumors of a report that Iraqi
troops had moved into Saudi Arabia.
   After those rumors weren't confirmed by employees of
British Broadcasting Corp., said to be the source of the
report, stocks bounced back from their slide.
   Despite the market's gyrations, there was "consistent
selling throughout the day" and money flowed out of the
market after its early rise, said Edward P. Nicoski, managing
director of technical analysis at Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood,
Minneapolis.
   "It just seems premature to signal a bottom here yet," Mr.
Nicoski said. The industrial average has lost a total of
188.62 points, or 6.5%, in the four sessions since Iraqi
troops entered Kuwait early Thursday, sending oil prices
soaring.
   Although crude-oil prices continued to climb, oil stocks
generally didn't. Among the five oil-related issues in the
30-stock average, Texaco fell 3/8 to 64 5/8, Exxon dropped
1/4 to 53 3/8, Chevron lost 3/4 to 78 5/8, USX slipped 5/8 to
33 7/8 and Du Pont fell 1/8 to 39 3/8.
   One pair of dividend-related trades by institutions
boosted volume in Texaco, the most active Big Board issue.
The trades, designed to capture the company's next quarterly
dividend, accounted for 10 million of the 11.4 million shares
to change hands in composite trading.
   Elsewhere in the energy sector, Mobil went down 1/2 to 67
1/2, Amoco dipped 1/4 to 57 5/8, Phillips Petroleum dropped
1/2 to 30 1/2, Baker Hughes slipped 1/4 to 32 7/8,
Schlumberger fell 5/8 to 66 3/8 and Dresser Industries went
down 5/8 to 52 3/8.
   Recession worries, fueled by higher oil prices, spurred
selling in such sectors as autos and retailing, which tend to
be sensitive to the economy's twists and turns.
   General Motors lost 1 3/8 to 40 1/8 on 2.6 million shares
and Ford Motor dropped 3/8 to 38. Among major retailers,
Sears Roebuck fell 1 to 30, Woolworth dropped 5/8 to 27 3/8
and Dayton Hudson fell 2 to 62 1/2.
   Investors gravitated to recession-resistant consumer
stocks. Philip Morris rose 1 1/4 to 45 1/4 on 2.9 million
shares, Coca-Cola added 7/8 to 42 3/8, Procter &amp; Gamble rose
1 5/8 to 77 1/4, Gillette gained 1 5/8 to 57 5/8, Pfizer
advanced 2 1/4 to 70 3/4 and Bristol-Myers Squibb rose 1 5/8
to 60 1/8.
   Alcan Aluminium, second to Texaco on the NYSE's most
actives list, finished unchanged at 22 1/2 on volume of four
million shares. Dividend-capture trades also boosted volume
in Alcan, which, like Texaco, carries a dividend yield of
about 5% and is due to make a payout shortly.
   Precious-metals stocks, which rose along with oils
following the Iraqi invasion, ended mixed as the price of
gold stabilized.
   Battle Mountain Gold added 1/4 to 12 3/8, Hecla Mining
ended unchanged at 12, Homestake Mining rose 1/4 to 21 and
Placer Dome gained 1/8 to 17 1/2.
   Chemical Banking set the pace for an upturn among
money-center bank issues by climbing 1 1/8 to 22 1/2. In
reiterating an "attractive" rating on the stock, PaineWebber
noted that a sustained rise in oil prices may bring further
improvement in the performance of Chemical's Texas Commerce
Bancshares subsidiary, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   Elsewhere in the sector, Citicorp gained 1/4 to 18 3/4 on
1.9 million shares, Chase Manhattan gained 1/2 to 17 7/8,
Manufacturers Hanover rose 1/8 to 28 3/8, Bankers Trust New
York added 1/2 to 35 1/2 and First Chicago rose 1 to 24 1/2.
   Eldon Industries gained 3/4 to 19 7/8 after Rubbermaid
agreed to acquire the company through an exchange of stock
with an estimated value of $186.5 million to $216.7 million.
Rubbermaid dropped 1 7/8 to 35.
   Northern States Power tumbled 2 5/8 to 31 3/4. Minnesota
regulators rejected the company's request for a $120.8
million rate increase.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.43
to 339.84. Volume totaled 19,410,000.
   Activity in put warrants on foreign stock indices, which
rise in value as those indices decline, dominated trading.
The warrants fell across the board, reflecting expectations
that overseas markets would rebound from their oil-related
setbacks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Firms Fret as Tempers Boil, Prices Jump
   ---
   Debates Increase
   On Capitol Hill
   And at Pumps
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tensions continued on the home front of the Mideast
crisis, as people hurled accusations about rising gasoline
prices -- using forums on Capitol Hill and at pumps from
coast to coast.
   As House and Senate panels held three separate hearings,
irate New England customers demanded that station owners
produce gas invoices, Los Angeles drivers filled-up more
often and a would-be Dallas vacationer feared she would have
to cut back travel plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A gallon of unleaded self-service regular gas averaged
$1.20 yesterday, up about 13 cents since last Wednesday, said
the American Automobile Association.
   "The U.S. should declare war on Iraq, and the 200 senators
and representatives of the House of the state of
Massachusetts should be sent to the front line," said Bryan
Horshowowsky, a Revere, Mass., Ford car salesman, about the
gas-price boosts. "Everybody wants more money and who's
paying? We, the helpless consumer."
   In response to such outbursts, some of the same witnesses
from the Energy Department, the oil industry and think tanks
moved from one hearing to another on Capitol Hill.
   Lawmakers peppered oil executives with questions about the
workings of the oil and gasoline markets, pausing only
momentarily -- if at all -- for answers. Rep. Edward Markey
(D., Mass.) said: "If the loss of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil on
the world market leads to a price increase, then we will all
understand that the laws of supply and demand are still
working. But when the retail prices start increasing less
than 24 hours after the Iraqis invaded Kuwait, then we know
that the laws of war profiteering are at work."
   Still, there was no call in Congress to reinstitute the
federal oil and gas price controls imposed during the energy
crises of the 1970s.
   Oil-industry representatives and some private economists
labored to explain the intricacies of the oil markets to
members of Congress. Their explanations for the price rises,
in general, were these:
   Oil is priced when it is delivered to the refinery, not
when contracted for. Glenn Tilton, president of Texaco Inc.'s
Texaco Refining &amp; Marketing Inc., said that "oil shipped
several weeks ago arrives today and is paid at today's market
prices" no matter what the price was when the contract was
signed.
   Also, the industry representatives said, oil companies
haven't raised wholesale gasoline prices as much as crude oil
prices have risen. And gasoline prices rapidly reflect the
prices set in the New York Mercantile Exchange and other
commodity markets, both cash and futures.
   A service-station owner complained of being "trapped in
the middle" between angry consumers and prices that soar in a
matter of a few hours.
   Meanwhile, a number of lawmakers, as well as
representatives of some consumer groups, called on President
Bush to pressure the oil industry to roll back price
increases, urged the selling of oil in the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to hold down prices, called for an
investigation into the oil-futures market and its role in
setting oil prices, and said Congress should pass laws
requiring higher fuel-economy standards for autos.
   Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said a "massive paper
chase" had begun to discover if there was any collusion
involved in the price increases. In a meeting with reporters,
the attorney general said, "There are allegations of
wrongdoing that will be pursued."
   The voices at gas stations may have lacked a boost from
Washington's echoing corridors, but they were loud enough.
   "I just can't stand the thought of someone taking
advantage of me," said Irene Soltau, a Plymouth, Mass.,
resident who works as a federal court secretary. "I'm ready
to do anything, even walk 20 miles to work, to fight back."
She now drives to a subway station outside Boston and rides
the train the rest of the way to her downtown office in
Boston.
   Prices in Massachusetts have risen an average of 11 cents
a gallon since June 25, according to a survey by the state's
Commissioner of Energy Resources. Of that, about seven cents
is from last month's gasoline-tax increase ordered by the
financially strapped state.
   In Providence, R.I., Shell station manager Victor Realejo
said wholesale increases of three cents a gallon Friday night
and five cents Saturday morning were passed on and quickly
brought out customer hostilities in the affluent suburb.
   "About 75 percent of the people who come in complain,"
Realejo said. "I had to show them my gas invoices for them to
believe it."
   Tooran Montazeri, a 47-year-old registered nurse from West
Los Angeles, said she has also been shopping for cheaper
prices and filling up more often. "I can't drive any less
than I do unless I get another job," she said while filling
her tank at a busy Chevron station in West Los Angeles.
   A native of Iran who has lived in the U.S. for more than
20 years, Ms. Montazeri said she is "very, very worried about
war" in the Middle East and wouldn't be surprised if there
were gasoline shortages here soon. "I fear the worst from
Iraq."
   But others took the increases in stride. Of the dozen or
so patrons interviewed at two Dallas gas stations, three said
they weren't aware of gas-price boosts and the rest said they
weren't changing their buying habits regardless of increases.
   Shell station manager Dawn Bailey said most of her
customers are continuing to fill their tanks as normal. But
she might have to change vacation plans. "I'm driving north
in two weeks, and I had my gas mileage all figured so I'd
know what my budget would be," she said. "I was counting on
$1.15 a gallon all the way to Minnesota. Now, I don't know
what it will be. It's going to make a difference in how long
I can afford to stay up there."
   One Dallas patron was even happy about the prices. "I'm
glad they're going up," said Bob Sandifer, owner of a small
food processing company. "It's good for the economy here."
   (See related story: "PR Challenge Being Fumbled, Experts
Claim" -- WSJ Aug. 8, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises on Fears of Military Clash
   In Mideast and Slowing Oil Price Boosts
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar rose against all major currencies
on profit-taking, fears of a new military clash in the Middle
East and slowing price increases in the oil markets.
   Foreign exchange traders gingerly consolidated earlier
price movements, lifting the dollar across the board and
aiding the yen against Continental European currencies.
Dealings were kept edgy by the tense situation in the
Mideast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has been considered a mixed
blessing for the dollar, but everything worked in the
currency's favor yesterday. Fears that a military clash would
send the world's safe-haven currency soaring ensured the
dollar was never wanting for buyers.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
1.5875 marks, up from 1.5765 marks late Monday in New York.
The U.S. currency was also changing hands at 150.95 yen,
above 150.32 yen in New York late Monday. Sterling was
trading at $1.8720, marginally below $1.8725 late Monday.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was trading soon after the
opening at 150.27 yen, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of
150.60 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at
1.5880 marks; in Tokyo Tuesday, it closed at 1.5767 marks.
   Also lending support for the dollar was a deceleration in
the rise of crude oil prices. Until news reports hit the
market late in the New York session that U.S. troops were
moving into Saudi Arabia, profit-taking by commodity traders
had encouraged currency dealers to chalk up some gains of
their own from the dollar's decline Monday.
   The prospect that higher oil prices would pitch the U.S.
into recession had been the dark side of Iraqi adventurism
for the dollar. But by the end of trading yesterday, the
September benchmark crude oil contract was up only 26 cents a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $28.31 a
barrel.
   That helped slow declines in New York stock prices, which
ended mixed. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down
5.70 points to 2710.64.
   Dollar dealers have tried to be especially nimble recently
and were ready to cast aside economic considerations at a
moment's notice.
   The dollar hit its peaks yesterday of 1.5870 marks and
1.3365 Swiss francs when rumors whirled through the market
that British Broadcasting Corp. reported Iraqi troops had
crossed into Saudi Arabia. The BBC denied making such a
report.
   Near the end of trading, news reports that U.S. troops
were moving into Saudi Arabia pushed the dollar near its
intraday peak of 151.10 yen reached much earlier at the
opening of Asian trading. Initially, the White House wouldn't
comment on any troop movements, but after the close of New
York trading, U.S. Defense Department sources confirmed it.
   Earlier, a U.S. State Department comment that Iraq was
improving its troop readiness along the Saudi border gave the
dollar a similar boost.
   "One moment everything seems like it's getting better. The
next moment it looks like it's blowing up," said Marc Cohen,
a New York vice president for corporate foreign exchange with
Fuji Bank. "There isn't a lot of strategic thinking going on.
Everyone is sort of trading on air. You take a position and
then hope that everyone will react right way to the next
headline."
   "I'm not really looking at currency rates," said Donald
Hubbard, a New York treasury officer with the U.K.'s Midland
Bank. "I'm just looking at the price of oil and the news
headlines."
   Mr. Hubbard said the Iraqi invasion has made the market
busier than it normally is in August and has also altered its
character. "It's a different type of trader that was in
(yesterday). The jobbers that come in for a few (small prices
moves) were a bit shell shocked by the big moves last week
and are on the sidelines. Now we're seeing more genuine
commercial flows."
   Commented a dollar dealer in Wellington, New Zealand: "The
market fundamentally would like to sell dollars, but it is so
nervous, it doesn't want to get too short. The trend is
really to stay out of the market because no one knows what's
going to happen next" in Kuwait.
   Lynn Tierney, a vice president at Shawmut Bank of Boston,
said talk in the North American morning that the U.S. Federal
Reserve Board would call an emergency meeting later in the
day to discuss looser credit helped pressure the dollar. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York wouldn't comment on the
rumor.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $384.50, down 20 cents. Estimated volume
was a very heavy 6.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted
at $384.95 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Is Handling Crisis Through Personal Ties
   With Foreign Leaders and Advice of Close Aides
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush was in the middle of a visit
to Central Intelligence Agency headquarters yesterday when
something occurred to him. Breaking off from the meeting, Mr.
Bush went to the telephone -- and called Canadian Prime
Minister Brian Mulroney, with whom he had dined the night
before. After a several-minute talk about the Persian Gulf
crisis, the president hung up and rejoined the CIA group.
   George Bush is handling the gravest crisis of his
presidency exactly the way he has handled foreign policy
since his first day in office: through his carefully
cultivated personal ties with foreign leaders and the advice
of a tight circle of trusted aides.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That approach seems to be bearing fruit in the unusually
united world response to Iraqi strongman Saddam Hussein's
invasion and takeover of Kuwait. While Mr. Bush can't take
all the credit for the broad-based denunciation of Iraq, some
analysts say the results -- from the Soviet Union's decision
to turn back arms shipments to Iraq to Japan's willingness to
participate in an oil embargo and China's decision to stop
arms sales -- stem at least in part from the relationship Mr.
Bush has forged with their leaders.
   Mr. Bush knows the Saudis' Washington ambassador, Prince
Bandar bin Sultan, well and has visited Saudi King Fahd in
his kingdom. That may have helped persuade the Saudis to
decide for the first time to accept a large American force in
their country.
   "The whole country is seeing now the benefits of his
establishing these relationships with our allies," says
Republican pollster Robert Teeter, a close associate of Mr.
Bush.
   Within the administration, Mr. Bush has leaned heavily on
national security adviser Brent Scowcroft and on Secretary of
State James Baker and Defense Secretary Richard Cheney, both
of whom he has dispatched on sensitive foreign missions. Also
influential is Gen. Colin Powell, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, who also brings the expertise he gained as
national security adviser under President Reagan.
   Observers say the president is following his general mode
of operation in such matters, taking information from many
but advice from few. "His is not a practice of exclusion,
it's one of inclusion," says Peter Teeley, a former longtime
aide. "He'll bring in these individuals who have expertise in
the areas he needs," regardless of whether they are
high-ranking officials. Among other things, the president
yesterday met with a group of prominent Arab-Americans to
hear whatever information they might have about the
tension-filled region.
   When a decision is required, though, Mr. Bush reverts to
his inner circle in a search for consensus. If there has been
any sharp disagreement so far, the group has managed to keep
it to themselves -- though Gen. Powell was reported to be
more insistent than others in the group that a blockade of
Iraqi oil required an agreement with Saudi Arabia to allow
U.S. military forces there.
   As a former CIA director himself, Mr. Bush has kept in
close touch with his old agency during the crisis. CIA
Director William Webster, though not in the policy-making
inner circle, has been a frequent conduit for information.
Although there has been frequent speculation that Mr. Webster
would be replaced at the CIA, his performance in the current
crisis could boost his prospects for remaining at least
through the end of Mr. Bush's current term; in any event,
Bush aides say the president has been particularly pleased
with the quality of the intelligence he has been receiving.
   Mr. Bush's visit yesterday to CIA headquarters was for a
long-scheduled meeting with the intelligence officers who
prepare his daily briefing; it turned into a discussion of
the unfolding events in Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
   Since the crisis began, the White House says, Mr. Bush has
talked personally no fewer than 20 times with the leaders of
at least a dozen nations, from Italy to Yemen. In the 24
hours between Monday night and last night alone, aides say,
he spoke on the telephone not only with Mr. Mulroney but also
with King Hassan of Morocco, Yemen's President Ali Abdallah
Salih, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and French President
Francois Mitterrand.
   Mr. Bush also has seized some unexpected opportunities to
build international backing. By chance, British Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher was in the U.S. when the Iraqi
invasion occurred; Mr. Bush, who had already met with her in
Aspen, Colo., during her trip, invited her to stop at the
White House on the way home. There, she met with Mr. Bush and
with Manfred Woerner, secretary general of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization, and issued a strong statement of support
for the president.
   Similarly, Mr. Bush turned a planned trip to South America
by Vice President Dan Quayle into an opportunity to lobby for
support in the Persian Gulf. In preparation for Mr. Quayle's
trip to Bogota for the inauguration of the new president of
Colombia, the president and vice president met for lunch
Monday and discussed specific messages for Mr. Quayle to
carry to other heads of state. Brazil, for instance, has been
a supplier of arms to Iraq and a customer of Iraqi oil;
Venezuela is being called upon to increase its oil output to
help offset the embargoed Iraqi and Kuwaiti supplies.
   David Silverstein, a defense-policy analyst with the
conservative Heritage Foundation, says the president's style
of personal diplomacy is all the more important now because
of changes in the world order that have taken place. "This is
a post-Cold War world and the U.S., while it is a benevolent
leader, is a leader in a world of equal nations," he says.
   Mr. Silverstein believes "a convergence of self-interests"
is mostly behind the world's surprisingly unified response to
the Iraqi crisis. But, he says, President Bush's personal
diplomacy "has made it easier for all sides to come
together."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pancanadian Petroleum Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.PCP
</CO>
<LP>
   PANCANADIAN PETROLEUM Ltd. (Calgary, Alberta) -- David P.
O'Brien, 48-year-old president of this oil and gas production
company, was appointed to the additional post of chief
executive officer, effective Sept. 1, succeeding Bartlett B.
Rombough, 65, who will remain chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Du Pont Opens Plant in Turkey
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   DD EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Du Pont Co. said it started up an
industrial nylon fiber plant in Izmit, Turkey, under a 50-50
joint venture with Sabanci Group, a Turkish industrial
company.
   The facility is part of Du Pont's plan to double its
business in Europe by the mid-1990s. With a capacity of 50
million pounds a year, the plant will produce nylon 6,6 for
tire reinforcement and other industrial applications.
Commercial shipments to Europe and the Middle East are
scheduled to begin in mid-August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Osborn Firm Buys TV Station
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   OSBN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Northstar Television Group Inc., which is
owned by an investor group led by Osborn Communications
Corp., said it agreed to acquire WUHQ-TV, the ABC affiliate
in Battle Creek, Mich., from Channel 41 Inc. of Battle Creek
for a minimum of $10 million in cash and securities.
   The transaction requires federal regulatory approval.
Northstar also owns stations in Grand Rapids, Mich.; Erie,
Pa.; Providence, R.I.; and Jackson, Miss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vintage Petroleum Stock Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   VPI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   TULSA, Okla. -- Vintage Petroleum Inc. said it completed
its initial public offering of four million common shares at
$10.50 each. Existing holders continue to own about 12
million shares.
   The energy company said net proceeds of about $32.8
million will be used to acquire oil and gas properties and to
reduce debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bayly Corp. Retains Bear Stearns
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAYL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Bayly Corp. said it retained Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
as a financial adviser to help the company review options
including a merger or recapitalization.
   "We're not ruling anything out," said George K. Hansen,
chairman and chief executive officer of the apparel
manufacturer. "This has been a troubled company for two years
now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advanta Authorizes Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ADVN
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HORSHAM, Pa. -- Advanta Corp. said its board authorized
the purchase of 200,000 of its common shares, bringing its
total 1990 stock buy-back authorization to 600,000 shares.
   Advanta also increased its quarterly dividend to three
cents a share from 2.5 cents, payable Sept. 18 to stock of
record Aug. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The financial services holding company said stock
purchases may be made in the open market or through
negotiated transactions. The board recently completed the
buy-back of 400,000 shares, an action it approved in
February. As of June 30, the company had 9,426,000 shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   United Financial Corp. of South Carolina
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS UNSA
</CO>
<LP>
   UNITED FINANCIAL CORP. OF SOUTH CAROLINA (Greenwood, S.C.)
-- James M. Doswell Jr., William M. Hull Jr., Don P. Ferguson
Sr. and Jerry H. Padgett, all board members of a newly
acquired unit, Home Federal Savings Bank of Rock Hill, S.C.,
were named directors of this thrift holding company,
expanding board membership to 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Provides Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp. said its
Westinghouse Credit Corp. unit has provided $52.5 million as
part of the recapitalization of United States Can Co., a
Chicago-based container maker.
   The financing includes $30 million in senior debt and
$22.5 million in junior subordinated debt. Westinghouse is a
financial services, broadcast and electronics concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, August 7, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 15/16% low, 7 15/16% near
closing bid, 8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.75% 30 to 44 days; 7.65% 45 to 59 days;
7.60% 60 to 89 days; 7.55% 90 to 119 days; 7.50% 120 to 179
days; 7.45% 180 to 209 days; 7.40% 210 to 239 days; 7.35% 240
to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.90%
30 days; 7.85% 60 days; 7.75% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.66% two
months; 7.70% three months; 7.92% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.95% one month; 7.95% three months;
7.95% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.80% 30 days; 7.75% 60 days; 7.65%
90 days; 7.60% 120 days; 7.55% 150 days; 7.50% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% one month; 8%
- 7 7/8% two months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% three months; 7
15/16% - 7 13/16% four months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% five
months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8% one month; 7
15/16% three months; 7 15/16% six months; 8 1/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 6, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.23% 13 weeks; 7.19% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.02%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.98%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.30%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.70%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Waste Management Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WMX
</CO>
<LP>
   WASTE MANAGEMENT Inc. (Oak Brook, Ill.) -- Joan Z.
Bernstein, vice president and general counsel of Chemical
Waste Management Inc., a subsidiary of Waste Managment, was
named to the additional post of vice president of
environmental policy and ethical standards at the parent
company. She will be reponsible for the company's compliance
with environmental standards and for implementation of its
ethical training program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CAE Unit Gets Lufthansa Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAE G.LHA
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- CAE Industries Ltd., a maker of aircraft
simulator systems and other electronic equipment, said its
CAE Electronics Ltd. unit received a contract, valued at
about 44 million Canadian dollars (US$38.3 million), to
supply two flight simulators for the A-340-200 aircraft to
Lufthansa German Airlines.
   The simulators, to be delivered to the West German carrier
in September 1992, bring to 12 the number of orders placed by
Lufthansa, CAE said. The A-340 planes are made by Airbus
Industrie, a European aircraft consortium based in France.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heritage Media Gets Financing
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HTG POPX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Heritage Media Corp. said it obtained financing
of $220 million and used a portion of the loans to refinance
existing debts of its broadcast and Act Media units.
   The owner of television and radio stations said it expects
to use the remainder of the financing to fund its pending
acquisition of the 43% of POP Radio Corp. it doesn't already
own. Heritage's current acquisition offer expires Oct. 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metro Airlines July Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MAIRC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Metro Airlines said July traffic rose 37.3%, to
59.9 million revenue passenger miles from 43.6 million a year
earlier.
   Load factor, or the percentage of seats filled, increased
to 60.3% from 55.7%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year to date, the carrier flew 362.7 million
revenue passenger miles, a 42.0% rise, from 255.4 million a
year earlier. Load factor increased to 55% from 51.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks, Bonds Ride
   Oil's Roller Coaster
   ---
   Treasury Prices Fall;
   Turmoil Boosts Dollar
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks reeled up and down like a yo-yo and the
bond market fell sharply again, responding to a volatile oil
market that shook with each bulletin from the Middle East.
   Late-afternoon news reports that the U.S. was moving
troops into Saudi Arabia to defend against Iraqi invasion
sparked a rally in the dollar and firmed stock and bond
prices. Signs of escalating tensions had buoyed the dollar
against most other major currencies throughout the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed 5.70 lower at
2710.64, its sixth consecutive loss. Broader market measures,
including the Nasdaq composite index of over-the-counter
stocks, closed slightly higher, however.
   Crude oil prices opened weak yesterday morning, and the
stock and bond markets rallied explosively as bargain-hunters
swooped in.
   Investors lunged for cheap growth stocks, including many
technology shares, which advanced sharply in early trading.
   Compaq Computer gained 1 3/8 to 53 7/8. An abundance of
buy orders caused delayed openings in Warner-Lambert, Capital
Cities/ABC and Ingersoll-Rand on the New York Stock Exchange;
each stock has been a favorite with investors over the past
few months.
   "You have some of the highest-quality companies in this
country down 25% to 30% in a week," said James Awad,
president of BMI Capital, a money management firm. "I am
buying aggressively. My cash level is down to 10% and going
lower, and I expect to be fully invested."
   Mr. Awad said he expects a quick resolution to the Middle
East crisis and looks for the Federal Reserve to cut interest
rates -- both events that he says would trigger a quick
rebound in stock prices.
   "Bearishness is pervasive, capitulation is pervasive," Mr.
Awad said. "But every time there has been a panic like this,
if investors bought stocks they made money."
   Other money managers were less certain. The Dow Jones
industrials' 30-point rally was erased by 11:30 a.m. EDT and
the average went into the loss column as dozens of big
institutions, still jittery from the recent turmoil, began
offering large blocks of stock. Traders watched in
astonishment as the rally stalled, then scrambled to unload
sell orders they were holding for clients. Many people on
brokerage-firm trading desks thought the market would rally
strongly for much of the session after Monday's 93.31-point
sell-off.
   "Most fund managers want to see the Treasury auction, the
U.S. budget compromise and the Middle East crisis resolved
before they commit heavily to the stock market," said Peter
Vanden-Berg, senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Brothers.
   Shortly before noon, the Federal Reserve indicated through
a transaction in the money markets that it had no intention
of lowering interest rates. The industrial average
immediately fell about 15 additional points, and short-term
interest rates began to rise.
   Bond traders scrambled to adjust their bids for $11.5
billion in new three-year notes, the first leg of a
three-part, $32.25 billion Treasury auction this week. Later,
auction results showed less demand than expected, and the
yield on the new note rose to 8.20% at one point. The average
auction yield was 8.10%.
   George Gianaris, sales manager at Daiwa Securities
America, a dealer in U.S. Treasury securities, said
developments in the Middle East could jerk new 10-year note
and 30-year bond yields in all directions. But the usual big
buyers aren't expected to be aggressive at either of the debt
sales, which occur today and Thursday.
   "Domestic investors are jittery, and Japanese investors
will not participate to the degree they did in May, because
they are concerned about their own stock and bond markets,"
Mr. Gianaris said.
   In major market activity:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks finished mixed. The Big Board churned through its
fourth consecutive session of volume over 200 million shares;
yesterday's total was 231,580,000.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds were lower. After a volatile session, in which
prices on 30-year Treasury bonds lost as much as a point,
benchmark Treasurys finished down 1/2 point, or $5.00 for
each $1,000 face amount.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.5875 marks and 150.95 yen, up from 1.5765
marks and 150.32 yen late Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Backer Spielvogel Is Realigning
   Management at U.S. Operations
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA WPPGY WNEWS EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Backer Spielvogel Bates, stung by several major account
losses since January, announced a management realignment and
said it is searching for a new U.S. creative director.
   Carl Spielvogel, chairman and chief executive officer of
the big Saatchi &amp; Saatchi unit, said senior executives Dean
Scaros and Ken Rogers will be promoted to new U.S. positions.
The changes may help to diffuse criticism -- which has been
growing proportionately to Backer's account losses -- that
the 61-year-old Mr. Spielvogel is a one-man show without
sufficient management depth to back him up.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move to bring in a heavyweight creative executive,
meanwhile, could appease critics who say the big agency's
creative product is getting stale. Robert Lenz, chairman of
the U.S. company, had also been filling in as U.S. creative
director, but industry executives say the agency needs a
creative shot in the arm if it is to reverse its fading U.S.
fortunes. Bill Backer, 63, an agency co-founder who is
probably best known for penning "I'd like to teach the world
to sing" for Coke, remains world-wide creative director.
   "It's evident they're having problems. This looks to be a
decisive attempt to correct the problems. I would be
encouraged by it from that standpoint," said James Dougherty,
an analyst with County NatWest Securities. Backer in January
lost the $60 million Prudential Insurance account. Since
then, it has had a rough streak in the U.S., losing the $15
million to $20 million Fisher-Price account, the $13 million
Jhirmack account and most recently, the $25 million-plus
Xerox corporate account.
   Mr. Spielvogel, though, said the moves weren't related to
Backer's U.S. difficulties. "This is a further refinement of
the organization moving forward. Renewal in a
personal-service business is constant. Companies that don't
renew themselves end up going down," he said.
   Indeed, the high-profile executive, who prides himself on
his hands-on attention to clients, insisted that the agency
isn't having problems in the U.S. at all. "I think of all the
companies in the Saatchi group, we are the closest to budget
this year of any of them, and the U.S. company is right on
budget," he said. He said U.S. billings will be "slightly
ahead" of last year because of gains from existing clients,
like Miller Brewing, Wendy's and Hyundai, and the world-wide
company's billings will be up about 12% over last year's $5.1
billion for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   Under the management realignment, Dean Scaros, 44,
currently president of the U.S. company, adds the title of
chief operating officer, a position vacant since the
retirement last year of G. Robert Holmen. He also remains
head of the agency's Miller Brewing account. Ken Rogers, 43,
executive vice president and the key executive in charge of
Backer's big Mars account, becomes managing director of the
New York office, succeeding Mr. Scaros.
   Mr. Lenz, the U.S. agency chairman who has also been
acting as U.S. creative director, is currently interviewing
people for the creative job "internally as well as
externally," Mr. Spielvogel said.
   Some industry executives questioned whether Backer can
attract a high-profile creative executive, considering that
Mr. Spielvogel is so closely identified as the face of the
company -- and considering that Ted Bates, one of Backer's
two predecessor companies, had a reputation for
extraordinarily workmanlike ads. But Mr. Spielvogel said the
new creative executive "will have the necessary autonomy to
get the job done."
   In the wake of the account losses, speculation has been
mounting that Saatchi's new chief executive, Robert
Louis-Dreyfus, thought management changes were needed to
shore up Backer's U.S. business. Mr. Louis-Dreyfus couldn't
be reached, but Mr. Spielvogel bristled at any suggestion
that the Saatchi executive played a part in the changes.
   "Robert has nothing to say in the operation of BSB. He
sits in budget meetings and reviews financial forecasts and
results," Mr. Spielvogel said. "He doesn't come out of an ad
agency background. I don't tell him how to run the parent
company, and he doesn't tell me how to run BSB Worldwide."
   Mr. Spielvogel also said his own job wouldn't be affected
by the changes. The executive, who travels world-wide almost
nonstop and who at the slightest provocation will hop on a
plane to have an eyeball-to-eyeball chat with a client, said
he doesn't plan to retire for at least five years. The
management changes "have nothing to do with succession at the
parent company," he said. "This has to do with succession in
the U.S. company."
   Wall Street analysts, though, said the changes send a
positive signal that Mr. Spielvogel, who is widely perceived
as a one-man band even though his far-flung organization
numbers 6,600, is willing to share responsibility. "This guy
is spreading himself a little thin, and that's been a
concern," said Alan Gottesman, an analyst with PaineWebber.
"But he isn't a one-man show. There's a normal evolutionary
current that runs through this thing."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .

   EARNINGS: WPP Group PLC said net for the fiscal six months
ended June 30 rose 95% to #27 million ($50.1 million), or 42
pence a share, from #13.9 million, or 33.9 pence, in the
year-earlier period. Revenue rose 89% to #626.2 million from
#330.9 million. The huge earnings jump was due in large part
to the inclusion for the first time of earnings from Ogilvy
Group, which WPP acquired in May last year. But London-based
WPP, which also owns J. Walter Thompson, said a lower tax
rate, cost-control and a strong new-business record
contributed to the higher earnings.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Dutch Dairy Bureau awarded its ad account to
the New York office of Hal Riney &amp; Partners. The agency will
create ads promoting Dutch cheeses. Billings haven't been
determined.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CNG
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Consolidated Natural Gas Co. said it
received approval from the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission to provide new services to utilities and other
wholesale natural gas customers in Virginia.
   Under plans approved by the commission, the natural gas
concern's CNG Transmission Corp. unit would provide long-term
natural gas sales service to Virginia Natural Gas Inc. and
Richmond's municipal gas utility. To provide the new
services, CNG Transmission will construct facilities,
including a 27-mile pipeline extension.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cooper to Acquire Swedish Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Cooper Industries Inc. said it agreed to
acquire AB Sani Maskiner, a Malmo, Sweden, maker of machinery
and components for manufacturing window blinds and shades.
Terms weren't disclosed. Sani Maskiner has annual sales of
about $20 million and will become part of the Kirsch drapery
hardware and window products division of Cooper, a
diversified manufacturing concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pratt &amp; Lambert Inc. Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUFFALO, N.Y. -- Pratt &amp; Lambert Inc. said its board
authorized the purchase of as many as 300,000, or 5%, of the
paint, chemical coatings and adhesives company's shares
outstanding, through open-market or private transactions.
   The company said an additional 125,000 shares may be
bought back under a September 1989 board resolution. Pratt &amp;
Lambert said it believes the buy-backs are an "advantageous
use of corporate funds" and won't interfere with business
plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ACC Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ACCC
</CO>
<LP>
   ACC Corp. (Rochester, N.Y.) -- Richard T. Aab, chairman
and chief executive officer, assumed the additional
responsibilities of president and chief operating officer.
Mr. Aab succeeds Tansukh V. Ganatra, who resigned those
positions, as well as president of the company's Canadian
longdistance unit. Mr. Ganatra will remain president of the
telecommunication company's Danbury Cellular Telephone Co.
unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Iowa Southern Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IUTL
</CO>
<LP>
   IOWA SOUTHERN Inc. (Centerville, Iowa) -- Robert K.
Harbour, 49 years old, formerly senior vice president of this
utility holding company's Iowa Southern Utilities Co., was
named president and chief operating officer of the unit, and
vice president and a director of the parent, expanding board
membership to nine. The operating chief and vice president
posts are new. As the unit's president, Mr. Harbour succeeds
C.R.S. Anderson, who remains chairman and chief executive
officer of both the unit and the parent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reliance Plans Share Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   REL
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Reliance Group Holdings Inc. said it plans to
buy 700,000 of its 74.6 million shares outstanding from time
to time in the open market.
   The insurance, real estate and investment company,
controlled by Saul Steinberg, said the shares will be
contributed to employee benefit plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reliance shares closed yesterday at $5.25 a share in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, up 12.5
cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Creditor
   Extends Agreement
   On $480 Million Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CMP CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Campeau Corp. said a major secured creditor,
Edward J. DeBartolo Corp., agreed to extend to Aug. 15 an
arrangement under which it won't call in its $480 million
loan to the financially troubled real-estate and retailing
concern without first giving nine days' notice.
   The previous agreement to give Campeau the nine-day
warning before acting to seize DeBartolo's collateral against
the loan expired Monday. A similar agreement with two units
of the Reichmann family's Olympia &amp; York Developments, which
remains in effect, doesn't have an expiration date.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Campeau defaulted on the DeBartolo loan as well as $225
million remaining on its Olympia &amp; York loan after its U.S.
retailing units, Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied
Stores Corp., filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. In
March, Campeau refused to make further interest payments on
the loans.
   The DeBartolo loan is secured mostly against 83.8% of the
stock of Ralphs Grocery Co., Campeau's Southern California
grocery chain. Ralphs isn't involved in the bankruptcy court
proceedings. The Olympia &amp; York loan is secured principally
by some of Campeau's Canadian real-estate assets, which are
slated to be sold.
   The DeBartolo loan helped Campeau finance its $6.6 billion
takeover of Federated in May 1988. DeBartolo is a closely
held real-estate developer in Youngstown, Ohio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P to Add Pep Boys to Index
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GRL PBY
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it will add Pep
Boys Manny, Moe &amp; Jack, a Philadelphia-based retailer of
automotive parts and accessories, to its stock index of 500
companies.
   S&amp;P said General Instrument Corp., a New York
communications equipment and electronic components
manufacturer, will be deleted from the list because it is
being acquired by Forstmann Little &amp; Co. The change will
occur at the close of trading Monday, S&amp;P said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Airlines July Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Eastern Airlines said it flew 1.49 billion
revenue passenger miles in July, compared with 698.8 million
miles a year earlier.
   Results for July 1989 were hurt by a strike against the
carrier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Load factor, or percentage of available seats filled, was
64% last month compared with 74.8% a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deutsche Babcock-Fiat Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DBC FIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Babcock AG of West Germany, a
machinery and engineering concern, said it and Fiat S.p.A. of
Italy, an auto maker, agreed to form a joint-venture company
that will specialize in pollution-control engineering in
Italy.
   Babcock said its Deutsche Babcock Anlagen AG unit will own
25% of the venture, and Fiat's Fiatimpresit Sistemi
Ambientali environmental engineering unit 75%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The venture will be based in Milan and specialize in
engineering services for gas emission, as well as
waste-control systems for factories. Babcock primarily will
supply know-how and an unspecified amount of cash to the
venture, which will be managed by the Fiat unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   What if We Had a War and No One Invited the Lawyers?
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   President Bush's advisers have had plenty on their minds
as they devise options for dealing with Saddam Hussein.
Pentagon, national-security and intelligence officials have
the usual concerns about U.S. air, sea and ground power, but
today they have another burden. They must also consult their
lawyers to make sure they don't wind up in some criminal
courtroom.
   The idea of laws limiting our response to a lawless
Hussein figure may seem absurd, but the constraints are real.
More than a decade of congressional micromanagement of
foreign policy has produced volumes of rules limiting overt
and covert action. Although military strategists and their
government lawyers are understandably reluctant to discuss
hypotheticals, it's easy to imagine some of the legal
discussions of the past few days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All proposed military actions since 1973 have had to take
into account the ticking of the War Powers Resolution time
clock. This law limits deployment of forces into "imminent
hostilities" to 60 days. At the end of this period, Congress
must vote to affirm the action or the troops must come home.
Even if Congress supports initial deployment, legislators
might lose their enthusiasm over time. Military planners know
there is no guarantee they will be able to implement any
strategy that takes more than two months.
   Government lawyers have no doubt reminded the military
that President Reagan's comparatively modest move of sending
the Navy to protect shipping in the Persian Gulf led to
congressional demands that he abide by War Powers Resolution
time limits. Mr. Hussein is canny enough to understand that
his strategy should also recognize the 60-day anniversary as
a make-or-break date for Congress.
   The Supreme Court should and probably would declare the
War Powers Resolution unconstitutional as a fetter on the
implied powers of the president. Unfortunately, this requires
a test case. Mr. Hussein reportedly studied law for a time in
Cairo, but even so he's unlikely to offer Mr. Bush a
continuance while the Justice Department litigates the issue.
   Requirements that the president let Congress know ahead of
time of covert activities are also probably unconstitutional;
the Federalist Papers stress that only the executive branch
has the "secrecy, energy and dispatch" to execute a
successful foreign policy. This week's apparent leaks of
covert actions against Mr. Hussein may be intentional or may
be the result of too many people knowing and talking.
   Mr. Hussein's personality and appetite for territory have
been compared with Hitler's, but don't expect any U.S. role
in any plot to kill the Iraqi dictator. In 1976, President
Ford was faced with harsh congressional criticism of the CIA.
In order to avoid even more restrictive legislation, he
signed a prohibition against assassinations, which President
Reagan reissued in 1981.
   Executive Order 12333 says that no one employed by the
U.S. or acting on its behalf "shall engage in, or conspire to
engage in, assassination." This prohibition was partly blamed
for the failed coup attempt against Manuel Noriega before he
was finally apprehended. Panamanian officers had been told by
U.S. officials that Americans could not be involved in
anything that looked like assassination. This may be one
reason coup plotters hesitated to use force against Mr.
Noriega when they had the chance.
   Sen. William Cohen (R., Maine) said afterward that the
executive order was clearly at issue. "If, for example, the
rebel officers had every intent of killing Noriega during the
coup," he said, "then active support of these officers by
U.S. personnel might have resulted in charges of their
complicity in such assassination." Indeed, the understanding
had been that congressional interpretations of the ban on
assassinations required the executive branch to warn a
foreign head of state of any plan that might include his
death.
   The Justice Department issued a new set of guidelines on
assassinations late last year. The new interpretation is
confidential, but apparently identifies an exception to the
rule. This is that the U.S. can aid a coup that results in
the death of a political leader, but only when the death is
not the express purpose of a coup. This nice distinction
between assassination and death as a byproduct of a coup
probably conforms to the ambiguous demands in the 1970s of
the congressional Church Committee. Its report called for a
ban on "targeted assassinations instigated by the U.S.," but
would "not today rule out support for dissident groups
seeking to overthrow tyrants."
   Where there is no coup attempt, however, the broad wording
of the executive order probably prohibits any action that
would cause the death of Mr. Hussein. Lawyers could craft
arguments distinguishing between assassinations and killings.
They might argue that a free-falling bomb from thousands of
feet up is not the same as a single, targeted pistol shot.
Maybe the rule is that a massive air raid that also killed
many civilians is fine, but any surgical strike against Mr.
Hussein would be a violation.
   As a matter of policy, it's a good idea to think twice
before sending poisoned chocolates to Mr. Hussein. Remember
the disastrous assassination of South Vietnam President Diem.
And a threatened Castro may have had something to do with the
murder of President Kennedy. The point here is that President
Bush should be free to choose his military strategy without
having to worry about legalities.
   Officials have good reason to abide by even the most
ambiguous rules. Independent counsel Lawrence Walsh has shown
with his Iran-Contra prosecutions that even laws with no
criminal penalty can lead to criminal prosecutions. The War
Powers Resolution is not part of any criminal code, but
neither were the Boland amendments. The executive order
against assassinations is not even a law, but it would be no
surprise if an independent counsel some day invented the
crime of "conspiracy to violate an executive order."
   There is something worse than effete about pretending that
the law can limit decisions on national security. It demeans
the law to try to force the circle of the rule of law into
the square of an international battlefield. International law
was outraged when Israel bombed the Iraqi nuclear plant in
1981, but no one complains now.
   More broadly, Congress should reconsider its post-Vietnam
project of writing guidelines for the president on how
battles can and can't be fought. Times and circumstances
change in ways that rigid legal prohibitions can never
recognize. In times of crisis, the War Powers Resolution and
other supposedly legal constraints on the commander in chief
begin to look like silly, and dangerous gamesmanship.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harris Corp. Expects
   `Flat' Net in 1st Half
   Of This Fiscal Year
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HRS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MELBOURNE, Fla. -- Harris Corp. said that it expects
earnings for the first half of the current fiscal year to be
"relatively flat" compared with last year's first half.
   John T. Hartley, chairman and chief executive of the
information and communications concern, said, "We're
operating in a difficult economic environment that shows no
signs of early improvement." In addition, he said earnings in
the semiconductor sector are expected to be lower in the
first half of the year due to manufacturing consolidations
and the discontinuance of nonstrategic product lines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Mr. Hartley added, "Assuming no further
deterioriation in the economic environment in which we
operate, we expect good earnings growth in the second half of
the year, resulting in a solid increase for the year as a
whole."
   Harris reported net income for the fourth quarter ended
June 30 rose 14%, to $39.5 million, or 99 cents a share,
compared with profit from continuing operations of $34.8
million, or 90 cents a share. For the year-ago fourth
quarter, an $86.8 million loss from discontinued operations
resulted in a net loss of $52 million, or $1.34 a share. The
company said revenue rose 5%, to $819.4 million in the latest
fourth quarter, compared with revenue from continuing
operations of $778 million a year earlier.
   Harris also said its board approved the repurchase of as
many as 1.5 million of its common shares in the open market.
It said the shares will be used for general corporate
purposes. Harris has 39.6 million common shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Jersey Natural Gas Filing
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NJR
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALL, N.J. -- New Jersey Natural Gas Co. said it filed
with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities for a $14.8
million, or 4.5%, rate increase to cover higher operating
costs, financing and capital construction expenses.
   At the same time, the utility said it expects to issue a
$14.5 million refund to customers toward the end of the year,
because of a refund it expects to receive from a natural gas
supplier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Air's July Traffic Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- United Airlines, a unit of UAL Corp., said July
traffic rose 11% to 7.33 billion revenue passenger miles from
6.59 billion a year earlier. A revenue passenger mile is one
paying passenger flown one mile.
   The airline's July load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, fell to 71% from 72.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first seven months, traffic rose 7.9% to 43.17
billion revenue passenger miles from 40 billion a year
earlier. The load factor increased to 66.4% from 66.1%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fuji Bank Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.FUJ
</CO>
<LP>
   FUJI BANK Ltd. (Tokyo) -- Steven A. Schwimmer was named
managing director of the new derivative products group,
responsible for interest-rate and currency swaps and options,
at Fuji Capital Markets Corp., a New York-based subsidiary of
this bank. Mr. Schwimmer, 36 years old, was previously a
director in the interest-rate swaps department at CS First
Boston, a New York-based investment bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   American Airlines Wields the Budget Ax
   ---
   Carrier's Growth Plans
   Aggravate an Industry Slide
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Stung by nine months of disappointing earnings
-- including a startling first-quarter loss -- American
Airlines is taking a bite out of budgets up and down the
company.
   The airline, the main unit of Fort Worth-based AMR Corp.,
is curbing overtime, freezing hiring and taking a tough stand
in contract negotiations with its pilots. Chairman and
cost-cutter extraordinaire Robert L. Crandall has even
personally distributed a memo admonishing employees to turn
off lights after quitting time and not to photocopy
little-league schedules at the office.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a re-examination of everything we spend money on,"
acknowledges Michael J. Durham, chief financial officer and
senior vice president of finance. He and other senior
executives have been attending regular cost-cutting meetings
with Mr. Crandall since early July. Their goal: to wring $100
million a year out of day-to-day operations, an AMR spokesman
says.
   AMR's profit squeeze isn't entirely of its own making. The
industry's boom times of 1988 and early 1989 -- which saw
American dash to the head of the pack with more than $10
billion in annual revenue -- screeched to a halt late last
year when jet-fuel prices soared unexpectedly at the same
time traffic began to slow. The current crisis in the Middle
East is forcing fuel prices even higher, with serious
implications for all carriers.
   "This hasn't been a brilliant six months in the airline
business, and it hasn't been a brilliant six months at
American Airlines," concedes Donald Carty, executive vice
president.
   But American has some unique problems. Traffic turned
sluggish just as it was halfway through an aggressive and
costly expansion. It is committed to $20 billion in capital
spending by 1995 for new planes and ground facilities. It
just spent more than $600 million to add Latin American and
European routes, and is fighting to secure more Pacific
routes, although a Transportation Department administrative
law judge recently recommended against American's bid for the
two most lucrative routes. The judge's decision still can be
overturned, but American said failure to secure the
Chicago-Tokyo and Los Angeles-Nagoya routes "will have a
profoundly adverse impact on our company." If it ultimately
wins the new Pacific routes, American is prepared to quickly
purchase two new wide-body jets for $330 million.
   AMR insists its penny-pinching isn't linked to its
burgeoning debt. "It's linked to the fact that we're not
making a lot of money," Mr. Durham says. Indeed, as the
nation's biggest, richest airline, American is far from
financial difficulty. Its debt-to-equity ratio of 0.7-to-1 is
well below rivals', and while second-quarter profits fell
25%, they at least reversed the first-quarter flow of red
ink.
   One noticeable area where AMR hasn't had stellar
performance is in its stock price, which has fallen over the
past 12 months from $107.25 to yesterday's closing price of
$50.375, unchanged, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. AMR is doing no worse than most of its airline
rivals, however. All airline stocks took a tumble last fall
when the first UAL Inc. buy-out effort fell through.
Uncertainty about the current proposed buy-out may be
affecting airline stocks as well.
   So far, cuts seem to be an extension of American's
turn-on-a-dime philosophy, in which spending grows with
profits, and programs or routes falling below projections are
summarily axed. The question, says Mr. Durham, is "are we
getting enough bang for our buck given that revenue is not
satisfactory?"
   The attack on expenses is relentless. The airline has
imposed a hiring freeze on management and clerical personnel.
It is re-evaluating whether to continue publishing a dozen or
so divisional newspapers. "Maybe we can't afford them this
year," Mr. Durham says. Even now, it is poring over flight
schedules, city by city, nipping and tucking arrivals and
departures to minimize labor and other costs.
   At Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, the nation's
busiest, American is reversing flight changes made just last
November to improve on-time performance. At the time,
American fanned out departures over several hours to spread
labor costs and avoid delays, instead of crowding flights
into peak periods. It found, however, that passengers chose
other airlines that continued to leave at peak times. And
American's on-time statistics didn't improve much either. So
American is reverting to its original peak-time departures.
"Bad plan," groans Mr. Durham.
   As American wields the knife, passengers may get nicked.
The airline is taking back some of the leeway previously
granted its airport employees to hand out travel vouchers to
disgruntled passengers. The projected savings: $50 million to
$60 million a year. "The cost of vouchers went through the
ceiling, and we weren't really improving the quality of our
product," Mr. Durham says. Though stingier, the new policy is
still very generous, Mr. Durham maintains.
   American also is leaning on employee labor costs.
   Back in the early 1980s, weakened by fare wars, limited
routes, old equipment and huge fuel bills, American pioneered
a two-tier wage scale. Under the scheme, new hires moved
along a separate, lower "B" pay scale than senior workers.
That greatly reduced overall labor costs, because American
was hiring new people in droves as it pursued a bold
expansion. The idea paid off: from the signing of contracts
in 1983 until last year, profits soared.
   Now American's more than 8,400 pilots, in contract
bargaining, say it is payback time. "We want an
industry-leading pay scale," declares Fred Vogel, president
of the Associated Pilots of America union. That means
bringing the 57% of pilots who are B-scalers up to parity
with their senior counterparts in wages, pension and
vacation, he says.
   No way, American counters; continued growth will provide
more money and promotions for pilots. It contends its most
recent contract offer would already raise its labor costs by
about $600 million over five years without granting B-scalers
parity. AMR argues that the wholesale change sought could
make its expansion sputter and wants to bring junior pilots
to parity slowly, not immediately. It also wants pilots to
accept more flexible medical benefits, which shift more of
the costs to them.
   In a videotape mailed to pilots not long ago, Mr. Crandall
said the airline has "an obligation not to sign a contract
which we think will cripple the company's future." The pilots
responded last month by replacing their negotiating team with
one expected to be tougher. Talks, supervised by a federal
mediator, resume next week between the company and the new
team.
   Meanwhile, American is entering the last, most costly
years of its growth plan. It expects capital spending to
average $4 billion a year until 1995. This year alone,
American will take on about $1 billion in leveraged leases on
new aircraft, shell out another $1 billion for new
facilities, sign up for $800 million in unsecured debt and
borrow another $800 million short-term. The 1991 spending and
debt schedule looks much the same, gradually easing in later
years as fewer planes are delivered and facilities are
completed.
   Despite the cost squeeze, American intends to steady its
course. "Unless the world crashes in on us from a
profitability view, we would continue to execute the {growth}
plan," says Mr. Carty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Opportunity for Mr. Bush
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   While the peak of the Iraqi crisis may yet lie ahead, it
carries opportunity as well as risk. Indeed, if President
Bush wins, he will emerge with his hand strengthened on a
wide range of important matters.
   International Security Arrangements. Working the phones,
Mr. Bush in a matter of days has moved the issue of post-Cold
War security from the level of abstraction to concrete
action. He has thrown an economic and military noose around
Saddam Hussein, and is now drawing it tighter, with his
deployment of large U.S. forces to Saudi Arabia as the latest
and most dramatic step.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The deployment means Mr. Bush has lined up Saudi Arabia as
well as Egypt and other nations to protect Saudi oil fields.
Turkey has honored its side of the NATO agreement by banning
the loading of tankers with oil from the Iraqi pipeline, and
by providing a base for U.S. F-111s within striking distance
of Iraqi targets. A French destroyer was sailing through the
Suez, and two U.S. aircraft carriers were positioned at the
mouth of the Persian Gulf.
   Mr. Bush's blockade, in short, has already isolated Iraq.
Saddam Hussein is perfectly capable of further rashness with
his huge army and chemical weapons, and as the noose tightens
may strike out in blood. Yet it now seems possible to
speculate that in the end he could find himself evicted from
not only Kuwait but Iraq itself. If so, it would be a lesson
to all the world's bullies and potential bullies.
   And a lesson, too, about the discussion of "bringing
American troops home" now that the Cold War has thawed. The
embarrassing pre-Saddam votes in the Democratic-controlled
Congress to gut the Defense budget need to be revisited,
along with such issues as how to honor our side of the NATO
bargain with Turkey. Those of us who have been skeptics about
the United Nations may need to take another look if events
consolidate the kind of big-power cooperation its
institutional design assumed. Should Mr. Bush succeed against
Iraq, he will have earned the stature, both domestically and
diplomatically, to lead a large reordering of international
security.
   The Myth of American Decline. Since Vietnam, an entire
school of academics and their Wall Street admirers has grown
up around the notion that the American Century is at an end.
If the Bush exercise in American leadership evident the past
several days succeeds, the decline school will belong in
whatever basement now houses Eastern Europe's faculties of
Marxist economics.
   The International Economy. As a logical extension of those
discussions, Mr. Bush could be expected to provide some
vision, largely missing at this juncture, of the future shape
of the international economy. If the united front of nations
that Mr. Bush has assembled to preserve the global economy
emerges victorious, its next task ought to be needed
institutional reforms for peacetime. The policy discussion
around such matters as destructive agricultural subsidies or
international monetary arrangements has been drifting or
neglected altogether, and is scarcely less dangerous than a
jump in oil prices.
   Presidential Authority. As a Washington insider, George
Bush has also been an on-site witness to the entire period of
decline in presidential authority. The nearby Rule of Law
column discusses such artifacts of that decline as the War
Powers Resolution (See "Rule of Law: What if We Had a War and
No One Invited the Lawyers?" -- WSJ August 8, 1990). We would
add to that the Budget Reform Act, which tipped spending in
Congress's favor and into its current abyss. Mr. Bush has
been looking for the right moment to enhance presidential
authority, restoring a proper balance with congressional
powers in domestic and foreign affairs. With success in the
Gulf, that moment would have arrived.
   Indeed the Iraq crisis has the potential to make clear
that a vigorous U.S. presidency is an inevitable necessity of
a functional political system, at home and abroad. Its
powers, if deftly used, can be one of history's most
effective forces for positive good.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Whitman's Copper
   Quits Pet Unit Posts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WH WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Whitman Corp., which has been trying to improve
results at its big Pet Inc. food subsidiary, said the unit's
president and chief executive officer, J. Robert Copper,
agreed to resign.
   A Whitman spokesman said Mr. Copper, 50 years old, stepped
aside after Whitman's president, Miles L. Marsh, made it
clear he felt improving Pet's performance required a
management change. Mr. Copper, reached at his home in St.
Louis, didn't dispute that, but said he quit because it was
apparent that his path to the top of Whitman was blocked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There can only be one CEO in a company," Mr. Copper said.
He joined what was then IC Industries in 1980 as vice
president in charge of strategic planning, and handled
acquisitions and divestitures for the conglomerate. In 1988,
he was named Pet president, and had hopes of some day running
the renamed Whitman, he said, but his "upward track" appeared
blocked beginning about six months ago. IC Industries was
renamed to Whitman Corp. in 1988.
   "It's better for my career," Mr. Copper said. "After
discussing the future of the whole corporation, my
aspirations were not consistent with what the corporation saw
for me." After some time off, Mr. Copper said, he plans to
look at other opportunities.
   Whitman has sold a lot of businesses to focus on consumer
products and services. Mr. Marsh will oversee Pet's
day-to-day operations while the company looks for a successor
to Mr. Copper, Whitman said.
   Pet accounts for about 50% of Whitman's sales, which were
$1.96 billion for the first half of 1990, with profit of
$58.6 million, or 38 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Some Nations Might Face
   Big Bill for Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Western, Japanese and even Soviet taxpayers,
as well as some big international banks, face a potential
bill totaling tens of billions of dollars because of Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait.
   Taxpayers are on the hook because their governments, in
order to boost their countries' exports and help Iraq through
its long war with Iran, have guaranteed much of Iraq's $60
billion of foreign borrowings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, some international banks, particularly in
Bahrain, have provided billions of dollars to Kuwait's banks
to help fund its financial system. Those obligations now look
doubtful if Iraq's occupation of Kuwait continues.
   Meanwhile, Iraq's biggest government creditors outside the
Middle East are Japan, France and the Soviet Union, with
respective loans totaling $4.5 billion, $4 billion, and from
$5 billion to $6 billion, according to Jonathan Crusoe, Iraq
specialist at the Middle East Economic Digest, a London-based
weekly magazine. Other big creditors include Italy with about
$2 billion of loans, West Germany with $1.5 billion of loans,
and East European countries, which collectively are owed $3
billion to $4 billion, he added.
   The U.S., mainly through the Commodity Credit Corp., has
lent $2.3 billion to Iraq, mostly to finance grain sales.
   And Iraq has received tens of billions of dollars from
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. The money, used to help finance
Iraq's war with Iran, has been alternately described as
grants or loans.
   In recent years, Iraq has made payments on its debt to
foreign governments, although these frequently have been
late.
   Foreign governments, though, eager to avoid a crisis, have
often resorted to elaborate schemes to avoid an outright
default by the cash-strapped Iraqis. Japan, for example,
agreed to allow Iraq to use 45% of the oil revenue received
from Japan to service Japan's $4.5 billion of loans to
Baghdad. The Iraqis "have been making small cash payments and
paying the Japanese with oil," said Mr. Crusoe.
   After this week's international embargo, Iraq almost
certainly won't continue to make these payments, London
bankers and experts familiar with the region say. They warn
that if Iraq continues to occupy Kuwait, foreign governments
will have to make good on their guarantees. Such guarantees
generally cover 80% or 90% of a loan. "One assumes that Iraq
won't continue to service its obligations to those countries
implementing the embargo," said Philip Robbins, Middle East
specialist at the Royal Institute of International Affairs, a
London-based think tank.
   Even prior to Iraq's invasion, banks in London traded the
unguaranteed portion of loans to Iraq at about 45 cents for
each dollar of face value of these obligations, according to
bankers there. Under current regulations, the Bank of England
requires that unguaranteed loans to Iraq be backed by
reserves of between 76% and 85% of the loan's face value,
according to one London banker.
   But there are other risks for banks. Some large
institutions, particularly in Bahrain but also in bigger
international financial centers such as New York and London,
also face potential losses from the invasion of Kuwait,
bankers in London and New York say.
   Kuwaiti banks have borrowed substantial funds from the
international financial system, and those obligations now
might not be repaid. Bankers estimate that as much as $20
billion of the Kuwaiti banks' $50 billion of assets may have
been funded from the interbank market, much of it from
Bahrain. That could lead to banks having to dig into earnings
to add to their loan-loss provisions.
   Meanwhile, some international financial institutions
associated with Kuwait have had their assets unfrozen by U.S.
and British authorities. After the invasion, the U.S. and
some European countries froze Kuwaiti assets to ensure they
didn't fall into Iraqi hands.
   For example, United Bank of Kuwait, a consortium bank
based in London and owned by Kuwait's commercial banks, has
had its assets unfrozen by the U.S. and British authorities,
bank staff say. Most of its assets are outside Kuwait in any
case. The Kuwait Investment Office, the London-based manager
of tens of billions of dollars of Kuwaiti money, also is
understood to be negotiating with the Bank of England to
allow it to resume business, bankers say.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Israel Is Watching
   Latest Mideast Crisis
   From the Sidelines
   ---
   Invasion Reinforces Threat
   From Iraq and Keeps Eyes
   Off Palestinian Problem
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   JERUSALEM -- An Israeli lieutenant colonel runs his finger
along a map of the Middle East and shrugs. "So Saddam is
crazy, what else is new?" he says. "The Saudis and Americans
are losing a lot more sleep over this one than we are."
   As a U.S. force steams toward the Persian Gulf and global
sanctions start pinching Iraq, Israel finds itself in the
unfamiliar position of watching a Middle East crisis from the
sidelines. Israel is deliberately keeping a low profile,
knowing that any visible Israeli role would inspire Arab
reaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Few Israelis fear that fighting in the gulf could make
Israel a target for Iraqi missiles. "Israel is not Kuwait,"
says Avi Pazner, a senior adviser to Prime Minister Yitzhak
Shamir. This and similar comments by Israeli officials
suggest that Israel would retaliate massively against an
Iraqi attack.
   Israel's right wing has greeted the gulf crisis with grim
satisfaction. Officials believe that the crisis has reminded
the world of the threat facing Israel and that it is likely
to silence talk in the U.S. of cutting aid. The attack also
split the Arab world and diverted attention from the
Palestinian situation at a time when Israel faces strong U.S.
criticism.
   "Arab hawks have once again come to the rescue of hawks in
Israel," says Abba Eban, a former foreign minister and
longtime advocate of peace talks. Adds Gerald Steinberg, a
strategic analyst at Hebrew University: "The idea that a
solution to the Palestinian problem will bring peace has been
blown out of the water."
   If the short-term effect of Iraq's action is to take the
heat off Israel, the long-term impact is more worrisome to
Israelis. Mr. Steinberg says the crisis has forced Israel to
think more seriously about pre-emptive attacks on Iraq, like
the air strike it launched on an Iraqi nuclear facility in
1981. "Saddam's audacity in Kuwait shows he's willing to risk
thousands of Iraqi lives," Mr. Steinberg says. "If we're not
dealing with a rational leader, then deterrence isn't
enough."
   Military analysts say Iraqi installations remain
vulnerable because of poor air defense. But Iraq now has a
deterrent of its own, missiles that can carry chemical
warheads. While analysts say Iraqi missiles are too few and
too inaccurate to "scorch half of Israel," as Mr. Hussein has
threatened, Iraq could inflict hundreds of casualties if a
missile hit Tel Aviv. In April Mr. Hussein moved missiles to
a site near the Jordanian border, within easy range of
Israel.
   If Mr. Hussein remains bellicose, analysts say Israel may
make its own deterrent powers more obvious, perhaps with an
overt nuclear test. Israel and the U.S. are jointly
developing a missile defense system called Arrow.
   Israel is planning to begin distributing gas masks to
every citizen, but there has been no panic or military
call-up.
   Israeli officials say the U.S. hasn't asked for military
assistance, and they don't expect such a call, except as a
last resort. The U.S. has signaled this by sending emissaries
to Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt while canceling a scheduled
visit to Washington by Israel's foreign minister, David Levy.
   However, deputy foreign minister Benjamin Netanyahu says,
"If we are asked, we will respond." He adds that one impetus
for Mr. Hussein's attack may have been the perception that
the "Israeli-U.S. alliance wasn't as healthy as it once was.
Appearances count." Asked if this meant Israel would be
asking the U.S. for increased aid, he said, "clearly a weak
Israel invites Iraqi aggression."
   Iraq's action also has focused Israeli attention on
Jordan, which has backed Mr. Hussein. Defense Minister Moshe
Arens told parliament "the moment we see that we are facing a
change like the entrance of the Iraqi army into Jordan, we
will act."
   "Jordan could become the killing field of the next
Arab-Israeli war," says Hirsh Goodman, a newspaper editor and
defense analyst. Another red flag for Israel would be an
acceleration of Iraq's nuclear program, believed to be five
years from deployment.
   Iraq's action has hardened Israel's stance toward
Palestinians. With Yasser Arafat, leader of the Palestine
Liberation Organization, in the Iraqi camp, the moribund
"peace process" seems dead. Heightened tension was evident
when the discovery of two murdered Israeli teen-agers in
Jerusalem provoked anti-Arab violence, with Israelis stoning
Arabs and smashing their cars.
   On his way to work Wednesday, Mr. Goodman stopped for a
haircut. The chat in the crowded barber shop alarmed but
didn't surprise him. "People now think Arabs just want to
drink blood," he says. "The last week has confirmed the view
that all Arabs understand is force."
   For their part, many Palestinians have embraced what one
intellectual calls "a deep political nihilism." If dialogue
is dead, the reasoning goes, then a shock to the system is
better than stalemate, even if it is Kuwait that suffers.
   Dishing up falafel on a cobbled street of Jerusalem's Arab
quarter, Mahmoud Abu Dalou watches warily as Israeli patrols
make their way through the souk, toppling Arab fruit stands
with the butts of their rifles. "We have nothing more to
lose," Mr. Abu Dalou says. "The world has abandoned us. Maybe
Saddam will wake everyone up." The intifada, or Palestinian
uprising, didn't flare after Iraq's invasion.
   The losers for now are the dwindling ranks of moderates on
both sides. Palestinians blame emerging Arab radicalism on
the U.S.'s failure to pressure Israel. Says Sa'eb Erakat, a
political scientist: "America has taken the peace process out
of the hands of Hosni Mubarak and handed it to Saddam."
   Mr. Eban says the Iraqi action has relieved pressure on
Israel to "stop arguing Talmudic points" about Palestinian
representation and get on with peace talks. But he thinks
it's "light-headed" to suppose Israel will be off the hook
for long.
   "If the U.S. takes effective action against Iraq, its
general posture will be strict," he says. And if united world
action succeeds in restraining Iraq, the same concerted
pressure could eventually be brought to bear on Israel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Cetus Loss Widened
   In Fiscal 4th Quarter;
   Drug Costs Are Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTUS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   EMERYVILLE, Calif. -- Cetus Corp., hindered by
expenditures related to the development of interleukin-2, or
IL-2, said its fourth-quarter net loss widened to $16.5
million from $14.3 million a year earlier.
   Cetus cited increased marketing and manufacturing costs
associated with IL-2 as well as a significant decrease in net
interest income. Revenue for the quarter ended June 30 rose
75% to $19.4 million, from $10 million, reflecting higher
research and development revenue, product sales and
royalties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the year, the net loss of $61.5 million, or $2.15 a
share, widened to $50 million, or $1.86 a share, from fiscal
1989. The fourth-quarter loss for each period was equal to 53
cents a share, reflecting an increase in common shares
outstanding.
   Last week, a U.S. Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel postponed recommendation of the drug for sale on the
U.S. market as a treatment for advanced kidney cancer pending
further research. Concern over the outlook for IL-2 has
caused Cetus stock to drop more than 40% in the past two
weeks. Yesterday, in national over-the-counter trading, the
stock closed at $9.25, down 25 cents.
   Analysts say the company will continue to post losses
until it can market IL-2 in the U.S. The company has spent
$120 million to research, develop and launch the drug on the
European market.
   In a statement, the company said it planned to make
spending adjustments to reflect the delay as soon as the
extent of the delay is determined.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Oh, God, It's a Play About Religion
   ----
   By Joel Henning
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   London -- God is the central character of David Hare's new
play, "Racing Demon," which is packing them in here at the
Royal National Theatre. It opens with a minister of the
Church of England chastising Him (or Her) for not speaking
up: "You see, I tell you, it's this perpetual absence -- yes?
-- this not being here -- it's that -- I mean, let's be
honest -- it's just beginning to get some of us down."
   But God, like that other central character Godot, never
appears and refuses to bless anyone or anything, even the
Church of England. And so the church is in chaos -- bishops,
vicars and curates bustling to and fro, desperately trying to
fill the void left by God's "perpetual absence."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lionel Espy, the middle-aged vicar, believes that his best
service is to provide a sympathetic ear to the despair of his
impoverished parishioners, many of them Third World
transplants who don't know the difference between a vicar and
a curate and don't care.
   Communion bores the Rev. Espy as much as it does his needy
parishioners. He prefers to administer weak sympathy to the
downtrodden while he awaits a clear message from God. As a
result, his bishop works to eject him from his inner-city
parish, saying: "As a priest, you only have one duty. That's
to put on a show."
   Tony, just out of divinity school, wants -- like Christ --
to touch people, rather than just listen. He burns with
desire to rekindle the flame, march at the head of the
Christian soldiers, punch out the wife-abusers, fill the
empty pews, sponsor Billy Graham's crusade, bring the
supernatural back into the church. Espy, he believes, is a
fuddy-duddy and so conspires with the bishop to have him
removed as vicar.
   Harry is the aging, homosexual priest who can't leave the
closet because "If I do something that in any sense is
worrying . . . if I upset my communicants in any way, then
the focus is moved. From the Lord Jesus. On to his minister."
Which leaves little room for tending his personal life. He
remembers but "one single moment of unbelievable happiness"
during his three years at Cambridge. The one time he kissed a
man. "Lord, you know I don't expect more."
   Then there's Streaky, the happy priest who loves the job.
In his former parish in the country, bliss was "Matins, a
sung Eucharist, two Evensongs and `Iolanthe' five nights a
week." In London's Jamaican slums, it's "the rum and the
curried goat. . . . The whole thing's so simple, so
infinitely loving. Why do people find it so hard?"
   Playwright Hare effectively lays bare the church's
problems as it struggles with declining attendance, political
conflict, and economic imperatives. But his interest in the
current plight of the Church of England has not resulted in a
mere tract. "Racing Demon" is compelling, witty and superbly
mounted by director Richard Eyre, who demonstrates with sharp
and simple staging why he was chosen to succeed Lord Olivier
and Sir Peter Hall as director of the Royal National.
   The action occurs on a simple, cruciform set designed by
Bob Crowley and lighted by Mark Henderson. It serves equally
well as church, rectory and the bar of the Savoy Hotel, where
friendly priests plan Espy's defense while they get high on
Tequila Sunrises with cherries and umbrellas.
   Played with enormous sympathy by Oliver Ford Davies, the
Rev. Lionel Espy listens so carefully to the people who seek
his ear that he fails to hear his wife's crying need for
human love and attention. Adam Kotz offers us hints of Elmer
Gantry and Ayatollah Khomeini in his portrayal of the Rev.
Tony Ferris who crusades against the wife-abusing Jamaican
but deceives and deserts his own mistress. The veteran actor
Michael Bryant is painfully touching as the wry, wily and
frightened Rev. Harry Henderson, who washes his hands of his
male lover's needs, fearing exposure, which comes anyhow.
David Bamber is a delight as the Rev. Donald "Streaky" Bacon,
the happy priest. The only false note in Mr. Hare's play is
struck by Tony's secular mistress, Frances Parnell. Stella
Gonet does all she can with the part, but it stretches belief
that a beautiful, well-educated and principled woman would
throw herself at the zealot Tony and then turn the head of
the Rev. Espy while his wife lies ill with a stroke in the
next room. Some might argue that Mr. Hare needed to season
all his pious interplay with a bit of sex. What he really
needed, though, was a commentator outside the church, who
might more realistically have been Espy's wife, Heather. In
its current form, hers is a small but affecting role,
beautifully played by Barbara Leigh-Hunt.
   But however well-acted and staged this play was, I found
myself wondering how it would go over with American
audiences. God seems to succeed on the American stage and
screen only when he plays straight man to the evil, as in
Arthur Miller's "The Crucible"; when his Son gets into steamy
situations, as in Martin Scorsese's "The Last Temptation of
Christ"; or when he is incarnated as the warm, cuddly and
wholly accessible George Burns in "Oh, God." Unlike our
English cousins, we have little patience for debates on His
presence or absence, and no predisposition to watch a band of
well-meaning men try to chart the right course for His
church. But over there it's not simply His church, but Her
church as well, Elizabeth II's. The Church of England, like
the Royal Family (and the Royal National Theatre), is part of
the British establishment. Even today, many Brits -- even
those who couldn't tell a synod from a sin -- look to the
Church of England for a sense of order, of decency, of faith,
just as they look to the Royal Family for vague assurance
that their values and traditions have not been wholly lost.
We disestablished all of that. Since we are not privy to a
common faith, we can't question whether it still pertains.
All to the good, of course, but it's uplifting on occasion to
see a fine piece of work that assumes common knowledge about
a common faith, and can then proceed to question that faith.
We will no doubt continue to receive from the mother country
dancing cats who sing T.S. Eliot poetry, phantoms who stalk
elaborate sets, and other easily deciphered entertainments.
But don't hold your breath until "Racing Demon" and its like
are imported or created in the U.S.
   ---
   Mr. Henning is a law-firm management consultant in
Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Motors Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GM
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL MOTORS Corp. (Detroit) -- Michael H. Erdman has
been named vice president-marketing and elected to the board
of General Motors of Canada Ltd., GM's Canadian operating
unit. Mr. Erdman, formerly general marketing manager for GM's
Chevrolet division, will succeed William J. Atkinson. Mr.
Atkinson, 52 years old, is leaving GM of Canada to "pursue a
General Motors retail franchising opportunity," the company
said. GM didn't immediately name a successor to Mr. Erdman at
Chevrolet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacobs Unit Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   JEC
</CO>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. said a
unit received a $15.6 million contract from Glendale Memorial
Hospital Health Center to build an addition to the Glendale,
Calif., medical center.
   The 130,000 square-foot addition will include surgical
suites, an emergency treatment center and X-ray facilities,
Jacobs said. The project, awarded to Jacobs's Robert E. McKee
Inc. unit, is set for completion in early 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   VISA International
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   VISA INTERNATIONAL (San Francisco) -- Jeremy Danks,
formerly an American Express Co. marketing executive, was
named senior vice president and head of this card program's
product development division, a newly created position.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southam to Buy Printing Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   T.STM T.HLG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Southam Inc. said it agreed to acquire Litho
Prestige, a Quebec printing plant, from a unit of Hollinger
Inc., a Toronto printing and publishing concern that is
controlled by Conrad Black.
   The value of the transaction wasn't disclosed, but Southam
said Litho Prestige has annual revenue of about 30 million
Canadian dollars (US$26.1 million).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Southam said the printing plant will be integrated with
its Imprimerie Canadienne Gazette printing plant, which has
annual sales of about C$70 million.
   Southam is a Toronto printing, publishing and retailing
concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTE, Contel Reach
   Definitive Agreement
   On $6.2 Billion Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE CTC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- GTE Corp. and Contel Corp. definitively agreed
to a $6.2 billion merger through a swap of shares.
   Under terms of a preliminary agreement announced July 12,
GTE will issue 1.27 of its shares for each of Contel's shares
outstanding. The merger would create the largest provider of
local-service telephone services in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This fall, the companies will hold meetings at which
shareholders will vote on the transaction. GTE and Contel
hope to close the transaction by year end.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
GTE shares fell 37.5 cents to $27.125, while Contel's rose
62.5 cents to $31.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   Z
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOOLWORTH Corp. (New York) -- Moody's Investors Service
raised its rating on the senior debt of this retailing
concern to single-A-1 from single-A-2, citing above-average
profits and an improved balance sheet. About $182 million of
debt outstanding was affected. Moody's boosted its rating on
F.W. Woolworth Co. sinking fund debentures issues due 1996
and 1999 to single-A-1 from single-A-2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CPA Body to Allow
   Some Limited Use
   Of Contingent Fees
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Trade Commission issued a final
consent order under which the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants agreed not to restrict accountants from
accepting contingent fees and commissions from non-audit
clients.
   The governing council of the institute, the major
professional body for U.S. accountants, effectively had
lifted its ban on most such practices in May. But the
institute was awaiting a final FTC order before formally
changing its rules.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The institute had agreed in August 1988 to settle FTC
charges that its ban on contingent fees restrained
competition.
   The institute has a membership of nearly 300,000 CPAs in
public practice, but its rules don't override state law or
the rules of state CPA societies.
   An FTC complaint issued with the order charges the
institute illegally restrained competition and deprived
consumers of information about "the availability, price and
quality of CPA services." The order, issued on a 3-2 vote,
doesn't constitute an admission of a violation, but carries
the force of law regarding future actions.
   Under the final order, the institute agreed not to
restrict CPAs from working for non-audit clients for
contingent fees, or accepting commissions, as long as the
CPAs disclose them to their clients. The institute also
agreed not to ban fees for referring clients to CPAs, or to
bar nondeceptive advertising. Disclosure of referral fees and
commissions on services and products also may be required.
   Contingent fees are those in which accountants take an
engagement where the final fee is based on getting a benefit
for the client. Commissions are paid for services such as
advising a client to buy specific computer hardware, or
taking an audit or consulting job when the final fee is based
on the benefit derived by the client.
   Under modifications by the commission, the order allows
the institute to prohibit CPAs from accepting contingent fees
for preparing tax returns. It also limits acceptance of the
fees and commissions to non-audit clients, and allows the
institute to prohibit CPAs from providing audit services to
clients where they have provided services for a contingent
fee or commission. The earlier proposal would have removed
restrictions on doing such work for audit clients.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   About $18.4 Billion
   Of Short-Term Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $2.25 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.14 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing on Nov. 15, 1990, and Feb. 14, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New York
   Resigns Position
   As Primary Dealer
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BK
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Another big financial institution resigned as
a primary dealer of U.S. securities, citing declining
profits.
   Bank of New York said yesterday that it closed its BNY
Securities Inc. unit, and laid off nearly half of the unit's
40 employees. Including Bank of New York, four securities
firms have given up or lost their primary-dealer status so
far this year, reducing the number of dealers to 41.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Primary dealers are an elite group of big commercial banks
and brokerage firms that do business directly with the New
York Federal Reserve Bank in buying and selling U.S.
government securities that are used to influence national
monetary policy. Once one of the most coveted franchises in
international finance, the business of primary dealers has
become brutally competitive in recent years. As the number of
dealers has swelled, profit margins have been trimmed to the
bare bones. The Federal Reserve estimates that half of the
primary dealers were unprofitable or barely broke even last
year.
   Some of the resignations of primary dealers have been
attributed to the inability of the firms to earn enough from
the Treasury market to justify the capitalization of at least
$50 million required by the Fed.
   Officials at Bank of New York said their operation made
money. "It was a profitable business for us, but not
profitable enough," said a company spokesman. "The market
conditions are such that we are not getting the returns from
the business that we require."
   The resignation of Bank of New York comes less than two
years after it became a primary dealer through the
acquisition of Irving Bank. People in the bond market said
that Irving had tried to sell the dealership operations of
Irving Securities Inc. prior to the merger with Bank of New
York, but couldn't find a buyer.
   Several other primary dealerships are rumored to be on the
block or face closing, several traders said.
   Despite the closing of its primary dealer operation, Bank
of New York said it will continue trading U.S. government
bonds for its own account, as well as other securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LATAM LABOR CQB MC IBM JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRADING RUBLES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet government announced a plan to allow some
businesses and organizations to trade rubles for foreign
currency at market rates.
   The action, a step toward the ruble's convertibility,
would establish currency markets in the Soviet Union
beginning Jan. 1, 1991, the official Tass news agency said.
Tass said the Soviet Council of Ministers made the decision
on Saturday.
   Legal enterprises and organizations, but apparently not
individuals, would be permitted to buy and sell foreign
currency in exchange for rubles at rates established by
banks, currency auctions and other operations, Tass said. The
report didn't say what the other operations would be or what
other limits and controls would be placed on such markets.
   Tass said the decision to set up a currency market was
prompted by preparations for the Soviet Union's transition to
a regulated market economy.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA-INDONESIA AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   Chinese Prime Minister Li Peng met Indonesian President
Suharto in Jakarta yesterday and promised not to use ethnic
Chinese in Indonesia to serve Beijing's own purposes. Mr. Li
was in Indonesia to sign an agreement to resume diplomatic
relations between the two countries. Relations were suspended
after Indonesia accused Beijing of supporting an attempted
coup by Communist rebels in 1965.
                                                                                                       

   BANANA WORKERS BACK ON JOB
                                                                                                       

   In Honduras, thousands of banana workers returned to their
jobs after ending a strike that began June 25 against
Chiquita Brands International Inc. The strike caused an
estimated $60 million in losses to the Honduran economy.
Threatened with dismissal after the government sent in troops
to end the strike, the workers accepted a 25% pay raise; they
had earlier demanded more than 50%.
                                                                                                       

   MATSUSHITA-IBM AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s Taiwan
personal-computer subsidiary will make PCs for International
Business Machines Corp. after the subsidiary starts
operations this October, a Matsushita spokesman said. The
Japanese company's spokesman said the agreement to make
32-bit PCs for IBM on an original-equipment-manufacturing
basis represents a further strengthening of the relationship
between the two companies. Matsushita already manufactures
IBM's PC2 at the company's facilities in Illinois.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE IMPORT PANEL
                                                                                                       

   Japan will set up a 30-member Import Board to help slash
its trade surplus. Establishment of the panel, comprising
government officials, Japanese businessmen and foreign
business executives, was approved by the Trade Conference,
the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. The
conference is chaired by Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu and
includes cabinet members and Japanese business leaders. The
new board will meet twice a year, beginning this fall.
                                                                                                       

   WARSAW NEAR BANKRUPTCY
                                                                                                       

   Warsaw is almost out of money because Poland's
economic-reform program has left thousands of businesses
facing bankruptcy and unable to make tax payments, the city
government reported.
   Both large enterprises and small factories have had
trouble meeting their obligations, causing a dramatic drop in
revenues collected by the Warsaw government, the Polish media
reported. In the province of Warsaw, which includes the city
and surrounding villages, local governments have paid only 3%
of their annual dues to the provincial government, the Zycie
Warszawy newspaper said.
   The local governments owe 481 billion zlotys ($50.6
million) -- money they are unable to raise because they
managed to collect only 40% of the taxes owed to the village
administrations, the newspaper said.
   "The {Warsaw} province is on the edge of bankruptcy," a
provincial official said, adding that a precise budget review
would be completed this month.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   With most of Europe in the grips of a drought, water
restrictions are widespread. Yesterday, a woman caught
watering her garden in southwest France was fined $250. In
Britain, drought orders are in force in 26 districts, and
those who disobey can be fined up to $750. . . .
Switzerland's Federal Court agreed with retiree Andre Cornu
that cowbells worn by neighboring farmers' herds can be a
form of noise pollution. Mr. Cornu said the court ruled that
bells must come off all cows right next to his property "and
bronze bells must not be used at all."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Northwest Air's Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. PAUL, Minn. -- Northwest Airlines, a unit of NWA Inc.,
said its July traffic rose 10% to 5.02 billion revenue
passenger miles from 4.55 billion miles a year earlier. A
revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
   The carrier's July load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, increased to 72.7% from 70.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first seven months of this year, Northwest's
traffic climbed 15% to 29.66 billion revenue passenger miles
from 25.78 billion miles a year earlier. The load factor rose
to 66.5% from 65.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   The Rock 'n' Roll Racket
   ----
   By Joseph Nocera
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   "I hope you didn't ---- us too much," Janis Joplin is
supposed to have said upon meeting the man who drew up her
first record contract for CBS Records. Here, quite clearly,
was a woman who understood the nature of the recording
industry in America. Not that it seemed to bother her: Upon
signing the contract, she offered to sleep with the CBS
Records head Clive Davis to celebrate the deal.
   Fredric Dannen, a contributing editor of Vanity Fair, is
not nearly so forgiving as the late Ms. Joplin. He intends,
with "Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music
Business" (Times Books, 387 pages, $19.95) to expose the
industry in all its lurid corruption, to lay bare its
mismanagement and flush out its seedy characters, to point
out its conflicts of interest and raise an accusatory finger
at the exploitation that is at its core. As Mr. Dannen
describes it, the typical transaction in the music business
goes like this: If the recording artist is a small fry, then
the record company tries to ensure that he is taken to the
cleaners in the contract. If the recording artist is a big
shot, he tends to insist on a contract that will almost
surely cost the record company money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Hit Men" tells two different, if mildly interconnected,
stories. The first, and weakest, is an expose of a racket
called "independent promotion," in which a few men with ties
to radio stations were paid fees by the record companies to
ensure that songs got airplay. These men become so powerful
they were called "The Network," and by the mid-80s, they
commanded huge sums; Mr. Dannen estimates that companies were
spending a total of $60 million to $80 million on independent
promotion. There is not much doubt those thugs could keep
records off the air. That they had mob ties seems
irrefutable; that they were involved in payola (some of it in
the form of cocaine) has since been proved in several
criminal cases.
   That's one of Mr. Dannen's problems: Rather than exposing
The Network, he has done not much more than rehash the work
of others, most notably Brian Ross of NBC News, who
originally broke the independent-promotion scandal back in
1986. Another problem is that the context for this scandal is
largely missing. We get no sense, for instance, of whether
Top 40 radio -- the bread and butter of the independent
promoters -- still matters in the age of MTV. Nor does Mr.
Dannen's reasoning always make sense: He claims at one point
that The Network had become so expensive that only CBS
Records could afford it. Yet if The Network is as powerful as
he says it is, you have to wonder how anyone else got any
records on the air. Mr. Dannen does, however, have a nice
feel for the ironies involved; he is amused at the way the
record companies were shocked -- shocked] -- when the payola
practices of the independent promoters were exposed in the
press; and, as he points out, in the end the industry used
the exposes and prosecutions not so much to get rid of
independent promotion as to shift its cost from themselves to
the recording artists.
   Mr. Dannen's second purpose is to bring to life the men
who run the record industry, in all their unpleasantness and
egomania, and here he largely accomplishes his purpose. You
simply cannot read his descriptions of people such as David
Geffen of Geffen Records, Irving Azoff of MCA Records, and
most of all, Walter Yetnikoff, the head of CBS Records,
without thinking ill of them. Mr. Yetnikoff, who is the
central character in the book, comes across in "Hit Men" as
the most overrated executive this side of James Robinson. His
shtick, apparently, is to yell at people in the foulest ways
imaginable; a typical Yetnikoff sentence can't be repeated in
this newspaper. When he first became head of CBS Records in
the early 1980s, he decided to wage open war against
archrival Warner Bros.; among other tactics, he had a huge
obscene anti-Warner flag made. His management "skills" were
such that by the end of the decade, the once-dominant CBS
held only 16% of the market, while Warner Bros. had risen to
40%. He openly mocked his superiors at CBS, including CBS
President Laurence Tisch, whose sin, in Mr. Yetnikoff's eyes,
was not giving in to every Yetnikoff demand. Mr. Dannen even
makes a persuasive case that Mr. Yetnikoff liked the
independent-promotion system, slimy though it was, because it
provided a prohibitively expensive barrier to small record
companies.
   Cement contractors who do this sort of thing can find
themselves in a lot of trouble but, as we all know, it didn't
work out too badly for Mr. Yetnikoff. His open harassment of
Mr. Tisch played at least a small role in CBS's selling its
record division to Sony (for a wildly inflated $2 billion),
and then Mr. Yetnikoff helped persuade Sony to overpay again,
this time to land Yetnikoff buddies Jon Peters and Peter
Guber to run Columbia Pictures, Sony's new movie division.
And of course, for his role in helping snooker his new
employer, Sony made Mr. Yetnikoff a very rich man. Despite
his lackluster performance, he remains, as he likes to say of
himself, "probably the most powerful record executive." As
somebody didn't say, there's no business like the record
business.
   ---
   Mr. Nocera writes "The Profit Motive" column for Esquire.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Horn &amp; Hardart's Sale to Arby's
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Horn &amp; Hardart Co. said it will sell to Arby's
Inc. for $5 million 22 franchised Arby's restaurants in
southern Florida.
   Earlier this year, Horn &amp; Hardart announced plans to sell
all of its East Coast restaurant holdings, to focus on
Hanover Cos., a direct marketing subsidiary. The company's
remaining East Coast restaurant operations include 129
franchised and 22 company-owned Bojangles' Fried Chicken &amp;
Biscuits outlets and five Tony Roma's units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Horn &amp; Hardart plans to keep its International King's
Table Inc. unit, a West Coast chain of 83 restaurants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Rebounds 0.5% In Lower Volume
   Despite Losses of Exchange Listed Issues
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Over-the-counter stocks rebounded slightly and hung on to
their gains, despite a fall in exchange-listed shares
triggered by reports that U.S. troops were moving into Saudi
Arabia.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 2.04 to 402.08, a 0.5%
gain, compared with a 0.2% loss in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average. Volume eased to 165.5 million shares from 174.8
million shares Monday as advancing stocks overtook decliners,
1,106 to 964.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're not out of the woods yet," said Eric Siefert, a
senior OTC trader with Shearson Lehman Brothers, who kept a
close eye on televised reports of developments in the Middle
East. Calling the day's gains a "technical bounce," Mr.
Siefert agreed with other traders that professional dealers
and investors were making investment decisions based on
unfolding developments in the Middle East and the direction
of the bond market and exchange-listed shares.
   "Everybody's trading from a defensive point of view and
staying close to the vest," said Robert Antolini, head of OTC
trading for Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. Mr. Antolini added
that OTC trading desks are keeping their inventories of
shares low.
   Many of the OTC market's largest stocks reclaimed their
lead after Monday's plunge, but larger issues ended the day
mixed. Intel added 5/8 to 37 7/8; Conner Peripherals gained 1
to 22 7/8; Sun Microsystems rebounded 1 to 28 5/8; Liz
Claiborne regained 1 1/8 to 26, and Nike advanced 2 1/8 to 74
7/8. The Nasdaq 100 Index added 2.40 to 405.31, while the
Nasdaq Industrial Index gained 2.45 to 429.01.
   Apple Computer closed unchanged at 39 1/2, as did Oracle
Systems at 14 7/8. Shortly after the market closed, Oracle
introduced a new database server called Oracle Server for
Apple Macintosh computers.
   Amgen slipped 1 1/4 to 80 1/4. The executive secretary of
a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel told Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report that scheduling problems prevent
the panel from meeting in November. Analysts had expected the
panel to meet then to review the Thousand Oaks, Calif.,
biotechnology concern's G-CSF product used to stimulate white
blood cell production. The executive secretary said she hopes
the meeting will occur by year end.
   ransportation issues, pummeled Monday on fears of higher
oil prices, also reclaimed some losses as the Nasdaq
Transportation Index rebounded 8.66 to 444.59.
   Yellow Freight System gained 7/8 to 24 1/8; Roadway
Services, also a motor freight carrier, jumped 2 1/4 to 34;
Arkansas Freightways added 1 to 19 1/4, and J.B. Hunt
Transport rose 1/2 to 17.
   However, airline shares turned in a mixed performance:
American West Airlines gained 1/4 to 7 1/2 and Mesa Airlines
edged up 1/8 to 7 1/4, but commuter airline Air Wis Services
eased 1/8 to 8 5/8.
   Utility shares, hammered Monday on fears of higher
interest rates, regained some lost ground. The Nasdaq Utility
Index climbed 2.76 to 553.10 as market leader MCI
Communications added 5/8 to 34 5/8. Among natural gas
utilities, Delta Natural Gas advanced 3/8 to 12 1/4;
Northwest Natural Gas climbed 1/4 to 22 7/8, and Public
Service Co. of North Carolina added 1/8 to 16 3/8. Magma
Power, a San Diego, developer of geothermal resources, jumped
1 3/4 to 35 1/2.
   Seattle Filmworks added 1 to 7 5/8 after the Seattle
mail-order film processor said it plans to buy back up to
200,000 shares of its nearly 1.8 million common shares
outstanding.
   Central Fidelity Banks climbed 3/4 to 24 after the
Richmond, Va., bank said late Monday it plans to buy back up
to 750,000 shares, or about 5%, of its common stock.
   Buffets rose 1/2 to 18 3/4. Late Monday, the Eden Prairie,
Minn., restaurant chain reported net income for the second
quarter ended July 18 rose to 24 cents a share from 17 cents
a year earlier.
   Gish Biomedical jumped 1 1/2 to 11 7/8. Monday, analyst
Steven E. Crowley of Craig-Hallum, Minneapolis, raised his
investment opinion on the Santa Ana, Calif., medical-products
maker to an "accumulate" from a "hold," DJPIR said.
   Gish Biomedical's chief financial officer, Jeanne M.
Miller, told DJPIR she had "no problem" with Mr. Crowley's
estimate that the company earned 15 cents a share in fourth
quarter ended June 30, up from 12 cents a year earlier. Those
earnings are scheduled to be reported between Aug. 15 and
Aug. 30, she said.
   Ms. Miller also said Gish was listed as one of 500 top
growth stocks Aug. 7 issue of Financial World magazine. She
added that "a parade of corporate finance people" have
recently visited the company, trying to interest it in a
transaction such as a secondary public offering. However, Ms.
Miller said the company has no interest in such a
transaction.
   Some other medical products concerns also rebounded after
Monday's thrashing: Shares of heart valve maker St. Jude
Medical jumped 2 3/8 to 29 and specialty medical-device maker
Stryker leaped 2 3/8 to 25.
   Sigma-Aldrich plummeted 4 5/8 to 55 5/8. The St. Louis
producer of biochemical and organic products reported net
income for the second quarter ended June 30 of 73 cents a
share compared with 66 cents a year earlier. That profit was
below analysts' expectations of 75 cents a share, according
to First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Cetus fell 1/4 to 9 1/4 after the Emeryville, Calif.,
biotechnology concern reported a loss for the fourth quarter
ended June 30 of 53 cents a share on 30.8 million shares
outstanding, versus a year-earlier loss of 53 cents on nearly
27 million shares outstanding.
   W. R. Berkley slid 1/4 to 35 3/4. After the market closed
Monday, the Greenwich, Conn., insurer estimated it could face
a charge of $10 million, or 84 cents a share, in the third
quarter ending Sept. 30, following arbitration of a
reinsurance dispute. In the year-earlier third quarter,
Berkley reported net income of $1.03 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Legacy Shows Family Firms How to Attract Capital
   ---
   Concern Seeks Clients With History
   Of Profitability, Realistic Expectations
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Family businesses seeking capital first need to face the
music: Their companies may be worth much less than a few
years ago. But for the right deal, there is plenty of money
around, often from other family businesses.
   So says Jonathan J. Ledecky, a partner in Legacy Fund in
Washington, D.C. In terms of making famous deals, the
youthful Mr. Ledecky is no Henry Kravis. But he does have a
specialty that interests many entrepreneurs: finding outside
investors for small family companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 1983 graduate of Harvard Business School, Mr. Ledecky
gained financial experience working for other concerns. Last
year, he and a partner, Timothy R. Furey, founded Legacy, an
investment-management company. Currently, Legacy says it is
seeking to make deals jointly with two other firms -- J.
Holdsworth Capital Ltd. in Boston and Scovill Holdings Inc.
in Philadelphia. Legacy this year acquired a 33% stake in
Snow Environmental Services Inc., Aston, Pa.
   In an interview, Mr. Ledecky provided some insights on
attracting capital:
                                                                                                       

   Q. How can a family company attract outside investment?
   A. The most important thing is to have a realistic
expectation of what the business can be sold for. Prices have
changed dramatically over the past two years. At the height
of the feeding frenzy on Wall Street, small businesses were
beginning to command multiples that were in the same range as
those for big businesses: eight to 10 times pretax profit or
cash flow. Now negotiations start in the four-to-five-times
range, but buyers' expectations have remained in the
eight-to-10 range. Buyers and sellers are settling somewhere
between four and six.
                                                                                                       

   Q. How much do attractive small businesses really make?
   A. Pretax margins or cash flow can be between 15% and 25%
of sales, which are outstanding margins. That's much
healthier than the widespread perception of small business,
which is that owners eke out a living with a 5% to 7% profit.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Need companies be profitable to attract investors?
   A. We want to work with businesses that have a record of
profitability, because those companies fall at the lower end
of the risk spectrum. But we will make an exception. At
Nutcracker Snacks, {a Billerica, Mass., snack-foods
marketer}, Holdsworth saw a way to accomplish a turnaround,
so it went in and did it. The packaging of the nuts needed to
be changed, the mix of the nuts needed to be changed, and the
marketing channels that the nuts sold through needed to be
changed. Now the family is sharing in the profits from
turnaround.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Besides family companies, are there any other small
companies worth investing in?
   A. Public companies sometimes have divisions that get
orphaned; they no longer meet the strategic fit of the
business. They want to divest themselves of these divisions,
but the divisions are far too small to attract traditional
buyers. In the case of Western Sky Industries Inc., {a
Hayward, Calif., company formerly owned by Atlas Corp.},
Scovill in essence has created a small business, or
family-like business, where none existed before. Western Sky
makes parts for the aerospace and auto industries. It was
appealing because it provided an entree into several
businesses at the same time.
                                                                                                       

   Q. How do you see Legacy's role?
   A. We try to fly below the radar of Wall Street to find
companies that are small. There is tremendous interest today
in investing in small family-held businesses by families that
have created large amounts of wealth through businesses of
their own. We aim for a 30% to 40% compound annual return
over a five-year period.
   The investment from any one family could be as little as
$100,000 or as much as $2.5 million -- that's the range we've
seen interest at.
   We focus on small, family-held businesses that have been
consistently profitable for a decade or more. The risk
profile is low, because we're buying businesses that have
been around a long time, with high ratios of cash flow to
sales. They aren't sexy businesses, but year in and year out,
they're making money.
                                                                                                       

   Q. How receptive are family businesses to outsiders'
buy-out or investment offers?
   A. It's incredibly difficult to purchase a family
business. The amount of politics, the amount of psychology,
the amount of handholding all are enormous. Once I had to
meet the wife of the business owner, even though she wasn't
involved in the business. She peppered me for six hours with
questions, and I had to pass her scrutiny. Another time, two
brothers who owned a company insisted on bringing not only
their wives to the meeting, but all their cousins. We had a
six-hour meeting in a hotel conference room with 25 people.

   Q. Investments in small businesses aren't very liquid. How
do you plan to realize any gains?
   A. Ultimately what we want to do is purchase family
businesses in consolidating industries -- industries where an
aggregation program is going on. We hope to put businesses
together and sell them. For example, at Clayton Holdings
Inc., {a Tampa, Fla., pipe company that Holdsworth bought
into}, the strategy clearly is to grow to $200 million in
sales by aggregating mom-and-pop players. And we are looking
at the possibility of putting together a group of eight or
nine food-service distributors sprinkled across the country,
using a company in Boston and a company in San Francisco as
the beachhead investments and then making investments between
the two coasts.
   Keep in mind that our family investors aren't overly
concerned with an exit immediately after five years. These
families themselves have created wealth in business they've
controlled for 30 or 40 years. The horizon gets pushed out.
                                                                                                       

   Q. How will Legacy pay its bills in the meantime?
   A. Legacy generates income from a variety of sources, such
as advisory work for small businesses that don't want to sell
out but that do have a need to change. It also generates fees
from putting together transactions. It is not economically
viable for a large institution like Salomon Brothers to do a
$10 million deal, because its overhead is so huge. Legacy can
afford it. Our rent is $5,000 a month; we don't pay ourselves
exorbitant salaries. On a $10 million transaction, Legacy
could expect to get a $250,000 fee for putting the deal
together.
                                                                                                       

   Q. Legacy does deals, but it isn't actually a fund yet.
Why not?
   A. The first-time funds in today's market are having a
difficult time raising money: It's a chicken-and-egg problem.
That's the bad news. The good news is that with all the
wealth that's been created in families in the last three
decades, there's a tremendous amount of liquidity sloshing
around in these families. When Legacy finds a specific
transaction, there is no difficulty raising money to complete
the deal. When Legacy tries to raise a blind pool of capital,
there's a great deal of difficulty. Families that are
investing private wealth would rather direct it to a
particular situation than to a fund.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston Corp.
   Repackages Bonds
   Into Lower Risks
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- First Boston Corp. said it repackaged $245
million of low-rated junk bonds into new securities with
credit ratings as high as double-A.
   The First Boston transaction marks a bit of revival for
such repackagings, which are known as collateralized bond
obligations. CBOs briefly flourished last year, when they
were hailed as a way to make junk-bond investing palatable to
mainstream, credit-conscious investors. After a few boom
months, however, CBOs fell into obscurity during the general
junk-bond collapse of early 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert Long, director of high-yield research at First
Boston, said the CBO is his firm's second such offering this
year; the first occurred in February. "I expect we'll see
significantly more of these," he said.
   The CBO is being sold to First Boston Asset Management, a
unit of First Boston that invests money for pension funds and
other clients. It was structured as a private placement that
didn't need to be registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   First Boston is a unit of CS First Boston Group.
   Mr. Long said the CBO draws upon a freshly acquired $245
million portfolio of bonds that are rated double-B and
single-B. Interest and principal payments from those bonds
will be divided into three sets of new securities. Two of
these new classes of securities, totaling $117 million and
$49 million, will be "over-collateralized," with more than
$117 million and $49 million respectively of junk bonds
backing them up, Mr. Long said.
   That way, even if some of the individual bonds default,
these two classes still would collect adequate cash flows to
meet their stated yields of 1.8 percentage points and 2.1
percentage points above rates on comparable Treasury
securities, First Boston said. This overcollateralization
also allows those two classes to qualify for double-A
ratings, First Boston said.
   The CBO's final class, however, will be far riskier. It
will have far less specific junk-bond collateral. Instead, it
will be entitled to whatever interest income is left over
from the junk bonds that back the first two classes, once the
two double-A segments have made their obligatory payments. If
default rates are what First Boston expects, the bottom class
could yield more than 20%, Mr. Long said. If default rates
are a lot higher, the bottom class could yield very little or
even be a source of losses for investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capital Spending in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Capital spending by Japanese corporations this
year will grow 16% from a year earlier, according to
responses by 4,296 companies in a survey by Japan's Economic
Planning Agency.
   The forecast represents a slowing of growth, following
year-to-year gains of 27% in 1989 and 22% in 1988, but it
would still mark the third consecutive year of double-digit
increases in capital spending outlays. The agency said it is
certain that growth in capital outlays for the year ending in
March will exceed 10%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agency acknowledged that recent market instability,
following Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, could hurt market
sentiment. But it said corporate investment for energy
conservation and new technologies is expected to remain
strong.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   America West Air's Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AWAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- America West Airlines said July traffic
climbed 44% to 979.2 million revenue passenger miles from
679.1 million a year earlier. A revenue passenger mile is one
paying passenger flown one mile.
   The carrier's July load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, rose to 61.2% from 58.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first seven months, traffic increased 43% to 6.27
billion revenue passenger miles from 4.39 billion a year
earlier. The load factor rose to 62% from 57.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enex Resources Stock Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ENEX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Enex Resources Corp. said it would buy back up
to 150,000 of its common shares. A portion of the shares will
be acquired through a $4-a-share tender offer to holders of
99 or fewer shares. The company has about 1.5 million shares
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It Might Be a Good Opportunity
   For an Eager Astroturf Salesman
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Ontario -- Jose Banos doesn't have to worry
about mowing his lawn this summer: It's been repossessed.
   At least, that's what Mr. Banos and his wife, Maria, say
happened to their acre lot after they refused to pay a local
landscaping firm 2,900 Canadian dollars (US$2,523) for sowing
grass seed on their back lawn.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead of growing grass, Mr. and Mrs. Banos say, their
lawn sprouted a fine crop of weeds this spring. Unhappy with
the job, they say they refused to pay the bill, figuring that
being taken to court would be the worst that could happen.
   They were wrong. Mrs. Banos says the landscaper, Gordon
Kinzie, telephoned on a Friday morning to say that if he
didn't have full payment for the seeding job by that noon, he
was going to dig up the lawn. "I figured he was crazy until
two bulldozers showed up and started plowing up and down, up
and down, shoving all the soil and all the weeds up into a
big pile at the end of the garden," Mrs. Banos says.
   Mr. Kinzie agrees that he and another man bulldozed the
lawn after the Banoses repeatedly refused to pay the seeding
bill. "We did soil tests, that's the story we're sticking
with," he says. Mr. Banos had complained there wasn't enough
soil for the grass to grow properly, the landscaper says, "so
we checked every bit of it because we wanted to be thorough."
He adds: "There's lots of soil there, only now it's all in a
big pile at the other end of the garden."
   Mr. Kinzie's novel method of debt collection comes up for
consideration in Ontario's provincial court Monday, when he
faces charges of trespassing. The landscaper insists he
wasn't trespassing. "I asked Mr. Banos for permission to fix
the lawn, and he said go ahead," Mr. Kinzie says. "So I fixed
it. Maybe that wasn't what he had in mind as far as fixing
goes, but he did give me permission."
   Mr. Kinzie says he and many other contractors are fed up
with customers who don't pay once a job on their home is
completed. "Because I'd waited to submit my bill, to ensure
they were satisfied, I couldn't put a lien on the house," he
says. "If I took them to court, it would take ages and I
might wind up paying my lawyers more than I collected from
them."
   The Banos's lawyer, Timothy Hilborn, says the courts may
cost time and money, "but you can't just breeze in there and
say, hey, that's my lawn, give it back."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Japan Has Greatly Boosted
   Its Resistance to Oil Shocks
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan, as all schoolchildren here are taught, is
a small island nation with few natural resources. So it has
become an axiom that this, of all the industrial countries,
is especially vulnerable to energy crises.
   But since Iraqi tanks roared across the Kuwaiti border
last Thursday, corporations and consumers here haven't seemed
terribly worried about their ability to cope with more
expensive oil. And, while stock and bond prices here have
plummeted along with other world markets, economists and
analysts say Japan could weather higher oil prices far more
comfortably than it did the two oil shocks of the 1970s --
thanks to energy conservation measures and industrial
restructuring during the past decade. Surprisingly, some say
the U.S. economy may well suffer more this time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Interest rates would rise, and growth and profits would
fall in Japan if oil prices rose, but probably not by as much
as would be the case in the energy-wasteful U.S.," writes Jan
VanDenBerg, Tokyo-based economist for Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets, in a report issued Tuesday.
   "The Japanese economy is in very good shape, but I am
worried about the American economy," says Kazuaki Harada,
chief economist at Sanwa Bank's research institute. "The
negative impact coming from rising oil prices is much more
serious for the U.S. than Japan."
   The mood here is in stark contrast to the dark days of
1974, when many people feared a newly powerful cartel of
Middle East oil producers would bring Japan's industrial
machine to a grinding halt.
   There remains, of course, some risk that Japan's economy
could be hobbled by the crisis in the Middle East. Because
Japan depends on imported oil for most of its energy needs, a
supply disruption -- rather than price increases -- could be
crippling. A long period of sharply higher oil prices could
also take a heavy toll. And, with U.S. warships steaming
toward the Persian Gulf and oil prices quoted yesterday at as
much as $28 a barrel, that threat is growing less remote.
   Such a scenario "would cause a very big impact on the
Japanese economy as a whole," says Nobuyuki Ueda, an
economist at Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. He says the
rise in oil prices so far justifies lowering his projection
for the rate of Japanese economic growth in the fiscal year
ending next March 31 to around 4.4% or 4.5%, down from 4.9%
now.
   A macroeconomic simulation released Tuesday by Daiwa
Securities Co.'s research affiliate shows real economic
growth of 3.5% for the fiscal year beginning next April,
assuming that oil prices average about $25 a barrel, utility
rates edge up and -- as many investors now believe likely --
Japan's central bank raises the official discount rate by
about 0.75%. That compares with the research institute's
previous forecast, issued July 9, that the economy would
expand by 4.1% for the fiscal year beginning in April.
   Still, given the resilience Japanese industry developed
during the previous oil crises and during the wrenching
revaluation of the yen in the late 1980s, companies here
stand to recover more quickly than their international
rivals, economists say.
   For one thing, Japanese industry has become more
energy-efficient than its international rivals. The U.S. uses
about 2.5 times as much energy per person for commercial use
as Japan, and West Germany about 1.5 times as much, according
to economists at Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd. Kenneth Courtis,
senior economist at Deutsche Bank Capital Markets in Tokyo,
notes that the Japanese economy today produces 2.24 times the
real output for the same energy input as in 1973.
   A broad shift away from energy-intensive heavy industries
and development of other energy sources -- nuclear power now
accounts for about a quarter of Japan's energy -- have helped
reduce Japan's vulnerability to higher oil prices. So has a
buildup of petroleum reserves, which now amount to the
equivalent of 142 days' supply -- compared with an estimated
99 days for all members of the International Energy Agency,
according to Merrill Lynch. On Tuesday, Japan's minister of
international trade and industry said the government is
prepared to allow a "drastic decline" in the oil stockpile to
ease any shortage problems.
   Consider the case of Japan's steelmakers. While oil
accounted for 21.3% of their energy consumption in 1973, that
proportion had dropped to 14.2% by 1979 and has been less
than 7% since 1982, according to the Japan Iron &amp; Steel
Federation.
   For the nation as a whole, oil dropped from 77.4% of total
energy supplies in 1973 to 71.5% at the outbreak of the 1979
oil crisis and now stands at just under 58%.
   While each dollar-a-barrel increase in crude oil prices
will trim Japan's balance of payments surplus by $1.3 billion
a year, the same increase will add $2.9 billion to the U.S.
trade deficit, estimates Mr. Harada of Sanwa Bank. And while
a 10% increase in oil prices could be expected to boost
wholesale prices in Japan by 0.2 percentage point, the same
change would add 0.6 percentage point to U.S. producer
prices, he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Another Day, Another Dollar: Lobbyist
   Leads Odd Army in Fight for New Coin
   ----
   By John Wagner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- What do the copper industry, the American
Council of the Blind and jukebox owners have in common?
   Not a whole lot, actually, says James C. Benfield. But
that's the point. The 46-year-old lobbyist has discovered
that one of the best ways to win legislative battles in
Washington is to enlist many otherwise unrelated foot
soldiers in a common fight. Mr. Benfield is currently the
executive director of the Coin Coalition, a collection of 23
trade associations pushing for the replacement of the dollar
bill with a gold-colored dollar coin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Legislation pending in both the House and the Senate calls
for the creation of a dollar coin that would be at least 90%
copper in content. The coin would be distinguishable by feel
to help the blind, and it would effectively eliminate the
need for jukebox owners to install costly dollar-bill
changers adjacent to their juke boxes. Accordingly, Mr.
Benfield has recruited into the coalition's ranks two
copper-industry trade associations, three blind-advocacy
groups and two associations of owners and manufacturers of
coin-operated amusement games.
   Mr. Benfield spends much of his day compiling information
on: the experiences of countries that have undergone
successful bill-to-coin conversions, the purchasing power of
a dollar bill 30 years ago compared with today, the number of
bills an average American carries in his wallet.
   He also acts as the coalition's "traffic cop," directing
the efforts of vending-machine manufacturers, who fly into
Washington to lobby their congressmen, and vending-machine
owners, who visit their elected representatives when the
lawmakers are back home. "The way you move the process is by
getting constituents to do the talking," says Mr. Benfield,
who does very little work on the Hill himself. His coalition
rarely meets. Washington tends to be "all meetings, no
action," Mr. Benfield says. Instead, he writes countless
memos and directives to the various members, and spends much
time on the phone.
   Several years ago, Mr. Benfield employed similar tactics
in his successful push for an extension of daylight time.
Something like that was tried as an energy-conservation
measure by the Nixon administration but was soon abandoned
because of a lack of public enthusiasm. Under the banner of
the Daylight Savings Time Coalition, Mr. Benfield spearheaded
17 companies and trade associations ranging from the Amateur
Softball Association (more daylight, more playing time) to
Kingsford Co., the charcoal maker (more daylight, more
barbecues). A monthlong extension of daylight time went into
effect in April 1989. Several industries gained from the
measure, and no one was hurt, Mr. Benfield says.
   As for his current reform effort with the dollar, the
deficit-plagued U.S. government could be the greatest
beneficiary. A recent study by the General Accounting Office
concludes that replacing the dollar bill with a dollar coin
would save the government an average of $318 million a year
over the next 30 years, after start-up costs.
   A dollar bill costs 2.6 cents to produce and remains in
circulation about 17 months before it becomes so worn that it
must be withdrawn, shredded and replaced. A dollar coin,
while more costly to produce (about 6 cents), would last 30
years -- 20 times longer than the dollar bill, the GAO
estimates. Production savings: $41.4 million per year.
   But the lower production cost represents just part of the
savings potential. The difference between the face value of a
minted coin and its production cost go on the Treasury
Department books as an asset. In the case of a dollar coin,
this difference, called seigniorage, would be 94 cents per
coin minted. Interest earned on seigniorage reduces the
amount of money the government must borrow to finance the
federal deficit.
   The government benefits in a similar way from printing
dollar bills. But an efficient conversion to dollar coins
would require replacing each circulating dollar bill with two
circulating dollar coins, the GAO estimates. Vending
machines, the GAO says, would need large inventories of
dollar coins for making change. Thus, the switch from dollar
bills to twice as many dollar coins would save the government
$284 million a year in interest payments, the GAO concludes.
   Rep. Jim Kolbe (R., Ariz.) shares Mr. Benfield's vision.
Mr. Kolbe's bill calling for the replacement of the dollar
note with a dollar coin has attracted more than 130
co-sponsors in the House and is scheduled for more hearings
after the August recess. Rowdy Yeates, an aide to Mr. Kolbe,
says his office's relationship with Mr. Benfield's coalition
has provided a "model for cooperation" between a lawmaker and
a lobbying group. Mr. Benfield and Mr. Yeates talk several
times a week, share files of information and plot strategy
together. Mr. Kolbe says he considers Mr. Benfield a master
of "bottom-up, grass-roots politics."
   A similar measure in the Senate, introduced by Pete
Domenici (R., N.M.), calls for the introduction of a dollar
coin but would leave the dollar bill in circulation, allowing
consumers a choice in currency. But doing so, say Mr.
Benfield, the GAO and officials in the U.S. Mint, would
undoubtedly cause a second Susan B. Anthony fiasco. In 1979,
the Carter administration minted 800 million Anthony dollars;
more than 425 million currently sit in vaults in the Treasury
Department and Federal Reserve. "We don't want to get caught
with another disaster on our hands," explains a Mint
spokesman.
   Indeed, the Mint doesn't want anything to do with another
dollar-coin attempt, whether the dollar bill is withdrawn or
not. Donna Pope, director of the U.S. Mint, argues that there
is no compelling reason to believe Americans want a dollar
coin. An April Gallup poll supports her case. Only 15% of
those surveyed said they would favor replacing the dollar
bill with a dollar coin. "Machines like coins; people like
bills," Ms. Pope says.
   The director of the Mint credits Mr. Benfield with being
"very intense and very determined." She says he has done a
good job of "developing arguments that support his point of
view." But, she is quick to add, the Mint must react to the
demands of the general public, not the outcries of a
"vociferous group."
   Getting Americans excited about changing a currency system
that they take for granted presents a challenge. Bruce
Wright, associate director of the Coin Coalition, concedes,
"On initial blush, {the dollar coin} sounds like a sort of
silly idea." Thus, Mr. Benfield has been appearing on radio
talk shows across the country and patiently waiting for the
press to ask for his side of the story.
   Patience is one of Mr. Benfield's greatest strengths,
coalition members say. Four years ago, Rick Currie, president
of Coin Control, a small company that manufactures
vending-machine parts, traveled to Washington to hear Mr.
Benfield's pitch. The lobbyist mapped out what Mr. Currie
considered a frustratingly long road to dollar-coin
legislation. "There were no shortcuts involved," Mr. Currie
recalls. But Mr. Benfield's realism sold the Coin Coalition
to Mr. Currie and his fellow members of the American
Amusement Machine Association, which is now one of the
coalition's strongest financial backers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Epitope Inc.:
   FDA Clears Clinical Trials
   For Company's AIDS Test
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   EPT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   Epitope Inc. said the Food and Drug Administration
approved its application to begin human clinical trials on a
saliva-based AIDS diagnostic test.
   Epitope said preclinical trials show the test to be as
accurate as blood tests taken to detect the AIDS virus. The
clinical trials, expected to last for nine months, will be
conducted in hospitals, laboratories, medical centers and
dental schools in San Francisco; Tampa, Fla.; Portland, Ore.;
New York; and Chicago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Beaverton, Ore., biotechnology concern said its system
uses a saliva collection kit. The results are placed in a
sealed tube and sent to company labs for testing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Still No Need for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
   ----
   By S. Fred Singer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A little iconoclasm may be in order as Congress, alarmed
about rising oil imports and the political instability of the
Persian Gulf, pushes for a bigger Strategic Petroleum
Reserve. Now a 600-million-barrel store of crude oil, the $25
billion SPR rests in underground salt caverns in Texas and
Louisiana under the watchful eyes of Department of Energy
bureaucrats. It's doubtful whether the department will ever
release it. The crucial test may come soon if our embargo
against Iraqi oil takes hold.
   Oil is fungible. An oil crisis, whether caused by an
interruption in the supply network or a shortfall in world
production, will manifest itself as a price increase to oil
consumers everywhere. It is individual consumers -- not
nations -- who compete with each other by bidding up the
price. The world oil market "shares" an oil shortage by
allocating the available oil to all those willing to pay the
world price, no matter where they reside. Thus a cutoff of
oil from the Persian Gulf would soon hurt all consumers
equally, including Europeans and Japanese.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It doesn't matter how much a country imports from the
Gulf, whether 5% or 50%, or whether it imports oil at all.
Absent local subsidies, all consumers will have to pay a
higher price. And it doesn't matter whether the supply
shortfall is caused by the producer or by the consumer. If
the U.S.-led oil embargo against Iraq is effective, prices
could reach the $40 level -- unless balanced by increased
production.
   Of course, the shortfall could also be balanced by
releases of oil from the SPR. The SPR can moderate a
short-lived price increase; but most of the other things said
about it are simply myths.
   Myth 1: An American-owned SPR benefits Americans. Not
quite. As oil moves from the SPR into U.S. refineries,
America needs to import less, and thus makes more oil
available to the rest of the world at a lower price. Oil
released from the U.S. SPR subsidizes foreign consumers by
reducing a world supply shortfall and thereby moderates a
global price increase.
   Myth 2: The SPR assures energy security in case of an
embargo directed at the U.S. This myth stems from the 1973
Arab oil "embargo" declaration, blamed at that time for
shortages of gasoline that were really due to price controls
and administrative misallocations; the embargo itself never
reduced imports. The U.S. would suffer from a world-wide
increase in the price of oil, but a selective embargo cannot
be effectively directed against the U.S. unless a naval
blockade physically interdicts oil shipments to this country
-- the reverse of what President Bush hopes to do to Iraq.
   The real security threat to the U.S. would not be a naval
blockade, but rather sabotage and terrorist attacks against
our oil refining and distribution system within the U.S. --
against which the SPR would be useless.
   Myth 3: Only a government SPR can cushion the U.S. against
supply shortfalls. As might have been anticipated, national
SPRs have reduced the incentives for private stockpiles.
Refiners can now rely on the taxpayer to pay the costs of
hoarding oil.
   Myth 4: The U.S. must store 90 days of imports. There's no
reason for this rule. The 90 day figure is reached by
outdated modelling, a hangover from the days when the SPR was
thought necessary to replace "lost imports" on a barrel for
barrel basis, rather than moderate price increases.
   Myth 5: The U.S. would not need to stockpile if it were
self-sufficient in energy. In a free oil market, oil
consumers everywhere pay the same price. If there must be a
world stockpiling system, even exporting countries, like
Great Britain and Norway, should develop stockpiles, in
proportion to their use -- not their imports -- of oil.
   Myth 6: Oil will be released from the SPR in the event of
an oil crisis. This is the biggest myth of all. There exists
no definition of what constitutes a crisis -- such as a
specified price increase on the world market. Through several
administrations the energy department has steadfastly refused
to spell out in advance what defines a crisis. Bureaucratic
incentives being what they are, there will always be
reluctance to release oil from the SPR. No one will blame a
prudent bureaucrat for saving the oil for a rainier day. And
in fact, in testimony yesterday to a congressional committee,
energy department official John Easton said that oil supplies
are at the highest level in nine years, and rebuffed
suggestions that it was now time for the administration to
tap the SPR.
   Myth 7: The agreement to share oil through the
International Energy Agency will protect the consuming
nations. The IEA was set up in Paris in 1974, based on the
facile idea that since OPEC is a cartel, consumers should
also form one. But the idea of oil sharing is either useless
or preposterous. What will be the price of the oil that is to
be shared? If it's the world price, then nobody needs the
IEA; the oil market provides an automatic sharing among those
willing to pay the price, without involving politics in the
allocation. If, on the other hand, the price is to be at the
(much lower) level existing before the supply crisis, then
countries giving up oil from their SPRs are subsidizing the
others.
   Myth 8: Releases from the SPRs must be coordinated by the
IEA countries. If coordination could be accomplished, it
could well reinforce a price swing, if the coordinating
authorities guessed wrong about which way and how fast prices
were moving. There is no advantage to coordination; countries
that happen to release their SPR oil near the price peak will
make money and can replace the oil later at a lower price.
Countries that don't release oil will miss the opportunity to
make money (except if the crisis persists); but their
citizens will benefit through lower prices no matter whose
oil is released.
   The best way to obtain the advantages of stockpiling, the
reduction of price peaks, would be to privatize at least part
of the SPR by selling options: "call" options that permit the
holder to buy oil at certain (high) strike prices, and "put"
options that require the SPR to buy oil from the holder at
certain (low) strike prices. The selling of options provides
income for the SPR; buying low and selling high can make it
profitable and promotes price stability.
   Beyond this, a publicly-owned SPR does have the benefit of
discouraging Congress from instituting price controls,
rationing or similar non-market allocation mechanisms out of
fear that speculators will profit from price swings.
   A February 1990 Energy department report to Congress
included a study on financing an expanded SPR. The report
recommends more of the same -- on-budget purchases of oil
from general revenues -- but opens up the option of
"leasing." To some extent the study was stimulated by the
idea that the U.S. could save money by leasing oil from Saudi
Arabia and storing it in the United States.
   A report dating to 1976, prepared for then-Secretary of
the Treasury William E. Simon, discusses a similar, but less
costly proposal. It points out that storing Saudi crude oil
in the U.S. would create a financial nest egg for them, out
of reach of their enemies, without in any way upsetting OPEC;
since the stored oil would not be marketed unless there were
a supply shortfall and a corresponding price increase. Iraq's
toppling of the Kuwaiti ruling family, lends even greater
relevance to this proposal.
   It makes sense for the U.S. government to permit the
Saudis, and others with excess production capacity, to enter
into private agreements with U.S. companies to store crude
oil here. They can produce, transport and store it at a cost
of a few dollars a barrel and sell it for a large multiple at
some future date of their choosing. All parties would benefit
from such privatized oil storage -- above all the U.S.,
because it would remove the need to expand or maintain a
large and costly government SPR, financed by taxpayers.
   ---
   Mr. Singer, a former deputy assistant secretary of the
Interior, directs a project on Science and Environmental
Policy at the Washington Institute, while on leave from the
University of Virginia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Japan Firm Buys
   50% of Company
   Owned by Lipstein
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a move expected to salvage his magazine
company, Owen Lipstein said a Japanese media company has
purchased a 50% interest in his New American Magazine Co.
   Terms of the acquisition were not announced, but industry
executives close to Mr. Lipstein said Japanese Independent
Communication Co. spent less than $15 million for its half
interest in the publisher of Smart, Mother Earth News and
Psychology Today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition by Tokyo-based JICC is the first
investment of any size by a Japanese media company in a U.S.
magazine company. JICC publishes 10 consumer magazines in
Japan as well as non-fiction books. It also produces records,
compact disks and computer software; and it owns a travel
agency.
   Industry experts, however, said the acquisition will
probably not signal a wave of Japanese buying in U.S.
magazines. "This may stimulate more interest by the Japanese,
but they are still trying to figure out the American market,"
said John Suhler, president of Veronis, Suhler &amp; Associates
Inc., the New York-based investment banker who linked Mr.
Lipstein with JICC.
   Mr. Lipstein said he will continue as chairman and
president of New American. He will also remain president of
Smart, a men's magazine he co-owns with its founding editor,
Terry McDonell.
   Seiichi Hasumi, chairman of JICC, said the company intends
to "establish and develop a leading-edge publishing and media
organization in the U.S." Mr. Lipstein said that JICC's
acquisition was a "homerun, by any standards." He said the
publishing partnership will represent a pattern other
Japanese companies may follow in entering publishing in the
U.S. "I have sold half the company, but I feel great freedom
and no sense of loss."
   For almost a year, Mr. Lipstein's magazines teetered near
disaster. Last year, he was forced to sell American Health
magazine to Reader's Digest Association Inc. for $29.1
million. The sale was necessary to pay off debt incurred by
Mr. Lipstein's purchases of Mother Earth News in 1985 and
Psychology Today in 1988.
   As he wrestled with debt payments, Mr. Lipstein was forced
to delay the mailing of certain issues of his magazines to
subscribers, a development which angered advertisers. And as
talks with the Japanese dragged on, Mr. Lipstein was forced
to dismiss 30 staffers in early June, while a number of top
executives and editors left the company.
   Publication of Psychology Today was suspended in December
1989. Mr. Lipstein said the magazine will reappear in "late
fall," with a redesign.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union Strike Averted
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   WU LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Western Union Corp.'s unionized workers
remained on the job as the company and the Communications
Workers of America worked toward a new three-year contract to
replace one that expired midnight Monday.
   The United Telegraph Workers/CWA had threatened to strike
if it didn't get a new contract. But a company spokesman said
Western Union's 2,500 unionized employees were working and
that company and union negotiators were still meeting at the
Cavalier Hotel in Virginia Beach, Va., trying to reach a new
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stock Prices Continue to Be Battered,
   But Some Analysts Find Reasons for Optimism
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- As Tokyo's battered stock market continues to
plummet, some analysts are finding reasons to be optimistic
in spite of -- and even because of -- the turmoil.
   They say the Tokyo market, ravaged by rumors of higher
interest rates and steeper oil prices resulting from Iraq's
blitzkrieg into Kuwait, still holds opportunities for careful
investors. The comeback may not happen next week or next
month. But many market watchers insist that given the
underlying strength of Japan's economy, stock prices are
bound to creep upward again before long.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It may have been difficult for many investors to catch
sight of that vision Tuesday, though. A flurry of rumors
linked to Iraq's takeover of Kuwait pummeled the Nikkei Index
of 225 stocks to its lowest point since mid-1988. The Nikkei
tumbled 946.46 points, or 3.3%, to 27653.07 -- well below the
year's previous low of 28002.07, reached April 2 after a
three-month decline. Volume was moderate with about 500
million share changing hands, up from 350.4 million on
Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index rose
322.83 points to 27975.90.
   On Tuesday, bond prices also took a beating. In volatile
trading, the benchmark No. 119 10-year government bond slid
0.63 to 83.02 to yield 8.085%, up 0.145 point, the first time
the yield has risen above 8%.
   Tokyo's decline -- the stock market has fallen in 11 of
the past 12 sessions -- stunned some investors. "I can't
believe it -- it's incredibly low," gasped the research
director at a U.K. securities firm.
   The Nikkei plunged a hair-raising 1300 points within a
little more than an hour of the opening. The market staged a
small rally later after a statement by Finance Minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto that Iraq's bid for power in the Persian
Gulf won't weaken the Japanese economy, but the gains were
quickly obliterated by renewed worries about the tension in
the Middle East.
   Some traders, though, are sketching a recovery from the
troubles. The traders already are referring to the current
crisis as the "Third Oil Shock," recalling the stock market
doldrums that accompanied the oil price jumps in 1973 and
1979. With the Nikkei Index rapidly retracing its tracks
through territory it most recently advanced through two years
ago, some experts are looking to 1973 for guidance.
   Then, the indicator fell 37% from the peak in early 1973
to the bottom in October 1974, before rebounding sharply.
Using that model, Mikio Fujino, an institutional salesman at
Nikko Securities Co., predicts that the current plunge will
halt when the Nikkei falls to 23000 to 24000 -- an additional
15% to 20% below current levels.
   "That's a big correction," he says. "But remember that the
Japanese economy recovered maybe the fastest in the world
from that shock, and the Japanese market followed." During
the 1990 first quarter, Japan's economy grew at an annualized
rate of 10.4% -- and its dependence on oil is far less than
during either of the first two oil scares. As a result, he
says, the market is likely to find solid footing for a rally.
   Mr. Fujino doesn't necessarily expect the recovery to
begin soon -- it could happen as late as next year -- but
he's urging clients to get into the market.
   More cautious analysts predict a gradual turnaround.
"Before last week, I would have said we were six months into
a nine-month bear market," says Bruce Johnson, head of
research at Baring Securities (Japan) Co. "Now I'd say the
Iraqi situation has pushed the prospects for recovery back
another nine months."
   While he's sure of a recovery, Mr. Johnson notes, "You
really can't guess the bottom under these kinds of
conditions."
   The difficulty of predicting stock performance in
uncertain times was illustrated by Tuesday's movement of
Arabian Oil Co., the biggest oil producing company in Japan.
Owned by some of Japan's biggest utilities, as well as the
Saudi and Kuwaiti governments, the company operates a large
oil field in the neutral zone between Saudi Arabia and
Kuwait.
   The company's share price fell steeply in the wake of
reports of Iraq's invasion, but climbed 200 yen Tuesday to
9300 yen ($1.33 to $61.92) on the hope that higher oil prices
would benefit the company as long as it was allowed to
continue production. Arabian Oil would be a big loser,
though, if Iraq attempted to move troops into Saudi Arabia.
Any resurgence of fears of a conflict will drive the
company's share price lower again, analysts say.
   "This has become a market driven by rumor," laments
Toshiyuki Nishimura, deputy general manager of Yamaichi
Securities' international business department. "Stock prices
dropped a long way {Tuesday}, but they could come back
{today}. It all depends on the latest news from the Middle
East."
   Meanwhile, the Frankfurt market gained 1.7% after toppling
5.4% Monday, while London's gain was under 1% following
Monday's 2.8% decline. Both markets finished well off
intraday highs, an indication, traders said, that the rallies
weren't firmly based.
   "I'd like to think this is the bottom, but with the
situation in the gulf, anything could happen," said John K.
Thomson, senior investment manager at Edinburgh-based
Standard Life Assurance Co.
   Frankfurt's DAX Index gained 29.37 points to 1770.30 after
reaching 1799.18 earlier in the day. London's Financial
Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index rose 15.6 to 2235.8.
Although ahead by 40.7 points two hours before trading ended,
the London index slipped as the Dow Jones Industrial Average
in New York turned into negative territory.
   The markets, groping for hopeful news, had perked up in
midmorning on a report from Jordan that Iraq would let
foreign nationals leave. But traders soon looked beyond that
to more basic problems. "Hussein may let the foreigners go,
but some people forget what he's done to Kuwait -- there's
still a lot of uncertainty out there," said David Smith, who
heads trading in non-U.S. equities at Jefferies &amp; Co. in
London.
   Many money managers are preparing for a long period of
uncertainty and volatility. Mr. Thomson said that Standard
Life, Britain's largest mutual insurer with #21 billion
($39.3 billion) under management, will be "sitting and
watching" for the next few weeks. "With yields at 5% and a
price-earnings ratio of under 11, the {London} market is
attractive for the long-term investor," he said. "But
short-term the market is very volatile."
   Added Mick Brewis, an investment manager at Baillie
Gifford &amp; Co. in Edinburgh: "I'm quite suspicious of
{Tuesday's} rebound. We're still taking a very cautious view.
Even if tension does ease, we don't think the price of oil
will come back much. It will remain fairly high, with
consequences for world inflation and world growth."
   Mr. Brewis said that Baillie Gifford isn't planning much
buying or selling short-term, although the firm did buy more
British Petroleum yesterday.
   In Frankfurt, the small rally was sparked by moderate
retail buying. "Many private individuals saw a good chance to
buy stocks at relatively low levels," said Peter Pietsch, a
Commerzbank AG economist.
   Several of Monday's big losers made modest comebacks. In
London, Rothmans rose 31 pence to 768 pence, Reuters was up
14 pence to 969 pence, and Glaxo gained 13 pence to 775
pence.
   In Frankfurt, Daimler-Benz closed at 781 marks, up 9.50
marks ($495, up $6.02); Deutsche Bank rose 13 marks to 768
marks; and Siemens gained 14.50 marks to 702.50 marks.
   Elsewhere, shares closed higher in Paris, Zurich,
Amsterdam, Stockholm, Oslo and Madrid, mixed in Brussels, and
lower in Helsinki and Milan. South African gold stocks closed
narrowly mixed.
   Also, stocks ended lower in Taipei, Singapore, Hong Kong,
Seoul and Manila, and were little changed in Sydney and
Wellington.

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                     % This
                                      Aug 6   Aug 3   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ............................  308.7   319.5   - 5.0
   Britain .........................  657.7   677.1   - 8.8
   Canada ..........................  388.7   388.7   -10.1
   Japan ........................... 1155.3  1192.6   -30.2
   France ..........................  498.4   524.8   -12.1
   Germany .........................  283.1   298.1   - 0.8
   Hong Kong ....................... 2301.1  2485.6   + 9.7
   Switzerland .....................  197.1   211.6   -10.7
   Australia .......................  319.8   328.2   - 3.4
   World index .....................  488.6   503.3   -13.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Yields on CDs Slipped
   During Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage firms fell slightly in the week ended
Tuesday.
   The average yield on six-month small-denomination CDs sold
directly by banks slipped to 7.42% from 7.53%, according to
an 18-bank national survey by Banxquote Money Markets, a New
York information service. The average yield for five-year
consumer CDs fell to 7.87% from 8.01%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs sold by leading
broker dealers were also down. The exception was the average
yield on five-year broker-sold CDs, which edged up to 8.28%
from 8.27%. The average yield on a one-year CD fell to 7.72%
from 7.80%, while the average for two-year CDs eased to 8.04%
from 8.10%, according to Banxquote.
   Average yields for "jumbo" CDs, which typically require
deposits of $90,000 or more, declined. The average yield on
one-year jumbo CDs eased to 7.60% from 7.68%, while the
average for five-year maturities slipped to 8.12% from 8.16%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Interest Rates Fell
   At Citicorp Weekly Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate fell to 7.793% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 7.8192% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $410 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.789% to 7.797%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp said that the average rate fell to 7.7186% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.728%
at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $370 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 7.698% to 7.73%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   `Buy and Hold'
   Likely to Beat
   `Cut and Run'
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   BFI DIS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stockholders who thought of themselves as "buy-and-hold"
investors are finding their determination sorely tested.
   When prices were mostly rising, it was easy to believe in
holding stocks through thick and thin. After all, investors
who rode out the market's ups and downs over the past several
decades got average annual returns of about 10% -- trouncing
alternative investments such as bonds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now, hanging on to stocks is starting to feel
foolhardy to people who suspect the drop over the past few
days is the beginning of a long slide. The temptation is "to
panic and pull out -- that's human nature," says James L.
Joslin, president of TFC Financial Management, a Boston
advisory firm.
   What to do?
   Financial advisers such as Mr. Joslin say there are
reasons individuals shouldn't be too quick to jump the
buy-and-hold ship. At the same time, they say this is a good
opportunity for investors to review their stock holdings in
light of their overall portfolios and investment goals.
Investors who decide they do want to sell should do it in a
measured and carefully planned way, financial advisers say.
   For instance, Alfred Goldman, director of market analysis
with A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons in St. Louis, says investors
shouldn't pull out any more than 25% of the money they've
committed to stocks for the long haul.
   Hugh R. Lamle, executive vice president with M.D. Sass
Investors Services Inc., a New York money manager, says
investors who decide to sell now should have a clearly
thought-out "entrance strategy" on when they will buy in
again. "They should assure themselves they will get back in
and not just park that money on the sidelines indefinitely,"
he says.
   It's natural, after everything that has happened in the
past few days, to wonder if stocks are really worth the
aggravation. But a look at the long-term track record
suggests that the answer is yes: Over the 64 years from 1926
through 1989, stocks as measured by the Standard and Poor's
500-stock index delivered an average total return of 10.3% a
year, including price changes and dividends, according to
Ibbotson Associates, a Chicago research firm. By comparison,
long-term corporate bonds returned an average of 5.2% a year,
and U.S. Treasury bills, an average of 3.6%.
   Stock returns did fluctuate much more than the returns on
other investments, though. In fact, stock investors had
losses in 19 of the 64 years.
   That's why people are sometimes tempted to try to "time"
the market, or move in and out of stocks in accordance with
their views on where the market is headed. Unfortunately,
many markettimers get it wrong, often selling only after
stock prices have already fallen considerably. And even when
they do get out at the right time, they may fritter away the
advantage by missing the best chance to get back in.
   "They don't ring a bell at the top, and they don't ring a
bell at the bottom," says Timothy C. Medley, a Jackson,
Miss., money manager. "It's very difficult to dance in and
out."
   Advisers such as Mr. Medley say the more reliable strategy
for individuals is to let time be their ally and to venture
into the stock market only with funds that can remain there
for perhaps five years. In other words, don't invest in
stocks with money that's supposed to pay for college tuition
two years from now.
   Investors who held stocks for five years at a time would
have lost money in only seven of the 60 rolling five-year
periods since 1926, according to Ibbotson. And four of those
seven were periods that encompassed the Crash of 1929.
   Stocks should be only part of a diversified portfolio, of
course. And advisers say individuals should try to focus on
their overall portfolio return rather than on what's
happening in each sector. Investors who can't live
financially or emotionally with what has happened to the
value of their portfolios because of the recent stockmarket
decline have too much invested in stocks and should cut back,
Mr. Lamle of M.D. Sass suggests.
   Many professional investors also vary the proportions of
their portfolios invested in stocks, in bonds and in cash
equivalents such as Treasury bills, in line with their
interpretation of the investment climate. But even they don't
always get it right.
   For example, David Drucker, a Bethesda, Md., financial
adviser, says he has been recommending for about three years
that investors allocate only about 15% of their portfolios to
U.S. stocks, down from 30% to 40% in some earlier periods.
Yet the S&amp;P 500 index ended up posting doubledigit gains in
both 1988 and 1989. "We expected to see a recession earlier
than we are getting one," Mr. Drucker explains.
   The big imponderable, after the latest sharp stock-price
declines, is whether it makes sense for an investor who
didn't get out earlier to sell now. While no one can really
answer that question, investment advisers point out that all
stocks won't behave the same way, no matter what happens in
coming weeks. Thus, they say, investors should comb through
their portfolios carefully, stock by stock.
   Gerald Perritt, a Chicago money manager and newsletter
writer, has been urging investors to cut back for months. He
says he thinks this is the beginning of a bear market. Still,
Mr. Perritt says he would be hesitant to sell some
high-quality stocks now that they have already fallen so
much.
   "If you are holding {Walt} Disney today at $103, you've
already taken a 25% hit from its high," he says. He suspects
that could end up being "the lion's share" of the stock's
decline. Disney rose $1 yesterday to end at $103.375 a share
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   In fact, Mr. Perritt is already starting to think about
increasing his stock holdings. For instance, he is hoping to
pick up shares of Browning-Ferris Industries, a big
waste-management firm, at prices of $35 or less. The stock
has fallen quite a bit from a recent high of $49, though it
rebounded $1.125 a share yesterday, closing at $38.75 in Big
Board composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Acquisition of Norton
   Clears White House
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT F.STG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush has decided against
intervening in the proposed acquisition of Norton Co. by
Compagnie de Saint-Gobain of France.
   Worcester, Mass.-based Norton makes abrasive products and
enginering materials and has engaged in extensive research
and development of advanced ceramics and diamond films deemed
to have national security significance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater said the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States found
that the acquisition wouldn't impair national security.
   Last month, Saint-Gobain's subsidiary, SG Acquisition
Corp., extended its $90-a-share tender offer for all of
Norton's common shares outstanding to 5 p.m. EDT today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Centaur Partners Slate
   Unseats the Chairman
   Of National Intergroup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   NII WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Centaur Partners Group won three seats on the
board of National Intergroup Inc., unseating Chairman Howard
M. Love.
   Elected to the board were Melvyn J. Estrin, a principal of
Centaur; Robert J. Slater, former vice chairman of Crane Co.;
and William G. Tull, former president of American Security
Bank. Centaur said its slate received two-thirds of the
shares cast at National Intergroup's meeting July 25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman for National Intergroup said that the
results of the preliminary count, reported by Centaur,
corresponds with their tally. The company had no further
comment.
   Centaur also said that three of its governance resolutions
were approved by between 65% and 70% of shareholders. Those
resolutions provide for confidential voting by stockholders,
prevent the board from lowering the trigger of the company's
shareholder-rights plan below 20% and require a majority of
stockholders' approval of any golden-parachute plans for
management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Charles Schwab Plans Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SCH
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Charles Schwab Corp. said it authorized a
stock buy-back of as many as an additional 750,000 shares of
common stock based on prevailing market conditions.
   The company said it has just successfully completed a
stock buy-back of one million shares of stock under previous
authorization by its board. Currently, the discount brokerage
and financial services concern, through its main subsidiary,
Charles Schwab Co., has 25.2 million shares of stock
outstanding, as of July 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Tasteless Lionizing
   Of Nazi Collaborator
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   I was interested to read Jack Flam's review of "The
Passionate Eye: Impressionists and Other Master Paintings
From the Collection of Emil G. Buhrle," at the National
Gallery of Art in Washington (Leisure &amp; Arts, July 2). I
agree with Mr. Flam that it is in very bad taste to lionize a
man such as Emil Buhrle who was and is known in Europe as
"The Merchant of Death." Although many Swiss collaborated
with the Nazis throughout World War II, Buhrle is probably
the best known, if not for anything else but the sheer volume
of his arms business. One of the most sought after pieces of
armament made by Buhrle's Oerlikon Machine Works was the
anti-tank gun. This high-precision gun, the best of its time,
destroyed many Allied tanks and their crews.
   It would be interesting to know who made up this catalog.
Was it produced in Switzerland or in the U.S.?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hans E. Fuhrmans
   Oskaloosa, Kan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boosting Soviet Democracy From the Bottom Up
   ----
   Ilya Saslavski
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   As the entire world knows, the Soviet Union now has
perestroika, democracy, and, of course, the world's most
popular political leader, who started it all -- Mikhail
Gorbachev. About the reforms he launched five years ago,
there can be no disagreement. It is an indisputable fact that
before we lived in one kind of society, and now we are trying
to create another. Only one question remains: Are we creating
a democracy, or is it something else?
   The whole world believes it is a democracy. And indeed, we
have chosen a Parliament, and all sorts of people are arguing
there, expressing a wide variety of opinions, voting on
various proposals, passing resolutions by a majority of
votes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But we should ask ourselves a question. How was this
majority formed? It is well known that during the 1989
elections to the Congress of People's Deputies, the winning
candidates in some districts ran unopposed. It is also well
known that one-third of the deputies were chosen by the
executive bodies of public organizations. Finally, in 1989
there were special pre-election meetings where a few hundred
people, chosen in a rather arbitrary way and certainly not
representing the opinions of all the voters in the district,
decided which candidates should stay on the list and which
should be stricken from it.
   In many districts where there were two or more candidates,
they all represented one platform, that of the Communist
Party. In other words, the only choice available was between
personalities, not ideas. Even in districts where there was a
competition of ideas, the candidates who followed the Central
Committee line enjoyed enormous advantages. Such "correct"
candidates were supplied with brigades of campaigners and
copying machines, and were given access to the press.
   For all these reasons, the debates between the minority
and the majority at the sessions of the Congress of People's
Deputies and the Supreme Soviet are not in the same category
as the traditional debates in Western parliamentary systems
between a democratically elected majority and a
democratically elected minority. It would be more accurate,
in the Soviet case, to speak of debates between an
undemocratically elected majority and a democratically
elected minority.
   The gap between the people and its allegedly democratic
Parliament leads to difficult social conflicts, growing
tensions and, as we say these days, to the rocking of an
already unstable boat. Popular discontent with the content
and pace of decisions by the country's legislative body is
expressed through rallies, demonstrations, and strikes -- not
to mention hunger strikes, unauthorized takeovers of
government officials' summer homes, and other excesses.
   All these actions, of course, are criticized by the
authorities. The strikes, we are told, undermine the economy,
while rallies distract people from their jobs. Both claims
are partially true, though rallies and strikes are often the
only way the people have to force their "chosen"
representatives to speed up economic and political reforms.
And the delay of such reforms does much more harm to the
economy than any strikes ever could.
   As a result of the dissatisfaction of the majority of the
population with the current situation, a broad-based
democratic movement has emerged. In practice, the democratic
movement consists of a multitude of more or less organized
structural components, such as popular fronts, voter's
associations, and various cultural and educational societies.
These organizations have begun forming umbrella groups called
civic action committees.
   The development of structures of a broad-based democratic
movement and the involvement of these structures in the
electoral process make it quite probable that mid-level and
lower-level elected bodies will more or less accurately
reflect the interests of the people -- that is, will be truly
democratic. The 1990 elections have offered good
opportunities. The elections in the Baltic republics were
harbingers of democracy. There, the republics' popular fronts
won by landslides. The results of the municipal elections in
Moscow as a whole have also been positive, with democratic
forces winning an absolute majority. There, Gavriil Popov was
elected chairman of the Moscow City Council, and I was chosen
chairman of the Oktyabrsky District Council. Thus, in parts
of the country there is a realistic prospect of bringing
government under democratic control.
   The existence of jurisdictions where democrats control
local government can boost the democratic process throughout
the Soviet Union. They can be an inspiration to other
regions; moreover, democratic local councils can actively
support popular movements and assist the work of civic action
committees in neighboring nondemocratic regions.
   The increase in the number of pro-democracy jurisdictions
inevitably will step up the pressure on the upper echelons of
power. This pressure must be brought to bear not only through
strikes, rallies and demonstrations, but also through the
actions of local councils in various regions. By adopting
resolutions and pressing the central legislature, local
bodies can further the cause of democratic reform. In this
way, I hope my country can navigate through narrow and
dangerous straits to early elections for a genuinely
democratic national Parliament.
   ---
   Mr. Saslavski represents a Moscow district in the Congress
of People's Deputies. A longer version of this appears in the
Journal of Democracy's summer issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Contracts Awarded
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH OLN
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Olin Chemicals Inc., a unit of Olin Corp.,
received a $90 million Air Force contract for space-vehicle
propellant.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp., got a
$20 million Air Force contract for radar equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Emerson Plans
   To Spin Off
   Defense Units
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   EMR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Emerson Electric Co. said it plans to spin off to
shareholders its defense operations, which employ about 6,000
workers, because the units don't measure up to Emerson's
profit goals.
   The move is the latest sign that defense contractors are
in for a long period of hard times as weapons spending by the
U.S. and its allies slows in reaction to improved relations
with the Soviet Union. Other big contractors have been laying
off workers and consolidating operations as the Bush
administration and Congress search for ways to trim defense
outlays.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Emerson over the past three years has cut 1,500 workers
from the defense operations.
   The units would be spun off as a single company, with
stock distributed to Emerson shareholders on a pro-rata
basis, the company said. Emerson declined to disclose further
details of the transaction.
   Separately, Emerson reported third-quarter profit rose
4.4% to $160.5 million, or 72 cents a share, on sales of
$1.98 billion. A year earlier, profit was $153.8 million, or
69 cents a share, on sales of $1.78 billion.
   The five Emerson defense units had combined fiscal 1989
sales of about $600 million, and combined pretax profits of
about $15 million, the company said.
   Emerson, which makes a broad line of industrial and
consumer products, had sales for the year ended Sept. 30 of
$7.1 billion and profit of $588 million, or $2.63 a share.
   J.J. Adorjan, an Emerson vice chairman who runs the
defense units and would head the spinoff, said of the
business: "It didn't meet Emerson's objectives any more." Mr.
Adorjan said over the past year Emerson had considered
keeping the units, forming a joint venture to own them or
selling them. It rejected a sale because of low prices for
defense contractors, and thought a spinoff was the best way
to preserve value for Emerson shareholders and also maintain
good relations with the government.
   Mr. Adorjan said the decision to jettison the defense
operations had nothing to do with Emerson's guilty plea in
May to charges of inflating cost proposals on some military
contracts. The company agreed to pay a $14 million fine as
part of the plea agreement.
   Emerson's stock fell 25 cents to close at $36 yesterday in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Adorjan said there are no layoffs expected as a result
of the spinoff, which Emerson expects to complete by Sept.
30. He said a filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission outlining plans for the divestiture should be made
in the next few days.
   Financing has yet to be worked out. The new company would
need working capital, and Emerson wants to be paid a dividend
as part of the transaction.
   A name hasn't been chosen for the new company, which, like
Emerson, would be based in St. Louis. Mr. Adorjan said the
company would have equity of about $400 million. He wouldn't
project profits.
   The five units are: Electronics &amp; Space Corp., St. Louis;
Hazeltine Corp., Greenlawn, N.Y.; Rantec Microwave &
Electronics Inc., Calabasas, Calif.; Southwest Mobile Systems
Corp., St. Louis; and Vacco Industries, South El Monte,
Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bankamerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BAC
</CO>
<LP>
   BANKAMERICA Corp. (San Francisco) -- Ed Hall was named
senior vice president and head of consumer marketing for the
consumer banking group of this holding company's principal
Bank of America subsidiary. He succeeds K. Shelly Porges, who
left the bank to form a private marketing consulting firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Two Senior Officers
   Quit at Puerto Rico's
   First Federal Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FFPR
</CO>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -- First Federal Savings Bank,
Puerto Rico, said two senior officers -- Arturo J. Somohano
and Fernando Ochoa -- resigned as a result of flaws noted in
a recent audit by the Office of Thrift Supervision.
   The thrift said Angel Alvarez, executive vice president
and general counsel, will assume Mr. Somohano's duties as
senior executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Jorge R. Rodriguez, vice president and investment manager,
will succeed Mr. Ochoa on an interim basis as senior vice
president for investments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After the audit, First Federal made a special provision
for loan losses of $16.7 million for the second quarter.
   "In neither case was it a conflict of interest or
malfeasance," Annie Astor de Carbonell, executive vice
president and chief financial officer, said of the
resignations. "It was mostly a result of lack of proper
administration and management on their part."
   Messrs. Somohano and Ochoa couldn't be reached for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Ameriscribe Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERISCRIBE Corp. (New York) -- The company completed an
agreement to refinance two defaulted debt issues. A
subsidiary of Household International Inc., Prospect Heights,
Ill., provided Ameriscribe with $25 million of term loans and
a $15 million revolving credit. Ameriscribe, formerly Service
Resources Corp., used about $24.8 million of the funds to pay
principal and accrued interest on its 9% and 11.5%
debentures. The debt had been issued by its ECL Industries
Inc. subsidiary and had been in default since November 1988.
Ameriscribe, which provides mailroom, messenger and copying
services to law firms and other businesses, will use the rest
for working capital and other purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sundstrand Corp.
   Names Three Officers
   To Oversee Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SNS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ROCKFORD, Ill. -- Sundstrand Corp. named three officers
executive vice presidents, with most of the aerospace and
industrial-product concern's operations reporting to one of
the three.
   Paul Donovan, formerly a vice president and chief
financial officer, was given the added duties of overseeing
administration, personnel and public relations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert Smuland, formerly a group vice president in charge
of a portion of the aerospace group, was placed in charge of
all of the group.
   Berger Wallin, formerly a group vice president in charge
of the industrial products group, was given the added duty of
overseeing all environmental matters.
   The three report to Harry Stonecipher, president and chief
executive officer.
   Also, Gary Hedges, formerly a vice president in the
advanced technology group, was named a vice president of
Sundstrand in charge of personnel and public relations,
succeeding Phil Polgreen, who is retiring in January.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rockwell NASA Job
   Extended for 4 Years
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Aeronautics and Space
Administration extended for four years a contract with
Rockwell International Corp. to conduct tests to improve the
safety and performance of the space shuttle's main engines.
   Under an $819.8 million contract extension, the company's
Rocketdyne Division will conduct an extensive test program
designed to improve the engines' high-pressure turbopumps and
other features.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Each shuttle carries three reusable engines, which burn a
mixture of liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen propellants.
They are fired for about eight minutes as the shuttle ascends
into orbit. In addition, the shuttle's two solid-fuel booster
rockets burn during the first two minutes of flight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FNM EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOO LATE TO DIG A MOAT? Fake a foreclosure to keep the IRS
out.
   Richard L. and Shirley A. Connelly of Las Vegas, Nev.,
were consistent, at least. In 1986, they were convicted of
not filing returns for two years and of filing a false refund
claim for another. A judge sentenced them to a year in jail
and $5,000 fines, but released them on probation after six
months on condition that they pay their taxes and cooperate
with the IRS. Last year, they went back to jail; they had
refused to cooperate and had paid only $17,134 of a $51,843
tax bill -- through involuntary wage levies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The couple also tried to hide ownership of their one
asset, their home: They said they mortgaged it for $65,000 to
Nassau Life Insurance Co., trustee for Benco Management Co.
of the Turks and Caicos Islands, and gave the cash to their
children, who "blew it." Benco supposedly foreclosed for
default -- then rented the house to the Connellys. But the
IRS tied Benco to a well-known tax protester and showed the
fraudulent deals were "self-serving fictions."
   Shirley Connelly appealed the revocation of her probation.
Now the ninth-circuit appeals court has upheld it.
                                                                                                       

   WARNING FLAGS RISE over non-profits that rent out logos
and donor lists.
   Many charities earn a lot by rentals to insurers,
credit-card issuers, and others. But rental income may fall
in a gray area: It may be treated as taxable business income
-- or as tax-free passive royalties from intangible assets.
In February, Disabled American Veterans won a major victory
when the Tax Court, split 12-4, said its donor-list rentals
were royalties. But two new IRS actions indicate that
non-profits should be cautious in offering rentals, says
Laura Kalick of Coopers &amp; Lybrand, CPAs.
   The IRS now says it will appeal the DAV case. And in
private ruling 9029047, it has reversed its own 1988 ruling
and told an unidentified charity that licensing name and logo
to an insurer was taxable because the license was intertwined
with taxable member-list rentals. Kalick says the IRS
apparently now contends that maintaining a mailing list for
rental is an active business -- and that name and logo income
must be purely passive to qualify as royalties.
                                                                                                       

   HER $50,000 MERCEDES was just a token of the boss's
esteem, they said.
   John J. Deisher of Dallas was a regional v.p. of Fannie
Mae, the home-mortgage financer, when his wife, Judy, was
hired by a condominium developer. The developer was
extravagant and bragged he had "bought" public officials; he
gave lavish gifts to his employees. In 1983, when Judy
Deisher reported $35,000 of wage and commission income, the
developer gave her $50,000 to buy a Mercedes for her
birthday; she didn't report the $50,000 as income. Later, the
couple invested in the developer's projects.
   The developer subsequently was charged with various
frauds. The Deishers, who filed for bankruptcy in 1988,
weren't linked to the charges. But they turned to the Tax
Court when the IRS sought to tax them on the $50,000 "gift."
Now Judge Cohen says the developer didn't give the money out
of "detached and disinterested generosity," but in the
expectation -- justified or not -- of benefiting from his
connection with a high-ranking Fannie Mae official.
   The $50,000 was taxable income for the Deishers, the judge
says.
                                                                                                       

   NIMBLE NUMBERERS at the IRS have devised a system to help
spot sole proprietors' unreported income. It cross-checks
third-party reports of payments to proprietors filed under
their employer numbers against proprietors' tax returns filed
under their Social Security numbers.
                                                                                                       

   NEVADA HIKES THE ODDS against residents who register cars,
boats, or planes outside the state to escape sales tax. It
offers a penalty amnesty through Sept. 30; then an
enforcement drive begins. The penalty is as much as triple
the tax.
                                                                                                       

   WE WOULDN'T DREAM of letting psychologist Joseph Franklin
Martel deduct med-school costs as business expenses incurred
before he took up the trade, the Tax Court says. Nor may the
El Paso, Texas, man deduct them as research expenses.
                                                                                                       

   S-CORPORATION STATUS may reward a service business most
when it is sold.
   A closely held S concern is taxed much like a partnership:
Owners, not the company, are taxed on corporate income. That
may not bring large immediate benefits to many doctors,
lawyers, CPAs, and other personal-service professionals
operating in regular corporate status. But owner-employees
who sell thriving businesses may be glad they elected S
status, says John Donchess of Packer, Thomas &amp; Co., CPAs in
Youngstown, Ohio.
   When a regular corporation is sold, its gain is subject to
tax; then the proceeds distributed to shareholders are
taxable to them. But for S corporations, this double taxation
is limited; it applies only to gains in asset values achieved
before the first Scorporation year. Any appreciation in the
business's value after its conversion to S status generally
is taxed just once -- to the selling shareholders.
   An S election can hold down the tax on intangible "good
will," often the fastest growing asset, Donchess notes.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Sweden enacted an innovative carbon-dioxide tax on
fossil fuels, but cut other energy taxes. . . . The IRS
announced an agreement with Korea to coordinate audits of
taxpayers operating in both countries. . . . Massachusetts'
1990 income-tax returns will include a checkoff allowing
filers to contribute to AIDS programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Education System
   Ruined by `Fixing'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Christopher de Vinck has hit the nail right on the head in
asserting that real books should be at the core of education
reform (editorial page, July 9). Books do so much more than
just tell a story: They improve vocabulary, grammar skills
and writing proficiency simply by providing a good example.
Plus, books stimulate the imagination and provoke thought,
and critical thinking is the essence of a good education.
Real books, then, must be the foundation of learning.
   The question I have, then, is why did we get away from
using real books in the first place? Literature worked just
fine for hundreds of years. It seems the "blue-ribbon
conferences" and the so-called experts that set out to
"improve" education have done just the opposite. They forgot
a fundamental rule of life: If it ain't broke, don't fix it.
The problem was not in the curriculum -- the problem was, and
still is, in the administration of education. A tenure system
that prevents underperforming teachers from being fired, the
practice of promoting students who fail to meet even basic
scholastic requirements, and the continued use of the
nine-month school year, an anachronism from the Farm Age --
these are the problems that need to be addressed. Solve them,
and education will improve dramatically.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   David L. Corts Jr.
   Samford University '90
   Birmingham, Ala.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Postal Service Deficit
   To Be Less Than Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<GV>
POSTAL SERVICE (POS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Postal Service said it's making progress
in boosting productivity and narrowing losses, but not enough
to affect its plans for a new round of rate increases.
   The estimated postal deficit for the fiscal year ending
Sept. 30 will be less than $1 billion, compared with the $1.6
billion loss originally projected, Postmaster General Anthony
Frank told his board of governors and a news conference. He
credited the narrowing to productivity gains, which have been
escalating over the past 12 months, reaching 3.4% in the
quarter ended June 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The benefits of a major postal automation program and a
recently imposed ceiling on employment levels are responsible
for improving productivity, Mr. Frank said. The Postal
Service has been installing automatic equipment that reads
envelopes and sorts them according to nine-digit address
codes. Hiring curbs also have helped reduce its work force by
23,000, to 764,000, since June 1989, officials said.
   But Mr. Frank said the improvement isn't sufficient to
alter the plan to boost rates by an average of 19%, including
an increase of five cents to 30 cents for first-class
service. The rise would occur early in 1991, after
consideration by the Postal Rate Commission.
   In defending the rate increase's size, Mr. Frank noted the
uncertainty over how well the agency can do in holding down
labor costs in talks with unions, which begin late this
month, and the White House budget office's efforts to require
the service to contribute $1.3 billion to U.S. deficit
reduction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Forget the Dream of Military Primacy
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Martin Feldstein's article "Trade Economic Aid for Soviet
Arms Cuts" (editorial page, June 28) described how the U.S.
could reach "clear military superiority" over the Soviet
Union. From his point of view, it would be foolish not to
spend "a few tens of billions of dollars" to obtain a major
reduction in Soviet military capacity in exchange for massive
economic aid.
   In other words, he suggests using recent Soviet economic
difficulties to fulfill an old dream in the West -- military
superiority over the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even though he mentions the necessity of some U.S.
military reductions, the U.S. superiority thus obtained
supposedly would ensure peace for the rest of the world. Can
you imagine what the American reaction would be if some
people in the Soviet Union aspired to the role of "world
peacekeepers" in such a manner?
   Mr. Feldstein is wrong in thinking my country could ever
sell its security for consumer goods and know-how. Recently,
the Communist Party Congress in Moscow adopted a resolution
on national defense policy saying in particular that a
military threat to the Soviet Union persists as long as there
are no guarantees of the irreversibility of positive changes
in the military and political situation. Under these
conditions the Party Congress considers it a major task to
strengthen and maintain the Soviet Union's defense capacity
at a reasonably sufficient level.
   As one can see from the example of the postwar period, the
desire to have military superiority has fed the arms race and
increased international tension and the threat of war. The
belief in my country is that the existing rough parity
between the Soviet Union and the U.S., and between the Warsaw
Treaty Organization and NATO, is the decisive factor
preventing wars. This parity should be maintained, but at
steadily decreasing levels.
   The Soviet Union is already applying this principle. From
1989 to the end of this year the Soviet armed forces will be
unilaterally reduced by 500,000 men and officers, 10,000
tanks, 8,500 artillery systems and 820 combat aircraft. In
1989 it unilaterally reduced its armed forces by 265,000 men
and officers, withdrew 27,400 servicemen from the Northern,
Western, Central and Southern groups of forces in Europe and
22,900 from Mongolia. The number of Soviet weapons in Europe
went down by 9,320 tanks, 5,050 artillery systems and 835
warplanes.
   More than 59,000 servicemen, 1,370 tanks, more than 1,040
artillery systems and 173 combat aircraft have been withdrawn
from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland and Mongolia this year.
   The Soviet navy has scrapped 12 submarines and 28 surface
ships, and moth-balled three submarines and 11 surface ships.
Besides, 500 tactical nuclear charges have been withdrawn
from Warsaw Treaty countries. The Soviet Union is prepared to
pull all its nuclear weapons out from allied countries, if
the U.S. acts likewise.
   The restructuring of the Soviet armed forces is proceeding
under the sign of defense. But realization of defense
sufficiency is possible only on the basis of reciprocity.
   Reciprocity is the only way to curb the arms race and
disarm. This is the best way we have of achieving, using Mr.
Feldstein's words, "greater military security" and "greater
global stability." And it is also the best way for the U.S.
to reduce safely its own military spending.
   Alexander Malyshkin
   Senior Information Officer
   Soviet Embassy
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Giving to Rise
   5% in 1990, Survey Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Corporate giving to education and charitable
causes rose a meager 3% in 1989, and is likely to grow only
5% this year, according to a survey by the Council for Aid to
Education.
   After more than a decade of annual increases averaging
15%, corporate contributions began to drop off in 1988, the
council said. A spokeswoman attributed the slowing rate to
changing tax laws, mixed corporate profits and uncertainty
over the economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Increases in donations to education also have slowed in
recent years, the survey found. Contributions to education
rose 4% in 1989 and 6% in 1988, after 12 years of
double-digit jumps.
   In addition to curbing their largess, the study found
companies are redirecting their gifts. The share of dollars
devoted specifically to pre-college education jumped 10.5% in
1989, after years of much smaller increases.
   Total corporate giving to all causes in 1989 rose to an
estimated $6.5 billion, or about 2.1% of pretax corporate
profits. Giving to education rose to $2.8 billion, or 0.9% of
corporate profits, the council estimated. The growth in
corporate giving in 1988 was only 2%, the council now
estimates, down from an earlier estimate of 3.2%.
   Data for the survey were provided by 333 companies, which
account for 25% of corporate giving.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ruff Said He Was
   Fired as President
   Of FundAmerica
   ---
   Newsletter Publisher Says
   Action Was Due to His
   Remarks About Founder
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Howard Ruff, a financial newsletter publisher who was
named president of FundAmerica Inc. last week, said he was
fired by the company's Canadian owners because of his
disclosure of $17 million in withdrawals by the company
founder.
   FundAmerica is an Irvine, Calif.-based discount buying
club under investigation by Florida authorities. Mr. Ruff
assumed the top post there after founder Robert T. Edwards
resigned in the wake of his arrest last month on charges of
organized fraud and conducting an illegal lottery.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Texas real-estate developer Mitchell Blumberg is
succeeding Mr. Ruff as president and chief executive officer.
"We thought our chances of survival would be better with Mr.
Blumberg," a FundAmerica spokesman said. Mr. Blumberg didn't
return phone calls for comment.
   FundAmerica remains "firmly in the hands of Bob Edwards'
friends and business associates," Mr. Ruff said in a
statement. Mr. Blumberg and Mr. Edwards have been real-estate
associates in Texas, Mr. Ruff has said.
   A Newport Beach, Calif., attorney, whose firm represents
FundAmerica, said in a San Francisco court Monday that
FundAmerica had told him it "was a 99% probability" that the
company would file for bankruptcy-law protection. Yesterday,
the attorney said FundAmerica had retained a separate law
firm that specializes in bankruptcy matters.
   The FundAmerica spokesman said he wasn't aware of any such
plans.
   FundAmerica is owned by FundAmerica Holdings Ltd., a
closely held British Columbia corporation. Mr. Edwards is a
major shareholder and director. He and other shareholders
have placed all of their shares in a trust controlled by
Peter Bradshaw, a consultant to the U.S. company. Neither Mr.
Bradshaw nor Mr. Edwards, free on $1 million bail, could be
reached.
   Several days after he became chief executive, Mr. Ruff
announced that Mr. Edwards had personally made $17 million in
withdrawals from FundAmerica this year, including about $11
million in wire transfers to various entities in Amsterdam
and Hong Kong.
   Florida authorities have filed a cease-and-desist order
against FundAmerica, charging that the club is an elaborate
pyramid scheme. The fund sells $100 annual memberships
entitling members to rebates on vacations, credit-card
purchases, long-distance telephone calls and purchases of
consumer goods.
   Fund America Investor Corp., a Denver-based issuer of
bonds and other securities, said it isn't affiliated with
FundAmerica.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   RUBBERMAID Inc. signed a definitive agreement to buy Eldon
Industries Inc. in a stock transaction valued at about $233.5
million. In yesterday's edition, the amount of the
transaction was misstated.
   (See: "Rubbermaid Signs Accord to Acquire Eldon
Industries" -- WSJ Aug. 7, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   MATTHEW KULKIN is a broker at Advest Group Inc.'s Advest
Inc. subsidiary. Yesterday's edition incorrectly said he no
longer is employed at the brokerage company.
   (See: "Four Settle Charges of Stock Exchange" -- WSJ Aug.
7, 1990)
   ---
   PETER DAVIS is chairman of Reed International PLC, a
British publishing concern. His name was misspelled in last
Friday's edition.
   (See: "Marketing Brief -- Reed International PLC: British
Publisher to Acquire Estates Gazette Magazine" -- WSJ Aug. 3,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Passing the Buck
   On a Colossal Scale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   If the White House is seriously contemplating responding
to the S&amp;L scandal by slashing federal deposit insurance
coverage from $100,000 to $50,000 (page one, July 3), then
the scheme represents one of the most colossal pass-the-buck
scenarios ever devised.
   Such an "overhaul," as the Journal generously refers to
it, smacks of an effort by the Bush administration to assess
blame for the $500 billion crisis on depositors in the failed
banks -- when, of course, it was the bankers who mismanaged
their funds and the federal regulators who blithely turned a
blind eye as if nothing untoward was happening, until it was
too late.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If Washington is serious about creating an atmosphere
under which this kind of scandal can never reoccur, it will
turn away from scapegoating depositors and instead create a
system of oversight that compels stricter compliance with the
rules that remain on the books.
   For example, when the Feds deregulated the banks they also
cut back on their staffs of examiners. But prudent
deregulation does not call for the total withdrawal of
oversight. Quite the opposite. This was a terrible mistake,
and to correct it the regulatory staffs ought to be beefed up
immediately. Washington should also create a new, separate,
independent entity -- apart from the bank regulators and
accountable directly to the White House -- to manage and
liquidate the S&amp;Ls' real-estate assets for the best value
possible. Such an entity ought, moreover, to have
private-sector involvement, as well as a strong presence in
each region of the country, since local real-estate dealings
require local expertise.
   Finally, the Feds ought to be thinking not about weakening
safeguards for depositors but about overhauling the way they
regulate banks in the first place. Replace the potpourri of
existing regulatory agencies with a sole, centralized
regulator, armed with a strong enforcement staff, and
responsible for total oversight over the banking system at
the federal level.
   There is one reform we can institute where deposit
insurance is concerned, as New York Gov. Mario Cuomo has
already proposed: limit insurance to $100,000 per depositor,
instead of $100,000 per deposit, so the so-called
"sharpshooters" can't buy extra protection with extra
accounts.
   Vincent Tese
   Director of Economic Development
   Former State Superintendent of Banks
   New York State
   New York
   ---
   I'd like to suggest the possibility of enabling
legislation to cause federal deposit insurance to compete
with insurance provided to banks by the insurance and
financial communities, similar to the manner in which
workers' compensation insurance systems work.
   Over time, this should provide incentives to the financial
system to be self-policing in regard to risks. I would expect
under such a system that the risks associated with banking
activities eventually would be reflected in the interest
costs to borrowers. This is certainly fairer than creating
high tax rates for taxpayers who may or may not be
participants in the credit system that created the problem.
In addition, those taxpayers who are also savers would be
rewarded with higher returns on their savings rather than
higher taxes on their earnings.
   Robert B. Tormey
   Los Angeles
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How to Think Like a Congressman
   ----
   By James Bovard
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   The recent farm bill debate provided insight into the
intellects of 535 people with vast power over the nation's
economic destiny -- the U.S. Congress. For example, the cost
to consumers of farm programs is a controversial issue, since
federal policies drive U.S. sugar, dairy and peanut prices to
double or triple world prices. Rep. Neal Smith (D., Iowa)
declared, "The way to determine whether or not prices of food
that are from price-supported commodities are high is to go
to the grocery store and compare them with those products
that are not processed from price-supported products."
   Mr. Smith then whipped out a five-pound bag of sugar from
a grocery bag on the House floor and announced that the sugar
cost $1.79. Next he pulled out a package of cat food, which
weighed only two pounds and four ounces, yet cost $2.83.
Noticing some doubt among his listeners, Mr. Smith announced,
"But here is another one," and judiciously contrasted the
price of a five-pound bag of wheat flour ($1.39) and a
five-pound package of chicken manure ($2.89). Since
subsidized sugar is cheaper than unsubsidized cat food, and
subsidized flour cheaper than unsubsidized chicken droppings,
farm programs cannot be hurting consumers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rep. Ron Marlenee (R., Mont.) had a more refined proof of
the success of the sugar program: "Here's a bag of kitty
litter. It costs 49.75 cents per pound. Here's a bag of
American produced sugar. It costs 37.25 cents per pound. Here
is a bag of charcoal brickets. The cost of this product is 57
cents per pound. Sugar is cheap -- cheaper than those
products the consumer is willing to burn up or litter on."
   There was hot debate over a proposal by Sen. Harry Reid
(D., Nev.) and Reps. Dick Armey (R., Texas) and Charles
Schumer (D., N.Y.) to limit federal handouts to wealthy
farmers. Several congressmen considered the suggestion
suspiciously akin to communism. Rep. Robin Tallon (D., S.C.)
warned, "We do not have to imagine what life would be like
without a responsible farm program. We need only look to the
Soviet Union where people will wait in line for hours in
hopes that they can buy a small portion of beef or bread."
Rep. Pat Roberts (R., Kan.): "This effort to end
participation of our most successful farmers and investors in
the farm programs sounds a lot like the way the Poles and
Russians organized their agricultural policy before the
Berlin Wall came down."
   The chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, Kika de
la Garza (D., Texas), urged his fellows to reject the
Armey-Schumer proposal by appealing, like an ancient Roman
senator, to his personal integrity: "Can Members imagine a
shoe-shine boy from Mission, Texas, being accused of
protecting the rich and the greedy?" Mr. de la Garza
neglected to mention that, since 1987, he has received over
$100,000 in campaign contributions and over $20,000 in
honorariums from agricultural lobbies and organizations.
   Sen. Kent Conrad (D., N.D.) called up his full mental
arsenal to raze Sen. Reid's amendment to end handouts to
farms with gross sales over $500,000. Mr. Conrad began by
noting that the Department of Agriculture kept statistics on
farms with $50,000 in sales and above, and then launched into
an intellectual triple-jump: "$50,000 may sound like a lot of
money. Typically, net farm income is less than 50% of net
cash returns, meaning that these so-called wealthiest farmers
are those with net incomes of less than $25,000 a year. Let
me just say that $25,000 a year may be a decent living, but
it certainly is not wealthy by the standards of almost any
other industry." In reality, farms targeted by the Reid
amendment had an average income in 1988 of not $25,000 but
$790,721.
   Similarly, Rep. Thomas Coleman (R., Mo.) required only two
sentences to prove that no farmers in Missouri were rich. Mr.
Coleman derided the notion of "these so-called millionaire
farmers self-appointed critics say are on the Federal dole.
Well, in my state of Missouri, as of 1988, there were 113,000
farmers with an average size of 269 acres. If you are making
a million dollars on 269 acres, then you're not growing a
legal crop]" It apparently did not occur to the seven-term
congressman that, if 269 acres was the average size of a
Missouri farm, perhaps some farms in his state are larger
than 269 acres.
   Much of the hostility to the Reid-Armey-Schumer proposals
came from a belief that congressmen must personally control
American agriculture, or else markets would collapse. Mr.
Roberts exclaimed, "How on earth do we control the supply of
corn and rice and wheat . . . when we exclude the very folks
who are most successful in producing that food?" Rep. Jerry
Huckaby (D., La.) insisted, "What we try to do with these
farm programs is to pay farmers not to plant. We try to
control `supply and demand.'" Some farm state congressmen
warned that if government failed to control supplies, prices
would fall; others warned that they would rise. Rep. Bill
Emerson (R., Mo.) suggested that both things would happen:
crop prices would fall while retail prices somehow increased.
   Congressmen repeatedly implied that if government ceased
paying farmers to idle 60 million acres a year, markets would
become so destabilized that farmers would not plant any
crops. Mr. Emerson announced, "As the ranking member of the
House Select Committee on Hunger, I take the threat of an
unreliable food supply very seriously." Rep. Jim Lightfoot
(R., Iowa) asserted: "If this (Armey-Schumer) amendment
passes, we will start to see prices escalate at the grocery
store. . . . The bottom line is that it will cost 10, 20, 30
times more than what this particular farm program costs to
the American taxpayer." Apparently, unless government
continues paying farmers not to plant wheat each year, the
price of bread will soar to $50 a loaf.
   Many congressmen prophesied that, if the U.S. stopped
paying big farmers not to plant, U.S. agricultural exports
would plummet. Rep. Wally Herger (R., Calif.) warned: "This
will greatly decrease the ability of American agriculture to
compete in international markets in the future." Foreigners
would, you see, buy fewer American crops at a low price than
at a high price. On Aug. 1, the House wrangled for hours over
a proposal by Rep. Silvio Conte (R., Mass.) to limit
government aid to $250,000 per farmer. Rep. Charles Stenholm
(D., Texas) intoned that the Conte amendment would change
"the philosophy and direction of farm programs," and Mr.
Marlenee accused Mr. Conte of being "anti-farm." Limiting
farmers' maximum annual handout to 500 times that given to
the average food stamp recipient would, in the words of Mr.
Emerson, "throw many of our rural communities into economic
upheaval."
   Sen. Larry Pressler (R., N.D.) was concerned about the
burden of idled acreage on American farmers, declaring that
the U.S. set-asides "have given an unfair advantage to
foreign competitors who receive crop subsidies that do not
hinge on the idling of cropland." Mr. Pressler's solution was
not for the U.S. to stop paying American farmers not to
plant, but for the U.S. government to engineer an
international cartel-like agreement where all major producers
idle farmland in order to inflate world grain prices.
   Judging from these astute observations, many congressmen
would have difficulty managing a school lunch program, much
less controlling the nation's food supply. The question that
arises from a study of congressional intellects at work is:
How much more "kitty litter logic" can America stand?
   ---
   Mr. Bovard is a policy analyst for the Cato Institute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   MER FNM AMR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                          CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMR Corp. -- $250 million of 8 5/8% notes due Aug. 15,
1992, priced at 99.91 to yield 8.675%. The noncallable notes
were priced at a spread of 65 basis points above the
Treasury's two-year note. Rated single-A-3 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp., the issue will be sold through underwriters led by
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. -- $100 million of 9% notes due Aug.
15, 1993, priced at par. The noncallable notes were priced at
a spread of 90 basis points above the Treasury's current
three-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $208 million of City
University of New York consolidated second general resolution
refunding revenue bonds, Series 1990D and 1990E, priced by a
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group. The $142.7 million Series 1990D
comprises current interest serial bonds priced to yield from
6.75% in 1998 to 7.40% in 2003 and $95.8 million of 7% term
bonds priced at 94.98 to yield 7.50% in 2009. The $65.3
million Series 1990E comprises current interest serial bonds
priced to yield from 6.75% in 1998 to 7.35% in 2002 and $11
million of 7.75% term bonds priced at par due in 2017. The
bonds are rated single-A/triple-B-plus, except for Series
1990D bonds due in 1998-2000, 2002 and 2003 and Series 1990E
bonds due in 1998-2000 and 2002, which are insured and
triple-A-rated.
   Los Angeles -- $201.3 million of certificates of
participation, Series 1990, priced by a PaineWebber Inc.
group. The cerfificates, for the city's Convention and
Exhibition Center, were priced to yield from 6.20% in 1994 to
7.23% in 2021. Zero-coupon capital appreciation bonds are due
in 2001-2005 and yield from 6.80% to 7.00%. There are $33.1
million of 7% term bonds priced at 98.25 to yield 7.17% in
2010 and $52.7 million of 7% term bonds priced at 97.25 to
yield 7.23% in 2021. The issue is insured and triple-A-rated.
   Philadelphia School District -- $120 million of 6 1/4%
school district tax and revenue anticipation notes, Series
1990-91, due June 28, 1991, tentatively priced by a Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets group to yield 6% in 1991. The notes
are rated MIG-1/SP-1.
   Vermont -- $100 million of 10 1/2-month, 6 1/4% general
obligation temporary notes due June 28, 1991, priced mostly
by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group to yield 5.80%. The
notes are rated MIG-1/SP1-Plus.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in seven classes by Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets. The offering, Series 1990-107, is
backed by Fannie Mae 10% securities with a weighted average
coupon rate of 10.75%. Among classes for which details were
available, yields ranged from 8.33%, or 45 basis points over
the yield on two-year Treasury securities, to 10.02%, or 155
basis points over 30-year Treasurys.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   There were no major European debt issues priced yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Terrestrial Orbit
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   We have science fiction on Earth,
   There is no longer any doubt;
   Perhaps no out-of-space aliens,
   But many earthlings who are spaced-out.
   -- Mimi Kay.
   ---
   Grapevine Refined
                                                                                                       

   These words may be quoted without hesitation:
   Gossip is just mouth-to-mouth recitation.
   -- Lida Smith.
   ---
   Politricks
                                                                                                       

   In Washington, D.C., they do a lot of buck-passing -- and
come to think of it, they do a lot of buck-keeping, too.
   -- Sam Ewing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Faster Accord Is Seen on Budget Deficit
   ---
   But First-Year Package
   Is Likely to Be Smaller
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The growing sense of economic crisis, the
result of spurting oil prices and the newly evident slowing
of the U.S. economy, is likely to hasten an agreement on the
budget deficit but shrink the size of the first-year package,
participants in the budget talks say.
   When negotiators settled on a goal of reducing the fiscal
1991 deficit by $50 billion in the spring, the economy
appeared substantially stronger. Some negotiators, in
Congress and the Bush administration, now are resigned to the
fact that the objective will be reduced when talks resume
after Labor Day. "With the economy in a state of slow growth,
people get worried that any adjustment will tip us over,"
said Rep. Bill Frenzel (R., Minn.).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.),
among the Democrats who is the strongest advocate of
negotiating a compromise with the administration, said:
"Obviously, we are going to have to make some adjustments
based on what is happening with the economy."
   Negotiators and their staffs caution, however, that
developments in the Middle East and in the economy during the
next month will be important. No firm decisions are likely to
be made before Labor Day. "If you have an accumulation of
events -- both in terms of the Middle East as well as the
economy -- that indicate increasing trouble, that would be
added impetus to arrive at some kind of agreement," Rep.
Panetta said.
   One solution, negotiators say, may be an agreement that
falls short of the $50 billion first-year objective, but
raises taxes and cuts government benefit programs in
subsequent years. Congress could enact a law this fall, but
delay the effectiveness of some aspects of it.
   The risk, of course, is that such an agreement won't be
seen as credible by financial markets and the Federal
Reserve. There is no point in approving politically costly
tax increases and spending cuts unless interest rates fall as
a result, one Democratic congressional strategist said
yesterday.
   Some economists say that this option might be the most
prudent. "Make a commitment, but don't cut too drastically
all at once," advised Victor Zarnowitz, a University of
Chicago economist. He emphasized that simply pledging deficit
reduction in the future won't suffice.
   A weak economy "might be an argument for lowering your
sights for fiscal 1991," says Robert Reischauer, director of
the Congressional Budget Office, "but it shouldn't result in
any easing of the five-year effort."
   Several budget negotiators said -- with hindsight, of
course -- that the best moment to strike a significant
deficit-reduction accord was last fall or early this spring.
"I told the administration last year to get their deficit
reduction then," said Sen. Jim Sasser (D., Tenn.), chairman
of the Senate Budget Committee. "If you get to the point
where you're entering a recession or in a recession, it's
going to make it more difficult."
   At least in the minds of important members of Congress,
the weak economy and the turmoil in the Middle East are
removing what little credibility remained in the
administration's threat to allow $84 billion in automatic
spending cuts to take effect on Oct. 1. The Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction law requires the cuts unless an agreement
is reached to bring the projected fiscal 1991 deficit below
$74 billionor the law is altered, as some in Congress
predict.
   "Those cuts would produce nothing less than sheer
disaster," says Rep. Panetta. "Nobody is going to select that
out of choice."
   Nevertheless, the administration continues to rattle the
Gramm-Rudman saber. White House Budget Director Richard
Darman yesterday briefed the cabinet on the Gramm-Rudman
cuts, and asked all federal agencies to submit plans for
carrying out such cuts by Aug. 27.
   "You will likely need to initiate a number of personnel
actions, including elimination of overtime, hiring
limitations or freezes, furloughs of temporary employees, and
finally furloughs of permanent employees," Mr. Darman said in
a memo sent to all federal agencies yesterday.
   Layoff notices would be issued in September, perhaps in
the midst of congressional debate over a deficit-reduction
accord, administration officials said.
   Mr. Darman estimated that the Gramm-Rudman cuts, if put
into effect, would slash spending in affected non-defense
agencies by 31.9% as of Oct. 1. President Bush must decide by
next Wednesday whether to exempt military personnel from the
Gramm-Rudman cuts. If he does, as seems likely in the current
situation, other defense accounts would be cut by 34.9%, Mr.
Darman said.
   Without congressional action of some sort, agencies must
carry out the spending cuts. "This is enforceable by criminal
penalties," Mr. Darman warned.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Unions Miss the Mark
   In Slighting Small Firms
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   UNION INROADS have been greater at big companies than at
smaller ones, but many small companies are sitting targets.
   So say researchers Charles Brown, James Hamilton and James
Medoff in their recently published book "Employers Large and
Small" (Harvard University Press). Employee dissatisfaction
with wages and working conditions tends to be greater at
smaller companies, they say.
   Moreover, their evidence shows unions help close the gap
between the often skimpy fringe benefits at smaller companies
and those at big employers. "Small employers today have many
characteristics that should make them prime targets for
organizing drives," the authors find.
   They say the share of unionized companies climbs from 8%
for employers with fewer than 50 workers to 66% for companies
with more than 1,000 workers. Overall, 18% of the U.S. work
force is unionized.
   Unions tilt their organizing efforts toward large
companies, even though the bigger the target, the less likely
unions are to win acceptance, the study indicates. Complaints
by labor officials of illegal opposition to organizing
campaigns also occur more often at small companies, according
to the researchers.
   Why do unions tend to zero in on bigger firms? It's a
matter of economics, say the authors. Organizing costs don't
rise in proportion to a company's size, but the potential
payoff in the form of increased member dues is much larger at
big employers.
                                                                                                       

   Rehearsing Executives
   Before a Roadshow
                                                                                                       

   GIVING LESSONS to companies going public is a growing
business for a California coach.
   Jerry Weissman of Power Presentations, Santa Clara,
Calif., helps top executives of young businesses deliver
convincing pitches as they try to spark interest in their
companies' initial public offerings.
   Executives know the "roadshow" isn't easy. They must
convince analysts, investors and portfolio managers that a
company will make lots of money. All eyes are on the speaker;
sweaty palms are common.
   Top executives often compound the task with inept
performances. "They empty the file when they speak," boring
listeners with unnecessary data, says Mr. Weissman. Also,
"they speak the way the prospectus reads: `It is hoped that
the company flourishes in this market. . .'" Though many
media-shy executives go to public-speaking coaches, Mr.
Weissman's program is more specialized.
   Mr. Weissman videotapes an executive's message, then
critiques the performance. "It's exactly like studying their
golf stroke," he says. "They see themselves as others see
them." Finally, at "dress rehearsals," Mr. Weissman peppers
the client with questions. Despite a $10,000 fee, he says,
there is a waiting list.
   Paul Grayson, chairman of Micrografx Inc., Richardson,
Texas, tells of former problems, "shifting my weight back and
forth," among other things, before Mr. Weissman cured him.
"He showed us how to handle the tough questions from the
audience . . . and there were a lot of tough questions," he
says.
   Mr. Grayson says the training helped Micrografx to sell
1.3 million shares in June in its first public offering, at
$16 a share. Before the roadshow, he had hoped to get a price
of about $13 a share.
                                                                                                       

   New England Is Paying
   For Its Overconfidence
                                                                                                       

   SMALL BUSINESSES in New England can blame part of their
current problems on overconfidence generated by the region's
economic boom of the 1980s, some economists say.
   A recent rise in business failures there follows several
years of prosperity for Northeastern entrepreneurs, with
unemployment rates touching the lowest levels since World War
II.
   "Two years ago, one out of every two {New England} firms
had a job opening it couldn't fill," says William C.
Dunkelberg, chief economist of the National Federation of
Independent Business and dean of Temple University's business
school. "That kind of excitement generally breeds
overexuberance."
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. found Massachusetts failures in the
first four months nearly quadrupled from the year-earlier
period. Failures were up 156% in Vermont, 100% in Rhode
Island and 97% in New Hampshire.
   Large and small companies are included in the totals. But
"we know that most of the failed firms are small," says
Douglas Handler, a Dun &amp; Bradstreet economist. "Smaller
companies tend to operate at the margins. Any increase in
economic stress brings about a disproportionate increase in
their failures."
   Lynn Browne, vice president and economist of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston, says real-estate companies are in
trouble and retail space that used to house boutiques is
conspicuously empty. "Two years ago, everybody was talking
labor shortages," Ms. Browne says. "It really does make you
doubt the worth of long-range forecasting."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THOUGH President Bush's veto of a parental-leave bill was
upheld by Congress, more than 20 states have passed laws
requiring companies or state government to grant leave to
workers for critical family matters without jeopardizing
employment status. . . . European venture capitalists
invested the equivalent of $5.5 billion in small European
companies in 1989, up 24% from the year before, says KPMG
Peat Marwick. U.K. companies received the most money,
followed by France, Italy, West Germany and the Netherlands.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph:
   American Airlines Orders
   More Personal Computers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   T AMR
</CO>
<LP>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s computer unit
received an extension of an estimated $100 million order for
personal computers from American Airlines' Sabre Travel
Information Network. American Airlines is a unit of AMR Corp.
   No value was placed on the extension, which follows a June
1989 contract for personal computers to be used in the Sabre
network in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An American Airlines spokeswoman said AT&amp;T Computer
Systems will need to convince some 4,500 overseas travel
offices that currently use older Sabre equipment to change to
newer AT&amp;T personal computers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Energy Lesson 1
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Replacement cost. Now, again: REPLACEMENT COST. Repeat
after me: r-e-p-l-a-c-e-m-e-n-t cost.
   This summarizes the clearest lesson we learned from the
energy crisis of the 1970s. It's too bad so many people slept
through that decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Senator Joseph Lieberman skipped the 1970s, and yesterday
paraded his ignorance: "In the last week, American consumers
have been ripped off on a massive scale." Rep. Phil Sharp
also missed the last energy crisis, to judge by his comment
that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein "may not be the only
greedy person in this picture." Even the White House
evidently was on vacation last time around, or it wouldn't
set out poor Marlin Fitzwater to say: "It is not clear that
all of the increases that have been reported at the consumer
level are necessary." The common theme is that the gasoline
price went up at retail before the new, higher-priced crude
oil could flow through the pipelines.
   To take replacement cost from the ground up, suppose
you're Sam Sanchez, proprietor of Last Stand Gas at Custer
and Santa Anna in Heartland, Texas. You read that the price
of crude oil just jumped from $14 to $21, and are trying to
figure out what retail price is "necessary" if you're going
to stay in business. You have half a tank truck of gas you
bought at wholesale at 66 a gallon, and if you continue to
sell at 99.9 cents, your bookkeeper will tell you that you
made your usual markup to cover the attendants' salaries, the
bank loan and your kid's sneakers.
   As a striving entrepreneur, however, you know that when
the tank truck arrives on Tuesday, you're going to have to
shell out 99 cents a gallon at wholesale. And as someone who
has to buy sneakers, you wonder where this extra money will
come from. The bank's been asking a lot of questions lately,
and you're not sure it'll cough up a new loan for working
capital. So you go out to the pumps and slap on a $1.29
price, enough to afford your next truckload of gas at the new
price -- enough, that is, to replace the gas you're selling.
   The bookkeeper says you've doubled the profit on the gas
still in the tank. Economists call this historical cost.
Gas-station operators call it going out of business; the
station operators who care about staying in business will
price according to replacement costs. So will the
wholesalers, independents and Octopus Oil. The natural result
is that an increase in the price of oil will be reflected
immediately at retail.
   It's possible, of course, that someone may try to boost
the retail price even above replacement cost. But if Sam
Sanchez's big competitor puts on a $1.99 a gallon price, Sam
won't go above $1.95, somebody else will come in at $1.90 and
pretty soon we're all back to $1.29, without any intervention
from Congress. Edwin Rothschild of the consumer group Citizen
Action called for a boycott of the highest-priced gas
stations in each community -- advice your average consumer is
likely to find, well, superfluous.
   It's pointless, then, for Congress and its sisters and
cousins and aunts to run around the country with dipsticks
trying to measure how much cheap gas everyone had in tanks
and pipelines when the price went up. We've been through all
of this once, and by now ought to understand that what counts
is replacement cost. We ought also to understand that the
effect of hysteria and demagogy can only be legislation or
other efforts to keep the price below the market-clearing
point, discouraging conservation, capping new supplies,
causing queuing at stations, and otherwise shooting ourselves
in the foot for the benefit of Saddam Hussein.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Soviet Official Sees Support
   By Military of Iraq Blockade
   ---
   Adviser to Foreign Minister
   Links the Use of Force
   To Multilateral Effort
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet Union would support possible military
moves to enforce the economic blockade against Iraq and might
participate militarily if the action were on a multilateral
basis, says a senior Foreign Ministry official.
   "We would prefer to . . . go through United Nations
channels to organize international mechanisms, or force if
needed, to patrol and enforce this embargo," says Sergei
Tarasenko, a close adviser to Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze, in an interview. "I wouldn't rule out the
possibility of Soviet military participation on such a
collective basis. This is not for show. We want to get
results."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since Iraq invaded Kuwait, the Soviet Union has engaged in
unprecedented joint action with the West, giving impressive
substance to what is touted here as "new thinking."
   In its response, the Soviet Union has effectively junked a
decades-long policy of support for radical Third World
regimes. The message from Moscow is clear: An alliance with
the West is worth more than dubious arrangements with
dictators.
   "This aggression gives the chance for Soviet foreign
policy to continue its review regarding Third World military
regimes, which were built up and which existed with Soviet
assistance," says Victor Kremenyuk, a deputy director at the
USA and Canada Institute and adviser to the parliament's
committee on international affairs. "It gives us the moral
grounds, it gives us the political grounds. There can't be
anyone now who'd raise a voice and say, `Look, the Soviets
are abandoning their friends.'"
   In recent days political analysts have reiterated the idea
that only with the West can the Soviet Union find the
solution to its internal problems. Soviet and U.S.
policymakers have been in daily contact by phone and telex on
the Iraqi crisis, Soviet officials say. They stress that it
is important to grab this chance to prove the Soviet Union is
sincere in calling for a reduction in world arms levels and
East-West confrontation.
   "It's the first case of what we now define as a
partnership relationship," says Mr. Tarasenko. "As partners
we're supposed to do more than just cooperate."
   Soviet analysts have even rejected the suggestion that the
rise in oil prices caused by the Iraqi invasion might benefit
the Soviet Union, a major oil exporter.
   Some Western oil industry analysts have said the gains
will be huge. Roger W. Robinson Jr., a private consultant who
was senior director of international economic affairs at the
National Security Council during the Reagan administration,
told a congressional hearing in Washington: "Moscow is even
now taking the Iraq-Kuwait crisis to the bank in terms of
pocketing roughly $1 billion annually for every $1 increase
in the price of a barrel of oil."
   But Soviet economists say that higher oil prices will make
debt servicing more expensive and drive up prices on consumer
products that the Soviet Union increasingly hopes to import
from the West.
   The Soviet Union's economic problems are also too vast to
be helped by a sudden influx of dollars. Some experts say a
wave of convertible currency would be counterproductive. "If
the money now appears simply by price increases, the
motivation to change the economy would immediately become
weaker," says Mr. Kremenyuk.
   The Soviet Union also has experienced a steady decline in
oil production in the past several years. Old wells have
matured and new technology is needed for extracting new
resources. In addition, the Soviet Union won't receive about
10 million tons of oil that it is owed by Iraq for weapons
shipped in the past, Mr. Tarasenko says.
   The Soviet Union is counting on Western help as it tries
to shift to a market-driven economy. "We are extremely
interested in safeguarding the business situation in the
U.S.," says Mr. Kremenyuk. "It is to our interest to
safeguard it so that the West can continue to supply us with
aid and investment."
   All this has driven the Soviet Union to its recent series
of stunning moves. Some diplomats recall that an Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait would have caused a full-blown military
alert in the West just a short time ago. Now, the Soviet
Union has stopped its arms shipments to Baghdad, issued the
joint statement of condemnation with the U.S. and supported
the United Nations' economic embargo of Iraq.
   Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said that
Soviet warships are on patrol in the Indian Ocean and that
two of those ships -- an anti-submarine ship and a command
ship -- are sailing toward the Strait of Hormuz. In light of
the situation, he said, "this is a usual, normal measure."
   Soviet experts say that by cutting off arms, the Soviet
Union has already hit Iraq in its most vulnerable spot. And
by cooperating swiftly with the U.S., the Soviet Union has
made it clear to Iraq that the two superpowers can no longer
be played off against each other.
   Some Soviets say that is all the Soviet Union needs to or
can do. They say that the problem is in the hands of the
West, and of Turkey and Saudi Arabia, which control the
pipelines by which Iraqi oil is delivered.
   "It's out of the question for the Soviet Union to take
place in any kind of military action," says Georgi Mirsky, an
authority on the Mideast at an influential government
think-tank. "We don't have this responsibility. Maybe we're
not a superpower anymore."
   However, experts say that even if the Soviet Union doesn't
support the West militarily, it won't provide intelligence
information on aircraft movements to Iraq as it would have in
the past.
   "The Iraqis understand that they'd get no information,"
says Mr. Kremenyuk. "They'd be blind."
   Arms supplies and intelligence support have been the basis
for Soviet relationships with Third World nations for a long
time. Recently a vigorous debate has been under way here
about the wisdom of those ties, focusing particularly on the
financial demands of aiding such nations as Cuba.
   The Iraqi crisis will propel this argument forward. When
parliament reconvenes in September, the Soviet Union may
formally abrogate its 20-year-old friendship treaty with
Iraq. The Soviet Union also will look at changing its
priorities in the Middle East, and a likely focus of new
efforts will be Saudi Arabia. So far, Saudi Arabia has
resisted some Soviet attempts at strengthening ties. Now,
says Mr. Tarasenko, the Iraqi crisis may give the efforts new
impetus. "Just the announcement that Saudi Arabia and
U.S.S.R. agreed to move toward full diplomatic relations
would be a strong signal to Iraq," he says.
   Moreover, the Soviet Union will probably undertake a
thorough reassessment of some dozen treaties with Third World
nations, many of which were formed in the 1970s. "We accept
the criticism that we should be more choosy in allying
ourselves with certain regimes, governments and so on," says
Mr. Tarasenko. "This is a very important threshold in Soviet
overall foreign relations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shareholder Accuses
   Stotler of Misleading
   Investors on Finances
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Stotler Group Inc. said it was sued by a
Connecticut shareholder, Robert Elson, who alleged that the
bankrupt futures concern misled investors about its financial
condition when it went public in August 1988.
   The suit, filed in federal court here, seeks class-action
status and also names as defendants certain Stotler officers,
directors and the company's accounting firm, Coopers &amp;
Lybrand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stotler was forced into bankruptcy Friday by creditors
after teetering on the brink of insolvency for weeks. The
company's fiscal decline and fall was triggered in early July
when regulators said its brokerage unit, Stotler &amp; Co.,
wasn't meeting industry capital requirements. The Chicago
Board of Trade disclosed that it had been closely monitoring
Stotler &amp; Co.'s capital level since late 1987.
   The suit alleges that Stotler Group disclosure documents
prepared in conjunction with the 1988 public stock offering
included materially false and misleading information about,
among other things, the compliance of Stotler &amp; Co. with
industry minimum capital requirements.
   Mr. Elson, whose suit seeks an unspecified amount of
monetary damages, couldn't be reached for comment.
   Stotler Group said in a statement that it would "defend
vigorously" against the suit.
   A Coopers &amp; Lybrand spokesman declined comment on the
suit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kuwaiti Refugees
   Tell Tales of Terror
   After Desert Flight
   ---
   Iraqi Peasant Soldiers Loot
   And Menace, People Who
   Made It to Bahrain Say
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   BAHRAIN -- Elizabeth al-Kandry's eyes are wide with the
fear and fatigue of her flight through Iraqi tanks and land
mines.
   "I thought I was going to die," says the 22-year-old,
cradling her month-old baby in her lap. Just hours earlier,
she arrived in Bahrain with her husband, Mohammed, after
driving through the Saudi Arabian desert in a convoy of cars
escaping the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hundreds of Kuwaitis have abandoned their homes and are
risking such journeys as the situation in Kuwait has
deteriorated. "It was like hell," says Mrs. al-Kandry, a
Briton married to a Kuwaiti. "The Iraqis are taking the food.
People are fighting each other for food."
   At the causeway linking Saudi Arabia with the island state
of Bahrain, several hundred miles south of Kuwait, in the
Persian Gulf, dusty cars crammed with Kuwaitis line up at the
border crossing. Bahraini officials give their papers a
cursory glance before waving them through to safety.
Bahrainis are offering free housing to some refugees, and the
Kuwaiti Embassy foots the hotel bill for others.
   Those who have fled tell of near anarchy in their once
peaceful and prosperous city-state.
   "The first army came to fight, the second army has come to
loot," says Nagiba Diabali, a heavy-set 45-year-old swathed
in a traditional black cloak, called an "abaya."
   The Iraqi soldiers who poured across the border into
Kuwait in Thursday's blitzkrieg invasion were seasoned,
disciplined fighters from Iraq's elite presidential guard,
according to reports. But for the past few days, Kuwaitis
assert, Saddam Hussein has been sending poor peasants from
southern Iraq who have been enlisted in a so-called Popular
Army with promises of lavish spoils.
   "They are breaking into houses and stealing whatever they
can carry out," says Mrs. Diabali, as her sister-in-law sobs
beside her. The two women are exhausted from a grueling
drive, squeezed nine to a car, across the searing desert
frontier.
   "It wasn't the lack of food or the soldiers everywhere,"
says an engineer who is too frightened to give her name. She
voices fear that her daughters would be raped by the
soldiers, although reports of rape couldn't be verified. A
mob of soldiers, the engineer says, burst into her neighbor's
house, demanding gold and money. The family said its
valuables were all in safe deposit boxes at the bank.
   "The soldiers said, `If you haven't got gold, give us your
women,'" she says. "When I heard this, I ran from the house
in my bedroom slippers." She lifts her "abaya" to reveal a
pair of battered scuffs.
   "Please don't write that Moslems are doing this to
Moslems," she adds. "Saddam isn't a {true} Moslem. If the
Israelis invaded they would treat us better than this."
   Most of the fleeing Kuwaitis are coming without
possessions and with only as much cash as they had in their
homes when the invasion surprised them. Soon, even that might
be worthless. At a Caltex gas station near the causeway, a
sign scribbled hastily on Tuesday reads: "Saudi and Kuwaiti
currency not accepted." Exchange dealers reported running out
of dollars as Bahrainis rushed to dump Gulf currencies.
   Many Kuwaitis chose the shabbiest of their vehicles in
which to attempt their escape, saying that Iraqis had been
confiscating Mercedes-Benzes and other fancy cars. Some said
showrooms had been looted and the new cars driven off to
Iraq. Falah al-Dosari, an administrative manager at an
agricultural firm who fled Kuwait at sunset on Monday, said
he saw Iraqis shooting at cars and stealing them.
   The Kuwaitis say that many of the poor Iraqis, who live in
mud brick villages, have been dazzled by Kuwaiti wealth. "We
have a nice house -- like an American house -- with a pool,"
a businessman says. "When the Iraqi soldiers arrived they
asked if it was a club." He says the troops had no food or
water, so he gave them bread and cheese and asked them as one
Arab to another why they were behaving in such a way to a
neighbor. "They said they'd come to help us overthrow our
corrupt emir," the businessman says. "I told them we loved
our emir, and they looked astonished."
   Kuwaitis who have made it to Bahrain tell of driving
through the desert thick with Iraqi troops, tent encampments,
tanks and anti-aircraft batteries. The Kuwaitis say that far
from withdrawing, as Mr. Hussein claimed, troops appear to be
massing. The land between Kuwait City and the Saudi border
already has been heavily mined, they say.
   Elizabeth al-Kandry, who still carries a British passport,
was afraid troops would single her out and send her to
Baghdad along with the other foreign nationals they have
seized. When passing near troops, she pulled her Islamic
scarf tight over her fair hair and hunkered down alongside
her mother-in-law and sister-in-law.
   Mohammed, her husband, plans to head straight back to
Kuwait now that he has brought his family to safety. The
30-year-old petroleum analyst says he took part in a
demonstration of about 60 or 70 people on Sunday in downtown
Kuwait. "They {the Iraqis} opened fire on us and wounded five
people," he says. He intends to join other resisters and
sneak back across the border.
   For those trying to escape, Kuwaitis say, there seemed to
be no consistent policy on the part of the Iraqis. Some
refugees were turned back and others were allowed to leave.
   As well as taking cars and valuables, Kuwaitis say, some
soldiers literally demanded the clothes off their backs. The
Kuwaitis believe that Iraqis were ordered to swap their khaki
uniforms for the traditional white robes of Kuwaiti males to
lend credence to Saddam Hussein's assertion that Kuwaitis
have joined his forces.
   But, the Kuwaitis say, the pretense is laughable. "People
who are supposed to be Saddam's Kuwaiti supporters are
appearing on television," says Khalid Yousef, a merchant.
"But they don't know how to wear our traditional headdress"
-- a white cloth held in place by black cord. "They put it on
all crooked, and when they speak their accents are pure
Iraqi."
   But nobody has been laughing about other television
broadcasts, which reveal what Kuwaitis bitterly see as a
betrayal by Arab leaders such as Jordan's King Hussein, the
Palestine Liberation Organization's Yasser Arafat and the
leaders of Yemen and Sudan. Many Kuwaitis have satellite
dishes tuned to CNN, which has broadcast reports of those
Arab leaders refusing to condemn the invasion and even
supporting Iraq.
   Some Kuwaitis here have come not from Kuwait but from
other Arab countries. Mohammed Umran was in Jordan managing a
touring Kuwaiti basketball team when the Iraqis invaded.
After seeing the mood in Jordan turn against Kuwait and
become almost hysterically pro-Saddam, he says, he packed up
the players, aged 16 to 18, and flew them to Bahrain.
   "Go to Jordan, to Yemen or the West Bank and see the
hospitals there, the schools. Kuwait built them," says
Khadija Mohammed, a 25-year-old science teacher. Adds another
Kuwaiti: "I really hope Kuwait comes back strong again,
because next time we'll know better who our real friends
are."
   Mrs. Mohammed was vacationing in London when the invasion
began. She has come to Bahrain in the hope of returning to
Kuwait to be with her parents, from whom she has heard
nothing since the day of the invasion. For now, she sits in
the lobby of the Holiday Inn, questioning each new arrival
for word of her family.
   "They might have died from a bomb," she says, "but we are
dying every day not knowing what is happening to them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Many Funds
   Sitting Tight
   Amid Turmoil
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Despite growing gloom about the stock market's
prospects, many pension funds and other big investors say
their current strategy is to hang on tight for the ride.
   "You can scare the wits out of yourself if you want to,"
Joseph W. Perrone, chief investment officer of the $25
billion Texas Teacher Retirement System, said of the
heightened prospects for recession because of rocketing oil
prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, Mr. Perrone, like many other big investors, said he
hasn't soured on stocks despite suffering "screen shock"
watching the market plunge in recent days. "Things would have
to get a whole lot clearer before we would do some bold moves
in the market," he said.
   Some big investors have been increasingly edgy about the
U.S. economy and stock prices for months before the latest
Mideast turmoil, causing them to trim stock portfolios
slowly. For example, the $58 billion California Public
Employees Retirement Fund has cut stock holdings to 38% of
its assets from 42% 18 months ago. But the latest market
declines haven't prompted more selling by the California
fund, the nation's largest public employee fund.
   "We're pretty well set for the long term," DeWitt Bowman,
chief investment officer of the California fund, said of the
38% stock holding. "You can't move $58 billion around the
markets that quickly and achieve any significant incremental
returns," he said.
   Most big investors agree. "We're not smart enough to move
in and out of the market on events like these," said Fred G.
Weiss, head of Warner-Lambert Co.'s $1.3 billion pension
fund. "We've stood pat for the last three or four days, and
we're not going to make any big asset change because of
this."
   The Warner-Lambert fund was in the process of cutting its
stock position last week before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
But Mr. Weiss stopped selling on the invasion news to avoid
getting caught up in the market turmoil.
   "By the time something like this hits, it's too late to do
anything about it," said David P. Feldman, vice president for
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s $40 billion pension
fund. "What you do is cover your bets" beforehand, he said.
   Mostly that means spreading assets among different types
of investments, which big funds can afford to do. AT&amp;T, for
example, has held stakes for years in oil and gas exploration
and development properties, even though they looked like poor
bets through much of the 1980s. "They are there for days like
these," Mr. Feldman said of the oil and gas properties, now
made more attractive as a result of the past week's surge in
oil prices.
   Certainly, some big investors have been selling during the
latest market declines. And because institutional investors
hold more than 40% of U.S. stocks, sales of even a small part
of institutional portfolios can sharply depress stock prices.
   Institutions have cut their holdings of New York Stock
Exchange issues by almost $2 billion between July 16, when
the Dow Jones Industrial Average reached its record high of
2999.75 points, and the start of this week, according to
stock market strategist Laszlo Birinyi.
   While that cutback is substantial, it is less than half
the money that fled the stock market during the Oct. 19,
1987, market crash. There has been no sign so far of the
panicky selling by big investors that swamped the market
during the crash.
   At the same time, there is little evidence as yet that
institutions are forging back into the market this time, as
many big investors did in late 1987, or again after the
190.58-point industrial average drop in October 1989.
"Everybody is going to be hesitant about increasing positions
here," said Kenneth G. Mertz II, chief investment officer of
the $10 billion Pennsylvania State Employees Retirement
System.
   A big reason for caution, said Mr. Mertz and other pension
fund managers, is that the economy is far weaker than was the
case during those earlier stock market plunges. "We're a lot
more concerned about going into a recession and the
stagflation possibilities," said William F. Quinn, president
of AMR Investment Services, a money-management unit of the
airline company.
   "I don't know if recession is the right word, but it's
going to be harder than a soft landing," said
Warner-Lambert's Mr. Weiss.
   James S. Martin, executive vice president of the $38
billion College Retirement Equities Fund, said rising oil
prices "could very well put the economy over to a mild
recession." For the moment, he's taking a wait-and-see
stance, without doing any unusual buying or selling in the
fund's U.S. portfolio.
   However, Mr. Martin has used some of the fund's cash
reserves to buy particularly hard-hit European stocks. On
Monday, he said, "they were giving some stuff away in Europe,
so we've been trying to put some money to work there."
   Most pension-fund managers say they do best by adopting a
long-term investment strategy and sticking to it, rather than
reacting to unfolding events. That's because successfully
timing market moves is difficult for any investor, but even
more so for the big pension funds that can have tens of
billions of dollars in assets.
   "It's like turning an aircraft carrier," AT&amp;T's Mr.
Feldman said of maneuvering a pension fund's investment
strategy. "You need a lot of time and room to do it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England
   To Merge Bank Units
   For Massachusetts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. said its small
affiliate bank in western Massachusetts will be merged into
the bank's main Boston-based affiliate to form one large bank
for the state.
   The merger is the latest step in a series of
consolidations the troubled bank has undertaken this year in
order to trim staff, streamline management and reorganize
assets. In February, it consolidated three eastern
Massachusetts affiliates into the bank's large Boston
affiliate, called Bank of New England N.A., which currently
has $13 billion in assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank of New England-West, based in Springfield, Mass., has
$1 billion in assets, 700 full-time employees and 40 branches
offices. The merger will be effective pending approval by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Bank of New
England-West's longtime president, C.D. "Buzz" Harrington,
had previously announced he will be retiring this summer.
   Bank officials said the western bank will eventually be
run by a regional president, who will report to Bruce
Wheeler, president of Bank of New England N.A.
   Since its $1.1 billion loss last year, largely due to bad
real estate loans made during its rapid expansion in the
1980s, the regional bank has trimmed 4,000 employees through
asset sales, layoffs and consolidations.
   "Certainly, we will examine the management situation out
there to see if there is any duplication," said bank
spokesman James Dorsey, who added that the layoffs from the
merger "should be modest."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   A Choice Victory
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   It looks as if Herbert Grover, Wisconsin's School
Superintendent, can no longer stand in the schoolhouse door
and block 1,000 low-income children from attending the school
of their choice. On Monday, a Wisconsin judge ruled that
black Rep. Polly Williams's plan to allow students to use
vouchers to attend private schools is constitutional.
   Judge Susan Steingass ruled invalid Mr. Grover's
contention that the voucher plan didn't serve a valid public
purpose and was discriminatory in being limited to Milwaukee
inner-city schools. She wrote that if choice works, the
benefit would flow "not only to a few students in Milwaukee
but to our educational system as a whole, both by the lessons
learned and the education improved." The judge also ruled
that Mr. Grover exceeded his authority in demanding the
private schools fill out complex forms and meet other
bureaucratic "diktats" not specified in the legislation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The voucher plan has divided black parents from many
liberals who claim to represent them. When a white attorney
for the teachers' unions fighting the plan told Judge
Steingass the plan wouldn't help minorities, he earned a
swift rebuttal from Anne Sulton, the Madison, Wis., NAACP's
attorney. "I am offended at that suggestion," she told the
court. "I don't see any African-Americans here opposing this
plan. I do see a courtroom full of African-American parents
supporting increased educational opportunity for their
children."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Smart Money Isn't Bashful About Rushing In
   To Gush About Oil-Service Industry Stocks
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   SLB HAL BHI
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It is small wonder that Wall Street is gaga
about oil-service stocks.
   The smart money has always said that the place to be in a
gold rush is selling shovels, and Wall Street hasn't wasted
any time in figuring out who is selling shovels now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Historically, oil-service stocks have been the leveraged
beneficiary of oil prices," says Daniel Rice, who manages the
MetLife-State Street Energy Fund. Leverage is greatest at the
margins of any industry -- and oil service, a byproduct of
growth, occurs at the margin of the oil business.
   Currently, the market capitalization of the entire
oil-service industry is less than that of Merck. This
suggests, to some, a fleeting opportunity. In Mr. Rice's
enthusiastic imagery: "When portfolio managers decide they
want to get in this industry, the door will get very small."
   There is no argument here that shares of Schlumberger,
Halliburton and Baker Hughes, to name a few, would all be
attractive at 10 times earnings. And maybe, even, at 20 times
earnings.
   But no one is offering to make that trade. These stocks,
as do those of many oil-service concerns, trade at about 30
times estimated 1990 earnings. Multiples of 1991 earnings are
closer to 20.
   It is only when one goes out to 1993 or 1994 that
multiples appear reasonable. And who is going to predict what
international oil markets will look like in 1994?
   This is not to say that oil-service stocks are necessarily
overpriced -- only that they are discounting a lot of good
news.
   Mr. Rice, for example, argues that when the level of
drilling in the U.S. rises to 1,500 rigs, Halliburton's
earnings should soar to $5 a share (from a 1990 consensus
estimate of $1.87). At that level, its stock would indeed be
reasonable.
   But 1,500 rigs represent 55% more than the total now in
service. Analysts say the industry has contracted so much
since the previous boom that it lacks the capacity in many
areas to grow quickly, and such a rise in the number of rigs
would also require a huge leap of faith by oil companies.
   Merrill Lynch predicts that Schlumberger, in 1994 or so,
should earn $10 to $12 a share (up from a consensus estimate
of $2.38 for 1990). Suzanne Cook, a Merrill analyst, says,
"There has been such a consolidation in oil-service that
companies have more pricing power than is readily apparent."
   For example, she says, "Schlumberger is the only game in
town" for high-technology well-testing. Thus, she predicts
rising revenues and rising margins across much, if not most,
of the oil-service industry.
   Margins and revenues may indeed rise. Mark Baskir, who
invests in energy stocks for Neuberger Berman and who is
neutral on oil-service stocks, says the problem is this: "How
much is the stock market already discounting?"
   James Carroll, an analyst at PaineWebber, says that for
each $1 increase in the estimated future price of a barrel of
oil, the intrinsic value of oil-service companies, as
measured by a discounted cash flow model, rises 8%. And based
on the current price of West Texas intermediate crude of
about $28 a barrel, he says oil-service stocks are fairly
priced. He says, "There is a lot of leverage" on the upside
if oil prices rise.
   But the price of a barrel of oil has already risen to
something like the price of a high-priced steak dinner. Until
a week ago, the price was barely enough for a large pizza,
maybe with a few extra toppings. In short, most analysts say
oil's price is as likely to drop back as it is to rise
further.
   And uncertainty works against the oil-service investor,
because oil companies require a measure of certainty before
they commit large sums of capital.
   "These {oil-service} stocks are ridiculously valued," Alan
Gaines, president of Gaines &amp; Berland, an institutional
brokerage firm, says. Mr. Gaines is hardly disinterested; he
has sold short a laundry list of stocks, betting their prices
will drop. His argument is that "oil companies don't budget
on the basis of one week's events in the Middle East."
   Mr. Gaines is right -- but only partly.
   "We have been through these cycles before," Will Price,
president of Chevron's Chevron USA unit, says. "You have the
suspicion that things will moderate." Chevron makes no
flat-out predictions, though the general sense from Mr. Price
is that -- partly because of restrictions on drilling --
exploration will increase, but only gradually.
   The current price of oil "pretty much hits the bull's eye"
in terms of what oil companies need to drill, Theodore Eck,
chief economist of Amoco, says. "The question is, can we stay
there?"
   There is little question that drilling will increase. But
is Wall Street, recalling the last oil boom when the rig
count soared to 4,000, counting on too much, too soon? Oil
men also remember the oil boom -- and the nearly decadelong
slump that followed.
   Thus, they say that oil at $25 to $30 a barrel will
sustain a lot of drilling, but that the industry isn't likely
to plunge in as it did in the 1970s, when long lines at
gasoline stations were fresh news. "This time feels
different," Mr. Eck says. "There isn't a sense of panic."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Owner of Texas Thrift, Three Others
   Indicted in Case Involving $121.1 Million
   ---
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal End
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The former owner and three ex-officers of the defunct
Lamar Savings Association of Austin, Texas, were indicted on
federal criminal charges related to the alleged
misapplication of $121.1 million of thrift funds.
   Former owner Stanley E. Adams Jr., who once sought
permission to open a Lamar Savings branch on the moon, was
named in all 14 counts of the indictment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The indictment, returned late yesterday by a federal grand
jury in Austin, also charged former Lamar Savings officers
Milton R. Perry and Reuben Coleman, both of Austin, and
Frederick Scheibe of San Antonio.
   The indictment is the latest in the Justice Department's
stepped-up effort to prosecute the people believed most
responsible for the billions of dollars in losses at the
nation's thrifts. The crackdown so far has been focused
primarily on Texas S&amp;Ls.
   Lamar Savings collapsed in late 1985 after having
ballooned to become the 12thlargest thrift in Texas. The
thrift, which had about $2 billion in assets when it failed,
fueled its growth by offering some of the highest rates of
interest available in the U.S. for deposits, which drew
millions of dollars to the institution. The deposits were
used to finance real-estate ventures that later soured.
   The indictment accuses Mr. Adams and the three former
officers of conspiring to conceal Lamar Savings' troubled
financial condition from federal thrift regulators. As part
of those efforts, the indict ment alleges, the thrift
officials would arrange for borrowers to sign up for "sham
loans" to finance purchases of repossessed real estate from
the thrift's portfolio. The borrowers, in many instances,
weren't required to repay the loans, but the thrift was able
to book immediate gains for making the loans and for
"selling" troubled real estate, according to the indictment.
   Two Lamar Savings borrowers, real estate developers Louis
G. Reese III and Robert Hayden Brown, both of Dallas, were
each indicted on conspiracy and five other charges. Mr. Reese
was a borrower at several now-failed Texas thrifts, including
Sunbelt Savings Association of Texas and Western Savings
Association.
   Mr. Reese's attorney, William M. Ravkind of Dallas, said
his client was forced to take on the loans for Lamar's
repossessed real estate in order to obtain financing for his
own real-estate projects. Mr. Brown's attorney couldn't be
reached for comment.
   None of the three former officers could be reached for
comment.
   The indictment of Mr. Adams had been expected for several
weeks, mainly because of an unusual public-relations campaign
by Mr. Adams himself.
   Beginning in mid-May, an Austin public-relations operative
retained by Mr. Adams arranged news conferences to needle
federal investigators for overlooking alleged wrongdoing by
Lamar borrowers and others; the operative, Garry Entress, was
subpoenaed to appear before the federal grand jury hearing
evidence in the case.
   Yesterday, the Justice Department issued a news release in
Washington, D.C., before Mr. Adams's attorney, David Botsford
of Austin, was informed of the indictment.
   Mr. Botsford said he couldn't comment on the specific
charges because he hadn't seen the indictment, but said he
would "be very surprised if that indictment alleges that
Stanley Adams profited by one dime from any of these alleged
crimes."
   "He gave his heart, soul and resources to that
institution," the attorney said, adding: "I rather suspect
that Mr. Adams has been singled out for selective prosecution
for his reputation in the industry as a maverick."
   Mr. Botsford was referring to Mr. Adams's celebrated
application to federal thrift regulators for permission to
open a Lamar Savings branch on the moon, going so far as to
name a specific crater where the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration had indicated it would build a space
station.
   Federal thrift regulators didn't act on the application.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Capital Associates Inc.:
   Concern Expects to Report
   Losses for Quarter and Year
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CAII
</CO>
<LP>
   Capital Associates Inc., a Lakewood, Colo., leasing
concern with financially strapped customers, said it expects
to report losses for the fourth quarter and year ended May
31.
   The amount of the fourth-quarter loss hasn't been
determined. But it will be substantial enough to create a
loss for the year, the company said. In the first nine
months, net income was $1.2 million, or 13 cents a share, on
revenue of $120 million. In fiscal 1989, profit was $8.6
million, or 91 cents a share, on revenue of $140.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Capital Associates said the loss will result from reserves
to be established for assets leased to companies experiencing
"severe financial difficulties," among them Integrated
Resources Inc., the real estate and financial-services firm
that sought bankruptcy-law protection in February.
   The company would not say whether it expects continued
losses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Denver Media Firm
   Plans to Complete
   Restructuring by '91
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TCOMA QVCN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Tele-Communications Inc. said it hopes to
complete a restructuring by the first quarter of 1991 that
would put most of its cable television and programming
interests in a new company, Liberty Media Corp.
   As reported, Tele-Communications earlier this year said it
planned a major restructuring, but uncertainty in the
regulatory environment and difficulties in getting needed
consents have delayed the plan's implementation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, the company said it was considering a rights
offering to holders, which would entitle them to exchange a
portion of their shares in Tele-Communications Class A and
Class B common stock for shares of a new company, Liberty
Media Corp.
   Yesterday at the company's annual meeting,
Tele-Communications President John Malone said that directors
hadn't yet determined the definitive structure of Liberty
because, among other things, a number of tax and valuation
issues have to be resolved.
   Mr. Malone said that, under the plan, the company's
investment interest, generally 50% or less, in 18 affiliated
entities would be transferred to Liberty. The program
investments include stakes in American Movie Classics, The
Discovery Channel, QVC Networks and The Family Channel, but
exclude Turner Broadcasting System Inc.
   Tele-Communications is eager to keep its 22% stake in
Turner under control of the original company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Track Records That Signal Peace or Peril
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mutual fund investors who are worried about what will
happen to their stock funds if the recent market drop
continues and the economy slides into recession might step
back and take a look at the record.
   While past performance is no guarantee of future results,
looking at how well funds held up in past market declines may
provide valuable clues about what to expect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many small investors have been busily shifting their money
out of stock funds in recent days, as news of the Middle East
conflict added new fuel to fears of recession and inflation.
Some major mutual fund groups said redemptions slowed
somewhat yesterday, though official tallies won't be
available for a couple of days.
   Typically, some types of stock funds hold up better than
others when the market falls. Equity-income and balanced
funds, for example, tend to drop less than the market as a
whole, because they contain bonds and high-dividend stocks;
growth and growth-and-income funds tend to perform in line
with the market.
   But just looking at categories won't tell investors what
may happen to their funds, because there are many exceptions.
Getting an idea about how a specific fund is likely to
perform requires looking at its own performance history.
   For example, take Acorn Fund, a small-company growth fund
with assets of nearly $1 bil-lion. Because small-company
growth funds are among the most volatile stock mutual funds,
it would be easy to assume that Acorn can get squashed when
the market falls. But a look at figures compiled by Lipper
Analytical Services Inc. shows this isn't the case.
   Acorn not only has outpaced other small-company growth
funds over the past decade, but it did better than the market
in three out of four downturns. In the week ended last
Thursday, the latest week for which statistics are available,
Acorn declined 2.9%. This compares with a loss of 3.4% for
small-company growth stock funds as a group.
   Investors who want to determine down-market performance of
their funds won't find it easy. Mutual funds generally quote
performance figures on an annual basis, while market drops
occur at untidy intervals. Investors will have to ask the
fund representative what happened during specific down
cycles.
   Taking the trouble to ask can be well worthwhile to
investors, however, in helping them judge the desirabil-ity
of various funds. While different fund groups and different
individual funds may have similar long-term returns, they can
achieve those results with vastly different gyrations. This
can be important to investors who are easily scared when the
going gets tough.
   For example, equity-income, growth-and-income and growth
mutual fund groups all have 10-year annualized results of
15.3%. But over the decade, growth and growth-and-income
funds fluctuated widely, while equity-income funds gave
investors a smoother ride, tending to fall only about half as
much as the market in downturns and to rise less in market
climbs.
   The same holds for individual funds. For example, consider
Vanguard Group's Windsor Fund, a widely held no-load fund
that now is closed to new investors, and Washington Mutual
Investors, a broker-sold fund managed by Capital Research &amp;
Management Cos. Both are growth-and-income funds that gave
investors an average annual return of 19.1% in the 10 years
through June 30, according to Lipper.
   But while Windsor had a loss of 3.8% in the week ended
last Thursday, Washington Mutual was off only 1.1%. Looking
back at previous market downturns shows that Washington
Mutual had smaller losses than Windsor in three of the four
deepest declines in the 1980s.
   ---
                   A Look at the Downside
                                                                                                       

   How some widely held stock mutual funds have performed
recently and during the four deepest downturns of the 1980s.
(Total returns with dividends and capital gains reinvested.)
                                                                                                       

                            FUND
                                                                                                       

   Growth and Income
                                                                                                       

   Windsor
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil--  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $7.9     -3.8%   -8.0%     -8.2%   -11.0%   -28.6%   19.1%
                                                                                                       

   Investment Co. of America
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $5.9     -1.6   -10.7      -6.6     -8.3    -25.9    18.2

   Washington Mutual
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSET  % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $5.3     -1.1   -11.4      -3.6     -7.5    -27.6   19.1
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -1.3   -12.0      -8.3     -8.3    -26.5   15.3
                                                                                                       

   Growth
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Magellan
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $14.0    -2.3   -17.4      -11.3    -9.4    -34.8   26.7
                                                                                                       

   Twentieth Century: Select
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $3.3     -1.8   -21.0      -11.6    -10.3   -33.4   20.5
                                                                                                       

   American Capital Pace
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $2.5     -1.7    -6.2       -3.7     -1.1   -34.7   19.0
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -2.3   -15.4       11.5    -10.4   -30.3   15.3
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Puritan
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $4.9     -1.0    -8.1       -2.7     -5.3   -20.8   16.8
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Equity-Income
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $4.7     -1.4    -9.6       -4.1     -7.5   -24.6   17.4
                                                                                                       

   Income Fund of America
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $2.1     -0.1    -7.3       +2.8     -3.0   -13.1   15.8
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -0.1    -9.1       -3.0     -4.3   -21.1   15.3
                                                                                                       

   Balanced
                                                                                                       

   Wellington
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $2.3     -0.4    -9.4       -4.9     -6.2   -21.3   15.5
                                                                                                       

   IDS Mutual
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.7     -0.1    -8.5       -3.2     -0.7   -16.2   14.9

   Merrill Ret. Benefits "B"
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.4     -0.3    N.A.       N.A.     N.A.   -17.2   N.A.
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -0.1    -9.7       -3.6     -4.2   -18.0   14.4
                                                                                                       

   Small Co. Growth
                                                                                                       

   T. Rowe Price New Horizon
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.1     -4.7    -21.4     -17.5    -17.6   -37.6   12.4
                                                                                                       

   Acorn Fund
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.0     -2.9    -17.4     -11.5     -8.2   -25.9   16.7
                                                                                                       

   DFA Grp: US 9-10 Small Co.
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

  $.8     -2.9    N.A.      N.A.      -9.5   -33.6   N.A.
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -3.4    -21.6     -15.5    -12.3   -33.5   13.9
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   T. Rowe Price Intl. Stock
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.2     -0.1     -9.9      -9.2    -11.8   -22.4   18.5
                                                                                                       

   Fidelity Overseas
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

 $1.1     -0.1     N.A.     N.A.     N.A.    -21.6   N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Scudder International
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

  $.9     +0.3     -6.5     -11.1    -13.7   -28.4   17.8
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -0.1    -11.6     -13.1    -13.2   -21.8   15.9
                                                                                                       

   S&amp;P 500 INDEX
                                                     AVERAGE
                                                     ANNUAL
 ASSETS % CHANGE   PREVIOUS DOWN-MARKET PERFORMANCE  RETURN
 (bil-  7/26/90- 6/11/81- 12/10/81- 5/13/82- 8/20/87 6/30/80
 lions)  8/2/90  9/24/81   3/11/82  8/12/82 -12/3/87 6/30/90
                                                                                                       

          -1.2    -12.5     -13.0    -13.4   -32.0   16.8
                                                                                                       

   N.A.=Not applicable
   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Farah Inc. Completes
   Accords to Receive
   $31.7 Million in Credit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FRA
</CO>
<LP>
   EL PASO, Texas -- Farah Inc., which is locked in a bitter
proxy battle with its former chairman, said it completed
credit agreements for $31.7 million.
   The apparel maker said Congress Financial Corp., a
subsidiary of CoreStates Financial Corp., will provide up to
$20 million of financing and the company's current U.S.
lenders, headed by a unit of Security Pacific Corp., will
provide an additional $6.1 million. In addition, Standard
Chartered Bank, a unit of Standard Chartered PLC of Britain,
is providing up to #3 million ($5.6 million) for use in
Britain and Ireland. All of the loans are for two years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said Standard Chartered is also providing a
customs bond to Farah's U.K. operations of up to #500,000 and
a contingent letter of credit to Congress Financial of $2
million.
   The announcement brought some relief to Farah before a
special shareholders' meeting Friday requested by William F.
Farah, the company's ousted former chairman. The company has
indicated that it needed to complete new financing agreements
to avert a liquidity crisis.
   Mr. Farah, who owns nearly 16% of the company's common
stock outstanding, is waging a proxy contest to regain
control of Farah, which has been reporting losses and
declining sales for several years. He is seeking to replace
seven of the nine directors. Mr. Farah couldn't be reached
for comment.
   For the six months ended April 30, Farah had a net loss of
$2 million, or 32 cents a share, on sales of $59.9 million.
The company has indicated it also expects a third-quarter
loss.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Pfizer Wants
   To Establish
   Valve Registry
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PFE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pfizer Inc. said it would attempt to establish
a registry of more than 55,000 patients world-wide who have
received a potentially defective Shiley heart valve.
   Pfizer's Shiley subsidiary sold about 86,000 of the valves
between 1978 and 1986. Defects in the valves have contributed
to the death of 252 people, Pfizer has said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The patient registry would be one of the first ever
developed for a medical device and could have implications
for manufacturers and users of a variety of implantable
devices.
   The Food and Drug Administration is considering whether
patients should be notified directly in circumstances where
potential problems arise with such devices. Under current
policy, only doctors receive such notice from either the FDA
or a manufacturer. A registry would permit broad notification
much the way car manufacturers advise owners of recalls.
   Pfizer's announcement comes as the company is under
increasing legal and regulatory pressure over the valve. The
California Supreme Court recently ruled that a woman could
sue Pfizer for damages related to anxiety over her implanted
valve, even though it is working properly. And the FDA is
reviewing a petition by Public Citizen, a Washington consumer
group, to require Pfizer to notify patients directly of
potential problems with the valve.
   "This is long overdue," said Sidney Wolfe, director of
Public Citizen, of Pfizer's plans. While companies and some
federal agencies maintain patient registries for pacemakers,
there is no broad requirement that such records be
maintained. "This is a message to anyone selling these
devices," Mr. Wolfe said, to set up registries at the
beginning, "before a product is established as defective
rather than afterward."
   But Pfizer said setting up the registry didn't necessarily
mean it would notify everyone on the list of the concerns
over the device. "We're not doing this to make a blanket
announcement," said Steven Kany, Pfizer's senior assistant
general counsel.
   Because the risk of surgery to replace the valve, or of
other health factors, could be higher than the risk of valve
failure, Mr. Kany said, notifying patients of the potential
defect could cause unnecessary alarm. "In most
circumstances," he said, "the doctor is the right person to
give information to patients."
   But Public Citizen's Mr. Wolfe says his organization
continues to hear from patients who have heard nothing from
their doctors about the problems.
   Mr. Kany said Pfizer previously supported the concept of a
registry, saying such a record would be useful for patient
notification if necessary and for collecting research data.
When the valve was marketed it included a card for doctors to
return to Pfizer but only 45% of the cards were returned, Mr.
Kany said, and all contain information at least five years
old. Pfizer will work with doctors, hospitals and insurers to
develop the registry.
   One concern, Mr. Kany said, is that the registry would
land in the hands of plaintiffs attorneys, who could use it
to solicit clients.
   The valves in question are Shiley's 60-degree and
70-degree convexo-concave Bjork model heart valves. The FDA
banned the use of the 60-degree model in 1986 and Pfizer
stopped selling the other model, which was marketed only
abroad.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Kirin Brewery Co.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For First Half Rose 30%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   KNBWY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kirin Brewery Co., Japan's largest brewer, said first-half
unconsolidated pretax profit climbed 30% to 34.77 billion yen
($231.2 million) from 26.73 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income jumped 49% to 15.86 billion yen, or 15.81 yen a
share, from 10.62 billion yen, or 11.16 yen a share. Net grew
faster than pretax earnings, as extraordinary losses narrowed
to 1.83 billion yen from 3.27 billion yen a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 8.7% to 586.94 billion yen from 539.81 billion
yen.
   Officials said demand for beer was strong in the latest
period, pushing sales volume up to post an average of 8%
year-to-year growth among Japanese breweries, despite a rise
in beer prices that went into effect last March. Kirin's
first-half beer sales rose 6.9% to 524.48 billion yen from
490.56 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict -- Rusty Rigs:
   U.S. Oil Drillers Are
   Ill-Prepared to Boost
   Domestic Production
   ---
   Iraqi Crisis or No, Shortages
   Of Manpower and Gear
   Hold Back Exploration
   ---
   Desperately Seeking Welders
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   DD MOB XON TX UNT CGP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   POTEAU, Okla. -- The boycott of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil
should be a boon for the U.S. Oil Patch. It conjures up
visions of companies suddenly drilling new holes, plopping
down rigs and watching as geysers of American crude replace
some of Saddam Hussein's oil.
   The reality is not so pretty. Even before Iraq's invasion,
a small boom in U.S. oil exploration had come up against an
ugly reality: The infrastructure of oil exploration and
production in the U.S. seriously atrophied during the '80s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The capacity of the U.S. oil-field service and equipment
industry to accomplish things -- big things like building
pipelines or small things like manufacturing drill bits --
has withered to about 50% of its peak a decade ago, says
Charlie Oliver, president of Fluor Daniel Corp.'s oil
division.
   Scores of companies have vanished; they've gone bankrupt,
merged or simply called it quits. The survivors have slashed
budgets, cut loose most of their experienced help and sold
off equipment -- or let it rust in back lots and bayous.
   The shortage of trained help is acute. Unit Corp. of Tulsa
had to turn down million-dollar contracts to drill 10 new
wells in the past two months because it couldn't find
experienced workers. Parker Drilling Co. dispatched more than
a dozen workers all the way across Louisiana to drill a well
in Lafayette, once an oil mecca crawling with seasoned men
ready to work.
   Warehouse shelves are nearly empty of the mundane valves,
fittings and connectors that keep rigs running. In a few
months, the industry could actually start running out of the
super-strength pipe used to turn drill bits.
   Even ordinary earth-moving equipment and backhoes are in
short supply. Repairs of sophisticated monitoring equipment
that once took hours now take days.
   Domestic production could never again satisfy America's
voracious energy appetite, of course; it can't begin to
replace all of the 8.4 million barrels a day of petroleum now
imported. After a century of high U.S. production, there
simply isn't enough left underground. But stepped-up oil and
gas output at home could at least slow the growing reliance
on foreign oil.
   It has happened before. After the oil price shocks of the
1970s, furious exploration and drilling halted a long decline
in domestic reserves and production. That, coupled with
conscientious conservation, cut oil imports by the early
1980s to 32% of U.S. consumption, before they rose to a
record of nearly 50% of consumption in the first half of this
year.
   Recently, savvy independents and even Big Oil have again
been sinking new wells in the U.S. at a rising rate. Last
month, more than 1,000 drilling rigs were grinding away, up
from 832 a year earlier and 663 four years ago. The incentive
was last year's steady 30% rise in U.S. crude prices to an
average of about $20 a barrel.
   Mini-oil-booms have been rocking along this year from
sagebrush towns of South Texas to Alabama, Kansas and
Wyoming. Drillers are working in Alaska's icy Chukchi Sea and
in the deep blue waters far into the Gulf of Mexico.
   Though it started with gutsy little companies, the game
has been joined by big players in the past few months. With
DuPont Co.'s Conoco unit planning to spend upwards of $600
million in 1990, "we'll probably have the biggest year ever
in exploration," says Constantine Nicandros, the Conoco chief
executive.
   Mobil Corp. projects annual capital spending above $5
billion in a few years, 50% higher than in 1989. Exxon plans
to spend $500 million developing just two Gulf of Mexico
fields. Texaco Inc. raised domestic spending on exploration
25% this year and expects to maintain that level at least
through 1995.
   For many companies, natural gas is as good a target as
crude oil, because rising oil prices tend to tow gas prices
along. Gas is also more plentiful than oil in the U.S., and
can be an effective substitute for imported oil in many
applications. Coastal Corp. has been sitting on a backlog of
500 gas discoveries, but wouldn't drill until convinced that
prices justified it. "We are now beginning," James Paul, the
president, said before the Iraqi invasion.
   Because $20 oil had all that impact on U.S. output, it
might seem the new prices well above $25, if sustained,
should turn the rebound into a stampede. After all, the
industry took full advantage of the oil shocks of the '70s.
   Back then, however, things were different. Oil-field
businesses were many, rich, well-equipped and fully staffed.
Money to finance growth was beating a path to their door;
everyone from New York bankers to Los Angeles dentists wanted
to invest in the Oil Patch. To expand, "you just placed the
orders," says C.R. Palmer, chairman of the drilling company
Rowan Cos.
   This time, the industry is staggered, investors are wary
and the infrastructure is weak. The drilling recovery "could
stop short just as it gets started," warns Matthew Simmons, a
Houston investment banker.
   For instance, here in the Ouachita Mountains stretching
from Oklahoma 100 miles into Arkansas, three times as many
wells are being sunk as last year -- but shortages are part
of the daily routine on most rig sites. Not long ago, Jeff
Nelson, head of a Mobil team drilling a four-mile-deep gas
well, spent half of one night looking for welders; he called
eight before he got one.
   "Personnel is the critical issue of the '90s," says Robert
Parker Jr., president of Parker Drilling, the company that
sent the workers across Louisiana. To ease such problems,
Parker has reopened its "drilling school" in Odessa, Texas,
which was closed during the mid-1980s. Ten former auto
workers there are learning to drill ultra-deep Oklahoma gas
wells.
   Last month, Texas A&amp;M University began training $8-an-hour
roughnecks to "run pipe" through wells, using an Abilene
school shuttered since 1986; the first class of seven will
graduate this month. And headhunters are scouring the country
in hopes of luring $50,000-a-year geologists and
geophysicists back to the Southwest.
   Earle Lamborn, the head of oil-rig operations for Unit
Corp., the firm that had to turn down contracts for lack of
manpower, is a frustrated man. "I hate that," he says. "We
need every contract we can get." Unit nearly suffocated in
the collapse of U.S. oil and gas exploration of the 1980s and
hasn't made a dime in six years. The spurned contracts would
have raised monthly revenue more than 40%, or $1.3 million.
   In 1981, the Tulsa-based contractor had 650
rough-and-ready drillers on its payroll. That dropped to 410
a half-dozen years ago -- and now just 220. "We haven't
trained anybody in years," he says.
   And many of the trained people may be gone for good. One
possible reason is that drilling is growing more complex
because of technological changes, while at the same time
remaining grimy, dangerous work where bodies are bruised and
fingers easily lost. Many experienced workers "have found
something else to do and they're not apt to come back," says
Robert Spears, a Tulsa consultant.
   Men like Tony Morris. Son of a roughneck and "Employee of
the Year 1980" in his small drilling outfit in eastern
Oklahoma, he epitomized those who were once the lifeblood of
the Oil Patch. Mr. Morris left two years ago to drive trucks
and vows he'll never return. "I've found easier ways to make
a dollar," he says. After a decade of declining wages, work
and benefits, the already tough life just became too
insecure. "You don't know if you'll work the next day," he
says.
   That leaves headaches for the survivors -- men like Paul
Murray, a "tool pusher" who heads up Unit Corp. drilling rig
no. 36 leased here to Mobil. "As more rigs get put up, the
hands jump around," he says. In fact, labor is so tight that
he was promoted after just six months with the company. Now
he drives his white Chevy pickup 270 miles across Oklahoma
twice a week to get here.
   "There's fixing to be a bidding war" for roughnecks -- the
basic category of well worker -- mutters Dee Morris, rig 36's
other "tool pusher," or man in charge of the drilling.
Unshaven, unwashed and unkempt after days of nonstop work,
Mr. Morris says the scuttlebutt is that competitors are
offering 50-cent-an-hour raises. Roughnecks currently earn
about $8 to $8.50 an hour. "The hands are griping. I wouldn't
be surprised if I lose a few," he says.
   When that happens, it can hurt. Down the road a dozen
miles, where a Unit crew did lose a roughneck to another
drilling company, there now are two "young guys" with less
than two weeks' experience working on the rig, says Alan
Williams, a skilled 17-year company veteran. So far, nothing
has gone wrong. But new workers frighten him because of the
heightened chance of injuries.
   "It would be a nightmare to fire up a new rig with all new
hands," he says. "It probably takes a good year to train a
hand where you don't have to lead him around by his hand."
   The revitalization of South Texas oilfields by a new
technology called horizontal drilling has created tremendous
demand for workers there, says Energy Service Co., which is
canvassing the area to find foremen with experience in that
specialized process.
   Finding people who can build an oil platform is just as
hard as finding men to work one. When Phillips Petroleum Co.
wanted to build a new platform in the Gulf of Mexico 90 miles
off Louisiana this year, it found only a handful of
experienced companies still making them. And they were busy.
The lowest bidder promised delivery next year, four months
too late for Phillips's schedule, says Rolf Wieborg, a
Phillips offshore manager.
   "We ended up splitting the contract in two" to speed
delivery, he says, but that cost more and now he fears rising
contractor prices will kill some other drilling projects
before they start.
   Certain hardware is scarce, too. There are still a lot of
derricks available, but that may not mean much because
warehouse shelves are emptying of the mundane materials that
oil people call rope, soap and dope. "We've been using that
stuff up ever since the boom," says Terry Adams, an Oklahoma
rig worker.
   "The supply train is severely taxed," says Mr. Oliver of
Fluor. One example: Orders for certain compressors and pumps
take from eight months to 18 months to fill. "Something's got
to give," he says.
   For now, it's price. At a recent Houston auction, a
3,000-horsepower rig motor assembly sold for $42,000; the
same equipment sold for a quarter of that in a 1986 Morgan
City, La., auction. Some drill-rig parts have soared 15-fold
compared with prices at that big Morgan City sale.
   Used drill pipe that last year cost $12.50 a foot now goes
for $18.50, and new pipe would cost around $25 if it could be
had. Drillers have been living on leftovers for years and now
some veteran oil men claim there isn't enough pipe around to
run 50 more rigs.
   The catch is that lease rates for a rig aren't yet high
enough to justify ordering new pipe -- so hardly anyone is
making it.
   Some items like that are likely to stay scarce for a long
time even if demand keeps rising. "We're not going to open a
new plant as fast this time," says Bennie Daricek, a 17-year
veteran with Cameron Iron Works. "During the good days a man
would have to wait three years for a blowout preventer," he
says, referring to a crucial component of an oil-drilling
operation. "When the bust came, people canceled three years
of orders. We got stuck."
   On the other hand, amid all the shortages there are still
some gluts. Never-used eight-year-old mud pumps, which
lubricate drill bits, still languish in Cooper Industries
Inc.'s inventory, says Robert Cizik, chairman. "I'll give you
a mud pump just like that," he says, snapping his fingers.
"I'll give you 10. I'll give you 20. How many do you want?"
   John Cassidy has more than mud pumps. Probably the biggest
dealer in used oil-field equipment, he still has millions of
dollars of equipment stacked up in his 160-acre yard in
Stroud, Okla. He bought a lot of it in the downturn for as
little as a penny on the dollar.
   For about $45,000 in 1985, Mr. Cassidy bought a derrick
and platform that had cost $1 million new in the early '80s.
Right now it wouldn't fetch more than $7,000 as scrap. But
he'll wait. "It's just too early to sell," he says. And then
he grins.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Saga Petroleum AS:
   Oil Concern's Pretax Profit
   More Than Doubled in Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   Y.SPT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saga Petroleum AS said pretax profit more than doubled in
the first half and predicted pretax profit for all of 1990
would rise 29%.
   But the Norwegian oil concern's forecast assumes a
conservative 120 Norwegian kroner a barrel average price for
crude oil, roughly $18.50 a barrel at exchange rates
prevailing for most of the year, according to a Saga
spokesman. Industry analysts predicted that Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait would push Saga's average crude price higher,
probably to between $22 and $25 a barrel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under that scenario, analysts added, Saga's 1990 pretax
profit would nearly triple, making the Oslo-based company one
of Europe's biggest winners from skyrocketing oil prices.
   First-half pretax profit soared to 389 million kroner
($63.6 million) from 151 million kroner a year earlier.
Operating profit jumped to 494 million kroner from 394
million kroner. Expenses were halved, falling to 105 million
kroner from 243 million kroner a year earlier. Revenue rose
12.7% to 1.28 billion kroner.
   Saga directors said they expect fullyear operating profit
to reach between 800 million kroner and 900 million kroner,
compared with 760 million kroner last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- A.L. Laboratories Inc.:
   NMC Labs Is Purchased;
   Quarterly Profit Rose 12%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   BMD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A.L. Laboratories Inc., Fort Lee, N.J., said it acquired
NMC Laboratories Inc., a Glendale, N.Y., maker of
prescription creams and ointments for topical use.
   A.L. Labs, which has interests in pharmaceuticals and
animal-health products, didn't disclose terms. But it said
NMC Labs is expected to post 1990 sales of about $14 million
and will contribute immediately to earnings. The unit
complements A.L. Labs's Barre-National liquid pharmaceuticals
business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, A.L. Labs reported that its second-quarter
earnings climbed 12% to $2.6 million, or 23 cents a share,
from $2.3 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue slipped 3.1% to $64.8 million from $66.9 million.
   A.L. Labs said its second period, normally a weaker
quarter, benefited from concentration on products carrying
fatter profit margins and careful control of manufacturing
costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   CBS News Debated Impact
   Of Report on U.S. Security
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS MDEST CCB GE TBSA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- When CBS News reported exclusively the
deployment of U.S. troops to Saudi Arabia, it followed a
prolonged discussion within the network of whether the report
would affect national security.
   "On balance, we felt this was such an important story that
the American public deserved to know," said Joseph Peyronnin,
vice president and assistant to the president at CBS News, a
division of CBS Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CBS News broke the story at 3:33 p.m. with a report from
its Defense Department correspondent David Martin. Mr. Martin
said, "Frankly, we're reporting this after considerable
debate about whether to report in advance on a troop
movement."
   But once CBS News broke the news, it was quickly followed
by ABC News, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC Inc. NBC News -- a
division of General Electric Co.'s National Broadcasting Co.
unit -- went on the air with its story at 4:06. A spokeswoman
said NBC was the first network to report that U.S. troops
were already in Saudi Arabia.
   A spokeswoman for Cable News Network in Atlanta said, "We
had been reporting troop movements out of Fort Bragg {N.C.},
Fort Stewart {Ga.} and Langley Air Force Base {Va.} all
morning." She said CNN reported President Bush's decision to
send troops to Saudi Arabia at 3:44 p.m., citing the CBS
report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sbarro Inc.:
   Fast Food Chain Reports
   Net Rose 43% for Period
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SBA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sbarro Inc., the Commack, N.Y., Italian fast food
restaurant chain, reported a 43% rise in net income for the
12 weeks ended July 15.
   Net income for the period was $3.5 million, or 26 cents a
share, up from $2.4 million, or 18 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. Sales rose 32% to $40.3 million from
$30.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sbarro said that for the twenty-eight weeks, net income
rose 42% to $7.2 million, or 54 cents a share, from $5.1
million, or 38 cents a share. Sales rose 32% to $88.8 million
from $67.4 million.
   Of the 419 restaurants operating under the Sbarro name
during the recent period, 100 were franchised. A year ago
there were 343 units in operation, and 86 were franchised.
   Sbarro shares closed yesterday at $28.375, up $1.25 in
composite trading on the American Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Syntro Corp.:
   Firm, Upjohn Settle Suits
   On Swine Vaccine Patents
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SYNT UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Syntro Corp. said it and Upjohn Co. resolved a legal
dispute over patent rights to a swine vaccine. With the cost
of that litigation eliminated, Syntro, a start-up
biotechnology company with a history of losses, said it
expects break-even results for the year ending Oct. 31.
   Upjohn sued Syntro in March 1989 in Delaware and Kansas,
charging that a swine vaccine sold by a Syntro animal health
subsidiary infringed on an Upjohn patent. Syntro countersued
in Delaware.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, the companies will recognize each
other's patents by paying royalties to each other. Of the $25
million world-wide market for the swine vaccine, Syntro said
it has a 40% share, while Upjohn has about 1%. Lenexa,
Kan.-based Syntro said the settlement would not affect market
share or the ability of either company to compete.
   An executive of Kalamazoo, Mich.-based Upjohn said, "This
settlement provides further recognition of our scientific
efforts."
   For the nine months ended June 30, Syntro posted a loss of
$1.2 million on revenue of $2.5 million.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A SYNTRO CORP. EXECUTIVE, clarifying statements he made in
yesterday's edition, said the company expects to be operating
at a break-even level Sept. 30, the end of its fiscal year,
but still expects to report a net loss for the year. Further,
he said the company has a 40% share of the U.S. market for
its swine vaccine. Also, the company had a $1.6 million loss
for the nine months ended June 30. The amount of the loss was
misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   U.S. Files Suit to Block
   Procter &amp; Gamble Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PG RPR RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Justice Department, as expected,
filed suit to block a plan by Procter &amp; Gamble Co., the maker
of Pepto-Bismol, to acquire the exclusive sales rights for
Maalox, another stomach remedy.
   The Justice Department sought a court injunction under the
Clayton AntiTrust Act to prevent Procter &amp; Gamble from
acquiring the exclusive rights to market and distribute
Maalox.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Court papers filed in federal court in Philadelphia
charged that the proposed agreement between Cincinnati-based
Procter &amp; Gamble and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc., which makes
Maalox, would lessen competition in the market of
over-the-counter stomach remedies.
   Procter &amp; Gamble, based in Cincinnati, sold $125 million
of Pepto-Bismol last year, or 14% of the domestic retail
market. Domestic sales of Maalox totaled $111 million last
year, or 12% of the market.
   Under the proposal, Procter &amp; Gamble would acquire the
exclusive rights to market and sell Maalox and an option to
purchase the manufacturing assets from Rhone-Poulenc Rorer,
which is based in Fort Washington, Pa. The deal would make
Procter &amp; Gamble the largest seller of stomach remedies in
the U.S. market, according to the complaint.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Harley-Davidson Inc.:
   Firm Adopts Revised Plan
   To Guard Against Takeovers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   HDI
</CO>
<LP>
   Harley-Davidson Inc. said it adopted a revised shareholder
rights plan to thwart any hostile takeover attempts.
   However, the Milwaukee motorcycle maker said it isn't
aware of any efforts currently to gain control of the
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, shareholders of record Aug. 20 will
receive, for every common share they hold, a right to buy
one-hundredth of a newly issued share of preferred stock at
an exercise price of $100. The rights would be exercisable if
a bidder acquires 15% or more of the company's common stock
-- or announces a tender offer for at least 25%.
   If Harley-Davidson is taken over, each right will entitle
the holder to buy shares in the acquiring company's common
stock with a market value of twice that of the right's
exercise price.
   In addition, if a bidder purchases a 15% stake in the
motorcycle concern, each right holder (other than the
acquirer) can receive preferred shares in Harley-Davidson
with a market value equal to twice that of the exercise
price. The company's previous rights plan required that a
bidder acquire at least 25% of its shares before the rights
were triggered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Intel, Advanced Micro
   Each Claim Victory
   After Judge's Ruling
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   INTC AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Intel Corp. and Advanced Micro Devices each claimed
victory in a U.S. District Court judge's preliminary ruling
in a copyright dispute over the use of Intel microcode
technology in Advanced Micro's products.
   Since 1976 Intel has allowed Advanced Micro to use some
microcode technology for internal office use, but last March
the company filed a lawsuit to prohibit Advanced Micro from
proceeding with a plan to distribute the technology in its
own computer chips. Microcode is the software that tells a
chip how to perform its function.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While not ruling on that final issue, U.S. District Court
Judge William Ingram yesterday issued a preliminary
injunction that bars Advanced Micro from using the Intel
product name as an advertising tool or including computer
chips bearing the Intel name in its product line. The judge,
however, said Advanced Micro would be permitted to continue
using a numbering system that mirror's Intel's own line of
chips.
   In Santa Clara, Calif., Intel's chief counsel said the
court ruling just affirmed their position, and that the
preliminary injunction was filed to "maintain the status quo"
until a trial scheduled for February decides the copyrights
of the company. In Sunnyvale, Calif., a spokesman for
Advanced Micro said the company was equally satisfied because
the judge refused to halt sales of the company's mathematics
coprocessors with the "87" numbering system attached to the
covers. Advanced Micro has been selling the products for
about six weeks.
   "The only issue we are interested in is the conflict over
the numbering system used to designate the models," an
Advanced Micro company spokesman said. He said the company
had previously agreed to remove the Intel name from its
computer chips and in its advertisements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British Airways PLC:
   Pretax Profit for Quarter
   Rose 62% to $291.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BAB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Airways PLC reported that pretax profit for the
first quarter ended June 30 rose 62% to #156 million ($291.9
million) from #96 million a year earlier, despite a slower
rise in sales and the strong pound's adverse effect on the
carrier's international earnings.
   The results were well above market expectations for pretax
profit of #135 million. Profit after taxes, or that
attributable to shareholders, increased 79% to #111 million
from #62 million. Per-share earnings on a fully diluted basis
rose 54% to 12.9 pence from 8.4 pence. Operating profit eased
0.8% to #123 million from #124 million. Pretax earnings were
enhanced by net of #50 million in income from interest and
asset disposals, compared with a year-earlier net loss of #1
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales increased 14% to #1.33 billion from #1.17 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Drug Concerns
   Seek to Block
   Medicaid Curbs
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK PFE UPJ GLX
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
INSURANCE (INS)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Pharmaceutical companies are working
furiously to head off a revolt against drug prices
spearheaded by their biggest customer: the U.S. government.
   In negotiations with Congress over how to reduce the
budget deficit, the White House Office of Management and
Budget has proposed limiting the availability of brand-name
prescription drugs under Medicaid, the state-federal program
that provides medical care to welfare recipients. The OMB
plan is a variation on a bill introduced in May by Democratic
Sen. David Pryor of Arkansas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the moment, the high-level budget talks are stalled.
But simply by considering the possibility that Medicaid
reimbursements would be disallowed for expensive brand-name
drugs, should cheaper alternatives be available, the budget
summiteers have induced four major drug companies to hastily
propose cost-saving measures of their own. They are Merck &amp;
Co., Pfizer Inc., Upjohn Co. and the U.S. unit of Britain's
Glaxo Inc.
   Meanwhile, the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
last month persuaded Jesse Jackson and other leaders in the
black and Hispanic communities to sign a letter to
budget-summit participants, denouncing the OMB plan as a
scheme to saddle welfare recipients with "second-class
medicine." To enlist the support of minority and health
groups, the trade group also has hired former Urban League
President Vernon Jordan, who is a partner in the Washington
law office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer &amp; Feld.
   Medicaid is the largest purchaser of drugs in the U.S.,
accounting for about $3.5 billion, or more than 10%, of the
annual domestic market. But unlike other large drug
purchasers such as the Veterans Administration and a number
of major health maintenance organizations, the Medicaid
program doesn't receive discounts from pharmaceutical
companies.
   Under both the OMB proposal and Sen. Pryor's plan,
pharmacists would steer Medicaid patients away from expensive
medications prescribed by their doctors. Instead, the
pharmacists would be required to seek the doctors' approval
to prescribe a less costly alternative -- either a generic
version of the same drug or a different drug that is deemed
equally effective. Currently, the federal government doesn't
place limits on what drugs Medicaid will pay for, although
some states have done so.
   Advocates of cost-cutting note that prescription-drug
prices increased by more than three times the inflation rate
during the 1980s. Sen. Pryor says that hospitals and doctors
have already been subject to federal cost-containment
measures. But "we've done nothing with the pharmaceutical
industry," he says. "We've given them a free rein and a blank
check."
   Under Sen. Pryor's bill, drug companies would be required
to submit price bids to the states for inclusion in Medicaid
formularies, or lists of approved drugs. Bids that were
judged too high would be rejected. According to a preliminary
cost estimate by the Congressional Budget Office, federal
savings would be $43 million in 1991 and more than $300
million in subsequent years.
   The proponents of government measures to make
prescription-drug substitutions argue that this is already a
common cost-cutting procedure at hospitals. But the industry
argues that a Medicaid patient could suffer an adverse
reaction if given a drug that is chemically different from
that prescribed by the doctor. Such low-income patients "are
not seeing the doctor every day {and} don't have a nurse down
the hall," says Robert Allnutt, executive vice president of
the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association.
   He maintains that the Pryor and OMB plans wrongly assume
that "products are interchangeable -- to quote George
Wallace, `it don't make a dime's worth of difference.' "
   Shortly before Sen. Pryor formally introduced his proposal
this past spring, Merck unveiled its own cost-saving measure
for Medicaid at the state level. (The company presented a
more-ambitious federal plan last month in the wake of the
budget-office proposal). John Zabriskie, president of Merck's
domestic marketing unit, says the drug company shares the OMB
and Sen. Pryor's concern about Medicaid's rising drug costs.
"Our fundamental difference," he says, "is that we believe
that poor people ought to have the same access to all our
medicines" as the general public.
   Under Merck's proposal, in any state that agreed not to
restrict Medicaid patients' access to individual Merck
products, Merck would phase in volume Medicaid discounts
ranging from 15% in the first year to 25% in the fifth year.
After that, Merck will match for Medicaid its best volume
discount for other large buyers such as the Veterans
Administration. Merck has already struck agreements along
these lines with 20 states, including California, Texas and
New Jersey.
   Since the budget summit took up the idea earlier this
month, similar proposals for Medicaid discounts or rebates
have been circulated by Glaxo, Pfizer and Upjohn (though an
Upjohn spokesman says that his company's proposal, which was
submitted for discussion to the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
Association, doesn't constitute an official company
endorsement of the idea).
   Sen. Pryor calls these suggestions "a step in the right
direction." But neither he nor the OMB shows any sign of
giving up.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MERCK &amp; Co. has proposed a plan for drugs sold to Medicaid
with price discounts of 10% to 15% in the first two years and
10% to 25% in the fifth year, and the discounts would be
granted by all drug companies, not just Merck. The details of
the Merck plan were misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Aug. 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Twentieth Century Fox
   Opts for TV `Robin Hood'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS TWX SNE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- One of three rival groups planning movies
about Robin Hood tried to steal a march on competitors with a
change in strategy and an accelerated production timetable.
   Twentieth Century Fox said it abandoned plans for an
up-scale, movie-theater version of its "Adventures of Robin
Hood" in favor of television movie slated for domestic
broadcast next spring on the network operated by its sister
Fox Broadcasting Co. Both companies are units of Fox Inc., in
turn a unit of Australia-based News Corp. Fox will distribute
the movie in theaters abroad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement is the latest effort in a contest that
has been the buzz of Hollywood for months.
   At rival Morgan Creek Productions Inc., cameras are
scheduled to roll Sept. 3 on "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves"
-- a big-budget swashbuckler starring heartthrob Kevin
Costner and slated for release in theaters next spring. Time
Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. unit will distribute the movie in
the U.S. and Canada.
   With the Morgan Creek-Costner effort covering the
big-budget base and Fox's speedy TV version in the works,
industry speculation has focused on Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star
Pictures unit, the third studio interested in Robin Hood.
   Tri-Star declined to comment on its plans, but a
knowledgeable industry insider said, "I think Tri-Star's
Robin Hood has just taken an arrow to the brain."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- PWA Corp.:
   Pact to Sell American Air
   2 Boeing Planes Is Canceled
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.PWA AMR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Canadian Airlines International, a unit of PWA Corp., said
an agreement to sell two aircraft to American Airlines for
385 million Canadian dollars (US$334.9 million) was canceled
because of a U.S. regulatory action.
   PWA, based in Calgary, Alberta, previously had said it
expected a pretax gain of about C$100 million on the sale of
the two Boeing 747-400 aircraft. The company reported a
C$16.1 million loss in this year's first half.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PWA ordered the two aircraft, still in production, for
delivery next February and May, then sold the delivery
positions to American on condition that American be awarded
the right to serve a route between Chicago and Tokyo. A U.S.
administrative law judge recommended last week that the route
go to United Airlines instead. American is a unit of AMR
Corp., Fort Worth, Texas. United is a unit of Chicago-based
UAL Corp.
   PWA said it plans to take delivery of the aircraft
scheduled for February and seek a buyer for the second plane.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bonds Are Whipsawed by Rumors About Mideast
   As Investors Stay Clear of Treasury Note Sale
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   KR SWY FRE FNM EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market was whipsawed in extremely
volatile trading yesterday, falling on rumors of escalating
tensions in the Middle East and rising on bargain hunting.
   "This was a whiplash type of day," said Charles Lieberman,
a managing director at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp.
"We were strapped to our seats."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The price of the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond, which
surged nearly 3/4 point and then tumbled one point, ended 1/2
point lower. That translates into a loss of $5 for a bond
with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's yield ended at 8.86%,
up from 8.80% on Monday.
   Trading activity was so tumultuous that investors were too
nervous to bid on the Treasury's $11.5 billion of three-year
notes that were auctioned yesterday afternoon. The
disappointing sale, which kicked off the Treasury's huge
$32.25 billion quarterly refunding of the federal debt, was
viewed as an indication that the next two legs of the auction
will also fare poorly.
   "The market was overwhelmed by the political news of the
day," said James Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson
Lehman Government Securities Inc. He said that investors are
reluctant to buy securities "when political news can have
such a dramatic affect on the market," he said.
   The new three-year notes were auctioned at an average
yield of 8.10%. But shortly after the auction results were
released the yield was nearly 8.20%. It ended at 8.14%. When
yields on new securities trade higher than the average
auction yield, that is a sign that dealers are slashing
prices and raising yields in an effort to attract buyers.
Typically, such actions are indicative of a poor auction.
   Prices of other short-term securities -- which have surged
recently on expectations that the Federal Reserve would soon
cut interest rates -- ended 1/8 point lower yesterday.
   Traders said that sellers of the securities were
disappointed that the Federal Reserve has not yet made its
move. "People have given up the ghost on the Fed easing,"
said one analyst.
   In early trading, Treasury bond prices posted strong gains
as institutional money managers and other bargain hunters
went on a buying spree. Many of these investors were lured by
what they considered attractive yields and prices. (The yield
on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond surged to 8.80% on
Monday as its price plunged 2 5/8 points, or $26.25 for a
bond with a $1,000 face amount.)
   Bond prices skidded sharply yesterday afternoon when a
rumor shot through bond and foreign exchange markets that the
British Broadcasting Corp. had reported that Iraq moved
troops into Saudi Arabia.
   The market rallied briefly after the BBC denied the rumor,
and then headed lower again when news organizations reported
that the U.S. was moving combat aircraft and ground support
troops to Saudi Arabia to deter Iraq strongman Saddam Hussein
from launching an attack against the oil-rich kingdom.
   Although many investment accounts bought bonds yesterday
morning, most of yesterday's trading was dominated by big
bond dealers trading for their own account.
   "It was strictly a game for speculators and even some of
them stepped away because the market was too volatile," said
Mr. Lieberman. "You can't anticipate the next political
developments coming out of the Middle East."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The prospect of sharply higher oil prices as a result of
Iraq's conquest of Kuwait and its menacing tone toward Saudi
Arabia has made fixed-income investing so treacherous that
most would-be buyers are keeping far from the field of play.
   That was evident in yesterday's three-year Treasury note
auction. So-called "noncompetitive bids," often seen as a
gauge of individual investor interest, amounted to just $973
million of the $11.5 billion of notes sold. That compares
with noncompetitive bids of $2.45 billion at the May auction
and $1.19 billion in February refunding.
   In trading yesterday, the price of the benchmark 30-year
bond ended at 98 23/32, down from 99 10/32 on Monday. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its
price, rose to 8.86% from 8.80%.
   Short-term rates were slightly higher. The average
discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose to 7.30% for
a bond-equivalent yield of 7.52% while the rate for six-month
notes rose to 7.28% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.64%. At
Monday's Treasury bill auction, the average discount rate was
7.23% on three-month bills and 7.19% on six-month bills.
   Here are details of yesterday's three-year note auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

                       3-Year Notes
                                                                                                       

   Applications ......................... $27,514,340,000
   Accepted bids ........................ $11,533,380,000
   Accepted at low price ................             94%
   Accepted noncompetitively ............    $973,000,000
   Average price (Rate) .................  99.738 (8.10%)
   High price (Rate) ....................  99.791 (8.08%)
   Low price (Rate) .....................  99.738 (8.10%)
   Interest rate ........................           8.00%
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated Aug. 15 and mature Aug. 15, 1993.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk-bond prices followed the movement in the broader bond
market, rising and falling on news developments.
   "The market continues to be ruled by supply and demand,
and supply and demand is being governed by the market's
psychological perception of what's happening in the Middle
East," said David Feinman, a junk-bond trader at Los
Angeles-based Jefferies &amp; Co.
   Prices of most junk bonds, speculative-grade securities
with low credit ratings or no credit ratings, finished the
day about 1/4 point higher.
   High-yield market participants said recession-resistant
securities like supermarket issues managed to outperform the
broader junk-bond market.
   Kroger Co.'s 13 1/8% subordinated debentures due 2001
ended up 1/2 point at 102 1/4; Safeway Stores Inc.'s 12%
subordinated debentures due in 1998 finished up 3/4 point at
100.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were 1/8 to 3/8 point lower as the market
reacted to the situation in the Mideast.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% of 2018 were off 1/8 point at 97 3/4 to
yield 7.38%.
   "It's pretty ugly. They've hammered the market pretty
badly," following the U.S. troop rumors, one New York trader
said.
   It is difficult to determine when the market will reach a
bottom, as investors are unwilling to step up and buy bonds,
he added. "Nobody wants to roll the dice."
   Ahead on the calendar, the Port Authority of New York &amp;
New Jersey will sell $100 million of consolidated bonds via
competitive today.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities again followed the Treasury market
lower on the Mideast turmoil and oil-driven inflation
worries.
   Among actively traded secondary issues, Government
National Mortgage Association 9.5% issues were 1/2 point
weaker on the day at 98 10/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corp. 9.5% issues were off 1/32 at 98 10/32 and Federal
National Mortgage Association 9.5% issues were down 1/32 at
98 27/32.
   In primary market activity, pricing details of two new
offerings were announced.
   A $300 million issue of Fannie Mae real estate mortgage
investment conduit securities was offered by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets. The securities are collateralized with 10%
Fannie Mae 30-year securities.
   In other sectors, in a deal being classified as an
underwritten federal agency offering, an $81.02 million issue
of U.S. Government Guaranteed Notes was priced at par to
yield from 8% to 9.25% through Salomon Brothers Inc.
   The securities, guaranteed by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, are noncallable and mature each August 1
from 1991 to 2005.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Most major foreign bond markets recovered from Monday's
sell-off, as investors began to view recent price declines as
sufficient to offset rising inflation expectations.
   Bond markets around the world have been reeling since last
Thursday when Iraq invaded Kuwait. The turmoil pushed prices
of oil sharply higher and prompted speculation that inflation
is heating up.
   But now, "some {investors} are deciding that the market
has already discounted the worst of the news," said one
London trader. "Whether they're right, I don't know."
   Bond prices ended higher in West Germany, Britain, France
and several other markets yesterday.
   The major exception was Japan, where government bonds
continued to deteriorate. Although some arbitrage buying in
the afternoon helped pull prices off the lows of the day,
bonds still posted big losses.
   Japan's benchmark No. 119 10-year bond ended at a price of
83.04, down 0.56 point, to yield 8.08%. The yield had been as
high as 8.22%. (When calculated using the semi-annual
compound measure, the yield on the No. 119 closed at 7.44%
according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   NBC to Implement Contract
   Despite Rejection by Union
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Broadcasting Co. said it would implement a new
four-year contract Aug. 15 for a union representing
producers, news writers, engineers and technicians despite
the union's overwhelming rejection of the pact.
   The decision was made following a meeting yesterday
between NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., and the union,
the National Association of Broadcast Employees and
Technicians.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for NABET said the union, which has about
2,500 members, will meet tomorrow to discuss what action
could be taken. "We tried to encourage further negotiations,
but NBC said it would implement the final offer even though
we rejected it twice," the spokesman said.
   The previous contract expired March 31. No strike vote has
been taken, and the NABET spokesman said it was "highly
unlikely" that a strike would occur. The union went on a
17-week strike against New York-based NBC in 1987. The main
issue in this contract dispute involves jurisdiction over
people hired by the day rather than on a full-time basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CalFed Inc.:
   Unit to Acquire Branches
   Of Failed Empire Federal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   California Federal Bank, Los Angeles, said it agreed to
acquire 13 Southern California branches and $265 million in
deposits from failed Empire Federal Savings Bank of America.
   Terms weren't disclosed. The CalFed Inc. subsidiary said
it would continue operating three of the branches and
consolidate the rest within its existing network. The thrift
said it would have 141 branches in California after the
acquisition, which it hopes to complete on Sept. 7, subject
to regulatory approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   California Federal is the nation's fourth largest thrift
with $23 billion in assets. Empire Federal, based in Buffalo,
N.Y., with roughly $10 billion in assets, was seized by
federal regulators earlier this year, and currently is
managed by the Resolution Trust Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Berlitz International Inc.:
   Second-Period Net Rose 35%
   Despite Difficulties Overseas
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTZ
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Berlitz International Inc. said second-quarter net rose
35%, despite difficulties in its Brazilian and German
operations.
   The Princeton, N.J., language-instruction company said net
income was $5.8 million, compared with $4.3 million in the
year-earlier quarter. Sales rose 11% to $61.9 million from
$55.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Per-share net declined, however, to 15 cents, from 23
cents a year earlier, after providing for a preferred stock
dividend payment of $3 million. There were no preferred
dividends in 1989.
   Berlitz reported a slight decline in overall lesson
volume, as setbacks in Brazil and Germany offset volume
increases in almost all other countries. It cited the
Brazilian government's harsh new economic program and a
teachers strike in some of its German schools.
   For the six months, Berlitz reported a rise in net income
to $11.6 million from $7.6 million in the year-earlier
period. After providing for a preferred stock dividends of
$5.9 million, per-share net dropped to 30 cents, from 40
cents. Sales rose 17%, and lesson volume rose 5.6%.
   Berlitz was acquired in 1988 by Britain's Maxwell
Communication Corp., as part of Maxwell's acquisition of
Macmillan Inc., and a public offering was made last December.
Its shares closed yesterday at $17.125, unchanged, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U-Haul Heir Wife Slain;
   Inquiry Focuses on Feud
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   Eva Berg Shoen, wife of U-Haul heir Dr. Sam Shoen, was
murdered in what authorities say resembled "a professional
hit," and they are looking for a connection to the family
feud over the U-Haul empire.
   "The controversy surrounding that family {and} U-Haul is
certainly an angle we're investigating," says Bill Masters,
sheriff of San Miguel County, Colo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Shoen, 43 years old, was shot early Monday in the
family home outside Telluride. The murder apparently occurred
while her three children slept undisturbed in the house, and
Sheriff Masters said it did not appear to be a case of either
sexual assault or burglary. "There's something else" going on
here, he said. "This doesn't appear to be a local issue."
   At the time of the murder, the victim's husband was in
Phoenix, Ariz., base of the embattled U-Haul empire. As
reported in a recent front-page Wall Street Journal story,
Dr. Shoen is battling with certain of his 11 siblings over
control of the empire founded by their father, L.S. Shoen.
   At present, the company -- a subsidiary of Amerco -- is
being run by siblings unfriendly to Dr. Shoen's cause. But a
company spokesman denied that the family dispute could have
had anything to do with Mrs. Shoen's death. "The whole family
is devastated," said the spokesman.
   Dr. Shoen is offering a $250,000 reward for information
leading to the arrest of his wife's murderer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quaker Oats Says
   Rising Costs to Hurt
   1st-Quarter Profit
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   OAT
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Quaker Oats Co., citing rising marketing costs,
said it expects to report lower earnings from continuing
operations for the fiscal first quarter ending Sept. 30.
   The grocery-products company said profit will be lower
than the 49 cents a share in the year-earlier quarter, partly
because Quaker plans to beef up European marketing of its
star product, Gatorade. Results in the year-earlier quarter
also were boosted by unusually strong results in Brazil, a
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fourth quarter ended June 30, the company posted
net income of $66.3 million, or 86 cents a share, consisting
of a profit from continuing operations of $100.7 million, or
$1.31 a share, and a loss from discontinued operations of
$34.4 million, or 45 cents a share. The loss from
discontinued operations, from its Fisher-Price toy business,
was twice as high as the company had predicted.
   Fourth-quarter sales rose 4% to $1.4 billion.
   In the fourth quarter ended June 30, 1989, Quaker had net
from continuing operations of $40.8 million, or 52 cents a
share. Net from discontinued operations of $15.7 million, or
19 cents a share, made net income $56.5 million, or 71 cents
a share.
   Quaker took a $59.9 million loss on the discontinued toy
unit in fiscal 1990. It hopes to spin off the unit as a
separate company to shareholders by early next year.
   Officials said fiscal 1990 results came in "below
expectations" because of sluggish sales in its U.S. grocery
business. Domestic grocery-product sales were flat at $3.6
billion.
   The company blamed intense competition in its domestic
cereal and pet food lines, cool weather last summer which
impeded Gatorade sales, and a sudden drop in demand for
oat-bran products. Unit volume fell 6% as declines in its pet
foods, hot and ready-to-eat cereals, and Golden Grain lines
offset gains in its Gatorade, Aunt Jemima syrup and
food-service businesses.
   Overall, sales from continuing operations in fiscal 1990
were $5.03 billion, up 3% from fiscal 1989.
   Slightly higher margins helped boost operating income, as
the company focused its merchandising might on higher-margin,
higher-growth products, while trimming costs in mature lines.
Overhead expenses were also reduced.
   Internationally, Quaker's grocery products operations,
which posted record sales and operating earnings, were aided
by the reversal of a previous charge for plant consolidations
in Europe. The company last year took a $20.7 million
restructuring charge because of plans to close older plants
in West Germany and the Netherlands and build a new one. Upon
reflection, the company decided to save costs by keeping the
older plants open instead of building the new one.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   End to Antitrust Exemption
   On Airline Fares Is Urged
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Justice Department urged the Department
of Transportation to rescind the antitrust exemption under
which U.S. airlines participate in fare-setting for
international flights.
   The department said that the fare-setting practices of the
Geneva-based International Air Transport Association, the
trade group for the major world airlines, are
anti-competitive and result in higher fares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   IATA's members, acting under a grant of antitrust immunity
first granted in 1946 by the U.S. government, hold tariff
conferences to set fares. In 1985, the DOT extended the
exemption, but said it would review the policy in five years.
The Justice Department's recommendation was in response to
IATA's application for a renewed exemption.
   The recommendation wasn't unexpected. The Justice
Department had sought to end the exemption in the late 1970s
and early 1980s, according to Bert Rein, one of IATA's
Washington attorneys. "The aeronautical experts rejected it,"
he said.
   The Transportation Department declined to comment on the
filing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.PSO
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Richard Lambert was named editor of the
Financial Times. He will be succeeded as deputy editor of the
Pearson PLC paper by Ian Hargreaves, who is director of news
and current affairs at the British Broadcasting Corp. Sir
Geoffrey Owen is stepping down Dec. 31 after a decade as
editor. In April, he will become director of the
business-policy program at the London School of Economics'
Centre for Economic Performance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Political Turbulence in India Raises
   Questions About the Country's Economy
   ----
   By Anthony Spaeth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW DELHI, India -- The political turbulence hobbling
Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh's government raises
troubling questions about India's economy.
   Growth is now brisk. Many economists predict that the
economy of the world's second most populous country will
expand 4.5% to 5% in the year ending March 31, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the economy faces acute problems: a worrying budget
deficit, accelerating inflation and a big current-account
deficit. Added to these are the age-old problems of poverty
and unemployment, which haven't lessened with a decade of
higher economic growth. Rising oil prices won't help.
   The Singh government was hoping to tackle its internal
economic problems by opening the economy further under a
policy of deregulating domestic industry, increasing exports
and, to a lesser extent, encouraging foreign investment. But
progress has been halted by a series of crises that threaten
to tear apart the eight-month-old government.
   "This government is weak," says a New Delhi economist. "It
can fiddle around the edges, but it won't do anything
fundamental economically. Politically, it can't." If left
unrelieved, the strain on the economy could lead to a
"difficult period" for India in the early 1990s, according to
a World Bank report in June. And if the current government
falls, it is likely to be followed by similarly fractious
coalition governments, resulting in inconsistent economic
policies.
   "The country has entered a long-term period of
instability," says Bhabani Sen Gupta, an analyst with the
Center for Policy Research, a local think tank.
   There is one positive development: Some analysts think Mr.
Singh's efforts to deregulate and open the economy, however
stillborn, prove that the idea of liberalization has finally
taken root in India after four decades of a planned economy
and state-sponsored socialism. "There's near unanimity that
this is the way to go," says S.L. Rao, director general of
the National Council of Applied Economic Research.
   But the question is whether politics will continue to
obstruct true liberalization. The government's political
problems seem intractable. Mr. Singh's is a minority
government, supported in Parliament by two parties outside
the ruling coalition. Mr. Singh's Janata Dal isn't so much a
political party as a hodge-podge of ambitious politicians,
many of whom have their eyes on the prime minister's job.
   Since May, discord has been evident among a group of
senior ministers, centered on Devi Lal, Mr. Singh's
76-year-old deputy prime minister and agriculture minister.
In a recent published interview, Mr. Lal described Mr. Singh
as "simpleminded" and "a weakling." Last Wednesday, Mr. Singh
fired Mr. Lal.
   Such infighting has paralyzed the government. On the
economic front, the intraparty disputes have wrecked several
government initiatives, in particular the industrial policy
announced in late May. The policy ended licensing
requirements for domestic industrial investments of less than
$14 million, with a higher threshold of $43 million for
backward regions. The program also promised automatic
clearance for imports of capital goods and raw materials, up
to certain limits.
   And the policy promised automatic approval for investments
in which a foreign partner held 40% equity or less, which
would have ended the lengthy, case-by-case approvals required
in the past. Even more important was the government's
decision to end the requirement that foreign investors export
as recompense for the money they made on the local market.
   At the same time, the policy reaffirmed the 40% equity
limit for foreigners, which turns many investors away. Total
foreign investment approved in 1989 was a scant $195 million.
   Foreign embassies and pro-liberalization analysts weren't
impressed with the policy but said it at least showed that
the government favored a more-open economy. But in March, the
Singh government rejected an investment application from
Coca-Cola Co. and "re-examined" an investment by PepsiCo Inc.
Mr. Singh said India would accept only the kinds of foreign
investments it desired.
   Within Mr. Singh's fractious cabinet, the new industrial
policy set off political fires. Mr. Lal and others criticized
it, saying the policy favored industry over farmers. Others
said it went against the country's commitment to socialism.
   Owing to these political pressures, much of the industrial
policy has been put on hold. Automatic approval of foreign
investments has been retracted: The government says it will
compose a list of industries in which automatic approval will
be given. Economic analysts wonder if other parts will be
implemented, as well as more recent deregulatory measures,
such as new incentives for private business to put up steel
plants.
   Economists argue whether Mr. Singh is a committed
"liberalizer," or simply a politician using liberalization to
solve shortterm problems. But one point is clear: The
liberalizers dominate economic discussion in India.
Dissenters in the government can hinder new programs, but
they have few fresh ideas of their own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Health-Care Group
   Leads the Pack
   In Insider Sales
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   NME UNIH HDYN MCCS USS
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Health-care stocks are traditionally
considered good investments for a recession because no matter
how bad the economy gets, people still need medical care.
   But recession-wary investors now tempted to stash some of
their money in health-care stocks may want to note that
executives, directors and other industry "insiders" have
recently been selling.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In fact, Securities and Exchange Commission filings show
that the health-care industry has recently been leading all
other industries in stock sales by insiders, overtaking the
computer industry, which had long held the dubious
distinction of "most sold."
   Forty-four of the 167 health-care and hospital companies
tracked by Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., firm that keeps
tabs on such matters, were involved in recent insider sales.
   All together, 134 insiders were net sellers of about 5.6
million shares since April 1, according to reports filed with
the SEC. While the insiders were largely taking profits after
run-ups in the sector's stocks, many top executives sold
significant percentages of their holdings.
   "Across the board, the picture for this group" of stocks
"indicates it's at the higher level of valuation," said
Robert Gabele, Invest/Net's president. Even with the stock
market's overall decline of the past few days, he said, "the
jury's still out on whether there's a buying opportunity in
these stocks yet."
   Right now, the health-care sector includes "a number of
stocks that were overpriced, and, in some cases, there are
some problems in the companies," said John Kaweske, portfolio
manager of Financial Programs Inc.'s Financial Health, a
mutual fund that invests in health-care, biotechnology and
pharmaceutical stocks.
   With the possibility of a recession, Mr. Kaweske said he
recently sold all of his health maintenance organization
stocks because he predicts they won't thrive in a period of
federal budget constraints. But he bought shares of
Healthdyne Inc. yesterday because the company is working on
moving medical procedures out of the high-cost hospital
setting.
   The health-care company with the largest number of recent
insider sellers is U.S. Surgical Corp., a Norwalk, Conn.,
manufacturer of surgical staples and instruments, according
to Invest/Net and SEC filings. All told, 13 U.S. Surgical
insiders have sold company stock since April 1, the filings
show.
   Leon Hirsch, the company's chairman, said the 13 sold the
stock to "enjoy a better standard of living." He said he sold
27,000 shares to expand his ranch in Wyoming, but retains
stock and options representing more than two million shares.
   The insiders sold a total of 246,964 shares at an average
price of about $34.78 a share. The stock closed in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday at $40.25, up 62.5
cents.
   "You couldn't find a more bullish group," Mr. Hirsch said,
because whether there's a recession or not, the company is
insulated. "Somebody doesn't have their gall bladder out
because they're in or out of a recession."
   At National Medical Enterprises, a Santa Monica, Calif.,
owner and operator of hospitals and medical-care facilities,
eight insiders have sold 305,591 shares valued at about $10.7
million since April 5, SEC filings show. They sold at an
average price of $34.98 a share; the stock closed on the Big
Board at $34.625, up 37.5 cents.
   The largest sale was by the company's president, Leonard
Cohen, who sold 200,000 shares on May 15, retaining about
750,000 shares, according to the company. About a third of
the shares he sold were directly related to the exercise of
options six months earlier, a company spokesman said. He
added that Mr. Cohen sold the stock to pay taxes.
   At United Healthcare Corp., a Minnetonka, Minn., company
that owns and operates 15 HMOs and other health-related
businesses, Chairman Kennett Simmons, has sold all his
holdings, SEC filings show. He sold 92,982 shares in May at
an average price of $13.04 a share. In national
over-the-counter trading, the stock closed at $17.50, up
$62.50.
   "I took care to sell at a time when I was particularly
confident of the company's future," Mr. Simmons said. The
executive, who said he has restricted stock grants and
options equivalent to 500,000 shares, said he sold the stock
to make investments and to build a house.
   At Healthdyne, a Marietta, Ga., healthcare provider, Terry
Dewberry, the company's president, sold all of his 60,450
shares in May, SEC filings show. Two other insiders sold
5,000 and 15,000 shares, respectively, according to the
filings.
   Mr. Dewberry declined to comment, but a company spokesman
said the president still has options to purchase 210,000
shares. Healthdyne shares closed at $12, up 87.5 cents, in
over-the-counter trading. The insiders sold at an average
per-share price of $10.73.
   Martin J. Raynes, a director of Medco Containment Services
Inc., a Fairlawn, N.J., company specializing in providing
prescription drug programs to corporate health-care plans,
sold 97% of his holdings in May, SEC filings show. He sold
281,235 shares for $5.6 million, or an average price of about
$19.80 a share, the filings show. Mr. Raynes declined to
comment. Medco Containment shares closed at $23.50, up 75
cents, in over-the-counter trading.
   ---
                     Sales by Insiders
                                                                                                       

   Some health-care stocks that have been sold by officers,
directors and other corporate insiders in recent month*
                                                                                                       

                                               APPROXIMATE
                          NUMBER OF NUMBER OF  $ VALUE SHARES
                          INSIDERS  SHARES     SOLD
                          SELLING   SOLD       (IN THOUSANDS)
                                                                                                       

 U.S. SURGICAL**          13        246,964       $ 8,868
 National Medical
   Enterprises             8        305,591        10,689
 Healthdyne                3         80,450           863
 United Healthcare         2        161,982         2,094
 Medco Containment         1        281,235         5,568
                                                                                                       

   *Since April 1, according to reports filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission
   **Data adjusted for 2-for-1 stock split May 17
                                                                                                       

   Source: Invest/Net.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- La Quinta Motor Inns Inc.:
   Brierley's Industrial Equity
   Increases Holding to 14.4%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LQM A.IEL A.BRY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Industrial Equity (Pacific) Ltd., a Hong Kong investment
firm, said it raised its stake in La Quinta Motor Inns Inc.,
San Antonio, Texas, to 14.4% of the common shares
outstanding.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Industrial
Equity, a publicly traded company controlled by Brierley
Investments Ltd. of New Zealand, said it holds 1,883,600 La
Quinta shares, including 174,700 bought between May 9 and
Friday for $13.95 to $15.17 a share. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, La Quinta shares closed
at $14.875, down 12.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Industrial Equity has been steadily increasing its stake
in La Quinta in the past 10 months. But the investment firm
hasn't given any indication of its intentions in its SEC
filings, and La Quinta Senior Vice President Fran Bissaillon
said a representative of Industrial Equity shed no light on
the firm's plans during a recent visit to La Quinta's
corporate offices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Union Bars English Actor
   From Broadway's `Saigon'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK (AP) -- Actors' Equity barred an English actor
from repeating his performance as a Eurasian brothel owner in
the Broadway production of the hit London musical "Miss
Saigon."
   The decision by the union's council could jeopardize the
New York production of the show, scheduled to open in March.
Last week, Cameron Mackintosh, the musical's producer, said
he would withdraw the show if Jonathan Pryce were not allowed
to perform in New York.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The casting of a Caucasian actor made up to appear Asian
is an affront to the Asian community," the union said.
   "The casting choice is especially disturbing when the
casting of an Asian actor in this role would be an important
and significant opportunity to break the usual pattern of
casting Asians in minor roles," the union said.
   Mr. Mackintosh was vacationing and could not be reached
for comment.
   Alan Eisenberg, the union's executive secretary, indicated
that Mr. Mackintosh could submit the matter to arbitration,
which would involve Actors' Equity and the League of American
Theaters and Producers.
   The Actors' Equity Association has jurisdiction over all
performers appearing on Broadway and must give its approval
to actors from foreign countries who appear there.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hicks, Muse &amp; Co.:
   Investment Firm to Buy,
   Combine Neodata and TMI
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GME DNB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hicks, Muse &amp; Co., a Dallas investment partnership, said
it agreed to buy Neodata Services Group of Louisville, Colo.,
from Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. for $85 million. The investment
firm also said it will buy TMI Corp., a Dallas data
management concern, for about $14 million.
   After working capital and expenses, the total deal is
estimated at $104 million. It is expected to be completed
within 30 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hicks Muse said it will combine TMI and Neodata, a
magazine subscription service concern, to form a single media
service company, Neodata Holdings Inc., in Boulder, Colo.
Electronic Data Systems Inc., a unit of General Motors Corp.,
is investing $6 million in preferred stock in the purchase of
the two companies. EDS is also an investor in the Hicks, Muse
Equity Fund, which is providing equity for the deal. EDS will
provide data processing services and equipment to the new
holding company.
   Senior management of Neodata and TMI will remain at the
new company and will participate in the investment. Thomas
Hicks, chairman of Hicks Muse, will be chairman and chief
executive officer of Neodata Holdings Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Bank of England to Let Kuwait Agency
   Manage Holdings During Asset Freeze
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Bank of England said it plans to allow
Kuwait's massive investment arm to manage its holdings on a
normal basis, so long as assets inside the U.K. don't leave
the nation.
   Bank of England officials adopted this relatively flexible
approach as they set out rules governing Britain's freeze on
Iraq and Kuwait assets in the U.K. The freeze was imposed
after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, but the terms of the policy
weren't spelled out until yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British officials said that while assets of the
London-based Kuwait Investment Office are included in the
freeze, normal portfolio management should continue.
   "We're working with the KIO to try to devise for them a
regime where they can operate their portfolio management as
freely as they choose so long as their assets don't leave
this jurisdiction," said one bank official. The main goal of
the asset-freeze is to keep the Iraqi government from seizing
control of the investment arm, whose holdings are estimated
at $100 billion.
   The KIO has been a major player in world markets, owning
shares in dozens of British and Spanish companies, as well as
several West German concerns, including Hoechst AG and
Daimler-Benz AG.
   Also included in Britain's asset-freeze is Kuwait
Petroleum Co. Bank of England said that consistent with the
goal of keeping these assets beyond the reach of the Iraqi
forces occupying Kuwait, local offices of the oil concern
would be able to carry on normal commerce.
   The British freeze on assets covers both residents and
institutions from the two countries. Kuwaiti institutions can
draw on U.K. accounts to make pension and salary payments to
Kuwaiti citizens living in Britain.
   The rules governing the freeze of Iraqi assets don't
provide for the same leeway. Bank of England officials noted
that Iraqi assets in the U.K. are far smaller than the
Kuwaiti assets. The Bank of England said it will consider
giving permission for withdrawals of Iraqi funds needed to
cover medical emergencies or travel costs of Iraqi citizens
wishing to return home.
   The Bank of England estimated that British banks have
about $1 billion of claims on Iraq currently. The current
rules don't provide for Iraqi assets to be confiscated in
support of these claims. But bank officials said that in the
event of a default, "they would be subject to the normal
legal process."
   The Bank of England has established a 10-person "emergency
unit" to administer the rules. Violations could be prosecuted
as criminal offenses.
   The U.S., Japan and other major European nations have all
imposed their own freeze-orders on Kuwaiti and Iraqi assets.
Bank of England officials said there will be future efforts
to coordinate the procedures and regulations each country
adopts.
   One problem, for example, is that the Bank of England
rules don't apply to foreign branches of U.K. banks. However,
officials said that U.K. banks won't be allowed to transfer
Kuwaiti assets to foreign branches. "We don't want this to
become a bypass," said a Bank of England official.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   Coal Producers May Make a Comeback
   Based on Exports to Japan and Europe
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP WMOR
</CO>
<IN>
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. coal producers, after a troubled decade, could make a
comeback in the wake of the Iraqi oil crisis.
   Coal sales and prices in export markets, especially in
Japan and Europe, are likely to increase if oil prices
continue to climb sharply. U.S. coal prices would then inch
up slowly, but only if world crude oil prices were to remain
high.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The possibility of a return to good times follows a rough
decade in which an oversupply of coal led to depressed
prices, massive layoffs and mine closings throughout the
coalfields. Still, industry executives, who have had their
hopes for a coal revival dashed before, remain cautious.
"Those of us who've been around want to see what's real and
sustainable," says Gene Samples, president and chief
executive officer of Arch Mineral Corp. in St. Louis.
   Despite the caution, industry leaders are assessing how
fast they could increase production if spot market coal
prices climb or international orders increase further.
   Westmoreland Coal Co., Philadelphia, says it could boost
production to about 13 million tons from its current 10.8
million tons a year, if demand from the spot market picks up,
says E.B. Leisenring Jr., Westmoreland's chairman. "We could
do that with very little capital investment," he notes.
Instead, extra shifts would be added at its Virginia and West
Virginia mines.
   No decision has been made because the company, like
others, is waiting to see what happens in the Middle East.
"If profitability appears on the horizon, and it looks like
it will stay, people are very sanguine about going ahead," he
says. "We'll see people in the coal business encouraged to
spend capital for a change."
   Producers' spending plans depend on what buyers do in the
market. A green light would be if buyers choose the stability
of long-term contracts over purchases from the spot market,
the first place where a price jump would occur. Prices vary
based on the type of coal and other factors, but spot prices
for a ton of low-sulfur coal are about $24 to $27. Long-term
contract prices are $25 to $28.
   "There's going to be an impact," says Richard L. Lawson,
president of the National Coal Association, an industry trade
group. Export prices, for instance, will climb about $3 a ton
in the months ahead, he predicts.
   "Japan and Europe can switch between oil and coal, so the
export markets are likely to tighten up," says Daniel Roling,
energy analyst at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Exporters --
such as Westmoreland, Pittston Co., Ashland Coal Inc. and
others -- would be the first to benefit from the oil shock.
   U.S. export sales had been expected to rise in coming
months, regardless of the oil crisis, because government
subsidies on mines in Germany and elsewhere are expected to
be reduced, making U.S. coal more competitive with coal from
Europe and elsewhere.
   In the U.S., prices don't fluctuate as quickly, because
coal and oil don't compete that much. About 75% of the one
billion tons of coal produced this year in the U.S. will be
purchased by U.S. power plants. Oil is used to produce only
about 5% of the nation's electricity, while coal accounts for
about 55%. Nuclear power and natural gas make up the rest.
   Many U.S. utilities don't have the ability to switch
between fuels. Those that can switch only "will change when
economics get strong enough," Mr. Leisenring says. No one
agrees on what the price of oil would have to be to make coal
more attractive.
   If demand does pick up, the coal industry is in a lot
better shape than it was during previous oil shocks.
Production has soared from 440 million tons in 1973, Mr.
Lawson said. Productivity has increased at about 6% a year,
as more mines have been mechanized and fewer miners are
needed to dig coal. There also are fewer and more powerful
players in the industry that are less likely to rush with
expansion plans unless there's proof demand is sustainable.
   After the oil shocks of the 1970s, oil companies and
others rushed in and bought up vast coal reserves as a hedge.
With more players in the market, coal production increased in
the early 1980s, without any spike in demand, depressing
prices. "That's less likely to happen this time," Mr. Sample
says, because fewer companies will rush to expand. Currently,
less than 20% of the production comes from independent coal
companies, while the rest comes from mines owned by oil, gas,
chemical and other companies.
   Another result of the oil crisis could be a slowdown in
passage of a tougher Clean Air Act, which is pending in
Congress. The legislation would limit emissions from
coal-fired power plants and make coal more expensive for
utilities.
   In recent meetings at the White House, Mr. Lawson said he
has cautioned officials that those environmental policies,
along with possible energy taxes and the prospect of
increased oil prices, could be too much at once. "It would
tie a pretty big tag around the energy industry," he says.
"I'm not sure the economy can swallow that right now."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH ORDERED U.S. combat planes and troops to Saudi Arabia
and Turkey.
   The president's decision to send thousands of troops and
warplanes came after the U.S. detected new Iraqi military
moves in the region. Defense Secretary Cheney apparently had
reached a pact Monday with Saudi King Fahd on the deployment
in the Mideast, and Secretary of State Baker is to leave for
Turkey, whose bases also appear to be part of the military
plan. Egypt is believed to have been enlisted in the effort.
Bush's immediate risk involves the vulnerability of about
3,000 U.S. civilians in Kuwait and 500 in Iraq -- including
39 Americans being held in a Baghdad hotel.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   An international embargo ground Iraqi oil exports nearly
to a halt. Turkey barred ships seeking to load oil from
Iraq's twin pipeline through that nation. A Soviet official
said the Kremlin might join a possible naval blockade of
Iraqi oil exports.
   Iraq's Hussein, speaking on Baghdad radio, warned against
any outside efforts to force him from Kuwait, saying the
Iraqis would "pluck out the eyes of those who attack the Arab
nation."
   ---
   A caretaker government assumed power in Pakistan and
ordered former Prime Minister Bhutto and other top officials
not to leave the country. Bhutto, dismissed by President
Ishaq Khan on Monday for alleged corruption and abuse of
power, met with former cabinet ministers to chart a strategy
for their Pakistan Peoples Party.
   ---
   A Liberian rebel leader threatened to attack U.S. Marines
to provoke intervention in Liberia's civil war. Prince
Johnson, who heads one of two insurgent armies trying to oust
President Doe, seized over a dozen foreign hostages Monday,
including an American. The Marines, meanwhile, airlifted more
Americans from Monrovia.
   ---
   Jurors reached a verdict on one of 14 charges in
Washington Mayor Barry's 10-week-old drug and perjury trial,
but chose not to disclose their decision to the court. The
verdict, on a misdemeanor charge of cocaine possession, was
reached on the jury's fifth day of deliberations.
   ---
   Medical researchers warned that using niacin to reduce
high blood cholesterol levels could interfere with diabetics'
attempts to control their blood sugar levels. Niacin, also
known as nicotinic acid, is a cheap and widely available
cholesterol-lowering therapy.
   ---
   Lt. Gov. Zell Miller won Georgia's Democratic
gubernatorial runoff election over Andrew Young, a former
Atlanta mayor and congressman who had campaigned to become
the state's first black governor.
   ---
   Armenia's new president appealed for calm and urged Moscow
not to intervene in the republic. The Soviet Interior
Ministry said "extremists" in the republic seized more
weapons from police officers in defiance of President
Gorbachev's decree demanding that illegally armed groups
disarm and disband by tomorrow.
   ---
   Cesar Gaviria was sworn in as president of Colombia and
vowed to wage a war "without concessions" against his
country's drug traffickers. Security was tight for the
inauguration ceremonies, which were attended by Vice
President Quayle. Gaviria, 43, is a former finance minister.
   ---
   Hundreds of people rampaged through Jerusalem, dragging
Palestinians from their cars and beating them as mourners
buried two Jewish teen-agers who were found stabbed to death
Monday in a ravine near a village in the West Bank.
   ---
   A Wisconsin state judge declared that a program to let
poor Milwaukee children attend private schools at state
expense is constitutional, possibly clearing the way for the
program to begin this fall. Opponents of the school-choice
program, thought to be the nation's first, began planning an
appeal.
   ---
   Black and white extremists dismissed a cease-fire
agreement reached between the African National Congress and
South Africa's white-minority government. On Monday, the ANC
suspended its armed struggle and President de Klerk agreed to
begin releasing political prisoners.
   ---
   Sri Lankan government troops killed 42 Tamil rebels blamed
for the massacre of at least 193 Moslem villagers since
Friday. Most of the villagers were slain while worshiping
inside mosques.
   ---
   Hong Kong and Canadian police said they smashed an
international passport forgery syndicate, halting an illegal
operation that had enabled thousands of mainland Chinese to
gain entry into Canada. Police made 15 arrests and seized
forgery tools in raids in Hong Kong and Toronto.
   ---
   Lithuania could start formal talks with Moscow as early as
next month on the breakaway republic's future, according to
President Landbergis. He said the Baltic republic was
awaiting a Soviet response to its proposals on how talks
should proceed.
   ---
   Died: Gordon Bunshaft, 81, whose designs for glass and
steel office towers helped shape modern corporate
architecture, Monday, in New York, of cardiac arrest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Niacin May Hinder Diabetics' Efforts
   To Control Blood Sugar, Report Says
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<LP>
   Medical researchers warned that using niacin to reduce
high blood cholesterol levels could interfere with diabetics'
attempts to control their blood sugar levels.
   Niacin, widely sold and also known as nicotinic acid, is
one of the B complex of vitamins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For most diabetics with high cholesterol levels,
"nicotinic acid therapy must be used with caution or avoided
altogether," declared a report in this week's Journal of the
American Medical Association from two nutrition scientists at
the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in
Dallas.
   Doctors have known since the mid-1950s that large daily
doses of niacin can lower blood cholesterol levels. Because
it is so cheap, widely available and has few side effects,
niacin is one of the "first choice" cholesterol-lowering
drugs recommended by the federally backed National
Cholesterol Education Program. Niacin, which can be bought
without a prescription, also is recommended in many popular
controls on cholesterol levels.
   Niacin is recommended especially for people who have both
a high level of cholesterol and high levels of fats, or
triglycerides, in their bloodstreams, a group that includes
many diabetics.
   In their report, Drs. Abhimanyu Garg and Scott M. Grundy
said they asked 13 male diabetics with high cholesterol and
triglyceride levels to take high doses of niacin daily for
eight weeks. All the men had what is known as
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, the kind of diabetes
that usually develops in adulthood when, for unknown reasons,
insulin from the pancreas gland is no longer sufficient to
control the amount of sugar circulating in the bloodstream.
One man was controlling his diabetes with diet while the
other 12 were using either insulin injections or an
anti-diabetic drug to hold down blood sugar levels.
   During the diabetics' stays in a research ward at a
veterans hospital, the researchers checked their cholesterol,
triglyceride and blood sugar levels before treatment, during
the eight weeks they were taking niacin and during an
eight-week "control" period when no niacin was taken.
   As expected, the niacin, at doses of 1,500 milligrams
three times a day, lowered the mean cholesterol level of the
13 volunteers by 24%. The mean level of LDL-cholesterol, the
"bad" form linked to heart disease, dropped 15% while the
HDL-cholesterol, the "good" kind that protects against heart
disease, rose 34%.
   But, the researchers reported, control of the patients'
diabetes deteriorated, with levels of blood sugar (glucose)
rising 16% while niacin was being taken. One patient
experienced a sharp rise in blood glucose levels that
increased doses of insulin failed to correct. Two other
patients had to reduce or stop their diabetes medications
because of a drop in blood sugar levels.
   Levels of uric acid in the blood rose in all 13 patients
while taking niacin, with two patients experiencing extremely
high uric acid levels. High uric acid levels often accompany
gout. Although none of the volunteers complained of gout,
niacin could increase the risk of such a disorder, the
researchers suggested.
   "Therefore, it can be argued that the benefits" of
lowering cholesterol levels in the diabetic patients with
niacin "may be counterbalanced" by a worsening of the blood
sugar control, Drs. Garg and Grundy wrote.
   The researchers suggested that doctors consider using
other cholesterol-lowering drugs in diabetics.
   The report was the second strike against niacin in recent
weeks. Earlier, doctors reported at least four cases of liver
damage occurring in patients who switched from conventional
niacin to large doses of new sustained-release tablets of the
vitamin. Three of the patients used the vitamin for lowering
cholesterol while a fourth used it for general good health.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   National Asbestos Claims Facility Proposed
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR U.JSG GDV MVL
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Cleveland issued a court order
proposing that the Manville personal-injury trust be turned
into a national facility for settling all asbestos cases. The
facility would use the combined resources of the Manville
trust, other asbestos defendants and their insurers.
   The recommendation by U.S. District Judge Thomas D.
Lambros would create a sweeping claims-resolution facility
supervised by federal and state judges. Judge Lambros said
the arrangement would be less costly and more efficient than
other proposals to clear court dockets of their backlog of
asbestos cases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Lambros, who has thousands of asbestos cases pending
before him, said the trust should be merged with the Center
for Claims Resolution in Princeton, N.J., through which
several former asbestos makers now resolve some cases.
   Judge Lambros said the facility could begin operating
within 90 days, initially with the voluntary participation of
asbestos claimants. Several federal judges are meeting Friday
in Washington to discuss possible solutions to the backlog of
asbestos cases, and Judge Lambros said his proposal could be
used to implement whatever long-term proposal the judges come
up with.
   Although Judge Lambros's plan could get the ball rolling
on a national settlement of the asbestos litigation, it puts
him at odds with U.S. Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Brooklyn,
N.Y., who has authority over the Manville trust.
   Judge Weinstein is pressuring the trust to come up with a
plan to restructure its financing by Sept. 6. Judge Lambros
in his order, however, said the trust should be left alone
until Nov. 1 "to permit the joint efforts {of the judges who
are meeting Friday} to achieve meaningful results in
promulgating and implementing national solutions." Judge
Lambros and Judge Weinstein are expected to be two of the
main players in Friday's meeting.
   A spokeswoman for the Manville trust declined to comment.
The trust, which is independent of Manville Corp., was the
cornerstone of the company's bankruptcy-court reorganization
plan in 1986. The trust, which owns 80% of Manville's stock,
was set up to pay asbestos personal-injury claims against the
former asbestos maker. Asbestos, once widely used as
insulation, causes cancer and respiratory illnesses.
   Judge Lambros also asked in his order that no decision be
made until Nov. 1 on whether to form a national class action
for the asbestos claims. Such proposals are pending before
Judge Lambros, Judge Weinstein and another federal judge in
Texas. Judge Lambros has set a hearing for Nov. 1 on the
class-action proposal in his court in Cleveland.
   Judge Lambros's order regarding the Manville trust was one
of several proposals discussed yesterday by asbestos
plaintiffs' attorneys at a meeting in Washington. The
attorneys' own recommendations on how to handle a nationwide
resolution of the cases are expected to be presented to the
judges Friday.
   Louis Robles, an attorney from Miami who attended the
meeting, said about half a dozen alternatives were proposed
by the lawyers. Mr. Robles said Judge Lambros's latest
suggestion "has some serious drawbacks because the {Center
for Claims Resolution} hasn't settled cases as quickly as we
hoped they would."
   Officials and attorneys for the center couldn't be reached
for comment.
   ---
   EMPLOYERS HAVE RIGHT to reduce retiree benefits, appeals
court rules.
   A federal court ruling allows companies to reduce health
benefits for retired employees under the federal statute
regulating employee benefits known as the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA.
   The Eleventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta
found that Container Corp. of America, a St. Louis
manufacturer of packaging products, hadn't violated ERISA
when it reduced retiree health insurance benefits and
substantially increased the amount of money employees must
contribute to the plan.
   "Employers are beginning to take a significant look at
continuing to foot the bill for retiree health care," says
Columbus R. Gangemi of the Chicago firm Winston &amp; Strawn, who
represented the company. "It has become a massive obligation
that employers are no longer in a position to bear."
   The class action suit, filed by retired plant manager
Robert N. Alday on behalf of about 1,000 employees, alleged
that Container Corp. violated ERISA because it never informed
employees that the company might change the amount employees
must contribute to the plan. The defendants also include
Jefferson Smurfit Corp., Container's parent company, and
Smurfit Pension and Insurance Co., the pension plan
consultant. Both are based in St. Louis.
   Mr. Alday said that letters sent to retired employees
about the plan's costs and the company's annual summary of
benefits led employees to believe that the premiums would not
increase. A similar suit filed by retired union employees of
Container Corp. is pending.
   The appeals panel ruled that the defendants had reserved
the right to change health benefits in a formal written
document required under ERISA. Other, more informal documents
allegedly contradicting that right must be ignored, the panel
wrote.
   The lawyer for the plaintiffs, John MacLennan of the
Jacksonville, Fla., firm Kattman, Eshelman &amp; MacLennan, said
he plans to seek a rehearing or review by the U.S. Supreme
Court. But, he adds, Congress ultimately will have to address
the issue.
   "Many of the plaintiffs spent 20, 30, 40 years with the
company," says Mr. MacLennan. "Now when they're retired,
their entire pension check is being eaten up by these
premiums."
   ---
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT Corp.'s plea negotiations break down.
   The Miami home developer faces a Jan. 7 trial date on
conspiracy and fraud charges. The company said it couldn't
reach an agreement with the U.S. Attorney overseeing its
prosecution with respect to the amount and terms of
restitution to be paid to thousands of buyers who allegedly
overpaid General Development for homes based on inflated
property appraisals.
   The parties had been trying to reach a revised accord
before attending a status conference yesterday with U.S.
District Judge Lenore Nesbitt. As reported, the judge
rejected an earlier plea agreement reached between the
company and prosecutors, saying it didn't give her adequate
flexibility to set a sentence in light of the severity of the
charges.
   General Development said it was willing to pay out $100
million to buyers upon approval of its plan by the court -- a
much faster pace for restitution than was envisioned under
the earlier pact, which gave the company 25 years to make the
payments.
   The company said that prosecutors have insisted it plead
guilty to defrauding all customers who bought homes between
1983 and 1989, something it isn't willing to do, and to agree
to a restitution plan that it believes would leave it unable
to treat other creditors fairly. General Development filed
for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy
code last spring.
   Diane Cossin, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney, said
the prosecution has "a great many problems with the
restitution plan" proposed by the company.
   Thus far the only individuals charged in the case are
David F. Brown, the former chairman of the company, and
Robert F. Ehrling, its former president. But at a hearing
yesterday, the prosecution indicated it may seek indictments
against up to seven other former employees of General
Development.
   ---
   ARKANSAS MUST STOP DRILLING in Crater of Diamonds State
Park.
   U.S. District Court Judge Susan Webber Wright in Little
Rock, Ark., permanently enjoined the state from drilling test
holes at the park, which is the only place in the U.S. where
tourists can dig for diamonds. The state had drilled four
test holes, using $350,000 provided by four private mining
companies interested in commercially mining the diamonds at
the park.
   The state had argued that it wanted to drill up to 30
holes in the diamond-bearing "pipe" at the park so that it
could use the information in a park educational program.
However, the evidence presented to the court clearly
indicated that the state "had commercial mining as its actual
goal," the judge ruled.
   The judge ruled the park's decision to permit drilling
"was arbitrary, capricious and not supported by substantial
evidence." She also ruled that converting the park from
public use to private use by allowing commercial mining would
violate the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965.
Under the act, conversion of public lands to private uses is
prohibited if the act's funds are used to buy or improve the
public lands. Arkansas received $700,000 from the fund in
1976 to improve the park.
   The state parks commission will meet some time in the next
two weeks to decide whether to appeal. The mining companies
involved declined to comment or didn't return phone calls.
   The decision is only the third federal court decision to
test the Land and Water Conservation Fund provisions and may
be the first case in Arkansas that applies the public trust
doctrine to state lands, said Jim Stanley, attorney for the
Sierra Club, which was one of the plaintiffs in the case.
   "We can use this decision to help protect other parks from
commercialization and encroachment by private interests," he
said.
   ---
   JUDGE THROWS OUT ruling against the FDIC.
   U.S. District Judge Thomas E. Scott in Miami vacated his
default judgment against the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
A default judgment is a ruling in one party's favor when its
opponent fails to meet a requirement of the court. Judge
Scott had ruled that the federal agency had missed a deadline
for responding to a lender liability suit. The FDIC argued
that as a federal agency it has 60 days to respond instead of
the 20-day period allotted other litigants.
   The plaintiff, Overseas Investment Recovery Corp., claims
that the FDIC, after taking over Vernon Savings &amp; Loan
Association in Dallas in 1986, breached its obligations to
Overseas as a borrower and reneged on agreements to settle
litigation on several occasions.
   Brenda Collier, an attorney for the FDIC, said the agency
is also seeking court costs and sanctions against the
Overseas' lawyer for seeking the default.
   James F. Gilbride, Overseas' attorney, said, "We're
confident the court will not impose sanctions."
   ---
   U.S. SUPREME COURT Justice John Paul Stevens told lawyers
attending the American Bar Association annual convention in
Chicago that nominees for the High Court should not be asked
by Congress to expound on their views on controversial
subjects because their answers won't necessarily indicate how
they will vote in particular cases. "There are some important
values at stake in maintaining the independence of the
nominee as he or she goes through the confirmation process,"
he said. There has been much debate in Congress about whether
Judge David Souter, who is being considered for the High
Court, should be asked about his views on abortion.
   ---
   Martha Brannigan and Marj Charlier contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AMR Fare Rise Is Expected
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR TWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The push within the airline industry to raise fares
because of rising oil prices might pass its biggest hurdle as
early as today.
   Industry people said they expect AMR Corp.'s American
Airlines to announce that it plans to raise ticket prices by
10% in the near future. The move is important because the
momentum for a fuel-related fare rise probably would die
without the acquiescence of the powerful Dallas-based
carrier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An American spokesman wouldn't comment on the reports, but
said the carrier plans to make a fare-related announcement
early today.
   In recent days, Pan American World Airways and Northwest
Airlines have released plans to raise their fares because of
a surge in the price of aviation fuel: one of the biggest
expenses of an airline. The Pan Am Corp. unit plans a 10%
domestic fare increase effective tomorrow. The same day, NWA
Inc.'s Northwest plans to institute an $8 ticket fuel
surcharge on a one-way basis.
   Yesterday, Trans World Airlines said it plans to implement
a $20 fuel surcharge on trans-Atlantic fares on a one-way
basis, Aug. 15. Pan Am plans to raise international fares 10%
effective that same day.
   The airlines are trying to compensate for price increases
in aviation fuel that have occurred since Iraq invaded
oil-rich Kuwait. TWA said its fuel costs have already risen
33%.
   It isn't clear whether the fare rises will fly with
consumers.
   The carriers are trying to implement the fare increases at
a time when traffic has been unusually soft. Traffic will
also deteriorate with the approach of fall, when vacation
travel evaporates and carriers often must resort to discount
fares.
   "With the climate the way it is, it's obviously not a good
time to push through a fare increase," said Cornish
Hitchcock, legal director at the Aviation Consumer Action
Project.
   But the airline industry has little alternative. Fuel
costs account for about 15% to 20% of an airline's operating
expenses.
   One airline consulting firm projected yesterday that
$25-a-barrel oil over a period of just a few months would
result in one of the biggest hemorrhages of red ink for the
airline industry since it was deregulated in 1978.
   The firm, Washington, D.C.-based Airline Economics Inc.,
scrapped its projection that the industry would generate a
$400 million to $500 million profit this year. It said it now
expects the industry to post a $1 billion operating loss in
1990.
   Last year, the industry had an operating profit of $1.8
billion, according to Airline Economics. Its best year since
deregulation was 1988 with an operating profit of $3.4
billion.
   The proposed fare increases would raise prices
significantly. For example, under Pan Am's plan the cheapest
round-trip fare between New York and Miami would increase to
$216 from $196. American is expected to follow suit. In
Northwest's proposal, the fare would increase to $212.
   "I think it's horrible," says JoAnn Alesci, manager at the
Travel Bug Inc. in Cleveland. "I've had people just sit in
here and just be astonished at the prices everywhere."
   If the planned fare increases go into effect, it would be
the second time this year that the airlines have instituted
boosts as a result of rising fuel costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict -- Taking a Stand:
   U.S. Orders Forces
   To Arabia and Turkey
   To Block the Iraqis
   ---
   Egypt May Send Troops Too;
   Turks Cut Off Iraqi Oil;
   Soviets Mull Wider Role
   ---
   Risk of a Widespread Conflict
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP FREST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush plans to send scores of U.S.
combat aircraft and thousands of troops squarely into the
path of a large Iraqi invasion force -- a force that the U.S.
believes is primed to strike at the vast Saudi oil fields
that fuel the West.
   Diplomatic sources say the decision to send jet fighters,
bombers and troops to Saudi Arabia and Turkey was made after
American intelligence detected ominous new Iraqi military
moves on the Saudi borders. These included the secret
deployment of dozens of Iraqi fighter aircraft to Yemen, on
the opposite side of Saudi Arabia, and Iraqi troop movements
in occupied Kuwait. To make the U.S. intervention more
palatable in the Moslem world, Egypt is believed to have
agreed to join the military effort and other nations may also
lend support.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. action risks putting American forces into a
potentially widespread conflict and brings President Bush to
the most dangerous and decisive hour of his young presidency.
But he enters this confrontation armed with unusually strong
domestic support and an unprecedented international consensus
that Iraq's march through the Persian Gulf must be halted.
   In the hours before the deployment, a global embargo
ground Iraqi oil exports nearly to a halt. Turkey began
turning away ships seeking to load oil from Iraq's twin
pipeline through that country and said it would shut down the
line within a few days. In Moscow, a top Foreign Ministry
aide told The Wall Street Journal that the Soviet Union might
join a possible naval blockade of Iraqi oil exports.
   In a major policy turnabout, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia
yesterday agreed to increase the kingdom's oil output to help
make up for world oil supplies lost to the embargo, senior
administration officials said. It was understood the Saudis
hadn't yet pledged to a specific figure, although the
administration has been seeking a commitment of increasing
production by about two million barrels a day. Also
yesterday, Venezuelan officials told Vice President Dan
Quayle that their country would pump oil beyond its OPEC
quota, according to an official traveling with the vice
president.
   But the most significant breakthrough was Saudi Arabia's
agreement to harbor a large foreign military contingent
inside its kingdom. The Saudi royal family for more than a
decade has repeatedly rebuffed American pleas for access to
its large, modern air bases, for fear of inciting an
anti-American backlash both inside the kingdom and among its
Moslem neighbors.
   But military intelligence supplied by the U.S. and the
threat posed by Iraq's forces along the Saudi border appear
to have swayed the royal family, as did the apparent
agreement of Egypt, a leader of the Islamic world, to
participate. Though the Egyptian Defense Ministry was saying
last night it hadn't sent any troops yet, Pentagon officials
said Defense Secretary Richard Cheney had obtained promises
that Egyptian troops would be dispatched in the next few
days. Mr. Bush scheduled a press conference for 9 a.m. EDT
today to discuss the situation in the Persian Gulf.
   Before the American deployment was disclosed, the White
House was already sounding warnings about Iraq's intentions
in the region. "We believe there is an imminent threat to
Saudi Arabia from the way that they {the Iraqi forces} are
positioned and located in Kuwait," presidential spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater said yesterday afternoon.
   The deployment, which was confirmed by Pentagon officials,
apparently has been in the works since Iraq's lightning
takeover of Kuwait last Thursday. But the administration
wasn't planning to announce the venture until today.
Officials expressed concern that leaks about the mission had
not only tipped off the Iraqis but might have rattled the
nervous Saudis.
   The most immediate risk facing Mr. Bush involves the
vulnerability of an estimated 3,000 American civilians still
in Kuwait and 500 in Iraq itself -- including 39 Americans
bottled up in a Baghdad hotel. The State Department said
yesterday the 39 have been prevented from leaving the
building, although the U.S. officially doesn't yet consider
them hostages. As a precaution, Mr. Bush has sent
hostage-rescue commandos to the mideast, where they are on
stand-by.
   According to government sources, the U.S. deployment plan
involves sending as many as 40,000 troops in phases,
including elements of the 82nd Airborne division and part of
a Marine division, to Saudi Arabia and elsewhere in the
region. At least 80 U.S. fighters, including F-15s and F-16s,
would also be dispatched. Thirty-six FB-111 bombers have been
moved to Turkey, while a number of B-52s have been positioned
on the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia.
   They were to join two U.S. aircraft carrier task forces
converging on the Arabian Peninsula. The USS Eisenhower --
which has received the special permission of Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak to sail through the Suez Canal into
the Red Sea -- is carrying 80 combat aircraft. The
Independence, on station off the coast of Oman, is carrying a
similar number of planes.
   The U.S. ground forces appear too small in number and too
lightly armed to be designed to roll back the 100,000 or so
armored troops that Iraq has massed on the Saudi border.
Rather, they are likely to be used mainly to deter an attack
on Saudi Arabia and help secure and defend the air bases
housing U.S. planes.
   The plan to put American forces in the Middle East was a
key part of discussions Defense Secretary Cheney held Monday
in Saudi Arabia with King Fahd. It was during those talks
that the two men apparently agreed on the scope of U.S.
involvement.
   Mr. Cheney has since been to Egypt, presumably to discuss
a role for that country in the force, and stopped in Morocco
on his way home last night. This morning, Secretary of State
James Baker is due to leave for NATO-member Turkey, another
nation whose bases appear to be part of the military noose
tightening around Iraq. Mr. Baker will then go to Brussels to
confer with NATO leaders.
   Iraq's reported move to position planes in Yemen, Saudi
Arabia's neighbor to the south, was likely particularly
unsettling to Saudi Arabia, which has a history of tense
relations with the Yemenis. Ali Abdallah Salih, the president
of Yemen, has openly supported Iraq's Mr. Hussein, and the
Saudis may have sensed that they were facing hostile forces
both in Kuwait, to the north, and in Yemen, to the south.
   Last night, the gravest danger for Saudi Arabia was the
possibility of an Iraqi invasion triggered by news reports of
the U.S. plan. Mr. Hussein, under growing international
economic pressure and facing the arrival of a large and
hostile military force near his borders, suddenly had reason
to strike first, U.S. officials feared.
   Mr. Bush's "game plan was not to announce this until the
troops were there," one government official said last night.
"Because of the leak, the most dangerous time is right now."
   Mr. Hussein himself delivered a threatening message
yesterday, rejecting foreign pressure on him to withdraw from
Kuwait and warning against any outside efforts to force him
out. "We would rather die than be humiliated, and we will
pluck out the eyes of those who attack the Arab nation,"
Baghdad Radio reportedly quoted him as saying.
   The deployments to Saudi bases are part of a much larger
U.S.-led military effort designed both to prod the Iraqi
dictator away from Saudi Arabia and, potentially, to roll him
out of Kuwait. The plan also involves dispatching dozens of
warships -- probably including a few from Britain, France and
the USSR -- to stand off the gulf and off ports in Turkey and
Saudi Arabia through which Iraqi oil is shipped after
traveling through pipelines.
   These vessels won't immediately block those points,
Pentagon officials said, but will be available to do so if
necessary. So far, a world-wide embargo on trade with Iraq,
imposed by the United Nations Monday, has slashed Iraqi oil
sales without a blockade.
   It was the unusually forceful UN action that gave an
international legal and political umbrella for the U.S.
military move. Another key factor was the recent end of the
Cold War between the U.S. and the USSR, which led Moscow to
band together with the U.S. and which freed smaller nations
from worry about angering the Soviets by opposing Iraq, a
longtime Kremlin ally.
   The first role of the U.S. forces being sent to the
Persian Gulf region is to deter the Iraqi leader, reducing
the temptation for him to sweep over the Saudi border and
down the west coast of the Persian Gulf, where Saudi oil
fields, oil processing facilities, terminals and
petrochemical operations are strung out.
   "The combination of forces and having U.S. air power can
create a fundamental shift in Saddam Hussein's calculus,"
explains Frank Gaffney, director of Washington's Center for
Security Policy and a former Defense Department official.
   Mr. Gaffney believes the U.S. must be prepared to take
combat losses and should be prepared to face an attack by
chemical weapons, which Mr. Hussein used against Iranian
forces in 1987. He is among a number of U.S. analysts who
believe that, short of a U.S. intervention, "it was a sure
thing" that Mr. Hussein, a man who has gambled on forceful
solutions all his life, would have sent his troops over the
Saudi border sooner or later.
   If Mr. Hussein managed to destroy Saudi production
facilities, Mr. Gaffney asserts, it would further enrich
Iraq's position as the holder of the world's second largest
petroleum reserves. "What he's intent on doing is adding to
the value of his primary assets."
   The first priority for U.S. forces if a shooting war does
break out is Mr. Hussein's air force, over 500 combat
aircraft, including a mixture of French Mirage F-1 and Soviet
MiG fighters and 16 Soviet Tupolev bombers. The Iraqi air
force, according to U.S. analysts, is primarily skilled in
air-to-ground missions, such as strafing and bombing.
   By deploying some of those warplanes to Yemen, Mr. Hussein
may have hoped to hide them from such a U.S. attack. He used
similar scatter tactics to save his planes from destruction
during the eight-year war with Iran, which he initiated in
1980.
   Iraq's arsenal of Soviet, Chinese and French-built
missiles must also be taken into account. Chemical-tipped
missiles, for example, could wreak havoc among U.S. troops
and oil workers in the desert, where 120-degree temperatures
would make wearing protective clothing and conducting
decontamination procedures extremely difficult.
   To counter such threats, U.S. officials said, Patriot
missiles and other anti-missile systems would also be sent to
Saudi Arabia. Also to be dispatched were additional Airborne
Warning and Control System (AWACS) aircraft, which use
computers and powerful radar to direct fighters to their
targets.
   If the Iraqi Air Force were destroyed, U.S. analysts said,
the matter of dealing with Mr. Hussein's tank-heavy ground
forces would be easier. In order to reach the oil fields his
tanks would have to traverse long desert roads and would
therefore be exposed.
   Should Iraqi armored columns reach the oil fields, they
would have to be removed without damaging the fields -- a
delicate task, considering that the fields are dotted with
expensive terminals and processing plants.
   Within 150 miles of the Kuwaiti border are two key Saudi
facilities, an $80 billion petrochemical complex at Jubail
and a huge oil-loading terminal and refinery complex at Ras
Tanura. An attack on either facility could have an enormous
impact on world markets. U.S., British, French and Soviet
naval forces operating in the Persian Gulf may also be called
into play to defend the two areas. As the planned deployment
unfolds, the force may assume a multinational character. In
addition to possible Egyptian forces, the U.S. and Saudi
Arabia would like Morocco to send troops. Other countries
could also be approached.
   On Capitol Hill, reactions were generally positive. Rep.
Les Aspin, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee,
said sending troops makes "a lot of sense" because it gives
Saudi Arabia the protection it needs to pump additional oil
and make up part of the shortfall caused by the embargo.
   "It is a serious business and it's a sign of our will,"
Sen. Robert Dole, the Kansas Republican, said after President
Bush telephoned him about the military move. "We hope Saddam
Hussein will get the message."
   U.S. units have provisions to sustain themselves for
months in the Persian Gulf region. Pre-positioned ships
containing food, water, ammunition and heavy weapons are
stationed at Diego Garcia, which is outfitted for just such a
contingency. But while the U.S. has coveted a military
presence in the region for years, the White House will face
some political risk if great numbers of U.S. troops remain
stuck there for months.
   For instance, even amid the support on Capitol Hill last
night, Sen. Sam Nunn, chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, reacted cautiously. He said it was "important"
that Saudi leaders had invited U.S. and other foreign allies
in to protect the kingdom, but that he hoped U.S. ground
forces would be used primarily in a defensive role, such as
guarding air bases and laying mines. He said he hoped, in
turn, that Arab forces, including soldiers from Egypt and
Morrocco, would be the troops used to reinforce the Saudi
infantry.
   ---
   John J. Fialka and Andy Pasztor contributed to this story.
   ---
                   Iraq's Military Might
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                  IRAQ'S MILITARY FORCES
                                                                                                       

   ARMY
                                                                                                       

   955,000
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   TANKS
                                                                                                       

   2,500 Soviet T-54s
   1,500 Soviet T-59s
   1,000 Soviet T-62s
   13 French SA-321s (Super Frelon)
   approx. 500 Soviet T-72s
   30 British Chieftains
   100 light tanks (PT-76)
                                                                                                       

   COMBAT AIRCRAFT
                                                                                                       

   16 Soviet bombers
   4 Chinese bombers
                                                                                                       

   FIGHTERS
                                                                                                       

   70 Soviet MiG-23s
   64 French Mirages
   30 Soviet Su-7s (Fitter A)
   50 Soviet Su-20s (Fitter)
   30 Soviet Su-25s (Frogfoot)
   40 Chinese J-6s (MiG-19)
                                                                                                       

   HELICOPTERS
                                                                                                       

   40 Soviet Mi-24s (Hind)
   20 French SA-342s (Gazelle)
   30 French SA-316s (Alouette III)
   56 French supplied Bo-105s
                                                                                                       

   SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILES
                                                                                                       

   Various Soviet air-defense missiles batteries (SA-3/-6-7
"Grails" portable anti-aircraft missiles /-8/-9/-13/-14
"Gremlins" and 60-100 French Roland missile systems)
                                                                                                       

   SURFACE-TO-SURFACE BALLISTIC MISSILES
                                                                                                       

   25-30 Soviet FROG-7 missile launchers
   24 Soviet SCUD-B missile
   Unknown number of modified SCUD missile launchers;
medium-range Al-Hussein and Al-Abbas
                                                                                                       

   AIR-TO-AIR MISSILES
                                                                                                       

   French Matra R-530s (short to medium range dogfight
missiles)

infra-red and homing head guidance)
   Soviet AA-2 (Atolls, carried on MiG-23s, similar to U.S.
Sidewinder)
   Soviet AA-6 (Acrids, carried on MiG-25s, infra-red and
homing head guidance)
   Soviet AA-7 (Apexs, long-range, carried on MiG-23s and
MiG-25s)
   Soviet AA-8 (Aphids, close-range missiles, carried on
MiG-21s and MiG-23s, infra-red guidance)
                                                                                                       

   AIR-TO-SURFACE MISSILES
                                                                                                       

   French Aerospatiale AS-30 Lasers (Supersonic missiles with
range of 1.8 to 6.2 miles, carried on Mirage F-1s)
   French Matras Armats (long-range anti-radar missiles)
   French Aerospatiale Exocet AM-39s (low altitude missiles
with a range of about 7-8 miles, for use against surface
ships)
   Soviet AS-4s (Kitchens, mach 2 speed missiles with 185
mile range, carried on Tu-22 bombers)
   Soviet AS-5s (Kelts, mach 0.9 speed missiles with a range
of over 85 miles, carried on Tu-16 bombers)
   Soviet AS-6s (Kingfish)
   Soviet AS-7 (Kerry)
   Soviet AS-9s/-10s/-12s
                                                                                                       

   Source: International Institute for Strategic Studies,
Middle-East Military Balance 1988-89, Military Power
Encyclopedia
   ---
                  Key Dates in the Crisis
                                                                                                       

   July 17 -- Iraqi President Saddam Hussein denounces
Persian Gulf countries that exceed their oil-production
quotas, accusing them of stabbing Iraq in the back.
                                                                                                       

   July 18 -- Iraqi Foreign Minister Tareq Aziz tells the
Arab League Kuwait has stolen $2.4 billion worth of Iraqi oil
and has built military posts on Iraqi land. The U.A.E. says
it will cut oil output as promised. Kuwait's parliament
denounces Iraq's tirade.
                                                                                                       

   July 22 -- Iraqi foreign minister flies to Cairo; Egypt
says Gulf crisis will soon be over.
                                                                                                       

   July 23 -- Baghdad papers call Kuwait's foreign minister
"a U.S. agent." Kuwait denies it seeks to draw foreign powers
into the dispute and says it wants Arabs to settle the
conflict.
                                                                                                       

   July 24 -- Iraq reportedly deploys thousands of troops to
the Kuwaiti border and U.S. warships in Gulf are said to be
put on state of alert. Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak visits
Iraq, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Iraq says oil prices should
rise to $25 per barrel.
                                                                                                       


Kuwait. Egyptian President Mubarak says Kuwait and Iraq will
meet in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, to discuss the crisis. Arab
diplomats say Iraq has given Egypt assurances it will not
attack Kuwait.
                                                                                                       

   July 27 -- OPEC agrees to raise the cartel's target price
to $21 per barrel of oil. Iraq warns Kuwait it must meet
Baghdad's "legitimate rights" at the planned Jeddah talks.
                                                                                                       

   July 31 -- Senior Iraqi and Kuwaiti officials meet for two
hours in Jeddah; reports say that Iraq has almost 100,000
troops at the Kuwaiti border.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 1 -- Jeddah talks collapse without further meetings.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 2 -- Iraqi tanks and troops cross the border into
Kuwait.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 5 -- President Bush considers such military moves as
a naval blockade against Iraq and dispatches Defense
Secretary Richard Cheney to Saudi Arabia for talks on the
crisis.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 6 -- The United Nations Security Council imposes a
trade and arms embargo against Iraq, as the Baghdad
government closes one of its oil pipelines in Turkey and
begins giving arms to civilians in the capital.
                                                                                                       

   Aug. 7 -- The U.S. orders warplanes and combat troops to
Saudi Arabia to help guard against an attack by Iraq's
forces.
                                                                                                       

    Source: Associated Press
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Mideast Conflict:
   U.S. Seeks to Guard Itself
   Against Impact of Boycott
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST AFRIC LATAM JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The clock has begun ticking for Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein, whose access to world oil markets
has been closed by a multinational embargo. But the U.S. is
scrambling to minimize the damage the boycott could do to its
own economy.
   Saudi Arabia yesterday agreed to increase its oil
production in a move that could cushion much of the coming
embargo-related oil shock, according to senior Bush
administration officials. The Saudis didn't commit to a
specific increase in production, although there were
indications that talks would continue. The White House had
been seeking an increase of about two million barrels a day
in the kingdom's current output of 5.4 million barrels a day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement represented a major breakthrough in the
growing global campaign against Mr. Hussein. The Saudis in
recent years have forsworn their one-time role as the "swing
producer" in OPEC, and have always resisted appearing
sensitive to Western influence. In the delicately balanced
world-wide oil market, two million barrels a day of extra
production could cut several dollars from the price of a
barrel of crude.
   Also yesterday, Vice President Dan Quayle met with
Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez, who reversed his
earlier position and agreed to increase his nation's oil
production by 500,000 barrels a day, according to an
administration official traveling with the vice president.
   In addition, the U.S. decided to send a representative to
a meeting of the International Energy Agency tomorrow to
discuss plans for the U.S., Germany, Japan and other nations
to use jointly their strategic petroleum reserves to ease the
pain of the embargo. Officials say the White House has not
yet decided whether it will use the U.S. reserve but wants to
"feel out" the other nations.
   The embargo of Iraqi oil began to show its full force
yesterday. Turkey said it is turning away ships loading oil
from an Iraqi oil export pipeline. And the flow of oil
through Iraq's pipeline across Saudi Arabia also is likely to
be shut down by Sunday, oil experts say, because storage
tanks will be full and tankers aren't loading the oil. That
means Mr. Hussein will lose, for now, the oil revenues he
needs to maintain his military machine and feed his army.
   "Realistically, he ought to be recalculating," says
Richard Murphy, the State Department's top Middle East
diplomat in the Reagan administration. "It is hard to
believe, though we don't know, that he had expected the
opposition that was generated in the last few days."
   But U.S. government estimates show Iraq has enough food to
last into the fall, even without oil money. "I think the food
situation is better than it has been for some years," says
Jonathan Crusoe, an Iraqi specialist at the Middle East
Economic Digest who just returned from that country. "There's
more local produce in the shops than before."
   In the meantime, soaring oil prices could cut deep into
the economies of the rest of the world. That means that
unless the Mideast standoff explodes into a military
confrontation, Iraq and the industrialized world will be
caught in a high-stakes war of nerves to see who flinches
first.
   Mr. Hussein is a hardened risk taker, who has shown that
he has incredible staying power and the ruthlessness to win.
When he tried, at the age of 22, to assassinate Iraq's
military leader, he was shot in the attempt and dug the
bullet out of his thigh as he fled across the desert. And he
proved he could endure a decade of intense economic pain
during the Iran-Iraq war. "I think in a sense he does have
more patience than we do," says Kenneth Katzman, a defense
consultant who studied Mr. Hussein as a Central Intelligence
Agency analyst. "Just choking him off won't deflate him."
   Moreover, Mr. Hussein may get some help from neighboring
Jordan, which has supported Iraq's move and could provide an
overland route for bringing in food and other vital imports.
In addition, Turkish truck drivers, whose workload has
declined since the Iran-Iraq war ended, will undoubtedly be
itching to sneak loads of goods across the long Iraqi-Turkish
border.
   Mr. Hussein is also likely to try to intimidate other oil
sheikdoms, particularly Saudi Arabia, into giving him money.
"Even if the embargo works 100%, they (the Iraqis) will still
have revenues because the Saudis are going to pay bribes,"
says Patrick Clawson, an economist at the Foreign Policy
Research Institute who has dealt extensively with the Middle
East. The U.S., however, is sure to try and stop the Saudis
from making any such payments.
   In the meantime, the test for the boycotting nations will
be to maintain their resolve in the face of high oil prices.
Over time, Mr. Hussein is likely to find a way to sell some
of his oil to energy-hungry nations. Indeed, without the
formation of an effective international naval blockade, the
embargo almost certainly will leak as oil prices rise. "There
are always cheaters," says Michael Ameen, a Houston
consultant who formerly worked for Mobil Corp. "There are
always people who say they're not going to buy, and then they
turn around and buy."
   The industrialized world, meanwhile, is going to be badly
hurt by the oil-price increase resulting from the embargo.
"It will slow the rate of growth considerably in Europe and
Japan, although they can probably avoid recession," says
Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
"In the U.S., however, if oil prices stay at these levels,
it's probably impossible to avoid recession."
   Japan is the nation most dependent on imported oil. But it
is in some ways the best-positioned to deal with a price
increase -- thanks to the energy-conservation measures and
industrial restructuring that have taken place in the past
decade. The U.S., on the other hand, has been less aggressive
in reducing its dependence on imported oil. Moreover, the oil
price spike comes at a particularly bad time for the U.S.,
because its economy is so weak.
   The U.S. has been hoping to ease the pain of a jump in oil
prices by convincing Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates,
Venezuela, Nigeria and Ecuador to produce more oil.
   Venezuela's President Perez promised Mr. Quayle to help
Brazil, which has been receiving large quantities of Iraqi
oil. And he said Venezuela will do everything it can to keep
the price of oil at the $21-a-barrel price agreed to recently
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   John Easton, assistant energy secretary for international
affairs, will represent the Bush administration at the IEA
meeting in Paris. The U.S. has 590 million barrels of oil in
its reserve, while Japan has 140 million barrels and Germany
100 million barrels. Those three nations alone could make up
for the lost Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil for about 200 days.
   Administration officials say they would prefer to act in
concert with other nations. "Obviously using (the strategic
reserve) unilaterally . . . wouldn't be nearly as beneficial
for American consumers as if we can arrange for coordinating
a multinational drawdown of stocks," said Linda Stuntz,
deputy undersecretary of energy.
   Ms. Stuntz said the U.S. Energy Department is preparing a
list of options for President Bush to respond to the crisis.
The list doesn't include any proposal for price controls, but
does include such measures as encouraging industries to
switch from oil to natural gas, and encouraging conservation
measures -- for example enforcing speed limits and increasing
tire pressure in vehicles.
   ---
   Michel McQueen contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SAUDI ARABIA AGREED to boost its oil output to help make
up for the loss of supplies from Iraq and occupied Kuwait,
U.S. officials said. The Saudis haven't yet pledged to a
specific figure, but the Bush administration was seeking a
commitment to increase production by about two million
barrels a day. Meanwhile, global sanctions against Iraq began
to cut into its petroleum exports.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. oil drillers are ill prepared to boost output in
response to a world petroleum shortage because of a lack of
equipment and experienced staff.
   ---
   Bond prices fell sharply and stocks swung wildly as
oil-related news shook the financial markets during the day.
Long-term Treasury bonds dropped half a point. The Dow Jones
industrials fell 5.70 points, to 2710.64, their sixth
consecutive loss. Broader stock indexes rose slightly. Signs
of escalating tension buoyed the dollar. st
   ---
   A federal budget accord is likely to come sooner because
of the Mideast crisis and its likely economic effects. But
the deficit-cutting goal for the first year will probably be
lowered.
   ---
   Tokyo stock prices tumbled Tuesday on concerns about the
Mideast. The Nikkei fell 946.46 points, or 3.3%. In morning
trading Wednesday, the index recovered 359.08 points.
   ---
   American Airlines is expected to disclose plans to raise
ticket prices by 10%. The move could supply the necessary
momentum to sustain industrywide fuel-related fare increases.
   ---
   Guarantees on Iraqi debt could cost the governments of the
West, Japan and the Soviet Union tens of billions of dollars.
Some international banks, meanwhile, could lose billions of
dollars lent to Kuwait's banks.
   ---
   Domestic coal producers could enjoy a comeback by
expanding output at existing mines if the oil crisis pushes
up coal demand and prices.
   ---
   Emerson Electric plans to spin off to shareholders its
defense units because they aren't profitable enough, despite
$600 million in annual sales. The move is another sign of
hard times ahead for military contractors.
   ---
   The growth in consumer credit slowed to a 0.8% annual rate
in June from 6.1% in May, indicating wariness among
consumers. Auto-purchase debt declined, while bank-card and
retail-store credit rose.
   ---
   Pfizer plans to set up a registry of more than 55,000
patients who received a potentially defective heart valve
sold by Pfizer's Shiley unit. The registry would be one of
the first ever developed for a medical device.
   ---
   The Manville personal-injury trust would be combined with
other firms' funds and turned into a national facility for
settling all asbestos cases, under a proposal by a federal
judge.
   ---
   A former Texas S&amp;L owner and three ex-officers were
indicted on charges stemming from the alleged misapplication
of $121.1 million.
   ---
   Quaker Oats expects to post lower profit for the current
quarter. The food firm cited rising marketing costs.
   ---
   Bank of New York withdrew as a primary dealer of U.S.
government securities, citing declining profits.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 231,580,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2710.64, off 5.70; transportation 964.78, off 15.51;
utilities 204.41, off 0.51.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3361.94, off
8.73.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.54, up 0.08; spot
index 132.32, up 0.16.
   Dollar: 150.95 yen, up 0.63; 1.5875 marks, up 0.0110.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudis Agree to Boost Oil Output to Help
   Offset Loss of Iraqi and Kuwaiti Supplies
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and James Tanner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Saudi Arabia agreed to increase the kingdom's oil output
to help make up for the loss of supplies from Iraq and
Kuwait, senior Bush administration officials said last night.
   In a similar reversal of policy, the president of
Venezuela, after meeting with Vice President Dan Quayle,
agreed to increase production by 500,000 barrels a day to
help make up the four million-barrel shortfall caused by the
interruption of Iraqi and Kuwaiti exports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Petroleum prices, meanwhile, rose sharply again late
yesterday on worries that world supplies may be crimped soon
by new developments in the Mideast crisis.
   Spot prices of West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark
crude, jumped as much as $1.50 a barrel in late trading
following news of a multinational military force, including
U.S. troops, being sent to Saudi Arabia to protect it from
Iraq. Prior to the news, which came as most oil markets were
closing, the rate of price increases had slowed sharply, with
some crudes rising only pennies a barrel after recent $2 to
$4 daily jumps.
   There was new evidence, meanwhile, that global sanctions
against Iraq for invading and occupying Kuwait are beginning
to cut deeply into its oil exports. Turkey barred tankers
from loading from a second Iraqi pipeline to the
Mediterranean. Earlier, Iraq had closed the other line
through Turkey because of a lack of customers.
   Also, according to oil industry experts, Iraq's use of
another pipeline, which crosses Saudi Arabia, had been
sharply reduced. Apparently, the storage is full at the Red
Sea export terminal used by Iraq as tankers, operating under
the sanctions, sail away empty.
   Until last month, when the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries moved to tighten supplies to boost
then-depressed oil prices, there was much talk of a world oil
glut. Although fuel inventories were considered to be about
at normal levels, those for crude oil were generally thought
to be much too high.
   Only a week ago Energy Security Analysis Inc., which
tracks oil supplies world-wide, had estimated that there
still was a surplus of 100 million barrels in global
inventories of crude oil. But that was before Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait last Thursday.
   Prior to the disclosures about Saudi Arabia and Venezuela,
John Redpath, a market analyst for the Washington-based firm,
said, "With four million barrels a day out of the market, it
will take only a month to work that off."
   Contributing to the evidence that the crude oil glut may
already be drying up was the latest weekly report on U.S.
petroleum statistics by the American Petroleum Institute.
Released as usual after futures markets had closed yesterday,
the latest API report showed that U.S. crude inventories,
although still higher than normal at 379.7 million barrels,
were drawn down last week by some seven million barrels.
   The potential shrinking of petroleum inventories comes on
top of what John Sauer, chief energy economist of Conoco
Inc., labels the "fairly limited production capability" that
could be called upon to replace Iraqi and Kuwaiti crudes in
world oil markets. "If we take a look at the requirements,"
Mr. Sauer told a small group of reporters yesterday, "we
think the world would like to buy about 23.5 million barrels
a day of OPEC oil."
   But if the Iraqi and Kuwaiti exports are eliminated
completely, Mr. Sauer said supplies could total three million
barrels a day less than desired.
   While several countries could produce more oil, much of
the additional capacity is in the Persian Gulf region and in
the range of Iraq's guns. Most experts consider that all four
million barrels a day of Iraqi and Kuwaiti exports could be
supplanted with added output from other OPEC countries.
"There is spare capacity to produce that oil if there were
some form of international consensus to do so," Cambridge
Energy Research Associates officials reported.
   Saudi Arabia, which apparently hadn't yet pledged to a
specific figure for increased production, has been producing
5.4 million barrels a day and has a daily output capacity of
7.5 million barrels, according to studies by Petroleum
Finance Co. The Bush administration has been seeking a
commitment for increased output of about two million barrels
a day.
   Industry officials noted that the United Arab Emirates had
been producing as much as 2.2 million barrels a day before it
was brought back into the OPEC fold with a quota of 1.5
million last month. It could produce 600,000 to 700,000
barrels a day more. Libya could increase output by 300,000
barrels, although it supports Iraq, and Nigeria and others
could add as much.
   Although most OPEC oil ministers continued to maintain in
public that they are going to stick to the quotas agreed to
at their late July meeting, there were reports that the
United Arab Emirates also might be willing to boost output
with the protection of the new military forces.
   Still, many in the oil industry expect oil prices to
continue rising -- with some fallbacks -- until the Middle
East confrontation with Iraq is over, or until demand
declines. Some now project prices might go as high as $45 a
barrel. In U.S. futures trading yesterday, crude for
September delivery settled at $28.31 a barrel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Harcourt Brace Loss
   Narrows to $23 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   HBJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORLANDO, Fla. -- Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc. reported a
second-quarter net loss of $23 million, or 39 cents a share,
compared with a year-earlier net loss of $42.6 million, or 84
cents a share.
   The publishing and insurance concern, which is shouldering
a heavy debt load stemming from a 1987 recapitalization
program, attributed the improvement to a reduction in
interest and other expenses, as well as higher revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Harcourt said that largely because it used proceeds from
the sale of its theme parks to pare debt, interest expense
dropped to $66 million in the latest quarter, compared with
$91.6 million a year ago. First-half interest expense fell to
$124.1 million from $179 million a year earlier.
   In the 1989 second quarter, Harcourt had a loss from
continuing operations of $70.1 million, or $1.21 a share, and
a profit from discontinued operations of $27.5 million, or 37
cents a share. Revenue rose 6% to $348.5 million from $328.6
million.
   Robert E. Evanson, executive vice president, said that the
third quarter -- traditionally the most important for the
publishing business -- should prove to be the most
significant for Harcourt this year. "It's nice to be going
into the busy season ahead of schedule, but the important
quarter is right now -- this will be the key quarter," Mr.
Evanson said.
   For the six months, Harcourt reported a net loss of $94.9
million, or $1.47 a share, compared with a loss from
continuing operations of $167.7 million, or $2.77 a share, a
year earlier.
   For the year-earlier six months, income from discontinued
operations of $9 million brought the net loss to $158.7
million, or $2.64 a share.
   Revenue rose 9.7% to $625.4 million from $570.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   Figuring the Abstraction
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Washington, D.C. -- During the '50s and '60s, Nicolas de
Stael (1914-1955) was widely considered one of the greatest
postwar painters. I well remember the enthusiasm that I, and
virtually every artist I knew, had for his work in the '60s,
and how strong his influence on younger artists was then. At
a time when existentialism was all the rage, both the man and
his art seemed to have the essential ingredients of
greatness.
   Born to an aristocratic Russian family on the eve of the
revolution, de Stael lived a life of displacement and
tragedy, and his struggles and conflicts later took on a
romantic aura. His family was forced to flee to Poland when
he was five, and both his parents died a few years later.
Educated in Belgium, he suffered great solitude, wandered
widely before he settled in France, and even spent the better
part of a year in the Foreign Legion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   De Stael was a tall, moody, Angst-filled man who painted
with great energy and dramatic flourish. Around 1949 he
developed his characteristic technique of applying broad,
thick swaths of paint with a palette knife, and after 1950 he
enjoyed considerable fame and fortune. During the last few
years of his life, he also struggled with one of the most
pressing artistic issues of the day: whether or not to paint
abstractly. From 1952 on, he repeatedly challenged
conventional distinctions by going back and forth over the
treacherous border between abstraction and figuration. When
he committed suicide by jumping from the terrace of his
studio at Antibes on the French Riviera, he seemed like a
modern Icarus, destroyed in the obsessive pursuit of his
high-flying artistic aspirations.
   Before long, a shadow fell over de Stael's reputation.
Once avidly sought by collectors and lavishly praised by
critics, his work has not been given an American museum show
in the past 25 years. And so the current retrospective
exhibition at the Phillips Collection provides a particularly
welcome opportunity to re-evaluate his accomplishment. It
contains 91 works, drawn entirely from North American
collections, and ranges over the artist's entire mature
output, starting with a small abstraction painted in 1943 and
ending with a view of Antibes painted from his window in
1955. More than a third of the show's entries are
little-known drawings and collages.
   De Stael owed and continues to owe his place in the world
to the paintings he did after 1950. In abstract canvases like
"Nocturne" (1950), he evokes both a state of mind and a time
of day through muted color and melancholy formal rhythms. The
paintings of this period are characterized by rich surfaces,
extensive use of grays, and by slab-like, nearly geometric
compositional structures. Taken one at a time, they are
lyrical and quite lovely. But seen together, their
repetitious colors and unimaginative compositional formats
have a numbing effect.
   The paintings that work the indefinite area between
abstraction and figuration are even more problematical. The
1952 landscapes are so stylized as to seem more decorative
and elegant than emotionally moving. And to my surprise, the
contemporaneous semi-abstract pictures of football players
and vases of flowers seem to have some of the slick elegance
of magazine illustrations.
   This is not to say, however, that he didn't produce some
stunning and impressive pictures. In the majestic "Sicilian
Landscape" (1954), shrill colors play against a menacing
black sky with relentless tension. An ethereal beauty
emanates from exquisitely poised pictures like "Nice" (1954),
and from some of the small Mediterranean seascapes. Even in
his weaker pictures, de Stael manages to evoke an impressive
sense of light.
   In the works that mix flat, painterly abstraction with
highly stylized representational subject matter, de Stael is
working in a vital modernist tradition that takes the
physical world as the subject for art, but that does so
indirectly and metaphorically rather than directly and
literally. What bothers me about many of de Stael's paintings
in this mode is that they seem self-consciously clever and
virtuosic. Their composition and drawing tend to be
uninventive; their color harmonies and trowel-like
application of paint are too predictable.
   In some cases, as in "White Flowers in a Black Vase"
(1953), the contrast between the vigorous, bravura paint
application and the banal prettiness of the image is quite
troubling. The same embarrassing banality undermines the
well-known "Musicians" (1953), where there is a lack of
underlying synthesis between the abstract rhythmic patterning
that evokes the musicians and the literalness of their poses.
   As I walked through this show, I found myself wondering
how de Stael's art had had such a different effect on me in
the '60s. I don't think my taste has changed so much as the
historical perspective one inevitably brings to de Stael
today. Twenty-five years ago, his work seemed very original
and authentic; now it seems considerably less so. His
influences -- especially Braque and the late Matisse -- now
seem more evident (and more imperfectly mastered) and his
means of expression appear more self-conscious.
   This is particularly apparent in the drawings and
collages, which are generally much weaker than the paintings.
The best drawings are the small pure line drawings done
directly from nature -- although even these look derivative.
But in the more elaborate drawings, such as the large and
grandiloquent charcoals done in 1954-55, de Stael seems to
get bogged down in superfluous posturing. It is as if he
became trapped in his own myth. And it is a myth that
unfortunately does not seem to be withstanding the test of
time very well.
   The exhibition will be on view through Sept. 9. It will
then move to the Cincinnati Museum of Art, from Oct. 16
through Dec. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Firms Fret as Tempers Boil, Prices Jump
   ---
   PR Challenge
   Being Fumbled,
   Experts Claim
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Turmoil in the Mideast has handed American oil companies a
big public relations challenge: How to explain why prices at
the pump jumped so fast.
   But so far, industry experts and crisis management
consultants say, the oil companies are fumbling, shouldering
the brunt of Americans' anger even though the situation may
be beyond their control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The oil industry must enjoy wearing the black hat," says
Paul Fullmer, president of the Chicago-based public-relations
firm Selz, Seabolt &amp; Associates. "They have again dropped the
ball."
   But others say that, given the circumstances, the oil
companies are doing the best they can. "Given the
uncertainties in the Middle East, it's probably inappropriate
for them to do much more than they are doing," says Robert
Dilenschneider, chief executive of Hill &amp; Knowlton, a public
relations firm that advises major oil companies. "It's like
driving on a mountain in a heavy storm. You're not sure
what's around the next bend."
   Still, any mistakes could prove costly in the long run.
U.S. oil companies are already reeling from such public
relations disasters as the grounding of the Exxon Valdez. In
the early 1970s, oil shortages and price increases after the
Arab oil embargo helped lead to the loss of some industry tax
credits, the passage of a windfall profits tax and an
antitrust complaint against the eight biggest oil companies.
   This time, industry officials fear that the public outcry
could set back industry efforts to regain drilling rights in
environmentally sensitive areas -- at a time when the
industry needs them the most.
   The oil companies say they are doing all they can to
explain why price increases are necessary. "Our policy is to
be prompt, straightforward, sincere and honest with all
inquiries," Shell Oil Co. said in a written response to
questions yesterday. "We recognize we are dealing with an
extremely volatile and consumer-sensitive area."
   Douglas Elmets, director of media relations for Atlantic
Richfield Co., says that between the time of the invasion and
yesterday afternoon, he was interviewed 92 times, while the
president of the company's marketing arm was involved in six
interviews with TV stations, one with radio and three with
major newspapers.
   But even those who have tried to get their positions out
to the public say the industry could do better. Dale Basye,
manager of corporate communications at Chevron Corp., says
the company had up to 10 people at once answering inquiries,
and made senior economists available for a televised rebuttal
of an industry pricing critic's charges.
   Still, he says, the company hasn't yet decided whether to
involve senior corporate officers: "It's something we've been
looking at," he says. "Unfortunately, it's been reactive up
to this point. Now we are looking at ways to take the
initiative."
   And privately, some industry spokespeople bemoan the
industry's passivity. "You always say we wish we had {done
more}," says one. "I'm not the decision maker." Another
complains that competitors were "unwilling or reluctant" to
address the topic directly, while yet another berates
industry officials for "burying their heads in the sand."
   Since the industry takes the position that immediate price
increases are necessary and unavoidable, public relations and
crisis experts say, the industry should have moved much more
quickly and actively to explain that. In particular, they
say, a crisis in which oil supplies were interrupted and
prices rose quickly was predictable, so the oil companies
should have prepared their dealer network to deal with it.
   "They should have had illustrations available on how the
whole domino effect takes place, and posters and handouts
available for dealers," says Mr. Fullmer of Selz Seabolt. "If
they were done ahead of time, they could have been printed
within a day or two."
   Mary Woodell, a crisis management director at consultants
Arthur D. Little Inc., agrees. "It's the dealer or retailer
who takes the heat. I would advise them to give dealers as
much advance notice as possible, a short statement of
purpose, of why we are doing this, so that they have
something to say to the people who go to the gas tank."
Otherwise, she says, "the retailer can be left flat-footed
and bearing the brunt of the blame."
   Mobil Corp. says such materials for dealers are "in the
pipeline."
   Others suggest that oil companies should have tried harder
to align themselves with the American public against a
common, outside, enemy. Otherwise, says Ian Mitroff, director
of the Center for Crisis Management at the University of
Southern California's business school, the blame falls on the
oil companies by default: "When you can't do much about an
external threat, you have to project and put that threat
somewhere. That's Freud 101. The anger has to go somewhere,
especially when you feel impotent."
   Herbert Schmertz, a former senior public affairs official
with Mobil Corp., now heads a private consulting company
bearing his name. He believes that oil companies should have
quickly seized the initiative to try to affect U.S. energy
policy: "There is a need to explain to the American public
{that} by misguided governmental policies we have put
ourselves in a position where we are dependent both
politically and economically on imported oil. They should be
making that case to the American public," he says, adding, "I
don't see any sign of it."
   Mr. Schmertz, long an advocate of lobbying aggressively
directly to the public, recommends a combination of paid
advertising and sending oil company executives out to speak.
   (See related story: "Debates Increase on Capitol Hill and
at Pumps" -- WSJ Aug. 8, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Copper Prices Post Modest Gains, but Early Surge
   Falters on Mixed Outlook for World Economies
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Copper futures prices strongly extended
Monday's resurgence in early trading, rising to new
life-of-contract highs. But they couldn't sustain the
advances, and futures finished with only modest gains.
   The September contract ended only 0.95 cent a pound higher
at $1.2730 after trading as high as $1.3030.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said that, with the slowing U.S. economy and the
consequent softer demand for copper, traders were focusing on
the continuing strong economies of Japan and West Germany.
   The Mideast crisis in recent days has stirred concern that
the boom in oil prices might hurt world-wide economies,
resulting in a general slowdown in copper consumption.
Presumably Japan, a major copper importer, would be among
those most affected.
   However, said William O'Neill, senior commodity strategist
for Merrill Lynch, New York, "The focus in the market is on
the short term, rather than on the long view with its
economic considerations."
   Japan hasn't eased up on its aggressive purchases of
copper in London, Mr. O'Neill said, and it has "been the
engine for the price firmness."
   Fred Demler, metal economist at PaineWebber, New York,
said: "Copper imports into Japan are up 35% this year vs. a
year ago and are expected to continue to rise. Brass mills
there are looking for a large increase in copper consumption
later this year."
   Mr. Demler said that although sharp increases in world oil
prices triggered worldwide recessions in 1974 and 1980, "I
think traders are focusing on what is happening now."
   The pending unification of West and East Germany has
stimulated housing construction and brass-mill consumption of
copper there, he said.
   World-wide, Mr. Demler said, both supply and demand are
subject to negative factors. On the one hand, global
inventories of refined copper currently are up 85,000 tons
since the end of the first quarter at 655,000 tons, or about
four weeks' consumption.
   On the other hand, he said, world mining production of
copper in the first five months of this year was 2% below
that of the year-earlier period. The drop in mine production
will probably lead to tightness in refined production in the
third quarter and possibly in the fourth, he said.
   John Rogers, vice president of Regan MacKenzie Inc., a
Seattle brokerage firm, said: "People are forgetting that the
U.S. is no longer the world's major copper consumer.
Therefore, a slowdown in the U.S. economy doesn't have a
significant impact on the overall world copper picture."
   As a result, he said, he sees no sign of a collapse in
copper prices. "Considering that production costs of copper
range between 85 cents and 90 cents a pound, $1 a pound for
copper can be justified in the foreseeable future," Mr.
Rogers said.
   "There are those who look at the long term and say that
copper prices can go back to 65 cents a pound," he said.
"That's not likely to happen, barring a major recession or a
depression."
   One dealer, who asked to remain anonymous, said: "Most
people are thoroughly confused as to where the copper market
is going. You can flip a coin at this point, and one side is
as good as the other."
   Over the long term, he said, if inflation strikes because
of the oil crisis, "the higher cost of doing business is bad
for the economy and bad for copper." But on the other hand,
he said, conflict can be good for copper, which is used in
making armaments.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were lower. December
delivery gold recovered from early declines to end 10 cents
an ounce lower at $393.70. September silver was off 3.2 cents
an ounce at $4.8880. October platinum ended with a loss of
$8.30 an ounce at $482.10 but at one point traded as low as
$477.50. There was less of a crisis atmosphere early in the
day, and gold prices slumped, analysts said. However, Mideast
tensions mounted later, and gold recovered almost all its
losses. Cash market demand for gold bullion was "spotty," an
analyst said. The weakness in platinum was attributed to a
reduced likelihood of violence in South Africa after news
that the African National Congress had suspended its
guerrilla campaign, the analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of corn, wheat and soybean
futures settled mixed at the Chicago Board of Trade. Traders
are caught between two schools of thought. Some are
speculating that Soviet purchases of U.S. crops might
accelerate as the rise in oil prices helps the Soviet Union
generate more revenue from its oil fields. At the same time,
prices are being depressed by the approach of what will
probably be relatively large harvests of corn and soybeans.
Although an unusually wet spring and summer in the Midwest
slowed the maturity of the crops, they are generally in good
condition. Corn for September delivery ended at $2.54 a
bushel, down a quarter of a cent, while September soybeans
rose half a cent to $6.0025 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices rose slightly. The October contract
ended with a gain of 0.08 cent a pound at 10.50 cents. Demand
developed after a report that China had bought 50,000 to
80,000 tons of raw sugar. "This indicates there is demand for
sugar at these low prices," an analyst said. Another
price-supporting development, the analyst said, was Brazil's
announcement late Monday that it would suspend imports of
Iraqi oil. This led to speculation that Brazil might use more
sugar to make ethanol, an alternative fuel, and consequently
would have less sugar to export, according to the analyst.
Another factor was Hurricane Diana, which was approaching the
Mexican coast near sugar-growing areas, the analyst said,
creating concern about possible crop damage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Consumer Credit's
   Growth Slowed
   Sharply in June
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/08/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The growth in consumer credit slowed
substantially in June, the Federal Reserve Board reported,
edging up $463 million following a rise of $3.65 billion in
May.
   The June figure represents a 0.8% annual rate, compared
with a 6.1% rate in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Consumer spending is sluggish, so people are not
extending themselves as far as credit is concerned," said
Rosalind Wells, chief economist of the National Retail
Merchants Association. "I don't think credit is really going
to grow strongly."
   Revolving credit, which consists mainly of bank card and
retail-store accounts, rose $1.30 billion in June, trailing
May's $3.19 billion.
   Debt from the purchase of automobiles fell by $1.58
billion in June. Lending for mobile homes fell $85 million,
while the miscellaneous category, which includes cash loans
and certain retail financing contracts, increased by $827
million. As of June 30, consumer credit outstanding stood at
$724.95 billion.
   Economists say the figures indicate a wariness on the part
of consumers. David Meer, a senior vice president at DYG
Inc., thinks consumers are still cautious in the present
economic climate. "We're still predicting that overall in
this kind of consumer climate there will be a continuing
effort by consumers to control spending."
   Mr. Meer was "a little bit surprised" by the rise in
revolving credit, but cautioned against unwarranted optimism
over the figure, saying that the trend indicates that
consumers are unsure about the future. "People are trying to
come down from the binge of the 1980s," he said, adding: "The
overall outlook is a sober one."
   The figures are adjusted for changes in seasonal borrowing
habits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900808-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900808-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
08/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   GEC TDS CMH TKC BLI BIOA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Geico                 $3.15  $2.51  (3) $2.42 (10)   25.50
  Telephone &amp; Data        .20    ...        .12  (5)   66.67
  Clayton Homes           .49    ...        .44  (3)   11.36
  Thiokol Inc             .64    ...        .59  (4)    8.47
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Businessland         ($ .73)   ...      $ .05 (10)    ...
  Bio-Rad Labs            .26    ...        .38  (5)   31.58
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
