<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Out of the Shadows:
   Black Entrepreneurs
   Are Part of the Picture
   In South Africa Now
   ---
   Godfrey Moloi, a Bootlegger,
   Got His Liquor License,
   Is Respected Saloonkeeper
   ---
   Three Legalized Businessmen
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC ANGLY
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOWETO, South Africa -- Godfrey Moloi, a former bootlegger
recently gone legit, throws back his head and erupts in
laughter. "Can you beat it," he cackles, "whitey coming to me
for money."
   As the king of Soweto's saloonkeepers, Mr. Moloi has seen
some pretty bizarre things in his 56 years. But never did he
figure that a scoundrel like himself would be knocking down
whiskeys with a pin-striped financier from the white side of
the tracks who is pitching unit trusts and money-markets
funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "With our inflation, you're losing money with the 15% the
banks are giving you," argues the young money man. "Last
year, I could have gotten you 40%."
   Mr. Moloi is flattered but suspicious. "These
whatyacallems -- unit trusts -- are for the big guys, guys
with money to lose," he says, shaking with laughter. He calls
for more whiskey. "Did you say 40%?"
   This encounter under the blinking neon lights of Mr.
Moloi's Blue Fountain nightclub, deep within South Africa's
largest black township, may not be as momentous as the the
political talks that concluded Friday between black
nationalist Nelson Mandela and the white government. But, in
its own way, it is equally revolutionary. That a button-down
yuppie would nervously navigate his BMW through Soweto's
streets after dark, just to see this man whose friends call
him "the Godfather," is a remarkable concession to the
emerging economic clout of black South Africa.
   For decades, Mr. Moloi was an outlaw, playing
hide-and-seek with the police while running a shebeen, or
speak-easy, out of his Soweto home in defiance of a law that
prohibited blacks from selling alcohol. Fourteen months ago,
after the prohibition was lifted by a government suddenly
interested in encouraging black business, Mr. Moloi got a
liquor license. Voila, the outlaw became a respectable
entrepreneur. The Small Business Development Corp. rushed to
give him a low-interest loan to build the Blue Fountain.
Then, Anglo American Corp., the biggest company in South
Africa, awarded him a contract to run the entertainment
center at one of its gold mines. Now, the money managers of
Johannesburg are bellying up to his bar.
   As the young financier orders another round, Mr. Moloi
savors the moment almost as much as he does the whiskey. "For
years, black business has been penned in, like a dog in a
kennel," he says. "But as anyone in Soweto knows, that dog
will eventually break loose."
   In the emancipation of black South Africa, Mr. Moloi and
his fellow township entrepreneurs are straining at
apartheid's leash as fervently as political activists. While
Mr. Mandela and his African National Congress bargain with
the white government for equal black participation in
governing South Africa, the legions of emerging black
businessmen are pushing for economic parity with the white
minority. They have debunked the old African liberation
gospel: "Seek ye first the political kingdom." Here, politics
and economics are riding in tandem.
   South Africa's racial segregation laws, known as
apartheid, were designed not just to stifle the black
majority's political voice, but also to keep blacks working
as hewers of wood and bearers of water. But just as their
political spirit survived the decades of bannings and
arrests, so has their entrepreneurial will. They have forced
the government to face up to black ambitions.
   The shebeeners, many in number, made a mockery of the
nightly police raids and impelled the government to legalize
them. Hawkers selling everything from bananas to soap pushed
their way out of the townships and got several city councils
to open up their "white" business districts to traders of all
races. Taxi drivers, with their fleets of mini-buses, broke
the monopoly of white-owned bus companies in ferrying black
workers to and from their jobs. And today, the black taxi
association is regularly consulted by the government on
transport issues.
   Despite these advances, the anomalies of apartheid remain.
Blacks still are outsiders in the main economic arenas,
particularly mining and finance. Few are big players in
industry. With a membership of only 25, the Association of
Black Accountants is one of the smallest professional bodies
in the world. The nation's board rooms remain an
almost-exclusively white domain.
   "All of that should only make us work harder," says Thomas
Masinga, who started off selling shoelaces on the streets of
Johannesburg, moved up to handbags, advanced to scrap iron
and now employs 50 people at a demolition company and at a
woodworking factory. "We've got to keep pushing, keep
pushing."
                                                                                                       

 Habakuk Shikwane
                                                                                                       

   Habakuk Shikwane is pushing. He has been up since dawn,
cutting cushion patterns for the cane furniture he makes. It
is Saturday, but there isn't any time to rest. With four
factories and 370 employees, Mr. Shikwane, 62, is South
Africa's largest black industrialist and black employer. His
business empire in the remote black homeland of Lebowa
includes a car dealership, a grocery store and several
hundred head of cattle. He lives in a big house with a
swimming pool and drives a silver Mercedes-Benz. He is proud
of what he has, all of it a tribute to one man's
determination to succeed in a country that programmed him to
fail.
   Mr. Shikwane, who was born about 10 miles from where his
factories now stand, followed the path of many rural
youngsters and traveled to Johannesburg seeking work when he
was 18. He had only a grade-school education but was good
with his hands and soon found a job at a cane factory.
Eventually, he became foreman, running the business when the
white owner was out of town. In a moment of madness, he asked
the white city council for his own manufacturing license. The
council, contemptuous, turned him down. So he sat on a stool
behind his small house in Soweto, shaping cane. It was 1954
and even that was illegal.
   "My friends said `Habakuk, it won't work. They'll shut you
down,'" he remembers. "At that time, the police were
arresting blacks for being in the city without work. I said,
`I want to see them arrest a black man for working.'"
   They did. He built walls around his tiny house to obscure
his activities, but he couldn't hide his small pickup truck
full of furniture. One day the police, who had been watching
the truck, raided his place and arrested all 15 of his
workers for violating the Pass Laws; none of them possessed
permits to be in Johannesburg. Mr. Shikwane paid the fines
and once again asked the council for a factory site.
   In an experiment to see just what a black man could do on
his own, the council, now run by the relatively liberal
opposition party, gave him a little site in an empty field in
Soweto. With a young lawyer named Nelson Mandela collecting
debts for him, Mr. Shikwane prospered.
   In 1960, apartheid was in high gear. To purify "white"
South Africa, blacks were being herded into tribal homelands.
The government directed Mr. Shikwane to another empty field,
this one north of Pretoria. If he wanted to keep making
furniture, he would have to do it there. It was a tough
decision, for he opposed the homeland system. But he was
already banned from politics -- he had been one of the ANC's
top recruiters in Soweto -- and without his cane, he would
have nothing. He moved, and again he prospered.
   By the mid-70s, his furniture was on sale in stores around
the country. But his factory was in Bophuthatswana, which was
about to become a psuedo-independent state for the Tswana
tribe. So Mr. Shikwane, who is a Sotho, was told to leave.
His water and electricity were cut off to encourage his
departure. He was shown another empty field, this one in the
North Sotho homeland of Lebowa. He cleared the bush, drove
away the jackals and leopards and paved the first road. Since
this last fresh start, he has expanded into new businesses,
always pushing forward.
   "My whole life, I've had to be a pioneer," says Mr.
Shikwane, a short, powerfully built man. "When I first moved
to the homelands, some said I was a sellout. That hurt."
   He wipes his brow. "But, you see, I couldn't give up the
business. My friends in the ANC were being jailed or going
into exile. That was their contribution to liberation. My
contribution is Habakuk Cane. If I failed, I would have
failed the entire black community."
                                                                                                       

 Gaby Magomola
                                                                                                       

   Gaby Magomola gazes through the picture windows of his
corner office, looking northward over Johannesburg, the white
suburbs stretching out before him. His trip to the 25th
floor, where he dispenses financial advice to white and black
clients alike, wasn't a smooth elevator ride, but an arduous
climb up the back stairs.
   Born in a rural mining town, Mr. Magomola, who is 47,
dropped out of school at 16 to take a factory job in an
industrial suburb of Johannesburg. Being black, though, he
needed a pass to move from one town to another. So he bribed
a woman of mixed race to accompany him to the local
magistrate and register him as a "colored" relative. It was
like a leopard changing its spots. As a colored, he could
come and go as he pleased. "It's part of your survival kit as
a black man," he says. "You do what you have to do."
   In the big city, liberation-politics beckoned, and he soon
found himself arrested under the Suppression of Communism Act
for being a member of the banned Pan African Congress. He was
sentenced to six years in Robben Island prison; he arrived
there shortly before Mr. Mandela did. Prison became his
classroom: He completed his high-school exams and began a
university-level correspondence course in accounting. After
prison, he was exiled to the far north of the country to work
on a sisal plantation for two years. Again, he reached into
his survival kit, and pursuaded a black doctor to hospitalize
him. From his bed, he finished college.
   Mr. Magomola's dream was to be a certified accountant, a
field that was an all-white club at the time. To achieve his
ambition, he had to serve an apprenticeship with a
professional accounting firm. But none would hire him. "They
were afraid of losing clients if they sent a black man to
audit a white company," he says. "They also worried about
what I would do if the client didn't have toilet facilities
for blacks."
   So much for being an accountant. He would be a banker
instead. Thanks to a Fulbright scholarship, he studied
international finance at Ball State University in Indiana.
And in late 1982, as advertised, he came home a banker.
Within two years he was managing the international division
of the local Barclay's Bank in Johannesburg. Then he became
assistant to the managing director.
   "I was advising all of the big clients, and it was
incredible to some of them that a black mind was capable of
understanding the intricacies of Euro-currencies," he
recalls, smiling broadly.
   Today, he is still shocking whites, particularly with his
talk of a "black Rand." As marketing director of the newly
formed Foundation for African Business and Consumer Services,
a coalition of black business associations, he aims to
harness black economic power. The foundation set up the
country's first black insurance brokerage company, to handle
the insurance needs of a legion of black taxi drivers. Now it
is completing plans for a bank to attract the wealth
accumulating in the townships, as well as to assist
entrepreneurs whose needs are too small to interest
white-owned banks.
   "This way, we keep the Rand in black hands," says Mr.
Magomola. "If we just remain laborers and consumers, the
battle will be lost."
   ---
   Godfrey Moloi stands in the foyer of the Blue Fountain,
hands on hips, bidding the unit-trust man farewell. Who would
have thought? he muses. Not long ago he was leading the cops
on wild chases around Soweto with every delivery of booze. It
was great fun, but at the end of each day, it was the police
who were laughing, at him and all the other rogue
entrepreneurs.
   "There comes a time when you have to stop running," he
says. "These days, when the police come in here, I stand at
the door and say, `How nice to see you. Can I help?'"
   Now he is the one who is laughing. He shakes his head in
wonder. Did the white man really say 40%?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Latvia Is an Independent, Democratic Republic'
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Following is Latvia's declaration of independence, adopted
Friday:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The independent state of Latvia, founded on Nov. 18, 1918,
was granted international recognition in 1920 and became a
member of the League of Nations in 1921. The Latvian nation's
right to self-determination was implemented in April 1920
when the people of Latvia gave their mandate to the
Constituent Assembly chosen by universal, equal, direct and
proportional elections. In February 1922 the Assembly adopted
the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia which is still in
effect "de jure." The ultimatum of June 16, 1940, from the
Stalinist government of the U.S.S.R. to the Latvian
government, and the following military aggression,
occupation, annexation and the liquidation of the statehood
of Latvia, constitute international crimes. The new
government of Latvia was formed by the dictate of the
government of the U.S.S.R. According to international law,
this government did not represent the executive authority of
the sovereign Republic of Latvia, since it represented the
interests of the U.S.S.R. instead of those of Latvia.
   The elections of June 14 and 15, 1940, to the Parliament
(Saeima) of occupied Latvia, were held under conditions of
political terror after an illegal and unconstitutional
election law had been adopted. Of the 17 lists of candidates
submitted, only one was permitted in the elections -- the
list of the Working People's Bloc. The pre-election platform
of this bloc did not include any demand to establish Soviet
power in Latvia or to join the Soviet Union. Moreover, the
results of the elections were falsified. Thus, the illegally
and fraudulently formed parliament did not represent the
governmental system and liquidated the sovereignty of Latvia.
Only the people had the right to decide on these matters, but
no free referendum was held. Hence, according to
international law, the incorporation of Latvia into the
Soviet Union is invalid. Thus, the Republic of Latvia
continues to exist de jure as a subject of international law
and is recognized as such by more than 50 nations of the
world.
   Taking into account the "Declaration on the Sovereignty of
the Latvian State" adopted by the Supreme Soviet of the
Latvian S.S.R. on July 28, 1989; the "Declaration on the
Question of the Independence of the Latvian State," adopted
by the Latvian Supreme Soviet on Feb. 15, 1990, and the
Appeal of the All-Latvia Meeting of People's Deputies of
April 21, 1990;
   Observing the will of the inhabitants of Latvia, which was
unmistakably expressed by the election of a majority of
deputies to the Latvian Supreme Soviet who had expressed a
determination to restore the independence of the Republic of
Latvia;
   Being determined to restore "de facto" the free,
democratic and independent Republic of Latvia;
   The Supreme Soviet of the Latvian S.S.R. decides:
   1. Recognizing the supremacy of the fundamental principles
of international law over national law, to consider illegal
the treaty of August 23, 1939, between the U.S.S.R. and
Germany, and the subsequent liquidation of the sovereignty of
the Republic of Latvia on June 17, 1940, which was the result
of Soviet military aggression.
   2. To declare invalid from the moment of its adoption the
decision by the Parliament of Latvia "On the Republic of
Latvia's joining the U.S.S.R." of July 21, 1940.
   3. To re-establish the authority of the Constitution of
the Republic of Latvia adopted by the Constituent Assembly on
February 15, 1922, in the entire territory of Latvia. The
official name of the Latvian state is "The Republic of
Latvia," abbreviated as "Latvia."
   4. Until the adoption of a revised constitution, to
suspend the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, except
for the articles expressing the constitutional and legal
foundation of the Latvian state, which according to Article
77 of the Constitution can be changed only by popular
referendum:
   Article 1 -- Latvia is an independent, democratic
republic.
   Article 2 -- The sovereign power of the Latvian state
belongs to the people of Latvia.
   Article 3 -- The territory of the Latvian state shall
consist of Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale, within the
boundaries stipulated by international treaties.
   Article 6 -- The Saeima is elected by universal, equal,
direct and secret vote on the basis of proportional
representation.
   The application of Article 6 will follow the renewal of
those state and administrative structures of Latvia which
guarantee free elections.
   5. To set a transition period for the reestablishment of
the de facto independence of the Republic of Latvia, which
will conclude with the convening of the Parliament of Latvia.
During the transition period the supreme power in Latvia is
held by the Supreme Soviet of the Republic of Latvia.
   6. During the transition period, to consider it possible
to preserve those constitutional and other legislative acts
of the Latvian S.S.R. already in effect in Latvia at the time
this Declaration is adopted, insofar as they do not
contradict Articles, 1, 2, 3 and 6 of the Constitution of
Latvia.
   7. To form a commission for revising the Constitution of
the Republic of Latvia so that it corresponds to the present
political, economic and social situation in Latvia.
   8. To guarantee citizens of the Republic of Latvia and
those of other nations permanently residing in Latvia social,
economic and cultural rights and political freedoms which are
consistent with universally recognized international
standards of human rights. This is fully applicable to those
citizens of the U.S.S.R. who express the desire to continue
living in the territory of Latvia.
   9. To develop relations between Latvia and the U.S.S.R. in
accordance with the Peace Treaty between Latvia and Russia of
August 11, 1920, which is still in force and which recognizes
the independence of Latvia for all time. To establish a
Government Commission for conducting negotiations with the
U.S.S.R.
   This act takes effect from the moment of its adoption.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Unit's Exploration Well
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Marathon Oil Co., a USX Corp. subsidiary, said
an exploration well in the Celtic Sea produced 1,600 barrels
of oil a day on a one-half inch choke, plus 5.4 million cubic
feet of natural gas.
   The well, which is located on block 48/24 about 16 miles
southwest of the Kinsale Head Gas Field, was drilled in 331
feet of water to a depth of 8,475 feet, Marathon said. The
well has been temporarily abandoned while results are being
further evaluated, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The semi-submersible drilling unit has been moved to a
location in the northern part of the same block, Marathon
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zero Corp. Expects to Report Change
   In Fiscal 1990 Profit Was About Zero
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4F
</SO>
<CO>
   ZRO
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Zero Corp. expects to report net income
totaling about $16,144,000, or $1.02 a share, for the year
ended March 31, little changed from $16,063,000, or $1.02 a
share, in fiscal 1989, Wilford D. Godbold Jr., president and
chief executive officer, said.
   Mr. Godbold's disclosure of unaudited fiscal-year results
indicates that fourth-quarter net totaled $4 million, or 25
cents a share, squarely in the middle of analysts' estimates
and a 14% decline from the $4.7 million, or 30 cents a share,
of a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Zero Corp. makes aluminum and plastic storage boxes and
enclosures for a wide range of computers, instruments and
other delicate objects, as well as cargo containers for
aircraft.
   Sales for the latest fiscal year totaled about $197
million, a 15% boost from $170.9 million in fiscal 1989, Mr.
Godbold said in an interview. Details of other revenue
weren't available for the latest year. In the earlier year,
interest and other revenue of $2.5 million brought total
revenue to about $173.5 million.
   The latest fiscal-year profit is a record -- by a whisker.
Sales also are a record. Zero Corp. has posted record profit
and sales in 17 of the past 18 years, its chief executive
said.
   Mr. Godbold said he expects another year of record profit
and sales in fiscal 1991, ending March 31, but declined to be
more specific.
   After a number of boom years, Zero Corp.'s profit climb
has slowed substantially with a downturn in military and
computer business. Mr. Godbold said Zero Corp. has
systematically reduced military sales to about 19% of its
total in the latest fiscal year from 37% in 1982. The
company's carrying cases and enclosures for the military
generally accompany high-technology electronic equipment -- a
part of military procurement that Mr. Godbold argues will be
sustained.
   As to the computer-related business, which accounted for
about 21% of revenue in the latest fiscal year, Mr. Godbold
said sales slid starting last September but seem to have
flattened out beginning in February. Zero makes a wide
variety of enclosures and cooling systems for computers and
computer peripherals.
   Mr. Godbold said the unaudited net income in the latest
fiscal quarter, ended March 31, includes an undisclosed
amount of one-time costs for closure of a Florida production
facility and transfer of that plant's output to an existing
facility in Massachusetts. The Massachusetts plant, in turn,
is expected to become more profitable in coming quarters, he
said.
   Regarding the Air Cargo Equipment Corp. unit, acquired in
1988 for about $21.3 million, Mr. Godbold said it is
operating profitably, has shown strong sales growth and is
expected to operate in a sharply growing market through the
decade. Air Cargo Equipment makes cargo containers for
aircraft, a business that accounts for about 17% of Zero
Corp.'s sales.
   The Air Cargo Equipment unit also makes a line of ground
support equipment for aircraft that is apparently less
successful, despite repricing of some of its products. Mr.
Godbold said the line's performance will be watched closely,
suggesting that it may be sold if it doesn't meet
expectations.
   As for further acquisitions, Mr. Godbold said Zero Corp.
continues to look for two types of investments: smaller
operations with annual sales in the $8 million-to-$15 million
range, whose products would fold into Zero's existing lines,
or larger, stand-alone operations with a niche business and
sales in the $25 million-to-$100 million range that could
operate as separate units, as does Air Cargo Equipment.
   Mr. Godbold said the company is "very busily looking at
potential acquisition candidates," adding that Zero is
interested, among other things, in expanding foreign
operations either through investment in new facilities or
through acquisition. Foreign business currently accounts for
only about 10% of sales.
   The executive said that Zero Corp.'s cash and short-term
investments total about $13 million currently and that
long-term debt totals about $4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   ANC Says `White Minority Rights' Issue
   May Be a Hurdle in Talks With Pretoria
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   SOWETO, South Africa -- After three days of historic talks
with the white government last week, the African National
Congress is pressing Pretoria to drop its insistence on
protecting "white minority rights" in a new constitution.
   At a report-back rally attended by 30,000 blacks in Soweto
yesterday, ANC leader Nelson Mandela said the meetings went a
long way toward breaking down suspicion between the
participants, who have been bitter enemies for the past three
decades. The talks were designed to clear away obstacles to
eventual negotiations over ending the racial-segregation
system known as apartheid and shaping a new constitution
where the white minority will share power with the black
majority.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government said it will review its existing security
legislation, including possibly lifting the four-year-old
state of emergency, while the ANC said it will look "hard and
earnestly" at suspending its armed struggle. The two sides
formed a joint working group to hammer out agreement on the
release of political prisoners and immunity for political
offenses.
   But Mr. Mandela said the government's opposition to a
one-man, one-vote majority rule system and its insistence
that the rights of minorities, such as the whites, be
constitutionally protected, "means that white South Africa
doesn't yet trust us." South African President F.W. de Klerk,
who earlier this year legalized the ANC after a 30-year ban
and released Mr. Mandela from prison, says simple majority
rule will lead to black domination and wants to make "group
protection" a subject for future negotiations.
   "At a time when we want to move away from all kinds of
racism we don't want discussions, which have started so well,
to be bedeviled by any solutions based on race," Mr. Mandela
told the crowd. "I'm going to urge Mr. de Klerk that he
mustn't bring this {group concept} to any conference between
the ANC and the government."
   Rather, Mr. Mandela said, "Our duty, both as black and
white leaders, is now to go out into the country and talk to
our people not in terms of blacks and whites but in terms of
South Africans. We have to convince them that any form of
racism is a formula for disaster."
   The talks fulfilled the ANC's dream of sitting down with
the government as equal partners, something it has pushed for
since its inception in 1912.
   While the talks were hailed across South Africa, there
were dissenting voices. Former President P.W. Botha said he
wouldn't renew his membership in the ruling National Party
because it earlier lifted the ban on the South African
Communist Party and allowed the communist leader, Joe Slovo,
to be part of the ANC's negotiation team.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Underdog Unbridled Unchallenged
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Louisville, Ky. -- Unbridled, a classic late runner,
staged a classic late run to win the 116th Kentucky Derby
here Saturday, proving, if nothing else, that two seconds and
a third can add up to a first.
   Allow me to enumerate. Craig Perret, the winner's jockey,
was the second choice for the job, having been signed on
after Pat Day opted to ride Summer Squall, a beast from whom
more was expected Saturday. Further, Unbridled is the second
horse by that name owned by Mrs. Frances Genter, the first
having been a stakes winner of 40 or so years ago. ("When
you've owned as many horses as we have, you have to recycle
names once in awhile," explained Bentley Smith, Mrs. G's
son-in-law and manager of her racing interests.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And Unbridled -- the present one, not his predecessor --
was a conspicuous third in his last outing, chasing Summer
Squall down the homestretch of the Blue Grass Stakes at
Keeneland three weeks ago, only to lose rather than gain
ground near the finish.
   But that was then and this was now. The veteran Perret
made it clear after his triumph that he did not feel like
Secondhand Rose going in, and that the feeling grew as the
race unfolded.
   "With horses this good there's no telling who's best in
advance, and my horse let us know he was improving every day
leading up to this race," he declared. "In the paddock today,
I told Carl Nafzger Unbridled's trainer that all we needed
was this much run and we'd be in good shape. And in the
backstretch I knew for sure we were."
   Unbridled, a large and handsome brown colt, went off at
odds of almost 11-to-1 and rewarded his Churchill Downs
backers to the tune of $23.60 for each $2 they wagered. He
entered the gate as the fifth choice of the crowd of 128,257,
behind Mister Frisky (9-to-5), Summer Squall (2-1), Thirty
Six Red (6-1) and Silver Ending (6 1/2-1). His was the
largest Derby payoff since 1986, when Ferdinand won at 18-1,
and Mister Frisky's eighth-place finish marked the 11th
consecutive time that a favorite has failed.
   The race was notable in yet another negative fashion.
Jockey Day's second-place finish aboard Summer Squall was his
third straight as runner-up, a record. He charged Winning
Colors too late on Forty Niner in 1988 and was similarly
tardy behind Sunday Silence on Easy Goer last year. This
time, at least, was different, because Unbridled, full of
run, was pulling away at the finish. His margin was 3 1/2
lengths, and his time of 2:02 over the 1 1/4 miles was
considered good over a heavy track on a cool day that dawned
gray and ended bright.
   Despite the presence of 16 horses -- the kind of large
field in which the unexpected can happen -- this Kentucky
Derby was an almost-textbook example of the hoary race-track
adage that pace makes the race. The "speed" horses -- Real
Cash, Mister Frisky and Fighting Fantasy -- fought over first
place early, and Summer Squall and Thirty Six Red, who like
to run close to the lead, challenged from about the halfway
point. Smallish Summer Squall, who'd come in with a sterling
record of seven wins in eight starts against some of the
swiftest three-year-olds in the East, poked his neck in front
briefly after one mile.
   But Unbridled deviated from the norm by outdueling a horse
that had beaten him before. He was on Summer Squall's outside
shoulder at the mile, and, unlike at the Blue Grass, didn't
flinch. "I wasn't sure if I had Pat's horse {beaten} at the
5/16-mile pole, but when we got to the 1/4-pole I saw him hit
his horse left-handed," indicating that Summer Squall was
fading, Perret said. "I thought `Pat, you're in trouble]'
Then we put out a little more energy and moved away, and I
thought `This is great]'" And it was.
   "We thought the Blue Grass would be a nice race to win,
but our real goal always was the Derby," Perret said more
quietly. "We were dead ready this time, and everything opened
up for us right. We had a golden trip."
   "When Summer Squall took the lead, he just lost
concentration," Day testified. "He got back into it when
Unbridled came by, but it wasn't the burst I anticipated. He
was kind of halfhearted from that point."
   Mister Frisky, who'd wowed 'em in Puerto Rico and
California by winning 16 straight races before Saturday,
pooped out after his early struggle for the lead. Thirty Six
Red, the darling of Gotham off his Wood Memorial win,
finished ninth. Show money went to Pleasant Tap, a 40-to-1
shot who came on late, but he ended 9 1/2 lengths behind the
winner and never was a factor.
   Unbridled's victory was accompanied by firsts of the sort
that racing folks cherish. Mrs. Genter is a 92-year-old
resident of Minneapolis who has owned horses for more than 50
years, originally with her late first husband, Harold,
without having an entrant in the sport's most-celebrated
event. Trainer Nafzger, 48, is a former rodeo rider who had
instructed Thoroughbreds for 20-odd years with similar
fortune, and jockey Perret, who has been at it about as long,
also hadn't previously made the winner's circle in the Run
for the Roses.
   Mrs. Genter doesn't get around easily anymore, but
attended the race in a wheelchair, wearing a veiled blue hat,
blue-and-white polka-dot suit and blue raincoat. Nafzger, his
cheek smudged with celebratory lipstick, said that when
Unbridled won the Florida Derby in March, the most important
of his three previous victories, he promised her a box at
Churchill Downs for the Big One, equipped with a TV set.
   Apparently, the TV set didn't make it, because Nafzger
said he called the race for his patron. "I told her how we
broke eleventh and started moving up, nice and relaxed. Then
we were sixth, fifth and fourth. In the homestretch, when we
took the lead and moved away so smooth, I told her, `Miz
Genter, you've got yourself a Kentucky Derby winner.' "
   And what did she say?
   "She just said, `Ohhh]'" he smiled.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook --
   The Group of Seven:
   Tough Times Ahead
   ----
   By Alan Murray
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Do the words "Group of Seven" hit you like a
double dose of Sominex on a warm summer's night? Well, you're
not alone. Some of the group's leaders seem to feel the same
way.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, for one, has never
really taken to the international forum, which his
predecessor, James Baker, founded to coordinate international
economic policies. Mr. Brady prefers attending to domestic
problems, such as financial-market reform or the savings and
loan crisis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   West German Finance Minister Theo Waigel is likewise
preoccupied with problems at home, preparing for his nation's
monetary union with the East. And Japanese Finance Minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto didn't even bother to show for yesterday's
G-7 meeting in Washington. A finance official in Tokyo said
the minister had more compelling business -- the Japanese
budget.
                                                                                                       

   As a result, international economic coordination is
faltering. Mr. Hashimoto made a lame attempt to revive the
process at last month's G-7 meeting, with a package of
proposals to support the yen. But they were roundly rejected
by West Germany and the U.S., and Mr. Hashimoto went home
empty-handed.
                                                                                                       

   Yesterday's agenda was far less ambitious; the ministers
were due to spend most of the time discussing a capital
increase for the International Monetary Fund. "I worry that
it {the G-7} could flounder," Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
Manuel Johnson said recently. "It needs some energy."
   As the G-7 stumbles, a growing chorus of commentators is
rooting for its demise. They blame the group for pressuring
countries to pursue inflationary policies, particularly after
the October 1987 stock-market crash. Yoshio Suzuki, former
executive director of the Bank of Japan, is one of the
naysayers. In a speech in London last February, he blasted
the G-7's efforts, saying that "if it had not been for the
international coordination, the stability of the domestic
macroeconomies of major countries since 1988 would have been
better."
                                                                                                       

   But to let the group die could prove costly. Mr. Suzuki
acknowledges the G-7 played an important role in calming the
financial turmoil that shook the world in the mid-1980s. And
a look around the world today suggests similar upheavals may
lie ahead.
                                                                                                       

   Here's the problem: The global pool of savings is getting
shallow. The super-high Japanese savings rates that helped
finance growth in the 1980s are slowly shrinking, and other
countries are seeing declines in savings as well. "The
savings rate in virtually every country, other than the
United States, is lower today than it was five years ago,"
says Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs
International. And in the U.S., it remains near historic
lows.
   At the same time, demands on that pool of savings are
growing steadily. The big event for global finance will occur
on July 2, when East German marks will be traded for West
German marks mostly at a one-for-one rate. That's great for
East German consumers, whose purchasing power will quadruple.
But it will be a heavy blow to East German companies, which
will have to prove they can pay wages and interest in West
German currency. Many of the East's industrial dinosaurs will
undoubtedly fail, default on loans to the central bank and
leave the West with massive budget liabilities that could
rival the U.S. deficits.
   In Germany, says Kemper Financial Services economist David
Hale, "we're getting a dose of Reaganomics." That will be a
huge drain on the world's savings pool.
   And as for U.S. budget deficits, where are they headed?
Down, in the official figures. But up, if you include the
soaring costs of the S&amp;L bailout. The Treasury this week is
holding the biggest fund-raiser in its history -- a $30.5
billion refinancing -- to help pay that huge bill, draining
still more from the global savings pool. (Some, but not all,
of the money borrowed for the bailout is likely to find its
way back into the savings pool, as the government pays off
depositors and they put the money back into a bank.)
   The result could be a shortage of capital and a surge in
interest rates. In anticipation, rates on long-term bonds
have already risen a full percentage point in recent weeks.
And the administration is worried they could rise further.
That's one reason the White House pushed for yesterday's
unusual Sunday budget meeting with congressional leaders at
the White House. As Budget Director Richard Darman said in a
speech last week: "There is, at some point, a limit to how
much debt our capital markets can absorb on a reasonable
basis."
                                                                                                       

   What can the G-7 do about all of this? For starters, its
mere existence may keep financial markets from overreacting
to global changes -- as they did in the mid-1980s, when the
dollar soared to unrealistic heights. Financial markets are
like unruly schoolchildren and welcome even figurehead
authority.
                                                                                                       

   In addition, the G-7 needs to do what it can to reduce
government borrowing and expand the world pool of savings.
"It has to go beyond monetary coordination," says Mr. Hale,
"and cover fiscal policy as well." That will be difficult.
The U.S. remains impervious to G-7 calls to cut its budget
deficit. And Germany is unlikely to change its plans for
monetary unification to suit the G-7.
   Nevertheless, veterans of the process say the global group
can, at times, exert surprising peer pressure on its members.
It can often push policies in the right direction and prevent
mistakes. "It's like the board of directors of the world
economy," Mr. Hormats says. "In normal times, it may not do
much. But in unusual times, it has tough decisions to make."
The next few years may, in fact, be such times.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mbia Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MBI X.FRE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MBIA Inc. (Armonk, N.Y.) -- Joseph W. Brown Jr., was
elected a director at the company's annual meeting. As
president and chief operating officer of Fireman's Fund
Insurance Co., Mr. Brown succeeds Robert W. Bruce III as one
of the Fireman's Fund representatives on the board of this
insurer of municipal bonds. Mr. Brown was previously an MBIA
director from December 1986 through May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mark Twain Bancshares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MTWN WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MARK TWAIN BANCSHARES Inc. (St. Louis) -- Peter F. Benoist
and Jack Deutsch were elected directors of this bank holding
company. Mr. Benoist, executive vice president, succeeds
former chairman Adam Aronson, who retired from the board. The
election of Mr. Deutsch, executive vice president of closely
held Standard Machine &amp; Equipment Co., expands board
membership to 12.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Saatchi's New Chief Wins Battle
   As Two Executives Are Dismissed
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA WNEWS MCD TWX F.PRR FISNY RJR GREY
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two top executives were fired from beleaguered Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi Co. in a power struggle clearly won by Saatchi's new
chief executive, Robert Louis-Dreyfus.
   Saatchi said Roy Warman and Terry Bannister, two Saatchi
veterans who served as joint chief executives of the
company's advertising operations, left on Friday. Their
departure followed a month-long struggle with Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus, who wanted to demote them from the parent
company and put them in its operating units. London-based
Saatchi owns Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising, Backer Spielvogel
Bates and a number of smaller ad agencies in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A third corporate executive, group deputy chairman Jeremy
Sinclair, 43 years old, was given additional responsibility
for Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising Worldwide. That agency,
like all of Saatchi's ad agencies, had reported to Mr. Warman
and Mr. Bannister. The other agencies for now will report
directly to Mr. Louis-Dreyfus, a Saatchi spokesman said.
   The departure of the two men is a victory for Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus, a French executive who was brought in January
to clean up troubled Saatchi. Mr. Louis-Dreyfus asserted
before he even started his job that he would have complete
control, but many in the industry doubted he could wrest
power from Saatchi's domineering founders, Charles and
Maurice Saatchi, and from their loyal cadre of top officers,
including Mr. Warman and Mr. Bannister.
   Mr. Warman, 42, joined Saatchi when it was a tiny,
year-old shop in 1971, and Mr. Bannister, 44, followed two
years later. Close friends of the Saatchis, they attempted to
persuade the brothers to support their side, say people close
to the company, but were disappointed. Their ouster marks the
first clear sign of the brothers deferring to Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus.
   In a statement, Mr. Louis-Dreyfus said, "I am sorry to see
them go, but following the decision to redeploy as much of
the central talent as possible within the operations, no role
could be found for Roy and Terry which satisfied them."
   Analysts believe Mr. Louis-Dreyfus may try to thin out
Saatchi's corporate staff -- which includes longtime Saatchi
cronies Mr. Sinclair and Simon Mellor, who oversees some U.K.
affiliates, among others -- even further. "I would be very
surprised if this is the last" step, said James Dougherty, an
analyst with County NatWest Securities. "I think he has in
mind clearing out the whole holding company structure. The
holding company overhead was way bigger than it needed to be
. . . and there was a coterie of advisers around the brothers
whose actual operating responsibilities were unclear."
   Saatchi insiders insist that Mr. Louis-Dreyfus didn't set
out to fire the two men, only to reassign them. The new chief
executive initially hoped to divide the Saatchi advertising
empire into three parts; one such configuration would have
encompassed Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising, Backer Spielvogel,
and the group of smaller agencies, one executive said. Mr.
Warman and Mr. Bannister each would have headed up one of the
groups, while Mr. Sinclair, a close friend of Charles Saatchi
who has been with the company since its founding, would have
headed up the third.
   Mr. Warman and Mr. Bannister objected, however, since the
entire advertising operation already reported to them, and
since they wanted to continue working together as a team. The
impasse dragged on for a month, until Friday, when Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus called a board meeting at which the directors
voted to terminate Mr. Warman's and Mr. Bannister's
employment contracts. Neither Charles nor Maurice Saatchi
attended the meeting, according to one person present -- but
both voted against their old friends by proxy.
   In an interview, Mr. Bannister said he and Mr. Warman
suggested alternatives, but were rebuffed. "We made
recommendations to the board that meant we would have
relinquished significant responsibility," he said, adding
that they envisioned jointly heading a group of Saatchi
companies specializing in integrated communications -- a
group accounting for about 40% of Saatchi's advertising-group
revenue. But he said Mr. Louis-Dreyfus rejected that idea.
Mr. Warman and Mr. Louis-Dreyfus couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Mr. Warman and Mr. Bannister didn't resign as directors,
but aren't expected to remain on Saatchi's board. With their
departures, the board would be narrowed to eight members, and
Mr. Louis-Dreyfus would come that much closer to controlling
it -- an essential step if he is to assert his new
leadership. Mr. Louis-Dreyfus and two of his appointees would
account for three votes, while a possibly pivotal swing vote
would be Harvard marketing guru Theodore Levitt, who has
advised Saatchi for years but who was nominated to the board
by Mr. Louis-Dreyfus.
   The realignment also is clearly a way for Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus to cut down on Saatchi's costly corporate
overhead. Mr. Warman and Mr. Bannister had each been earning
about #345,000 ($566,835) a year before Saatchi's directors
voted themselves a 10% pay cut earlier this year. Each has a
five-year contract with almost four years left and could walk
away with more than #1 million. A spokesman said, however,
that the figure would be negotiated.
   The paring down is just one part of a massive effort on
Mr. Louis-Dreyfus's part to turn around Saatchi. The firm has
been trying for almost a year to unload its consulting
operations, which it bought in an effort to become a world
leader in consulting. The spokesman said negotiations with
Saatchi's largest consulting unit, Hay Group, which is trying
to arrange a management buy-out for about $90 million, are in
the final stages.
   Meanwhile, Messrs. Warman and Bannister are trying to
figure out what to do next. Mr. Bannister said their next
step isn't yet clear, although the two plan to continue
working together as a team, if possible. He said one
possibility would be for the two to buy an ad agency.
   ---
   McDonald's Sponsors Life
                                                                                                       

   McDonald's takes over as the sole sponsor of a Life
magazine special issue on children appearing on newsstands
today.
   The fast-food company bought all 32 ad pages in the issue,
and uses the space to show off a one-time-only campaign
photographed by 26 photojournalists. The campaign focuses on
warm and fuzzy community-service type shots. Ad agency Leo
Burnett, which began working on the campaign a year ago,
declined to comment on the cost of the huge project, but
industry executives believe the ad space alone cost about $2
million.
   "McDonald's is doing a lot of promotional price
advertising on TV," said Dara Altshuler, a Burnett account
executive on the project. "The idea was, let's show the side
of McDonald's that people aren't familiar with."
   The single-sponsored issue of Life is just the latest
attempt by Time Warner's magazine group, which has had
declining ad pages, to come up with different ways to attract
new advertisers.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   PERRIER: Hal Riney &amp; Partners resigned the ad accounts for
Perrier Group's Arrowhead, Calistoga, Zephyrhills and Ozarka
brands and the firm's media buying assignment. Combined
billings approach $10 million. The agency said it couldn't
reach a compensation agreement with the Source Perrier unit.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH CARE: Fisons Pharmaceuticals, Rochester, N.Y.,
named Jordan, McGrath, Case &amp; Taylor to handle a number of
brands in its consumer health division, including Desenex and
Cruex. Estimated billings are $6 million.
                                                                                                       

   NUTS: Planters LifeSavers Co. is to kick off a $20 million
ad campaign for its Planters dry roasted peanuts brand next
week. The campaign, created by Lintas:New York, features an
animated "Mr. Peanut" character and targets young adults. It
is the RJR Nabisco unit's biggest effort to build its nuts
franchise.

   REVIEW: Radio City Music Hall Productions, New York, put
its account up for review. Billings weren't disclosed. Grey
Entertainment &amp; Media, the Grey Advertising unit that handles
the account, is expected to participate in the review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Steel Ingot Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel ingot production totaled 288,032
metric tons in the week ended April 28, up 0.5% from 286,668
tons in the preceding week but down 12% from 328,754 tons a
year earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   The cumulative total in 1990 was 4.6 million tons, down
13% from 5.3 million tons a year earlier. A metric ton is
equal to about 2,204.6 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Pro-Israel Political Donor Is Convicted
   Of Trying to Sabotage Senate Campaign
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael R. Goland, a leading donor to pro-Israel political
causes, has been convicted of using $120,000 in illegal
campaign contributions in an attempt to sabotage the
candidacy of a Republican Senate hopeful in California in
1986.
   Mr. Goland, 42 years old, a self-made millionaire who
spent millions in his political ventures, now faces the
possibility of a fine of as much as $360,000 and the prospect
of becoming the first person in recent history to go to jail
for evading federal campaign spending limits in a Senate
race. The crime, a misdemeanor, carries a penalty of up to a
year in jail.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case ended with a bizarre twist on Thursday as a judge
in federal district court in Los Angeles ordered one of the
12 jurors who sat on the case to be removed from the jury,
just before it rendered its verdict. According to one of Mr.
Goland's attorneys, the juror, Barry Kuhnke, passed a note to
Mr. Goland in a parking lot outside the courthouse last
Wednesday. The note, as described in court here on Thursday,
told Mr. Goland the jury was deeply split and could be hung
on all six counts against Mr. Goland.
   "I can make it happen," said the note. After Mr. Kuhnke
was removed from the jury, the 11 remaining jurors agreed to
convict Mr. Goland on only one count. Mr. Newhouse said he
couldn't comment about whether charges might be brought
against the juror. Mr. Kuhnke couldn't be reached for
comment.
   An earlier trial against Mr. Goland ended in a mistrial
when the jury reported that one of its members, a woman,
refused to attend deliberations because she heard "voices"
that told her Mr. Goland was innocent.
   Nathan Lewin, Mr. Goland's attorney, denied that his
client had any intentional role in the alleged note-passing
episode and pointed out that Mr. Goland reported the incident
and turned the note over to federal prosecutors. "It's the
juror's conduct that is being investigated." Overall, he
said, he felt the mild verdict was "substantially an
acquittal."
   Mr. Newhouse, the federal prosecutor, said that "in view
of the seriousness of the crime we will be seeking the
maximum fine and a jail term."
   According to testimony in the case, Mr. Goland used a
former Republican National Committee staff worker and an
anti-abortion lobbyist in an underground campaign to
discredit the conservative credentials of former U.S. Rep. Ed
Zschau, who lost a tight race to Democratic Sen. Alan
Cranston, one of the Senate's staunchest supporters of aid to
Israel.
   Witnesses, including employees of Mr. Goland's Balboa
Construction Co., told the court how Mr. Goland funneled his
company's money through business acquaintances and a
Pro-Israel political action committee. The recipients
included an ultra-right, anti-Zionist, third-party candidate
Edward B. Vallen, who drew votes from Mr. Zschau. Mr. Zschau
lost the race by 116,000 votes, a tiny margin in California.
   Colleen Morrow, then a 22-year-old former staff member of
the Republican National Committee, testified that Mr. Goland
arranged a cover position for her as a "realty analyst" at
his company, which builds and leases small storage units.
   Mr. Goland, Ms. Morrow said, wrote the script and paid for
a television commercial used by the third-party candidate,
Edward B. Vallen, in a media blitz in Southern California
during the final days of the race. "There are two candidates
with integrity in this campaign: myself, who represents
Republicans and the true conservatives, and Alan Cranston,"
Mr. Vallen said in the commercial.
   Peter R. Gemma Jr., then executive director of the now
defunct National Pro-Life Political Action Committee, said he
sponsored newspaper advertisements and a direct-mail campaign
in conservative Orange County attacking Mr. Zschau's stand on
abortion-advertisements that were really paid for by Mr.
Goland.
   "I should say it's the same deal we had in Illinois," he
added, referring to an independent campaign Mr. Goland staged
against former Sen. Charles Percy in Illinois in 1984. Mr.
Goland later boasted he had spent over $1 million to defeat
Sen. Percy and was later fined $5,000 by the Federal Election
Commission for failing to identify himself as the sponsor of
a television commercial attacking Mr. Percy. Mr. Gemma said
he also ran advertisements in that campaign.
   "I assume that people I got money from came from Goland,"
says Mr. Gemma, currently a Washington political consultant,
who estimates the anti-Zschau effort cost $30,000.
   FEC rules, which prohibit a person from donating more than
$1,000 to a political campaign, weren't an obstacle for Mr.
Goland, according to David Hultquist, a former operating
officer for Balboa. He said he and other people connected
with the business were asked by Mr. Goland to make donations
to Mr. Vallen, and were, in turn, reimbursed by Mr. Goland.
   Mr. Hultquist and Carolyn Sandler, Mr. Goland's secretary,
said Mr. Goland spent most of his day talking politics on the
telephone with various operatives in Washington and
California. Meanwhile, they said, Balboa, which was heavily
in debt, was going speedily downhill. "The company literally
fell apart," said Mrs. Sandler.
   Despite his fine from the FEC for the 1984 infraction, Mr.
Goland's telephone logs, introduced into evidence, show he
was still popular with some Senators and House members during
1986. His most frequent conversations were with Sen. Cranston
and his aides. They have asserted that they were unaware of
Mr. Goland's dealings with Mr. Vallen.
   Ms. Morrow testified that Mr. Goland bragged that during a
1985 vote on an arms sale to Saudi Arabia, he threatened
several senators in the Senate cloak room by telling them:
"If you vote for this arms deal, I will do to you what I did
to Charles Percy in 1984."
   Mr. Goland's telephone records show that during the height
of the Cranston-Zschau race he was in almost daily contact
with officials of the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee, a Washington-based group that lobbies on behalf of
Israel. A spokesman for AIPAC says the group has severed all
ties with Mr. Goland, once its biggest contributor.
   Mr. Goland took the stand to deny any wrongdoing,
complaining he was betrayed by aides who ignored campaign
laws. "Why would a respected philanthropist, who has given
away many millions of dollars for society's good, commit
criminal acts?" Mr. Lewin asked the jury.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MICHAEL R. GOLAND, a businessman and donor to pro-Israel
political causes, didn't produce telephone logs showing he
was in almost daily contact with the American Israel Public
Affairs Committee during the 1986 Cranston-Zschau Senate race
in California, as stated in Monday's edition, although the
logs reflect at least four such telephone contacts. Last
week, a federal district court jury in Los Angeles, while
convicting him on one count of an election-law violation,
also acquitted him on four counts and was deadlocked on a
fifth. Monday's edition failed specifically to mention the
acquittals.
   (WSJ May 9, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Pink Sheets Stocks Will Seek Respect
   With June 1 Start-Up of Electronic System
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It remains to be seen whether Pink Sheets
stocks, the Rodney Dangerfields of the securities industry,
will get some respect with the June 1 launch of the OTC
Bulletin Board.
   "You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear," says
Lawrence J. Goldstein, general partner of Santa Monica
Partners in New York. As an active investor in the fitfully
traded Pink Sheets stocks, he wonders how soon the new
electronic system can meet its two-fold purpose: to provide
greater ease of trading and closer surveillance for these
stocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But if the computerized market catches on, Mr. Goldstein
and others say, it is likely to make the shares of thousands
of obscure companies more visible and less susceptible to
fraud. It also will boost the exposure of several hundred
foreign companies such as Japan's Nintendo Co. and West
Germany's Deutsche Bank AG, which trade over the counter
because they don't meet larger markets' tougher disclosure
rules.
   The OTC Bulletin Board, approved last week by the
Securities and Exchange Commission, was developed by the
National Association of Securities Dealers, the
self-regulatory body for the over-the-counter market. NASD
President Joseph Hardiman says the system is designed to
better regulate some of the thousands of OTC stocks that
aren't traded on NASD's electronic trading system, and to
give these stocks greater visibility among investors.
   NASD estimates that 47,000 issues are traded over the
counter in the U.S. Of these, 4,300 meet its
minimum-net-worth and other standards for trading
electronically on the National Association of Securities
Dealers Automated Quotations system, or Nasdaq.
   About 10,000 to 12,000 of the more active issues are
available to dealers once a day in the Pink Sheets, published
since 1913 by New Jersey-based National Quotation Bureau
Inc., a subsidiary of Commerce Clearing House Inc.,
Riverwoods, Ill. First printed on colored paper in the 1920s
to reduce glare from incandescent lights, the Pink Sheets now
consist of a 330-page volume or electronic list delivered
daily to 2,000 customers, says David Burnett, president of
the National Quotation Bureau.
   "The Pink Sheets are a primitive communications device,"
concedes Mr. Burnett, whose company has a one-year contract
to provide NASD with data for the bulletin board. He adds
that there are some crucial differences between the OTC
Bulletin Board and the Nasdaq system launched in 1971.
   "It's a Nasdaq with no Ten Commandments," he contends.
   The OTC Bulletin Board is designed to provide dealers
electronically with Pink Sheet stock quotes throughout the
day, instead of once daily. Using their current Nasdaq
terminals, NASD member firms' market makers will be able, but
not obliged, to enter or update price quotations on Pink
Sheets stocks.
   Dealers in Nasdaq stocks now are required to provide firm
bid and asked, or selling, prices at the risk of facing fines
or suspension if they don't honor their quotes. But OTC
Bulletin Board dealers will be able simply to list their
names and phone numbers, with no bid or asked prices. They
can list "unfirm" prices or firm quotes.
   The system will sort the listings, with firm quotes at the
top and the least-firm interest at the bottom. A dealer
failing to honor a firm quote may face enforcement action.
But there's nothing to make a dealer offer a firm quote,
notes Mr. Burnett. He predicts that as Nasdaq slowly
tightened its requirements as it evolved, so will the
bulletin board become stricter.
   Mr. Goldstein says several dealers told him that they will
be reluctant to tip their hands on the bulletin board. Some
dealers may be surprised to find there simply aren't any
sellers for some Pink Sheets stocks, he adds. In Mr.
Goldstein's view, the market won't become truly competitive
until stock quotes and other information are available to
investors through their brokers rather than one step removed
at the dealer level. On the other hand, intraday information
"may shed some light where there's been none before."
   Since last week's approval, 13 NASD members have signed
contracts to use the bulletin board, according to S. William
Broka, NASD vice president of business development. Troster
Singer Corp., one of the nation's largest traders of Pink
Sheet stocks, is ready to go with the new trading system,
says Ralph Valentino, president of the Jersey City, N.J.,
brokerage firm. He explains that now his brokers make at
least three telephone calls to get competing quotes on Pink
Sheets stocks before executing an order. With quotes
available on a computer screen, they will be able to execute
orders faster. Data on foreign stocks will be updated only
twice a day while that for U.S. stocks will be updated
continuously.
   While the Pink Sheets stocks may become easier to trade,
NASD's Mr. Hardiman cautions, they're not for everyone. "A
lot, if not all of them in this market, are speculative
stocks," he warns. He excludes from this group some of the
larger foreign issues whose American depositary receipts
trade in the Pink Sheets.
   A more upbeat view comes from Mr. Goldstein, the Pink
Sheets investor. "It's just like Nasdaq," he says. "There's
junk and blue chips and everything in between."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Last week's rally in technology stocks helped the
over-the-counter market recover to its highest level in three
weeks.
   Friday, the Nasdaq Composite Index gained 3.17 points, or
0.75%, to 428.61. OTC advancers led declining shares, 1,091
to 776. Volume slipped to 136.8 million shares from 160.9
million shares. The Nasdaq Composite Index added 2.5% for the
week, lagging behind the 4.4% gain for the Nasdaq 100 index,
which includes some of the largest technology stocks.
   AST Research gained 2 1/4 to 23 1/4 after the Irvine,
Calif., maker of personal computer systems said it signed a
patent cross-licensing agreement with International Business
Machines.
   Drexler Technology tumbled 2 to 4 1/2. Late Thursday, the
Mountain View, Calif., maker of optical data products
reported a loss from continuing operations of 28 cents a
share for the fiscal fourth quarter ended March 31, compared
with profit from continuing operations of 85 cents a share a
year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Breaking Out of TV Ghetto
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   First the good news. Blacks are finally moving into a new
neighborhood on the small screen. They're no longer relegated
to "safe" sitcoms or stereotyped bit parts (the black
neighbor, the cop, the junkie)tiny ghettos in a white world.
   Now come two shows that are unabashedly black, "Brewster
Place" (ABC, May 8, 9:30 p.m. EDT; then Wednesdays, 9:30 p.m.
EDT) and "In Living Color" (Fox, Saturdays, 9 p.m. EDT). The
first is a drama, the second a comedy show, and in both the
principal actors and the executive producers (Oprah Winfrey
and Keenen Ivory Wayans) are black. Most important of all, so
is the sensibility. There's nothing remotely Oreo about these
programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Brewster Place," set in 1967, is the story of the
middle-aged Mattie Michael (Ms. Winfrey), a strong-willed,
warm-hearted woman trying to make ends meet in the inner
city. Based on last season's miniseries "The Women of
Brewster Place" (which was in turn based on Gloria Naylor's
novel of the same name), this half-hour dramatic series
starts right in where the miniseries left off, establishing a
tight-knit urban community, including Mattie's best friend
Etta Mae (Brenda Pressley), her nosy, sharp-tongued neighbor
Miss Sophie (Olivia Cole) and her cousin Ralph (John Cothran
Jr.).
   As the series begins, Mattie is thrown out of her
hairdressing job for mouthing off to her boss ("I am your
superior"; "I have no superior but God"), and her friend Etta
Mae tries to convice her to plunk her life savings into a
run-down restaurant: "With the right new spunk and a
different menu, Girl, we could turn this place around]"
   At first, Mattie is scared because she's been burned
before, when her son skipped bail and she had to forfeit her
house to pay for him. "He hurt you," says Etta Mae, "and you
been closed like a locked Bible ever since." But in the end,
after lots of tears, Mattie decides to take a chance (it
would have been a short series if she hadn't), and they open
the restaurant.
   Now I was never too fond of the miniseries, a soggy
exercise in female self-pity, where all the men were cheats
or thugs or rapists. "Brewster Place" corrects that flaw, but
it's even soggier. Co-written and co-executive produced by
Donald Sipes and Earl Hamner (formerly of "The Waltons,")
this series features lines like, "A broken heart doesn't mean
a cold one. You have to make new beginnings, make space to
dream new dreams." In this restaurant, platitudes are dished
out with the grits, and cliches are recited as if they were
deep philosophy: "They say that the Lord works in mysterious
ways. . . . The winds of change started blowing through my
life."
   Worst of all, someone (probably Ms. Winfrey) had the
notion that "Brewster Place" should be "uplifting": Oprah's
diner -- the joys, the sorrows, the pork chops. So we get a
program chock-full of cheap sentimentality, and each episode
seems to sag under the weight of a simplistic moral.
   Tomorrow's show, for example, is about the restaurant's
only white employee, the cook. "People are looking at me
funny because I'm white," he says. "I know exactly how you
feel," says Mattie, ramming the point home.
   There are just two things this program has going for it.
One is Ms. Winfrey's presence -- not her acting, which is way
over the top, but her presence: She fills the screen like an
earth mother, a life force. The second is the show's theme
song, performed by Take 6, surely one of the most inventive a
cappella groups ever. But other than that, "Brewster Place"
is as mushy as week-old hash browns.
   ---
   No one would accuse "In Living Color" of being mushy. Full
of street sass, the half-hour comedy-variety show is like a
blacker, hipper version of "Saturday Night Live," so full of
energy it stretches right out and bites you on the rear.
Under the talented Mr. Wayans ("I'm Gonna Git You, Sucka,"
"Hollywood Shuffle") and his equally talented younger brother
Damon ("Earth Girls are Easy"), "In Living Color" signals
right from the start that it's hilarious, but also that it's
not for everyone. Its language alone may lose some viewers:
"Chill with us," "Meet my fly girls."
   If this is hip-hop television, it also has a refreshing
social-political agenda: It consistently pokes fun at a world
in which minorities are still second-class citizens. An
"Equity Express" ad lampoons "the right sort" of people who
have credit cards. In another sketch, the "Homeboy Shopping
Network," two fast-talkers are selling stolen stereos off the
back of a truck, at least until they hear the siren of an
approaching police car: "That's our blue light special."
   In fact, "In Living Color" doesn't hesitate to poke fun at
just about everyone. In "The Wrath of Farrakhan," for
example, the Black Muslim leader takes over the Starship
Enterprise. But some of the ribbing is also in dubious taste.
In "Men on Film," a homosexual Siskel and Ebert-type team
camp it up, talking about "Great Balls of Fire."
   Most questionable of all is the way the show treats women,
with snickering jokes about tampons and breasts ("If your
breasts drop any lower, they're gonna be knees"). And an
all-female dance troupe is constantly greeted by whistles and
catcalls from a salivating audience.
   For the most part, "In Living Color" somehow manages to be
simultaneously objectionable and funny -- funny enough to
keep watching. One recent segment is an advertisement for
"Mitzvah Train -- the city's premier Afro-Judeo dating
service." A mixed couple tells us, "Bridge some of those
cultural gaps, while doing the Wild Thing. . . . You'll find
you have a lot more in common than you thought: slavery,
hard-to-manage hair, Sammy Davis Jr. . . . I didn't know a
matzo ball from a basketball till I met Mitzi."
   There have been some big recent gains for minorities on
TV. All the same, I'm looking forward to the day when
reviewers like me won't even think to put two new shows in
the same article just because they both happen to feature
blacks, the day when it'll seem so normal, it won't be worthy
of comment. As Keenen Wayans puts it, "After 400 years of
slavery, after 15 years of `The Jeffersons' in syndication,"
that'll be something.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   EC Wants to Nip Budding Monopolists
   ---
   Merger-Control Experts
   Being Gathered for Task
   ----
   By Martin Du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4I
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- At 10 p.m. on a recent Sunday night, Carter
Eltzroth glanced out his window and was surprised to see
lights burning across the street in the offices of the
European Community's competition experts.
   It wasn't the cleaning staff, says Mr. Eltzroth, a lawyer
with the U.S. firm Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius. It was the
specialists themselves, who these days are in a whirl of
activity preparing for their new role as the EC's chief
merger regulators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To do the job, the commission is putting together a team
of 40 merger-control experts charged with rooting out budding
monopolists. Under the supervision of Competition
Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, the task force will have the
sole authority to vet large cross-border takeovers, mergers
and joint ventures affecting the EC market.
   The date the merger-control regulations take effect, Sept.
21, is less than five months away, and many predict that the
commission is in for a rough ride. "It's a very difficult job
to start," says John H. Shenefield, a partner at Morgan Lewis
in Washington. Mr. Shenefield ought to know: In the late
1970s, as head of the Justice Department's Antitrust
Division, he helped put into action the U.S.'s own
merger-control legislation.
   The EC's new merger department is widely considered to be
one of the tools most important to the success of the
community's plan to create a single market by the end of
1992. By consolidating various national rules into a single
regulatory policy, the department will help make it easier
for companies to carry out the mergers and takeovers they
need to become big enough to compete globally. At the same
time, the department will be charged with making sure that
companies aren't allowed to combine into inefficient
pan-European monopolies.
   The merger controls are only a part of the new powers
being assumed by the budding federal EC regulators in
Brussels as the single market takes shape. And they already
have large and small businesses alike -- until recently happy
to operate in comfortably protected home markets --
scrambling to adjust to the prospect of cutthroat,
pan-European competition.
   According to Translink, a New York-based acquisition
advisory firm, 1,114 EC companies valued at 44 billion
European currency units ($52.8 billion) were targets of
cross-border acquisitions last year. The advent of central EC
merger control, analysts say, could further fuel such
activity, because deal makers will find it easier to address
themselves to one authority subject to EC judicial review,
rather than to conflicting national bureaucracies and
jurisdictions.
   Last year's takeover of Plessey Co. by West Germany's
Siemens AG and the U.K.'s General Electric Co. shows how the
current panoply of conflicting merger regulations in Europe
often creates chaos both for target companies and their
pursuers. The joint acquisition of the British electronics
company was complicated and delayed for months because GEC
and Siemens first had to get a go-ahead from both the West
German Federal Cartel Office and the U.K.'s Monopolies and
Mergers Commission. The deal also needed a nod of assent from
the EC Commission that it wouldn't raise any objections
retroactively after the new competition law takes effect.
   In 1988, the acquisition of the British candy maker
Rowntree PLC by Nestle S.A. of Switzerland was also
complicated by a lack of clear rules. Ultimately, British,
French and EC authorities all pitched in to move things
along.
   While investment bankers say exclusive EC control ought to
help with such tangles, making the new system work won't be
easy. For one thing, some of the new rules are vague --
particularly those used to determine when a company is
anti-competitive -- and most observers expect legal
challenges to be made. National leaders will resist losing
influence over some of the biggest deals that will take place
on the EC marketplace. And forcing fair competition onto a
barrier-free EC market is bound to clash with the cozy links
many big European companies enjoy with their home government.
   A recent row between Sir Leon and French Prime Minister
Michel Rocard provides an example of the potential
difficulties. In a speech in Paris titled "Defining the
Limits of State Aid to Industry," Sir Leon promised more EC
scrutiny of "disguised" subsidies to state-owned companies.
That angered the Socialist Mr. Rocard, who said Sir Leon was
meddling in French internal affairs. In a letter, he accused
the commissioner, an appointee of British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher, of bias against France's "mixed economy"
system, in which state and private enterprises compete
against one another.
   If the EC commission doesn't want to be dragged into such
ideological wars, it will have to make every effort to
convince governments, the business community and financial
markets that it is acting independently and without favor. As
Mr. Shenefield puts it, the commission's rulings --
especially the very first ones -- must be perceived as
"intellectually coherent and honest."
   "The skill of the job will be to make the decision
apolitical," adds John Walker-Haworth, formerly head of
Britain's Takeovers Panel and now a director at S.G. Warburg
Group PLC, a London-based investment bank.
   Responsibility in this area will fall primarily on Sir
Leon's top competition brass: Colin Overbury, a former
British army legal officer who has been with the commission
since 1974 and who will preside over the merger-control task
force; Klaus-Dieter Ehlermann, a legal scholar and a former
head commission spokesman who is in charge of the competition
department; and Jonathan Faull, another lawyer, who is Sir
Leon's top adviser on competition matters.
   Like athletes preparing for an all-important match, the
new team is practicing with dry runs to see if everything
works. The members are even pretending that the rules are in
effect, and are testing them on actual cases. "We're busy
testing the people, the computers, the rules to find out
where the problems are," says a committee aide. "Our
credibility is on the line."
   There hasn't been a lack of big test deals since the start
of the year. In the automobile sector, France's Renault is
teaming with Sweden's AB Volvo; in insurance, the
Netherlands' N.V. Amev and Belgium's Groupe AG are pooling
their business; and in the airline industry, Air France has
gobbled up its two main domestic competitors, Union de
Transports Aeriens and Air Inter.
   The commission expects that 40 to 50 cases a year will
fall under its jurisdiction, with only a handful warranting a
full investigation. But the figure could well be much higher.
Besides those deals spurred by the simplified regulatory
process, the estimate doesn't take into account mergers
involving non-EC companies with substantial EC operations,
which also could fall under commission control. Moreover,
national authorities may delegate their over sight powers
concerning smaller deals to the commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Alexander &amp; Alexander Told to Pay
   $40 Million to a Baltimore Broker
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AAL SBL LATAM CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
INSURANCE (INS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A Baltimore jury awarded $40 million in punitive damages
to a local broker that had accused Alexander &amp; Alexander
Services Inc. of conspiring to replace it as the insurance
representative for a hospital.
   The award, granted by a jury in Baltimore City Circuit
Court, is believed to be one of the largest ever in a dispute
between insurance brokerage firms over a client relationship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   B. Dixon Evander &amp; Associates, the Baltimore broker, also
alleged that Alexander conspired to refuse to pay it
commissions due on a policy for University of Maryland
Hospital that Dixon Evander arranged. The jury awarded the
Baltimore broker $250,052 in compensatory damages.
   Dixon Evander claimed the big New York concern interfered
with its contract with the hospital. Since 1975, it had been
the broker firm for the hospital and for Shand, Morahan &amp;
Co., a general underwriting manager for Mutual Fire, Marine &amp;
Inland Insurance, which provided the hospital's malpractice
insurance. Alexander acquired Shand in the early 1980s and
then tried to remove Dixon Evander as the hospital's broker,
the suit alleged.
   Alexander countered that it had what is known as a "broker
of record letter" from the hospital. It had been retained to
help the hospital set up a self-insurance program. It made
certain changes in a malpractice policy originally negotiated
by Dixon Evander but the Baltimore concern claimed it was
entitled to the commissions on the renegotiated policy, which
amounted to $250,052.
   "The jury was outraged by the cavalier attitude of
Alexander &amp; Alexander, which cut the policy premium by
exactly the same amount of Evander's commission and then,
denied that it was rebating," said Ira Cook, a partner at
Birrane, Harlan, Sharretts &amp; Cooke, the Baltimore law firm
which represented Dixon Evander. Rebating, or cutting policy
commissions, is illegal in Maryland and 47 other states.
   Benjamin P. Gill, Alexander's assistant general counsel,
said the company plans to appeal if its requests for a new
trial and a reduced verdict aren't granted.
   Insurance-defense specialist Steven Cozen, of the
Philadelphia law firm of Cozen &amp; O'Connor, says that if this
case is upheld by higher courts it could have significant
impact on how brokers and their clients do business. He said
this verdict raises the question of what protections are
afforded by broker of record letters, which have
traditionally been viewed as binding contracts by brokers.
   ---
   JUDGE FINDS PATENT INFRINGEMENT in case involving laser
scanners.
   In federal court in Manhattan, N.Y., Judge Kimba Wood
ruled that Opticon Inc., a U.S. subsidiary of K.K. Opto
Electronics of Japan, infringed on three patents owned by
Symbol Technologies Inc. of Bohemia, N.Y. Symbol Technologies
is the largest U.S. vendor of the laser devices, used to read
prices from bar codes stamped on most packages. The patents
involve handheld "aim and shoot" devices, considered the
fastest growing segment of the scanner market.
   Judge Wood hasn't decided on damages. Symbol said it
expects damages to be awarded, as well as injunction to be
issued halting further sales by Opticon.
   Opticon said it expects to appeal. The company said the
laser products involved represent about 2% of unit sales.
Opticon said it is working on a line of laser scanners that
doesn't contain the product characteristics at issue in the
suit.
   The judge rejected Opticon's claims that the patents were
either invalid or obtained through fraud.
   ---
   A JUDGE HEARD ARGUMENTS on lawyers' request to withdraw
from Manuel Noriega's case.
   The defense team in the drug racketeering case complained
that the U.S. cut off their fees by freezing the deposed
Panamanian strongman's assets.
   On Friday, U.S. District Judge William M. Hoeveler asked
the government to provide a list of the frozen assets and
their location. He also asked the government to distinguish
between Mr. Noriega's assets that are drug-related and those
that were obtained while he was "gainfully employed."
   Mr. Noriega's lawyers have alleged that he was paid at
least $11 million by the U.S. and between $6 million and $7
million by foreign governments in his position as head of the
Panamanian Defense Force. Those funds, the defense maintains,
shouldn't have to be forfeited.
   Frank Rubino, representing Mr. Noriega, said the defense
team has subpoenaed the Drug Enforcement Agency, the National
Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency to
disclose the amount of money paid to his client.
   Judge Hoeveler set another hearing on the issue for May
11.
   ---
   LAWYER-DISCIPLINE HEARINGS are held by American Bar
Association.
   The ABA's Commission on Evaluation of Disciplinary
Enforcement is sponsoring five public hearings around the
country on the effectiveness of the nation's
attorney-discipline systems. The commission's report will be
presented to the ABA's policy-making body in 1991.
   Twenty years have passed since the ABA made a
comprehensive study of attorney-disciplinary procedures, in
which state bar associations typically play a role. In 1970,
a commission headed by former U.S. Supreme Court Justice
Thomas C. Clark concluded that attorney discipline was in
need of serious reform.
   The new commission, headed by Robert McKay, former dean of
New York University School of Law, held hearings in Los
Angeles in February and in New York last week. Remaining
hearings are planned in New Orleans, Chicago, and Portland,
Oregon.
   ---
   CRIMINAL-DEFENSE LAWYERS in Montreal are expected to
strike today.
   The planned two-week strike will affect most criminal
proceedings in Quebec Court. The 286 lawyers in private
practice are trying to pressure the Quebec provincial
government to boost legal-aid fees, paid to non-government
lawyers who represent low-income defendants. The fees were
last raised in 1981.
   Although all of the city's criminal-defense lawyers are
expected to strike, only about half take on legal-aid work,
said Michel Massicotte, association president. Each lawyer
will ask for postponements, except in cases in which the
defendent is in prison. Quebec Court in Montreal usually
deals with about 300 cases a day, he said. The strike doesn't
affect jury trials, which are heard in Superior Court. Mr.
Massicotte said judges are expected to grant postponements
because they were denied raises they requested from the
government.
   In Quebec, clients who qualify for legal aid can choose
between a salaried government lawyer or a lawyer in private
practice. Legal aid pays a private lawyer a flat fee per
proceeding.
   "Everybody agrees legal aid fees must be raised," said a
spokeswoman for the Quebec Minister of Justice.
   She called the strike "premature" because the government
hasn't made a final offer.
   ---
   HOSPITAL-MALPRACTICE CASE in Texas is settled for $41
million.
   The negligence suit was brought by the parents of Travis
Williams against Fort Worth Children's Hospital, now
Cook-Fort Worth Children's Medical Center. The seven year old
suffered brain damage when his fever rose while he was
recovering from surgery in 1983.
   In February, a state court jury in Fort Worth awarded the
Williams family $17.2 million, including interest. It found
that hospital nurses had negligently allowed the child's
fever to rise to 108 degrees without adequately informing
physicians of the seriousness of his condition. The jury
exonerated the doctors.
   The settlement guarantees payments to the Williams family
for at least the next 50 years that will total about $41
million. Darrell L. Keith, a Fort Worth lawyer who
represented the plaintiffs, said they agreed to accept the
long-term payout in lieu of the lump-sum damage award. In
return, the hospital dropped all appeals.
   The hospital, said it believes there was no negligence and
noted that the settlement is covered by insurance.
   ---
   Glenn Ruffenach contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Richfood Holdings Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WETT WNEWS RCHFA
</CO>
<LP>
   RICHFOOD HOLDINGS Inc. (Richmond, Va.) -- Donald D.
Bennett, executive vice president of Wetterau Inc. and
president of its food-distribution group, was named president
and chief executive officer of this wholesale food
distributor, effective in mid-May. Mr. Bennett, 53 years old,
succeeds W.C. Taliaferro, who resigned in December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Molex Inc. Plugs Into the Asian Market,
   Becoming World's No. 3 Connector Maker
   ----
   By Steven E. Levingston
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4G
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Molex Inc. has Asia wired.
   It manufactures electronic connectors in so many countries
throughout the region that the Lisle, Ill.-based company
could easily be mistaken for an Asian multinational.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I don't know where growth in the Far East has put such a
mark on an American company," says Stephen Balog, an analyst
with Shearson Lehman Hutton.
   Stressing local managers' autonomy and a long-term
commitment, closely held Molex has expanded rapidly in Asia
to become the No. 3 connector maker in the world. A rarity
among U.S. companies, Molex conducts more business overseas
than it does at home. Asia accounts for 60% of the firm's
world-wide business. Its Japan sales alone exceed revenue in
the U.S.
   Molex's expansion offers a history lesson in the
development of electronics manufacturing in Asia during the
past two decades. From its first overseas investment, a
Japanese joint venture in 1970, the company has followed
manufacturers into Singapore and Taiwan in the late 1970s,
South Korea in the mid-1980s and Thailand last year. Along
the way it has also set up shop in Malaysia, Hong Kong, India
and China.
   "What really makes this Far East operation stand out is
that they spread themselves out rather than focusing on just
Japan," says Pamela Shore, an analyst with Salomon Brothers
Inc.
   Molex's success rests on anticipating the region's
manufacturing trends. The company started production in Tokyo
after it recognized that Japanese televisions -- products
that incorporate connectors -- were beginning to appear in
large numbers on the world market. As Japanese and other
multinationals sought lower-cost sites in Taiwan and
Singapore, Molex rushed to provide local service. And as
these same manufacturers sweep into the latest low-cost
countries of Thailand, Malaysia and China, Molex's plants
await them.
   "Molex saw ahead that production would shift out of
Japan," says Ms. Shore. "It chose to go to other areas and
was there when the shift occurred."
   By penetrating broadly into the $1.2 billion Asian market,
Molex has positioned itself to benefit from the industry's
continued strength in the region. Fleck International Inc., a
market research firm in Huntington Beach, Calif., predicts
that connector sales in Asia will outpace those in all other
regions of the world. The research firm expects the industry
to expand 9% in Asia this year compared with 3% in Japan and
negative growth in the U.S. During the next five years,
Asia's growth is seen hitting 8.3%, while Japan hovers at
around 6.4% and North America at 6.1%.
   The $15 billion connector industry isn't as glamorous as
fields immersed in cutting-edge technology. As the name
suggests, connectors join electronic components in such
products as videocassettes, personal computers and cars. They
may connect a printer to a personal computer, or circuit
boards within the computer, and can cost anywhere from 20
cents to $5,000. Their sophistication matches the needs of
the host product. For example, as technology miniaturizes
computer components, the connector industry must keep pace by
providing ever smaller devices.
   Despite the nuts-and-bolts image, connectors have a
history as long and rich as electronics itself. From their
first industrial applications in mines and motors in the
early decades of the century, connectors went on to play an
essential bit part in the sound equipment for the first
talking motion picture. In the 1930s, they flew aboard
Douglas Aircraft DC-1s and aided the growth of radio. During
the war, they helped facilitate communications and afterward
found their way into nearly every imaginable electronic
consumer product. Now they are being adapted for use in
high-definition televisions and the space shuttle.
   Molex, which was founded by John Krehbiel Sr. in 1938 as a
manufacturer of plastic consumer products, began supply ing
connectors for home appliances in 1946. Mr. Krehbiel is still
chairman, but day-to-day operations are now largely in the
hands of his two sons, John Jr. and Frederick. The company
remains a closely held public entity, with the family owning
a 47% share.
   Under Frederick's direction, the company pushed somewhat
blindly into the Japanese market two decades ago. "We were
frankly too naive and stupid to think we couldn't be
successful, and off we went," says Mr. Krehbiel, chief
executive officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GLI's Greyhound Lines Unit Launches
   Drive to Stave Off Bankruptcy Filing
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Battered by huge strike-related losses,
debt-burdened Greyhound Lines Inc. launched a last ditch
drive to avoid seeking protection from its creditors under
the federal bankruptcy code.
   Last week, the struggling unit of GLI Holding Co.
initiated a series of meetings with lenders, creditors and
suppliers aimed at restructuring credit agreements and
extending payments on both its publicly held debt and bills
owed to suppliers. The company also laid off 170, or about
5%, of its headquarters and administrative employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The actions came as the company disclosed in a Securities
and Exchange Commission filing that it posted a staggering
$55.8 million loss on revenue of $172.5 million during the
first quarter ended March 31. For the same period a year ago,
Greyhound had a loss of $14.4 million on revenue of $223.5
million.
   Because of the losses, the company said it didn't make
nearly $5 million in lease payments on buses and properties
due April 30. The company faces similar lease payments of
varying amounts every month. Greyhound also said it wouldn't
make a $9.8 million May 15 interest payment on its 13% senior
notes due in 1995. That prompted Moody's Investors Service
Inc. to downgrade its rating on those bonds to Caa from
single-B-3 on Friday.
   Meanwhile, the company's deteriorating financial situation
has apparently dimmed the chances for an early end to the
two-month-long walkout by 9,400 members of the Amalgamated
Transit Union.
   Union negotiators came away from a federally mediated
weekend bargaining session in Washington, D.C., furious about
new company contract proposals which they claimed would
result in substantial pay cuts for drivers. "They're worse
than the ones we had before," said Edward Strait, president
of the Amalgamated Council of Greyhound Local Unions, the
ATU's bargaining unit. "We're going backwards." Prior to the
strike, Greyhound proposed a three-year package of
incentive-based pay raises that included a 6.9% pay boost in
1990.
   Mr. Strait said the company is seeking a six-year contract
with no pay increases during the first four years and 3% pay
boosts in each of the last two years. He said a company
proposal to end mileage-based pay and put all drivers on a
$12.79 an hour wage would effectively cut many drivers' pay
by roughly $125 a week.
   Greyhound officials with knowledge of the talks couldn't
be reached for comment.
   In the SEC filing, Greyhound blamed its mounting financial
woes on the often violent strike. The company said it had
spent more than $20 million on security, legal fees and new
driver training since the strike began March 2. Don Seaquist,
vice president and treasurer, said that was about three times
what the company expected to spend.
   The company said that since the walkout began, 46
Greyhound buses and terminals have been hit by gunfire, more
than 100 bomb threats have been made and company facilities
and personnel have been the targets of hundreds of incidents
of assault, vandalism and arson.
   Greyhound said it has spent $8.3 million beefing up
security and pursued injunctions in more than 20 state courts
at a cost of $4.4 million in legal fees. In addition, Mr.
Seaquist said, violence has meant that far fewer union
drivers cross the picket lines than anticipated, forcing
Greyhound to find and train more replacement drivers while
initially being unable to operate at expected levels.
   While declining to estimate additional losses the company
expects to report in April, May and possibly June, Mr.
Seaquist said, "the major costs associated with the strike
are behind us."
   With the busy summer travel season fast approaching,
Greyhound said it is operating 87% of its route system and
achieving 68%-70% of pre-strike revenue.
   In an effort to boost ridership and revenue, last week the
company launched a nationwide advertising campaign, slashed
fares on certain routes and began offering an unrestricted
"go anywhere" $99 roundtrip fare.
   But with Greyhound saddled with more than $340 million in
long-term debt from its 1987 leveraged buy-out, some industry
analysts questioned whether the company can avoid a
bankruptcy filing.
   "It's not inevitable but it's certainly a very clear
possibility," said Philip Baggaley, analyst and senior vice
president with Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. In addition to driving
customers away, he said the company's financial announcements
last week could make it more difficult to obtain fuel, spare
parts and other necessary items from suppliers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Energy Sets Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CE CHV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- California Energy Co. said it reached an
agreement to acquire certain geothermal operations from a
unit of Chevron Corp. for $68.7 million.
   The purchase price could be reduced to $51.2 million in
the event Chevron's partner in a Beowawe, Nev., operation
exercises a right of first refusal to buy Chevron's 50%
interest in a partnership that operates a 15.6-megawatt
facility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chevron's unit, Chevron Resources Co., said the sale
includes a 9,000-kilowatt generating plant in Desert Peak,
Nev., its 69% interest in a Roosevelt, Utah, field that sells
steam to a utility plant, and certain leasehold interests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Detrex Rights Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DTRX
</CO>
<LP>
   SOUTHFIELD, Mich. -- Detrex Corp. adopted a shareholders
rights plan to protect the company against "hostile
acquirers."
   Preferred-stock purchase rights will be distributed as a
dividend at the rate of one right for each share of common
stock held May 15, the company said. Each right will entitle
shareholders to buy 1/100th of a newly issued share of Series
A preferred stock of Detrex at an exercise price of $80, if
someone acquires more than a 15% stake in the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jefferies Director Monks
   Doesn't Seek Re-Election
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4F
</SO>
<CO>
   JEFG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Robert A.G. Monks, a consultant to
institutional shareholders, said he didn't stand for
re-election to the board of Jefferies Group Inc. to avoid any
appearance of a conflict-of-interest.
   "Since I'm trying to advise people how to behave
themselves, I should set a good example myself," said Mr.
Monks, president of Washington-based Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc., which counsels clients on
corporate governance issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Monks said he was criticized for his role in the
recent proxy fight between Lockheed Corp. and Dallas investor
Harold Simmons. Mr. Simmons retained Jefferies to solicit
proxies for his unsuccessful bid to nominate a rival slate of
directors, which Institutional Shareholders and Mr. Monks
supported.
   "Even though I wasn't profiting, {from the
Simmons-Jefferies relationship} there was the thought that I
was a director of a company that was profiting," Mr. Monks
said. There was also a question of whether Institutional
Shareholders' counsel to its clients was biased by the
relationship.
   Mr. Monks, 56 years old, was named to the Jefferies board
last year. His departure reduces the board's size to seven
members. Mr. Monks has agreed to head the brokerage firm's
strategic advisory committee, which will meet several times a
year. The position will be unpaid, he and Jefferies said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   States Await Supreme Court Rulings
   That Could Result in Big Tax Refunds
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES MCK LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
TRUCKING (TRK)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- State governments are bracing themselves for
two Supreme Court decisions, expected in the next few weeks,
that could force them to pay billions of dollars in tax
refunds.
   The two cases raise the question of whether the U.S.
Constitution requires states to pay refunds to taxpayers when
state taxes are ruled unconstitutional. If the answer from
the high court is affirmative, the implications could be
staggering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The stakes are just enormous for the states," says Walter
Hellerstein, a University of Georgia Law School professor and
tax-law expert.
   The Multistate Tax Commission, an organization
representing state tax officials, found that 30 states could
face potential tax-refund liability of $6.5 billion. "If
refunds . . . are too readily available, state and local
governments will face not only revenue shortfalls but also
unexpected and potentially ruinous liability," said the State
and Local Legal Center, which represents state and local
government groups.
   The cases before the high court involve two types of
taxes, but the outcome could apply much more widely.
   In one case, the justices are considering an appeal by the
American Trucking Associations of an Arkansas Supreme Court
decision. Relying on an earlier U.S. Supreme Court decision,
the Arkansas court in March 1988, ruled that the state's
highway-use tax discriminated in favor of trucking companies
based in Arkansas and against companies based in other
states. But the Arkansas court said no refunds were required
for taxes already paid.
   According to a brief filed by a group of states, the
highway-use tax issue is pending in five states -- Arkansas,
Pennsylvania, Kentucky, New Jersey and Vermont. Potential
refunds total $630.9 million plus interest.
   The second case before the high court involves an appeal
by McKesson Corp., a San Francisco-based liquor distributor,
which successfully challenged a 1985 Florida law that gave
tax preferences to alcoholic beverages made from Florida
products, such as citrus and sugar cane. In February 1988,
the Florida Supreme Court ruled that the tax was
discriminatory and unconstitutional, but declined to order
refunds. Lawyers representing McKesson say they don't know
how much of a refund would be involved if the Supreme Court
were to order one now. A similar issue also has arisen in
Georgia over a liquor tax.
   But the greatest impact of the high court's ruling, by
far, could involve another kind of tax. In March 1989, the
high court struck down a Michigan law that taxed the pension
benefits of retired federal employees but exempted the
retirement income of state and local government workers. The
justices said states could tax all government pensions or
none, but couldn't discriminate.
   The high court didn't say whether the states had to refund
the taxes already collected. According to a recent survey by
the Federation of Tax Administrators, an organization of
state tax officials, lawsuits for refunds have been filed in
24 states, and the potential liability of those states is
nearly $2 billion. Many of those states are awaiting the
outcome of the two pending Supreme Court decisions to decide
whether to make refunds.
   Of course, the court could rule that states may follow
their own tax laws in deciding whether to make refunds, or
that there is no federal constitutional requirement that
invalid taxes be refunded.
   "If the states can enact unconstitutional tax laws without
worrying about the consequences, that's very significant,"
says Professor Hellerstein, who is advising McKesson in the
case. "With no refund remedy, you have no deterrent effect,"
he says.
   The court also might decide the two cases on more
technical, narrow grounds that would render the impact
uncertain on the pension disputes and many other lawsuits
raising tax-refund issues, a few of which have been brought
to the court's attention in briefs.
   Whatever the outcome, the cases have been difficult for
the justices. They heard arguments in March 1989, and ordered
a second round of arguments last December. Says Andrew Frey,
a Washington lawyer representing the American Trucking
Associations, "Obviously something about these cases is
giving the court extraordinary difficulty. That suggests
they're considering a ruling that would have significant
ramifications for state taxes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Neil Bush Plans to Testify
   On Failure of Denver S&amp;L
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- Neil Bush, the president's son, said he
agreed to testify before the House Banking Committee about
the failure of a Denver thrift on whose board he served.
   The panel, headed by Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas), is
looking into the December 1988 collapse of Silverado Banking,
Savings &amp; Loan Association.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thrift regulators are expected to testify May 22, while
Mr. Bush and other Silverado board members are to appear May
23. "I have agreed to participate and will continue to
cooperate with Congress, the Office of Thrift Supervision and
any other agencies involved," Mr. Bush said in a statement.
   The thrift office has alleged that loans by Silverado to
Mr. Bush's business partners, developers Kenneth Good and
Bill Walters, were a conflict of interest for Mr. Bush, who
was on the S&amp;L's board from October 1985 until August 1988.
   In January, regulators began disciplinary procedures
against Mr. Bush that could result in a lifetime ban from the
financial-institutions industry. Mr. Bush has denied any
wrongdoing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chilling Tale:
   GE Refrigerator Woes
   Illustrate the Hazards
   In Changing a Product
   ---
   Firm Pushed Development
   Of Compressor Too Fast,
   Failed to Test Adequately
   ---
   Missing: the `Magical Balance'
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- General Electric Co. began making a new
refrigerator model in 1986 -- and thought it had a
breakthrough. Its engineers had designed a revolutionary
compressor and a futuristic factory to make it.
   GE was so certain the new product would leapfrog Japanese
rivals that it staked its entire $2 billion refrigerator
business on the innovative design of the compressor -- the
pump that creates cold air, as crucial to a refrigerator as
an engine to a car. The old compressor was scrapped. At the
appliance division's headquarters here, managers were setting
out to prove that America could still be a world leader in
manufacturing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But today, the very managers who had defiantly refused to
buy compressors from overseas rivals are doing exactly that.
Now, when GE assembles refrigerators at its plants in
Louisville, Indiana and Alabama, it uses compressors
purchased from six suppliers, five of them foreign.
   The project, says Roger Schipke, the division's former
chief, "was your worst nightmare come true. I don't even want
to think about it anymore." Mr. Schipke now is the president
of Ryland Group Inc., a Columbia, Md., home builder.
   GE's new compressor flopped so badly that the company had
to take a $450 million pretax charge in 1988. And since early
last year, it has voluntarily replaced nearly 1.1 million
defective compressors.
   At first, it was changing 5,000 a week. Even now, the
process goes on. In a kitchen in rural Beaver County near
Pittsburgh, serviceman Paul Jackson yanks a defective
compressor from the back of an almond-colored refrigerator.
He replaces it with one made in Italy. The changeover takes
90 minutes. Still to be repaired: as many as 200,000
refrigerators, many of which can't be located.
   The full story of GE's fiasco has never been told. After
interviews on the matter with more than 30 current and former
GE employees, the tale that emerges offers a lesson for all
manufacturers.
   GE's travails don't show that America should stop trying
to compete with the Japanese -- who, as GE later discovered,
had similar troubles with the same compressor design. Rather,
the story illustrates how even a company with GE's vast
resources and formidable skills can fall into trouble if it
goes too far, too fast. Pioneering new technology carries
great risks along with the possibility of great rewards, and
the risks may indicate that a manufacturer should phase in a
new product gradually.
   "You have to have that magical balance between getting it
right and getting it fast. Obviously, we didn't have that,"
says Stephen Holmes, who was one of several GE managers that
supervised the refrigerator's design and who now is a vice
president at rival Whirlpool Corp. Adds Dietrich
Huttenlocher, a former GE technical trouble-shooter who was
part of the research team that investigated the failure: "GE
learned a hard lesson: Don't cut corners on the testing."
   Blunders were committed at practically every level. In
designing the compressor, engineers made some bad assumptions
and then failed to ask the right questions. Managers, eager
to cut costs, forced the engineers to accelerate "life
testing" of the compressor, curtailed field testing and
rushed into production.
   Ultimately, the problems stemmed from poor corporate
communication. Several low-level salaried employees at GE --
the technicians who did the actual pre-production testing --
say they suspected that the compressor might be defective and
told their superiors. But senior executives, six levels
removed, heard only good news.
   In retrospect, Richard Burke, the appliance division's
current chief of technology and manufacturing, says he would
have done it differently. "I'd have gone and found the lowest
damn level people we had . . . and just sat down in their
little cubbyholes and asked them `How are things today?' "
   How could such errors be made at GE, widely acclaimed for
its management?
   From the start, GE was under pressure. In the fall of
1981, when the compressor saga began, the appliance
division's market share -- and profits -- were falling.
   What's more, GE was using antiquated methods to make
refrigerators, the core of the appliance group. GE's
compressor plant -- Building 4 in the Appliance Park complex
that employs 12,300 in Louisville -- was relying on 1950s
technology and lots of manpower. Making a single piston took
220 steps. Even simple grinding operations were done by hand.
GE took 65 minutes of labor to make a compressor. Rivals in
Japan and Italy made theirs in just 25 minutes and, because
of lower labor rates, at half the cost.
   Ira C. Magaziner, a Providence, R.I., consultant brought
in for advice, handed down a somber verdict: either buy
compressors abroad or find a way to build better ones. (Mr.
Magaziner's findings are recounted in his 1989 management
book, "The Silent War," which praised GE's efforts to build
the new compressor.)
   After a fierce internal debate, appliance-division
executives decided to build their own. On Sept. 1, 1983, Mr.
Schipke and two senior engineers flew to Connecticut to sell
the idea to GE Chairman Jack Welch. (Mr. Welch declined to be
interviewed.) The division executives proposed that GE commit
$120 million to build a factory in Columbia, Tenn., about 50
miles south of Nashville. The factory would make a newly
designed compressor -- the rotary -- a technology that GE had
invented but used only in air conditioners.
   "We told them it wasn't a moonshot. We knew how to make
rotaries. We'd made 12 million of them in air conditioners,"
Mr. Schipke recalls. Mr. Welch agreed. So did directors at
GE's next board meeting.
   In reality, though, the rotary was a moonshot in
refrigerators. At first glance, the new design seemed ideal.
It weighed less and was more energy-efficient than
old-fashioned reciprocating compressors, which had three
times as many parts. The new design and new factory would
halve GE's compressor-production costs.
   But Peter Davey, a former chief design engineer for
refrigerators, cites "a whole lot of reasons you don't go
into a rotary compressor fast." Mr. Davey, who retired in
1981, and others had long argued that rotaries weren't good
in refrigerators.
   Rotaries run hotter than traditional compressors. That
isn't a problem in most air conditioners; fast-flowing
coolant cools the compressor. But in a refrigerator, which
typically runs four times as many hours as an air conditioner
in a year's time, coolant flows one-tenth as fast. And
excessive heat can kill a compressor.
   Even in air conditioners, moreover, rotaries aren't
perfect. Introduced in 1957, they initially caused trouble.
Gradually, the bugs were worked out. But in the mid-1970s, GE
had to abandon rotaries in its big air conditioners. The
compressors broke down in hot climates; failures in Saudi
Arabia and Arizona eventually persuaded management to return
to reciprocating compressors in the big units.
   Despite these portents, GE's refrigerator managers and
engineers were fixated on other issues. One was noise.
Fearful that the rotary's high-pitched whine would spook
consumers, executives argued over ways to mask it. Managers
and consumer test panels spent hours listening to the new
refrigerators.
   Another time-consuming issue concerned manufacturing. The
new design required the key parts to work together at a
friction point of fifty-millionths of an inch -- about
one-hundredth the width of a human hair. Nothing had ever
been mass produced at such an extreme tolerance.
   The manufacturing engineers, led by Tom Blunt, felt sure
they could do it. But they needed a little help -- and the
design engineers, working across the hall, provided it. The
compressor that GE ultimately manufactured was nearly
identical to the rotary used in air conditioners. There was
one change, though, and it turned out to be disastrous.
   Two small parts inside the compressor were made out of a
new material, powdered metal, rather than the hardened steel
and cast iron in air conditioners. Powdered metal -- made by
fusing a fine powder into solid metal through pressure --
pleased two groups: manufacturing engineers, because it would
be more easily machined to extreme tolerance, and managers,
because it cut machining costs.
   However, powdered metal had been tried a decade earlier in
air conditioners and "didn't hold up," says Burr Stanton, an
evaluation engineer who supervised tests on it in the early
1970s. He and others say that information was passed on to
the design engineers. But they didn't listen, he says. "The
guys who were designing it were new to compressors. They
figured they were smarter and thought it wouldn't happen to
them," Mr. Stanton explains.
   The engineers who did the actual design were assembled by
the appliance division's chief design engineer, John
Truscott. Before coming to Louisville, Mr. Truscott was
considered one of GE's top technologists; he had been, for
example, on an aerospace team involved in the breaking of the
sound barrier.
   Now, he and the engineers on his team believed, GE would
show that it still could be a world leader in manufacturing.
But, like him, his engineers were new to compressors. "John
figured you didn't need previous compressor-design experience
to design a new compressor," one associate says. Mr.
Truscott, who retired last year, declined to be interviewed.
   Moreover, the team he assembled was convinced that it
didn't need outside help. Mr. Magaziner, the consultant, had
recommended that the design be joint-ventured with a Japanese
producer that already had a refrigerator rotary on the
market. Mr. Truscott rejected that idea.
   The team also rejected help from Milton Kosfeld, who, as a
GE design engineer in the 1950s, had invented the rotary for
air conditioners. He left GE in 1969, but in 1983, before
joining his present employer, Bristol Compressors of Bristol,
Va., he offered his consulting services to the design team.
They declined, writing him that "they had sufficient
technical expertise," he says.
   Limited testing of a compressor prototype began in 1982.
Within a year of getting the board's final go-ahead in
September 1983, the evaluation engineers had "life tested"
about 600 compressors. In the fall of 1984, when 20 senior
executives met to review the test data, there wasn't a single
documented failure. "It looked too good to be true," recalls
James Lehman, a finance official who attended the meeting.
   It was. If they had known what some technicians knew, they
wouldn't have been so sanguine. Though the compressors hadn't
failed, they didn't look right, either, according to one of
the technicians, Paul Schank. He had worked in the Louisville
testing lab for more than 30 years -- and knew compressors.
After running the compressors continuously for about two
months -- under temperatures and pressures supposedly
simulating five years' operating life -- Mr. Schank would
disassemble them and inspect the parts.
   About 15% of them, he says, were suspect: Copper windings
on the motor were discolored, a sign of excessive heat.
Bearing surfaces appeared worn. And some small parts had a
black, oily crust -- evidence, he thought, that high heat was
breaking down the sealed lubricating oil.
   Mr. Schank's direct supervisors -- a total of four in
three years -- discounted the findings and apparently didn't
relay them up the chain of command. They believed in the
basic air-conditioner design and thought the tests far
exceeded field conditions. But Mr. Schank contends that the
supervisors didn't have the proper technical background to
ask the right questions and didn't want to do anything that
might derail so big a project.
   `The bottom line was that GE would save massive sums of
money on each new compressor, and, if they brought the
project in on schedule, they'd look like heroes," he says.
Adds Robert Derman, who worked with Mr. Schank: "The pressure
to get this project done was enormous. It was an awfully big
task, and there just wasn't enough time to do it right."
   Others involved in the project dispute that, but nearly
all agree that the pressure to produce influenced the test
results. Although GE offered a five-year warranty on the
refrigerator's cooling system, it couldn't wait for five
years of testing. But "life testing" -- simulating harsh
conditions -- can be a tricky guide to a new product's future
reliability. In the past, GE had always supplemented such
estimates with extensive field testing. This time, field
testing was curtailed. The original plan, to put models in
the field for two years, was revised to about nine months as
managers raced to keep up with their schedules.
   "Nobody liked the idea that we weren't getting the proper
field exposure," one engineer says. "But it would have taken
a lot of courage to tell Welch that we had slipped off
schedule."
   Meanwhile Mr. Stanton, the retired engineer, was hired as
a consultant to evaluate the testing. He considered the tests
suspect, he says, because only one compressor had failed in
two years -- an extraordinarily low number. He says he
recommended to a management committee that the test
conditions be intensified. But "they didn't want to embark on
a new program at that point," he says.
   In the end, the schedule was met. By March 1986, some 2
1/2 years after board approval, the Tennessee factory was
turning out rotary compressors at a rate of one every six
seconds, an amazing feat given the manufacturing tolerances.
Later that year, Mr. Blunt, the chief manufacturing engineer,
passed out coffee mugs to hundreds of Louisville colleagues
to commemorate production of the 1,000,000th compressor.
   Consumers, too, were pleased. They snapped up the new
models, which featured other innovations, such as a
refreshment center in the door. In 1986, GE's market share in
refrigerators shot up two full percentage points to about
30%, its best showing in years.
   But in July 1987, a bad omen: The first refrigerator -- in
an unventilated closet in Philadelphia -- failed after little
more than one year. At first, executives thought it was a
fluke. Then, they got reports of failures in Puerto Rico. A
team of technicians investigated. By Labor Day, Louisville
knew it had a big problem. Over the next few months, as the
toll of failed refrigerators mounted, GE engineers worked
furiously, often through the night, trying to diagnose the
malady.
   By December, they still lacked satisfactory answers. So,
Mr. Schipke, then the appliance-division chief, pulled the
plug on the new compressor. The news, one manufacturing
engineer says, literally made him sick. "How do you think the
engineers at Thiokol felt when the Challenger blew up?" he
asks.
   GE scoured the globe for compressors. They weren't easy to
find. Ultimately, GE had to persuade one U.S. manufacturer
that had quit the business, Tecumseh Products Co., to get
back into it. And it provided Tecumseh with GE-built motors,
airlifted from Singapore. GE also had to fly Japanese
compressors to Louisville.
   Perhaps just as disheartening, the new factory worked
fine. Only the design had failed. By the summer of 1988, the
team investigating the failure rendered its verdict: The two
powdered-metal parts were wearing excessively, burning up the
oil and eventually choking off all cold air to the
refrigerator.
   With the problem identified, managers acted swiftly to
correct it and, in the process, sidestepped a potentially
devastating blow to GE's refrigerator business. Buyers of the
refrigerators -- some units cost $2,000 -- were made whole;
the compressors were replaced, usually even before the
customers knew anything was wrong.
   So far, the company says, not a single lawsuit has been
filed against it. In fact, GE's U.S. market share in
refrigerators rose during the 1980s, according to Appliance
magazine, as the company widened its lead over No. 2
Whirlpool. The Tennessee factory was kept running, though at
half its rated capacity, through a contract to supply Fedders
Corp. with air-conditioning compressors.
   Meanwhile, GE has redesigned the compressor, abandoned
powdered-metal parts and developed new lubricants. It also
changed its testing procedures. GE says it plans to bring the
new compressor back into limited production this fall.
   The man now in the hot seat, division engineering manager
Mark Schreck, says he's "absolutely convinced we've got a
high quality compressor. Wouldn't you be in my
circumstances?"
   ---
             The Saga of the Rotary Compressor
                                                                                                       

   FALL 1981: GE appliance division in Louisville, Ky.,
   hires consultant Ira Magaziner to investigate its
   refrigerator business.
                                                                                                       

   MAY '82: Chief design engineer John Truscott assembles
   team to design a new compressor, the rotary.
                                                                                                       

   SEPT '83: Mr. Truscott, fellow engineer Tom Blunt and
   divison head Roger Schipke present idea to GE Chairman

   factory.
                                                                                                       

   FALL '84: Twenty top executives convene for meeting; they
   review test data and, finding no failures, authorize
   production.
                                                                                                       

   MARCH '86: Full-scale production starts.
                                                                                                       

   JULY '87: First failure in Philadelphia.
                                                                                                       

   DEC. '87: Mr. Schipke announces decision to drop the
   compressor and use purchased units, mostly foreign made.
                                                                                                       

   JAN. '88: Changeover to purchased compressors begins.
                                                                                                       

   SUMMER '88: Investigators figure out the cause of the
   problem.
                                                                                                       

   MARCH '89: GE reveals $450 million pretax charge for
   fixing the compressor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Machinists Union,
   McDonnell Douglas
   Reach Agreement
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   MD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Machinists members at McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s St. Louis
operations approved a three-year contract yesterday after the
company and the union reached agreement during a marathon,
11th-hour bargaining session.
   As of last Thursday, the Machinists' negotiating committee
had rejected what was described as the aerospace concern's
final offer, and the rank and file seemed to be clamoring for
a strike. But, at the urging of McDonnell Douglas, the two
sides returned to the bargaining table at 10 o'clock Friday
morning and stayed there until 3 a.m. Saturday, when a new
accord was reached.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've been through a tough round of negotiations, but it
all paid off," said Vince DeBlaze, the company's top official
for the labor talks.
   The membership ratified the contract, which features
improvements in both wages and benefits over the earlier
proposal, by 69%. It covers about 11,000 workers at McDonnell
Douglas's jet-fighter plant, and another 1,000 employees at
the company's missile factory.
   The biggest concession that the union wrested during the
weekend was the ability to fold wage gains and cost-of-living
adjustments into the base salary of those workers who are at
the bottom of the scale. That means everyone signed to the
contract -- no matter what their experience level -- will
enjoy the full value of the 5.5%, 3% and 3% wage increases
the pact provides. Lump-sum bonuses of 4% will also be given
annually.
   "Bringing up the minimum wage rates significantly improves
the situation for future hires," said Lee Pearson, a
representative of the Machinists' international office. He
added, for example, that if the company hadn't succumbed on
the wage and COLA issue, a newly recruited hydraulic press
and hammer operator could have made $13.36 an hour. Now, that
person will be entitled to at least $15.75 an hour.
   The union also captured better health benefits for its
retirees, including prescription-drug cards.
   "We drained about as much financial blood as we could,"
said Cassell Williams, president of Machinists District Lodge
837. He added that he thought McDonnell Douglas couldn't
afford a walkout given the company's "weak financial
position" and the uncertain outlook for defense contractors.
   At the fighter plant, McDonnell Douglas assembles F-15
Eagles for the Air Force, F/A-18 Hornets for the Navy and
AV8-B Harriers for the Marine Corps. The White House and
members of Congress are eyeing all of these projects as
possible targets for termination, given the improvement in
East-West relations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bowne to Buy Some Assets
   Of Sorg Inc. for $6 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5J
</SO>
<CO>
   BNE SRG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bowne &amp; Co. said it reached a definitive
agreement to purchase certain assets of Sorg Inc. for $6
million, including the Sorg name and trademark and printing
equipment.
   Sorg, a New York-based financial printer, has been
operating with protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of
the federal Bankruptcy Code since August. The agreement is
subject to approval of the bankruptcy court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bowne, another financial printer, said it will employ a
dozen members of Sorg's New York management and sales staff.
The company said press equipment included in the purchase
will give Bowne extra capacity to handle work in process from
Sorg's New York facility, and it will allow Bowne to retire
some of its older equipment. The agreement doesn't include
Sorg's real estate, Chicago office and various other assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   IG Metall Union Gains
   Raise, Bonus for Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West Germany's status as Europe's high-cost
production site was garnished Friday when management was
backed into a pact giving more money to 3.7 million
metalworkers -- for less work.
   Negotiators for the IG Metall metalworkers union and
employers in the bellwether district of Stuttgart settled on
a reduction of the official workweek in stages by two hours
to 35 hours by 1995. Metalworkers also will receive a 6% wage
increase effective from April 1, plus a one-time bonus of 240
marks ($142.64) for each of the 700,000 workers in the
region's metalworking, automotive and computer industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Representatives from the national organizations of the
union and management later agreed to the basic terms of the
Stuttgart agreement, assuring its adoption nationwide after
other regional negotiators had been awaiting the outcome.
   IG Metall, after staging a series of warning strikes last
week, scheduled more work stoppages in the other districts
for today to force quick replica agreements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Xylogics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XLGX WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   XYLOGICS INC. (Burlington, Mass.) -- This maker of
computer disks and tape controllers said that Peter Savage,
president and chief operating officer, resigned. Bruce
Bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, will become
president. Mr. Bergman said that Mr. Savage's resignation
reflects streamlining in the face of a shrinking revenue
base. Mr. Savage will remain a consultant to Xylogics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Risks Are Seen
   If Milken Testifies
   Before Congress
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9E
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Richard Breeden said that any congressional testimony by
Michael Milken before the former financier's legal settlement
becomes final could introduce "complications into the case."
   Last week, a House subcommittee voted to offer immunity to
the former Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. head of junk-bond
operations in return for his testimony. A spokesman for Mr.
Milken has said the financier would testify before Congress
if he is granted immunity. The vote now goes to the full
House Energy and Commerce Committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But at a news briefing, Mr. Breeden said, "If you had
immunized testimony before . . . the plea agreement becomes
irrevocable on the day of the settlement, it does create the
potential for introducing complications into the case."
   He also said that the agency would "work with Congress to
make sure they understand the status of the case." He didn't
elaborate.
   Mr. Milken, whose settlement is scheduled to become final
on Oct. 1, pleaded guilty to six violations of federal
securities laws and agreed to pay penalties and restitution
of $600 million.
   Separately, SEC enforcement chief William McLucas said he
doesn't expect completed settlements to be reopened in the
wake of a U.S. appeals court ruling that overturned the
insider-trading conviction of former Gruntal &amp; Co. broker
Robert Chestman. That decision last Wednesday attacked the
underpinnings of many SEC insider-trading cases.
   "You make a settlement and you live with it," Mr. McLucas
said, adding that the agency is "not happy" with the
decision. Chairman Breeden declined to say whether the agency
would appeal.
   Mr. Breeden also said he will tell the Senate Agriculture
Committee tomorrow that he supports a three-pronged strategy
for changing the "very real problems" of split regulation in
the stock and futures markets. The SEC regulates stocks and
options and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission oversees
stock-index futures, a hedging product that allows investors
to bet on the movement of a basket of stocks without buying
the actual shares.
   Mr. Breeden said he will support switching stock-index
futures to the SEC's purview. In addition, he proposed
putting a single government agency in charge of both stock
and futures margins, or the good faith money needed to make a
trade; currently, the Federal Reserve sets margin
requirements for stock, and commodity exchanges set them for
futures.
   The SEC chairman also said he favors ending a provision in
the Commodity Exchange Act that allows products with futures
elements to be traded only on futures exchanges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alleghany Holders Defeat
   Plan for Takeover Defense
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   Y
</CO>
<LP>
   YORK -- Alleghany Corp. shareholders defeated a proposal
to extend one of the financial-services company's defenses
against hostile takeovers.
   The plan, which was part of the company's articles of
incorporation, allowed any holder of more than 15% of
Alleghany to cast only 0.10 vote for each share over 15% and
to cast no more than 20% of the voting power, no matter how
big the holder's stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chairman F.M. Kirby, favored the plan; his brother, Allan
P. Kirby, a director, led the fight against it.
   Holders of 2,885,128 shares voted against the plan,
2,527,674 shares voted in favor and 279,947 shares abstained.
Holders of 88% of Alleghany's shares outstanding voted. A
majority of the roughly 6,400,000 shares outstanding was
needed to extend the plan.
   F.M. Kirby said the shareholder vote "speaks for itself."
Allan Kirby said the tally was a "clear rejection of the
proposal" and reflected "reasonably broad agreement among
shareholders" about his position on the matter.
   Allan Kirby had argued that keeping the restriction could
limit the company's market value and insulate directors and
senior management from "accountability to all stockholders."
Alleghany's managers sought to extend the plan to help them
"deal with an active takeover environment in general and with
its possible disruptive consequences."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Government of Norway
   Unveils Tax-Overhaul Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Norway's minority government outlined a
sweeping overhaul of personal income and corporate taxation
to bring the country's tax codes in line more with those of
other industrial nations.
   Finance Ministry officials said the proposals, submitted
to the Storting, or parliament, as a so-called white paper,
are modeled on tax reform adopted by the U.S. and U.K. during
the mid-1980s. Nominal tax rates would be slashed for both
individuals and companies, but the revenue base broadened
through elimination of many current deductions and other
loopholes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government was intentionally vague about future tax
rates, pending upcoming hearings by Parliament. But the top
rate for personal taxation likely would decline to between
45% and 50% from 59% currently, government officials
suggested.
   Norway's corporate tax could be halved from the current
50.8%, but the actual change in companies' tax bills would be
far less drastic. Generous deductions under the present
system ensure that virtually no Norwegian company pays the
official tax rate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hughes Aircraft Says Suit
   Over Charges Was Dropped
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Hughes Aircraft Co. said a former Defense
Department official dropped a $360 million whistleblower suit
against the company after the government declined to
participate in the case.
   Patrick M. Kelley, who was in charge of overseeing
contracts at the aerospace company's Ground Systems Group,
had alleged that between 1983 and 1989 Hughes mischarged
certain labor costs and submitted false claims against the
government totaling $70 million. Hughes said the Justice
Department filed papers dismissing the suit in federal court
here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An attorney for Mr. Kelley said the case was under seal
and referred calls to the Justice Department, where a
spokesman declined comment. Hughes said in a statement that
all its costs were proper.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Whittle Hires Turner Aide
   As Chairman of New Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TBSA TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Whittle Communications L.P. hired the top
sales executive of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. to serve
as chairman of a new unit that includes the classroom news
service Channel One.
   Knoxville, Tenn.-based Whittle said Farrell Reynolds will
serve as chairman and chief executive officer of Whittle
Educational Network. Mr. Reynolds, a 10-year veteran of
Turner Broadcasting, had overseen all ad sales for Turner
cable networks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new unit includes all of Whittle's properties, such as
magazines, advertiser-supported wall posters and television
programs, aimed at U.S. schools.
   The unit's largest property is Channel One, the daily TV
news show for high school students; the show, which includes
commercials, began airing in March.
   Educators have called Channel One blatant
commercialization of public education. So far, 3,600 schools
in 38 states have signed contracts to air the 12-minute daily
program. Turner competes against Channel One with "CNN
Newsroom," a free 15-minute daily news program without ads.
   Christopher Whittle, chairman of Whittle Communications,
50%-owned by Time Warner Inc., said that the new unit plans
to create more TV channels in the next three years and that
some services may be expanded overseas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   North and South Yemen
   Reach Currency Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANAA, North Yemen -- North and South Yemen announced
Friday that their separate currencies will be accepted in
each country, starting immediately.
   The decision, adopted at a meeting of prime ministers
Abdel-Aziz Abdel-Ghani of the North and Yassine Saeed No'man
of the South, is part of the speedy steps the two countries
are taking as they move toward merger.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger, initially planned by the end of November, is
expected to be advanced by six months and proclaimed on May
26, when the parliamentary bodies of the two countries hold a
joint meeting in the South Yemeni capital of Aden.
   South Yemen's currency is the dinar, equivalent to 0.343
of a U.S. dollar, and North Yemen's is the rial, with 12
rials to the dollar.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Broadcast Union Rejects
   `Final' Offer From NBC
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The National Association of Broadcast
Employees and Technicians voted overwhelmingly to reject the
"final" contract proposal from National Broadcasting Co., a
unit of General Electric Co.
   An NBC spokeswoman said the next step will be to listen to
what NABET wants changed in the final contract. However, one
official said, "we're not changing our position that much
because this was our final offer."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NABET, which represents about 2,500 technicians, writers
and producers, has been working without a contract since
March 31. In 1987, NABET went on strike against NBC for 17
weeks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Gibson Greetings Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GIBG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GIBSON GREETINGS Inc. (Cincinnati) -- Albert R. Pezzillo,
senior vice president of American Home Products Corp., and
Burton B. Staniar, chairman and chief executive officer of
Westinghouse Broadcasting Co., a unit of Westinghouse
Electric Corp., were elected directors of this producer of
greeting cards, gift wrap and related products. They fill
vacancies created by retirements from the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Navy Aide Pleads Guilty
   In Pentagon Bribery Case
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   LIT UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Former Navy acquisition official George
Stone pleaded guilty to conspiracy and another charge
stemming from the nationwide investigation of Pentagon
bribery and influence-peddling.
   Mr. Stone, who supervised Marine Corps contracts as a
mid-level civilian official through the late 1980s, was
indicted on broader charges two months ago for helping
subsidiaries of Litton Industries Inc. and United
Technologies Corp. obtain bid-related information. The two
companies haven't been accused of any wrongdoing, but two
defense-industry consultants and three former executives of
United Technologies' Norden Systems subsidiary have been
convicted of conspiring to attempt to illegally secure some
$150 million of Marine Corps business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stone initially fought the charges against him. But
Friday in Alexandria, Va., federal district court, he agreed
to cooperate with the continuing grand jury inquiry and
pleaded guilty to two felony counts. He could face a total of
15 years in jail and a $500,000 fine.
   In documents filed with the guilty plea, prosecutors for
the first time provided details about how Mr. Stone
personally intervened to keep Norden in the competition for a
Marine Corps radar-and-communications contract in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   ServiceMaster Limited Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SVM
</CO>
<LP>
   SERVICEMASTER Limited Partnership (Downers Grove, Ill.) --
Chief Executive Officer and President C. William Pollard was
named to to the additional post of chairman of this
management- and consumer-services concern. Mr. Pollard, 51
years old, succeeds Kenneth T. Wessner, 68, who is retiring
but will remain with the company as vice chairman. Carlos H.
Cantu, 56, formerly executive vice president and chief
operating officer of ServiceMaster's consumer- and
commercial-services division, was named president and chief
operating officer of the business group. Charles W. Stair,
49, formerly executive vice president and chief operating
officer of the management-services division, was named
president and chief operating officer of the division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   London Stocks Close Generally Higher;
   Most Other Markets Also Post Gains
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   London shares closed mostly higher in light trading
Friday, as a better-than-expected performance by Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher's Conservative Party in local
elections prompted a resurgence of market confidence.
   "It's just been a relief that the Conservatives didn't do
as badly as they were expected to do," said one trader.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prices gained on most other world markets. The Tokyo
exchange was closed for a holiday.
   At London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index finished up 27.3 points at 2162.2, its biggest gain in
more than a month. The index hit an intraday high of 2168 and
posted a low of 2146.4 at the opening of official trading.
   At the close, the FT 30-share index was up 20.2 points at
1696.8. Volume was 437.5 million shares, compared with 392.8
million Thursday.
   In the futures market, the June FT-SE 100 stock-index
contract finished at 2189, up from 2166 Thursday.
   Some fresh buying, along with post-election short
covering, bolstered the market's upward momentum, dealers
said. Additionally, a shortage of stock in selected blue
chips helped to exaggerate share price movements somewhat,
they said.
   Expectations among dealers about the market's performance
this week are mixed, with some forecasting that it will hold
current levels and others anticipating that the pre-weekend
rally exhausted the market's upside potential for now.
   Dealers noted that the market's prospects for further
gains may be limited by investor jitters over U.K. inflation
data scheduled for release Friday and concerns that British
interest rates still haven't peaked.
   Privatization stocks were buoyed by the election results,
dealers noted, particularly as the market has been worried
about opinion polls showing growing popularity of the
anti-privatization Labour Party.
   British Gas rose 8 to 202; British Petroleum gained 7 1/2
to 320, and the package of 10 recently privatized water
authorities advanced 35 to #14.08 ($23.13).
   Banking stocks fared well as bears covered short
positions, traders said.
   Barclays jumped 13 to 533; Lloyds rose 14 to 272; Midland
gained 6 to 290; Standard Chartered rose 12 to 489 and
National Westminster added 14 to 333.
   The composite insurance sector was strong as well amid the
general market tone.
   Commercial Union rose 5 to 458; Guardian Royal Exchange
increased 5 to 224; General Accident added 23 to #10.31 and
Royal Insurance climbed 9 to 442.
   Elsewhere, stock prices closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Milan. Prices ended mixed in
Brussels. South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Share prices closed higher in Seoul, Taipei, Singapore and
Wellington; lower in Sydney and little changed in Hong Kong
and Manila.
   In early trading in Tokyo, stocks advanced steadily. The
Nikkei index stood at 30,752.62 at midmorning, up 578.98
points from last Wednesday's close. The market was closed
Thursday and Friday for national holidays.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                               % This
                         May 3       May 2       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .................  309.8       309.0     -  4.7
 Britain ..............  632.5       633.5     - 12.3
 Canada ...............  368.5       367.7     - 14.8
 Japan ................ 1281.6      1281.6     - 22.6
 France ...............  588.1       578.5     +  3.7
 Germany ..............  300.4       294.3     +  5.3
 Hong Kong ............ 2197.7      2204.2     +  4.8
 Switzerland ..........  201.0       198.4     -  9.0
 Australia ............  298.1       297.0     - 10.0
 World index ..........  485.0       483.3     - 14.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Tosco Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TOS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TOSCO Corp. (Santa Monica, Calif.) -- James M. Cleary,
senior vice president of refining, was named president of
Tosco Refining Co., a division. He succeeds John G.
Drosdick., who is resigning. The appointment is effective
June 30. Peter A. Sutton, a vice president, was appointed
senior vice president, succeeding William Floyd, who
resigned. Wilkes McClave, assistant general counsel and
secretary, was named senior vice president and general
counsel, succeeding Eric Schwartz, who resigned. Mr. McClave
continues as corporate secretary. The resignations coincide
with the company's announcement that it plans to move its
corporate offices to the East Bay area of San Francisco
during the fourth quarter. Tosco is an independent oil
refiner engaged in refining and marketing wholesale petroleum
products. It also makes and distributes phosphate-based
fertilizer products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Czechs Seek to Rebuild Tourism Industry
   ---
   Western Investment Is
   Seen as Part of Solution
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4E
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   KARLOVY VARY, Czechoslovakia -- As director of the Hotel
Imperial, an imposing sanitarium in this western Bohemia spa
town, Stanislav Siroky is in what appears to be an ideal
situation.
   "We're booked to the last bed year round," says the
earnest physician, a 20-year veteran of the Imperial.
"Absolutely no marketing has ever been necessary."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Karlovy Vary, called Carlsbad in German, is an elegant
"fin de siecle" resort built along the River Tepla. Its
natural hot springs are said to soothe numerous health
disorders. Located 75 miles from Bayreuth, West Germany,
Karlovy Vary has an airport and a golf course, and is filled
with fanciful architecture. The Imperial sits high above the
town, offering a sweeping view of the soft green hills of
Slovkov Forest.
   But there are a few hitches. "Our prices are loss-making,"
says Dr. Siroky, so the building itself is falling apart.
"Nobody on the staff is very interested in working here," he
adds, so service standards are low and turnover high.
Finally, "the guests are impoverished," he notes. "We want to
change our clientele."
   Dr. Siroky's plight could describe the tourism industry in
all of Czechoslovakia -- and, indeed, throughout the East
Bloc. Tourists are rushing in, but mostly from Socialist
countries whose currencies are nearly worthless. Hotel and
spa managers don't know how to sell their attractions, much
less how to lure lucrative but demanding Western guests.
Employees are surly and discontented.
   For the past 50 years, there has been little investment in
infrastructure, so hotel rooms are in short supply, hotels
themselves are in disrepair, and restaurants, shopping and
amusements are lacking.
   The tourism potential is difficult to gauge. It remains to
be seen whether the countries of the region will be able to
accommodate, feed and entertain masses of Western travelers
in reasonable style.
   In the wake of Czechoslovakia's November revolution, the
new government has passed several laws in the hope of
creating an investment climate in which Western money and
know-how can turn the country's tourism industry into a
hard-currency machine. But the transformation will be
difficult, and the road ahead for Czechoslovak tourism
entrepreneurs and Western investors promises to be bumpy.
   The Hotel Imperial, a 78-year-old property, originally
part of an Anglo-French luxury hotel chain, has since 1945
been reserved exclusively for clients from the Soviet Union.
Moscow owned the hotel from the end of World War II until
1957, when it transferred the 420-bed property to the
Czechoslovak state -- with the proviso that only Soviets
could be treated here, and at fixed rates. The average price
paid by Soviet guests is so low -- 140 Czechoslovak crowns a
day ($4 at the official tourist rate) for room, full board
and treatments -- that Prague has had to spend the equivalent
of $600,000 to $700,000 a year subsidizing the Imperial's
operation.
   Thus, the once grand hotel has fallen into disrepair.
Balconies are closed to guests owing to falling plaster from
the facade. A recent windstorm ripped tiles from the roof,
and water leaks into the attic. Furnishings are early-1960s
style, and a third of the rooms lack a private bath.
   A volunteer team of Karlovy Vary architects and engineers,
working in secret on a renovation plan, estimates it would
cost about $7 million to bring the Imperial up to a minimum
Western standard.
   Down the hill in town, the Grand Hotel Pupp faces some of
the same problems. A hotel has stood on this riverfront site
since 1701, and the current building, an ornate white
confection, dates from 1893.
   The Pupp (which dropped the name, Grand Hotel Moskva, in
January) has entertained a who's who of guests during the
centuries. Beethoven and Paganini conducted in the hotel's
baroque performance hall. King Juan Carlos of Spain held a
family party in the French restaurant. Hollywood luminaries
lodge here during the Karlovy Vary film festival.
   But on a recent day, the place looks run-down, and the
staff doesn't appear to believe in service with a smile. The
380-room hotel is fully booked, but for those lucky enough to
have secured a room there is no hot water or heating today.
   Western companies are sniffing around Karlovy Vary and
elsewhere in Czechoslovakia for investment opportunities. Dr.
   Siroky says a West German company offered to buy the
Imperial for 500 million marks ($295 million). Josef Remes,
the food and beverage manager at the Pupp, says he has had
"quite a few offers" of assistance from Western hotel
companies and investment firms.
   In the municipal office, Jiri Kovarik, the mayor of
Karlovy Vary, welcomes the avalanche of Western interest.
According to the mayor, Swedish, French and Japanese concerns
have written or visited with plans to redevelop the city's
spa complex. One West German company wants to start a
building-repair firm, while another has offered to help
reorganize the Hotel Imperial. Mr. Kovarik says an Israeli
tour operator has promised to send a planeload of spa clients
to Karlovy Vary every day"but we are not yet well equipped
for this," he concedes.
   Ivan Chadima, who currently manages New York's upscale
United Nations Plaza Hotel, and several partners (some of
whom are Czechoslovak-Americans) have started a company
called EuroInvest to negotiate with Western partners on
behalf of the Czechoslovak tourism industry and to search for
Western partners for specific projects. EuroInvest hopes to
land a contract with Karlovy Vary.
   Mr. Chadima, who trained at the hotel school in the spa
Marianske Lazne (Marienbad in German) and worked in Prague
before fleeing to North America in 1968, is leaving his New
York job next month to work full-time for EuroInvest.
   "It will be six to 12 months before deals will be
possible," he says. "But these first deals will be closely
watched," he adds, so they have to be well structured and
beneficial to both parties. Otherwise, investor interest will
sour.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Utahans Leave Restraint at Home,
   Stream North for Forbidden Fruit
   ----
   By Con Psarras
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKLIN, Idaho -- For thousands of hopeful Utahans, La
Tienda is a merchant of dreams.
   Actually, it's a convenience store, and just about the
only retail establishment in this pastoral town of 400 just
north of the Utah border. But besides selling Hostess
Twinkies and pumping gasoline, La Tienda (Spanish for "the
shop") also happens to be the only vendor of Idaho lottery
tickets that's within an easy drive of its more conservative
neighbor to the south.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, when Idaho approved a lottery, it projected
annual revenue of about $25 million. But it hadn't figured on
a gold rush of gambling-starved patrons from Utah, which
doesn't have a lottery. First-year lottery sales have
rocketed to $53 million, an increase fueled largely by the
Utah buying frenzy.
   While the lottery has been a boon to Idaho coffers, some
Utahans have complained that their state is losing valuable
revenue it could easily capture by adopting a lottery of its
own. But past efforts to create a Utah lottery have failed
miserably in the state Legislature, dominated as it is by
members of the conservative Mormon Church, which frowns on
gambling.
   That leaves La Tienda ideally situated. While Idaho
licenses hundreds of lottery-ticket vendors, the store has
emerged as the state's highest-volume dealer, recently
surpassing $1 million in total sales to date of the $1
tickets. Each day, a steady stream of cars clogs the two-lane
highway that connects Franklin with the more populous Utah
town of Logan, about 21 miles away.
   "The customers start coming in at about 11 a.m., and there
is a line" until dark, says Elaine Hobbs, a co-owner of La
Tienda. Lottery business has been so brisk that the store
enlarged its parking lot and opened a special "scratcher
room," where lottery players sit at picnic tables and peel
away the masking on their instant-style tickets in search of
a winner. It also plans to add a lottery service window to
separate buyers of lottery tickets from regular customers,
some of whom have had to suffer hour-long waits just to pay
for snacks or gasoline.
   The inflow of cold cash isn't the first that La Tienda has
enjoyed because of Utah's political realities, which include
restrictive liquor laws. Long before it became a mecca for
Utah lottery players, notes Mrs. Hobbs, it did a brisk
business selling more than 100 varieties of beer -- most of
which aren't available in Utah.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Dynamics to Pay
   $527,000 in Job-Bias Case
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Dynamics Corp. agreed to pay
$527,000 in back pay and salary increases to minority and
women workers as part of a settlement of government job
discrimination charges.
   The Labor Department's contract-compliance office said the
defense contractor's Space Systems division in San Diego
didn't fully carry out its affirmative-action program. The
office identified several practices it alleged to be
discriminatory.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Dynamics agreed to the settlement without
admitting the charges.
   The Space Systems division agreed to extend job
opportunities to black engineering applicants allegedly
screened out of positions, and to give $268,771 in back pay
to 21 black individuals, the compliance office said. The
contractor also reviewed the salaries that it pays to
minorities and women, and raised the pay by $258,590 for 42
minority men and women and 61 non-minority women.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Railroad Emergency Panel
   Is Named to Avert Walkout
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush formed an emergency board to
try to resolve bargaining issues between railroads and rail
unions, heading off the threat of a nationwide strike.
   "The creation of this board . . . is necessary to
forestall the possibility of a crippling nationwide rail
strike," White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said. A rail
strike, besides idling railroad workers and stranding riders,
could cause more than 500,000 layoffs within two weeks in
industries served by railroads, the White House said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The railroads and unions are especially at odds over
health-care costs, the stickiest issue in collective
bargaining in the past two years. The roads want to shift
more of the cost burden to employees, which the unions
oppose.
   Under the Rail Labor Act, an emergency board usually has
30 days to make contract recommendations; afterward, the
railroads may put their own contract terms into effect and
the unions are free to strike. But in this case both sides
have agreed to give the board until Sept. 15. They also say
they won't act until 30 days after the board reports or if
Congress isn't in session. Typically, when the parties have
rejected an emergency board's recommendations, Congress has
averted a long rail strike by putting the recommendations
into effect by statute.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Haverty Furniture Cos.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAVT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HAVERTY FURNITURE Cos. (Atlanta) -- Frank S. McGaughey
Jr., president, was given the added post of chief executive
officer of this furniture company, succeeding Rawson Haverty,
who remains chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CHC OEC DNY SNDT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Auto Depot Inc., initial offering of up to 1,125,000
units, each unit consisting of four class A common shares and
four redeemable class A warrants, via Global America Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Chiles Offshore Corp., initial offering of five million
common shares, via Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and Salomon Brothers.
                                                                                                       

   Ohio Edison Co., shelf offering of up to $200 million of
first mortgage bonds, via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   R.R. Donnelley &amp; Sons Co., shelf offering of up to $500
million of unsecured debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Sungard Data Systems Inc., offering of $60 million of
convertible subordinated debentures, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons
and First Boston Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Weak Employment Data Temper Fears
   On Inflation, Prompt Revised Outlooks
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- April's weak jobs report has taken the wind
out of many economists' sails as well as some of the worry
out of this week's inflation report.
   The April producer price index, due out Friday, is
expected to rise again after two calm months. But concerns
about inflation are being tempered somewhat by last Friday's
employment data, which showed a drop in overall employment
and another significant slump in factory jobs. The figures
immediately prompted economists to begin cooling their
projections for next week's April industrial production and
personal income as the consensus shifted to a lower economic
gear. This week's indicators include March consumer credit
and business inventories plus April retail sales data.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The {jobs} data clearly had a significant impact," said
Charles Lieberman, managing director of financial-markets
research at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp., New York.
Before the report, Mr. Lieberman thought that the economy was
improving at a rate that would stoke inflation. "Now, growth
may be moderate enough that I see no upward pressure on
inflation," he said. However, conditions "aren't sufficiently
moderate" to prompt the Federal Reserve Board to stimulate
the economy through lower interest rates.
   Richard S. Peterson, chief economist at Continental Bank
in Chicago, reluctantly lowered his outlook on April
industrial production to a decline of about 0.2%. He
previously expected a gain of that amount. "And it looks like
personal income won't be so strong either," he added.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Peterson believes that the economy may
yet rebound. For one thing, he thinks employment data is
still being skewed by unseasonal weather. And he believes
some of the lost jobs represent an attempt by manufacturers
to trim labor costs by controlling work-force size through
attrition and other means. "I'm going to look for a
turnaround," he said.
   In the meantime, the consensus calls for at best a flat
reading on April industrial production, according to a survey
taken after the jobs report by MMS International, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Inc., New York.
   The consensus view on April producer prices calls for an
increase of 0.2%, following March's 0.2% drop and February's
flat reading. Several economists noted that much of the
increase is due to a return of higher gasoline prices
following what's turning out to be a surprisingly brief
respite. Next week's data on the consumer price index is
expected to show an increase of 0.3%, according to the MMS
survey.
   A Federal Reserve Board spokeswoman said the consumer
credit data would be released Thursday, rather than today.
The Fed, unlike the Commerce and Labor departments, doesn't
always follow expected release dates. March consumer credit
is once again likely to be dominated by slower auto sales.
The consensus calls for an increase of $3 billion, following
growth of $3.4 billion in February.
   April retail sales, due out Friday, are expected to
rebound following March's 0.6% decline. Easter sales helped
the general retailers in the month, although not as much as
they had hoped. The consensus view calls for a gain of 0.3%.
   The March business inventories report, due out today, is
expected to fall a bit. Stephen S. Roach, economist at Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co., noted that the continued liquidation of
factory stocks should be only partly offset by a resumption
of modest stockpiling at the retail level. Mr. Roach, who
expects a 0.2% drop in inventories, added in his weekly
newsletter that "business remains intent on tight inventory
control."
   POSITIVE SWING: For the first time since January of 1989,
Sindlinger Co.'s monthly tally of positive household
liquidity found that the number of states in its "recession"
column decreased. The Wallingford, Pa., pollster interviews
households around the country about their personal finances
and job prospects. States with fewer than 50% of residents
giving "positive" answers fall into the recession category.
In April, the recession states fell to 35 from 41 in March.
Improvement centered on the Midwest and Northwest.
   ---
                   Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

        Statistics Released in the Week Ended May 4
                                                                                                       

                                                CHANGE
                                               (from prior
                                    TOTAL       period)
                                                                                                       

    Money supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     April 23 (in billions)          $805.6      -$4.8
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     April 23 (in billions)        $3,278.6      +$1.2
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended

                                                                                                       

    New jobless claims
    Week ended April 21             372,000      +6.9%
                                                                                                       

    Unemployment rate
    April, change in
    percentage points                  5.4%      +0.2%
                                                                                                       

    Employment, payroll
    April (in millions)             110,471      -0.1%
                                                                                                       

    Purchasing managers'
    index
    April, change in
    percentage points                 50.2%      +1.4%
                                                                                                       

    Manufacturers' orders
    March (in billions)             $240.37      +3.8%
                                                                                                       

    Farm prices
    April, index                        151      +0.7%
                                                                                                       

    Manufacturers'
    shipments
    March (in billions)             $236.80      +1.1%
                                                                                                       

    Personal income
    March, annual rate
    (in trillions)                   $4.670      +0.8%
                                                                                                       

    Personal consumption
    March, annual rate
    (in trillions)                   $3.656      +0.4%
                                                                                                       

    Savings rate
    March, change in
    percentage points                  5.8%      +0.5%
                                                                                                       

    Leading indicators
    March, index                      145.2      +0.9%
                                                                                                       

    Construction spending
    March, annual rate
    (in billions)                    $432.5      -1.4%
                                                                                                       

             Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

    Consumer credit (Thurs.)
    March
                                                                                                       

    Auto sales (Thurs.)
    April
                                                                                                       

    Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

    New jobless claims (Thurs.)

    Retail sales (Fri.)
    April
                                                                                                       

    Producer price index (Fri.)
    April
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Perpetual Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PFCP
</CO>
<LP>
   VIENNA, Va. -- Perpetual Financial Corp. said it expects
to report a pretax charge of as much as $50 million for its
fiscal second quarter to reflect an additional provision to
its loan-loss reserve and a write-down of foreclosed real
estate.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the thrift holding concern
earned $5 million, or 30 cents a share. The company said it
expects to report results for the latest second quarter,
which ended last Monday, on May 17.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thai Airways Maps Ambitious Growth,
   But Rapid Expansion to Pose Problems
   ----
   By John Berthelsen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4H
</SO>
<CO>
   C.TAC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANGKOK, Thailand -- Thai Airways International may have
trouble keeping up with its ambitious expansion plans,
industry executives say.
   The national flag carrier's fleet is expected to increase
45% to 77 planes by 1995 from 53 planes currently, airline
officials said at a recent marketing conference here. But
executives at the conference said the pace of expansion may
make it difficult for the airline to maintain the quality of
its service and ground operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The growth means coping with hiring and training thousands
of new employees, including hard-to-find mechanics and
pilots, and vastly expanding facilities for aircraft
maintenance and ground handling for passengers and cargo,
Thai International executives said.
   Responding to mounting growth in its passenger traffic,
Thai International plans to invest a total of at least 106
billion baht ($4.08 billion) by 1995, according to Udom
Krisnampok, an executive vice president at the airline. Nor
will fleet growth slow much after that, Mr. Udom said. By the
year 2000, Thai International will grow to 94 aircraft,
including 78 wide-bodied planes, he estimated.
   This year's annual conference was preoccupied with the
airline's acquisition plans through the fiscal year ending
Oct. 1, 1995, and how to finance and administer the growth.
   Mr. Udom said Thai International expects its passenger
traffic to grow an average of 11.7% annually, buoyed by
strong business and tourism growth in Thailand as well as
booming Asia-wide air travel.
   Airline officials say they expect profit to reach 27
billion baht ($1.04 billion)by 1995. In fiscal 1989, Thai
International posted a record pretax profit of 7.42 billion
baht ($285.4 million).
   But the airline faces plenty of problems, some of which
have nothing to do with its growth pains. Jothin
Pamon-Montri, vice president, ground operations, at Thai
International, told the conference that swelling
international traffic at airports all over the world means
inevitable delays unless steps are taken to unclog runways.
   Thai International and other airlines may be forced to
stagger takeoff-and-landing times to more inconvenient hours
-- perhaps into the middle of the night -- because of the
problems, he said. Overall traffic at Bangkok's Don Muang
International Airport increased almost 16% in the year ended
last Oct. 1, Thai International officials said.
   By 1995, Thai International's fleet will include 11 Boeing
Co.-747s and seven 737s of various models, four McDonnell
Douglas Corp. MD-11s, and 25 Airbus Industrie aircraft of
various models. It is also to include five additional as-yet
unspecified 400-seat aircraft, eight additional 300-seat
aircraft, and four additional 100-seat aircraft.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE EUROP MS
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morgan Stanley Mortgage Trust -- $400 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered in seven classes by Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. The offering, Series 34, through a trust
established by Morgan Stanley, is backed by Ginnie Mae 9%
securities, with a weighed average to remaining to term of
maturity of 26.7 years. The classes are "plain vanilla,"
sequential-pay securities.
   UBS Securities Inc. -- $300.25 million of UBS Trust Remic
mortgage securities, offered in 13 classes by UBS Securities
Inc. The offering, Series 4, through a trust established by
UBS Securities, has been structured to yield, where details
are available, from 9.5% to 10.36%. The collateral consists
of Ginnie Mae 9 1/2% securities with a weighted average
remaining term to maturity of 29.75 years.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $250.1 million issue
of Remic mortgage securities, offered in 18 classes by
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. The offering,
Series 173, is backed by Freddie Mac 9% securities, with a
weighted average remaining term to maturity of 29.3 years.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Woolwich Building Society (U.K.) -- 50 million pounds of
15 1/4% Eurobonds, due May 18, 1992, priced at 101 1/8, via
Deutsche Bank Capital Markets.
   Skopbank (Finland) -- 205 Finnish Markka of 14% bonds due
May 21, 1992, priced at 100.90, via Bankers Trust
International.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Life in Soft and Sharp Focus
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   Unlike novels, which can take their sweet time getting to
the point and which sometimes don't even need to have a
point, the best short stories are usually sharply focused and
pared down to essentials.
   That Alice Munro is aware of this as a general rule but
quite simply refuses to subscribe to it is apparent in
"Friend of My Youth" (Knopf, 288 pages, $18.95). Most of the
stories in this collection are chock full of characters and
incidents, set mostly in small towns in western Canada. At
the beginning of "Differently," a woman named Georgia is
criticized by her writing instructor for "Too many things
going on at the same time; also too many people. Think, he
told her. What is the important thing? What do you want us to
pay attention to? Think."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Georgia responds by writing a story that is more to the
instructor's liking, but that she feels is fake. So she
cannot refrain from handing in a long list of everything that
was left out of the story, which provokes the instructor to
say that Georgia expects too much of herself and that she is
wearing him out.
   Although some readers, like myself, will no doubt feel
that the instructor's criticism of Georgia could justly be
applied to this book as a whole, others will understandably
feel that Ms. Munro's considerable storytelling gifts more
than compensate for her self-indulgent attitude toward
excessive detail and overly convoluted plots. For Ms. Munro
writes with such a fine human sympathy and measured control
of language that you are willing to forgive her a lot. No
matter that the stories in this collection tend to wander and
don't always come to significant conclusions. Her characters
are vividly drawn and presented with such tolerance and
understanding of human foibles that you imagine their author
ready to forgive even your occasional desire to skip a
paragraph or two.
   In "Differently," Georgia ends up living with the writing
teacher. But he turns out to be only an anonymous present-day
foil for a voyage that Georgia makes into the past when she
visits the husband of a dead friend. From here we slide back
into the meandering story of a bittersweet love triangle, or
more accurately of a love polygon, full of a complex network
of confidences and betrayals.
   Ms. Munro likes to tuck one story line into another. In
some cases, this works well and the stories enhance each
other. In others, the two stories seem to wander off in their
own directions and drain each other's momentum. In the title
story, for example, we are told about the youthful
experiences of the narrator's mother (whom we see framed by
her final illness) with the Grieveses, a family of austerely
religious farmers. The complementary (and complex)
narratives, juxtaposing the repeated betrayals of Flora
Grieves with the mother's more ordinary, but in a sense
equally tragic fate, don't quite mesh. Moreover, both of
these stories are tinted by a narrative self-consciousness
that gives them a remoteness akin to that of sepia
photographs.
   In "Apples and Oranges," on the other hand, the
interweaving of two life histories works very well. The main
narrative involves Murray and Barbara Zeigler, a likable
couple who lose the small-town department store that Murray
inherited and start up a country resort. Into their history
is enfolded that of Victor Sawicky, a strapping Polish
horse-farmer whom we first meet when he comes to buy a pair
of overalls at the store. As the two parallel narrative lines
eventually converge, the result is at once very tender and
very tough-minded.
   Amy Hempel, by contrast, is a master of the sharply
focused, pared-down and really short short story. In fact,
one of the stories in "At the Gates of the Animal Kingdom"
(Knopf, 160 pages, $17.95) takes up less than a single page.
But Ms. Hempel is able to pack an extraordinary amount of
observation, emotional punch, humor and even profundity into
very small spaces.
   Unlike Ms. Munro, who always gives you solid ground to
stand on, Ms. Hempel likes to spin you around in thin air for
two or three pages and then leave you alone to try and catch
your balance. There are no real "plots" in these elliptical,
no-nonsense stories; most of the time you can only intuit
what is going on.
   One of the great delights of these stories is that they
approach the usual cliches of real life and fiction at an
unexpectedly oblique angle. And they do so with surprising
emotional force. There is no sense here of a sepia or a
rose-colored lens. Everything seems to be happening at the
cutting edge in the peculiarly offbeat and frequently
dissonant rhythms of the here and now. "The Most Girl Part of
You," for example, is a sassy and cynical account of the
narrator's impending loss of virginity to Jack "Big Guy"
Fitch, who with a straight face tells her, "I always give a
woman what she wants -- whether she wants it or not." But at
the end of a bruising description of a violent seduction, the
narrative suddenly changes tone and bursts forth with the
startling and unsettling conclusion "that if it's true your
life flashes past your eyes before you die, then it is also
the truth that your life rushes forth when you are ready to
start to truly be alive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Perkin-Elmer Corp. Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   PKN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- Perkin-Elmer Corp. said it sold a
controlling stake of about 80% in its MRJ Inc. unit to a
group of managers and employees. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The sale of Oakton, Va.-based MRJ, which was part of
Perkin-Elmer's Government Systems business segment, is part
of the company's restructuring program.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Perkin-Elmer makes analytical instruments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Approves Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank and its affiliate, the
International Development Association, approved $455 million
in loans to India, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka.
   India will get two loans, $235 million from the IDA and
$25 million from the World Bank, to improve the training of
engineers, technicians and other workers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In other actions, the IDA approved a $105 million credit
to Bangladesh for electric-power projects, primarily in rural
areas. Sri Lanka will get a $90 million IDA loan to help
stabilize its economy and support broad structural reforms.
   The IDA credits will be interest-free except for
administrative fees; the World Bank loan to India will carry
a variable interest rate, currently 7.75% a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   RJR Hopes Smell
   Of Success Is Sweet
   With New Cigarette
   ---
   `Horizon,' Vanilla Scented,
   Is Company's Second Shot
   At a Less Stinky Smoke
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   A little more than a year after introducing Chelsea, "the
first cigarette that smells good," RJR Nabisco has begun
test-marketing Horizon, "the first cigarette that smells
good."
   The food and tobacco giant, still pushing to design a
cigarette that is less annoying to nonsmokers, hasn't
formally introduced Horizon, but "scratch and sniff"
pamphlets trumpeting the brand arrived on doorsteps in
Atlanta last week. The company has been hawking Chelsea in
other test markets since March 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both Chelsea and Horizon exude a scent similar to vanilla
that RJR marketers think is less objectionable to nonsmokers
than typical cigarette smoke. The brands have slightly
different blends of tobacco, said an RJR spokeswoman, but
they use the same paper to give off the unusual scent.
   RJR has found that Chelsea, targeted at women, is equally
popular among men and women. Horizon, the spokeswoman said,
"gives us an opportunity to test one brand vs. another and to
see whether the {sweetsmelling} attribute itself is what
people are looking for, or whether the image of the brand can
change how smokers feel about it."
   But one marketing executive with another large tobacco
company said the introduction of Horizon suggests that RJR
isn't happy with Chelsea. The executive, who asked not to be
identified, said her company's tally puts Chelsea with a 0.2%
share of the cigarette market in its test areas in
Pennsylvania and Nevada, and a 0.5% share in Florida. Those
numbers, she said, are below what companies normally require
before rolling out a product nationwide.
   RJR declined to comment on the numerical results of its
test-marketing.
   RJR may be running into the same problems that it
encountered when it introduced the heralded Premier
"smokeless cigarette" in test markets in 1988. The $300
million experiment flopped in part because RJR, trying to
find a cigarette or a facsimile to satisfy nonsmokers'
concerns, ignored basic needs of smokers, such as the
cigarette's taste, smell and feel.
   Judging from RJR's pamphlet on Horizon, the new cigarette,
too, is primarily aimed at the concerns of nonsmokers. Large
letters on the three-page fold-out tell smokers: "You
shouldn't have to apologize," "You shouldn't have to make
excuses," and "You shouldn't have to leave the room." The
advertisement goes on to say: "You'll also be pleased to know
that Horizon won't leave your clothes, hair, car and home
smelling like your regular cigarettes."
   Jeffery Wack, a professor of public health at Yale
University and a marketing consultant with Marketing Sciences
Inc. in New Haven, Conn., doubts that nonsmokers will take
any more kindly to aromatic cigarettes than normal varieties,
as long as they contain the same carcinogens. "If the
pollutants are still there but it just smells differently,"
he said, "you don't eliminate the major objection."
   But the RJR spokeswoman said: "We think the concept is
sound enough to warrant tinkering with and coming up with an
alternative brand. If we believed it wasn't, we wouldn't do
it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Payment Delays
   Of Soviets Hurt
   Western Firms
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MITSY J.CIT J.MIB J.NIW DD G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- A number of small Western businesses that
haven't been paid by Soviet foreign trade organizations for
many months are suffering serious financial hardship and some
have filed claims with their export insurers.
   Diplomats and bankers attempting to negotiate settlements
with the Soviets say the problem of payment delays, which
began last year, doesn't seem to be improving. Large sums
have been paid following delays in some instances, but then
new delays occur in others. Several Soviet trading firms have
also asked to reschedule their payments until as late as
1993, leading to speculation that the problem may drag on and
that the organizations still don't have enough money to meet
all their obligations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's a very patchy situation," says Don Brown, commercial
counselor to the British Embassy. "They seem to be making
payments to some at the expense of others."
   At least two British traders are suffering severe hardship
now, says Mr. Brown. Another European economic counselor who
doesn't want his country identified says one company he
represents is also near collapse. And a group of minor West
German concerns that together are owed several hundred
million West German marks have applied to Hermes, the
government's export insurance administrator, for
compensation. A spokesman for Hermes in Hamburg says requests
for compensation have "jumped dramatically" in recent months
and now amounts to a "three-digit figure, in the millions."
   It was also reported last week that several of Japan's
major trading houses, including C. Itoh &amp; Co., Mitsui &amp; Co.,
Mitsubishi Corp. and Nissho Iwai Co., have taken the first
steps to claim export insurance because their Soviet trading
partners had delayed payments.
   The British firms haven't yet filed any claims, but have
made numerous inquiries about how they would recoup losses,
says a spokesman for the Export Credit Guarantee Department.
The spokesman adds that he hopes that embarassment will drive
the Soviets to pay the bills before an avalanche of claims
comes in. Meanwhile, the department is offering advice on how
payments might be negotiated.
   While initially one main trading organization for
chemicals called Soyuzkhimexport was blamed for late
payments, the delays now seem to have spread to many other
industries, including steel, machinery and technology. The
total amount owed has been estimated at at least $500
million.
   Soviet officials blame the delays on chaos resulting from
a decentralization of the foreign trade system. While Soviet
exports and imports used to be a simple and reliable
transaction handled through several government-run trade
organizations, more than 12,000 enterprises now trade
directly with the West. Many of them aren't balancing their
books properly and have depleted the system of currency, the
officials say.
   "I guess they have no money," says Boris O. Kozhevnikov,
director of the law and treaty department at the USSR Chamber
of Commerce and Industry.
   Large delegations of European government officials have
come to Moscow in recent months to negotiate payments and
avoid depleting their export insurance reserves. Later this
month, West German ministers plan to take up the problem at
the Commission for Economic Cooperation, according to
Wolfgang von Lingelsheim-Seibicke, a counselor at the West
German embassy.
   While bigger companies like the chemical concerns Du Pont
Co. and Hoechst AG have been annoyed by the delays and in
some cases have stopped shipping goods until the payments are
made, they haven't felt the effects as severely as smaller
trading firms that have a majority of their business tied up
with the Soviet Union, the diplomats say. Those smaller firms
must pay their suppliers and the lack of payments from the
Soviet side has hurt them badly.
   The officials have declined to identify the companies,
while the companies themselves, saying they feared angering
their Soviet partners, refuse to comment. By discussing the
situation, the companies would risk losing not only payments,
but future business, the officials say.
   ---
   Timothy Aeppel in Bonn and Tim Carrington in London
contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Express
   To Accept Deposits
   From Cardholders
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Express Co. wants more of your money.
   The travel and financial-services giant has a new
"Membership Savings" account, which will pay interest on
deposits made with a cardholder's regular monthly bill. The
interest rate is guaranteed to be higher than the average on
bank money market accounts, and deposits up to $100,000 will
be insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Market research showed that cardholders "really want to
begin saving more," said Sarah M. Nolan, president of the
investment and insurance services group of American Express
Travel Related Services. "They want to have savings made as
easy and habit-forming as spending."
   Under the program, which American Express plans to
introduce in eight states and the District of Columbia this
month and nationwide by the end of the year, cardmembers who
sign up will be billed a specified amount to go into the
savings account each month. To withdraw funds, they can call
a toll-free telephone number to receive a check, or, for a
$10 fee, the money can be wired into a cardholder's bank
account.
   American Express will "make prudent investments" with the
funds deposited, Ms. Nolan said, "nothing different than what
any financial institution would do." She declined to be more
specific.
   Separately, American Express is offering certain
cardholders a line of credit at an interest rate of nine
percentage points over the prime rate. With the prime
currently at 10%, the rate on the line of credit would be
19%.
   "We consider ourselves a broad-based financial
institution," said Ms. Nolan, adding that the two new
products are "attempts to satisfy our cardmembers."
   The line of credit is being offered through American
Express Centurion Bank, based in Wilmington, Del. The savings
account is offerd by American Express Resource Co., an
industrial loan corporation chartered in Utah, which Ms.
Nolan said "meets the regulations and requirements" for FDIC
insurance.
   The interest rate on the savings account is pegged at half
a percentage point more than the average of the 100 largest
banks and thrifts in the nation, as published weekly by Bank
Rate Monitor, a North Palm Beach, Fla.-based newsletter. The
average is now 6.06%, which would mean a 6.56% rate on the
American Express account.
   A number of banks and thrifts, however, are offering more
than 7% on money market accounts, and the average yield on
money market mutual funds is currently just below 8%.
Nevertheless, Ms. Nolan said, American Express expects "an
enthusiastic reception" for the new savings account because
of its convenience and the small minimum deposit of $50.
   Participants in the program can deposit more or less than
the specified amount, or miss a deposit. The account is being
introduced in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Maryland,
Virginia, Georgia, Wisconsin, Ohio, Oregon and in Washington,
D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Let's Face Facts
   About Apartheid
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   I appreciated the article "In Africa, Independence Is Far
Cry From Freedom" by George B.N. Ayittey (editorial page,
March 28). However, the emotional "bleeding heart" hype in
"Troubled Township: South Africa Blacks Speak Freely Now, and
Pressure Pretoria" (page one, April 4) perpetuates the myth
that the Afrikaners and apartheid are the cause of all
social, economic and political discrepancies in Southern
Africa. It was nauseating.
   The world community, and the U.S., has to come to grips
with the phenomenon and effects of international "apartheid"
so that we can, one day, deal more effectively and sensibly
with the separate and very unequal development of nations and
peoples.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Casper H. Badenhorst, M.D.
   Chicago
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   These Boots Were Made for Theorizing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   My own discussions with janitors and other hard-working
laborers regarding the intellectual community have yielded
similar replies to those expressed in "That's No Okie, That's
My Torts Professor" by Brian Timmons (editorial page, April
3). The "common man" is fully aware that direct meddling by
wealthy individuals and even left-wing professors is
sometimes motivated by self-promotion.
   Given the opportunity, the "common man" will inform those
with wealth, power or "educational prestige" that he desires
consistent work with fair pay, a safe work environment,
competent management, adequate health care and a society that
allows his children to fulfill their dreams. With this in
mind, the "left-leaning" academics go to work on theories,
research papers and seminars. It is not the fault of
professors that "these theories are not published for the
common man to read, but to win notoriety, tenure and chaired
professorships from other academics."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We do not expect an engineering professor to publish works
that would enable all readers to build their own cars or
generate their own electricity -- instead, manufacturers and
utilities use the professor's work to provide goods and
services to society. Almost all original work completed in
all fields of academia require interpretation by an
intermediary before the benefits of that work can be
delivered to society. Therefore "left-wing theories
propounded from ivory towers" cannot be delivered directly to
all of society; they must be carried on by intermediaries
such as the media, business and institutional managers and
executives, politicians and bureaucrats.
   Before beginning graduate study at Wright State
University, an acquaintance who had recently finished his
graduate study advised me that I should have some sort of
symbol of sacrifice that would serve as a reminder of my
goals in graduate study. Perhaps the boots worn by the
Harvard Law professor are his personal reminder, not a badge
of leftism.
   Noel Aaron Mckinney
   Graduate Student, Economics
   Kettering, Ohio
   ---
   We applaud Mr. Timmons for his article on left-wing
law-school professors. However, some of his words and phrases
make one fear that he's already been too long in the world of
left-wing professors. Examples: "perceived knowledge and
prestige that emanate from academia"; "leftism that pervades
universities furtively molds"; "putative"; "apologists"; and
the worst of them "redistributionists."
   Let Mr. Timmons not lose his healthy Idaho roots in
"turgid" academia.
   Marc and Jane Rieffel
   Santa Barbara, Calif.
   ---
   Like Mr. Timmons, I went to Harvard Law School from a
blue-collar background. Also like him, my politics are well
to the right of Prof. Duncan Kennedy's. To the limited extent
I bother to follow them, I frequently find Prof. Kennedy's
writings and speeches somewhat silly.
   Apparently unlike Mr. Timmons, however, I always have
thought Prof. Kennedy an excellent teacher in the classroom
and am glad to have had him as a torts professor. Many of his
other former students undoubtedly feel the same. I hope these
perceptions are not drowned out entirely by the shrillness of
Mr. Timmons's admittedly clever attacks.
   David J. Menke
   Harvard Law School 1981
   Cincinnati
   ---
   It is reassuring to me that there are law students such as
Mr. Timmons who will speak out against the hypocrisy of the
many liberal professors at law schools in our country. One
can only hope he will survive the exposure, go on to academic
greatness and have an opportunity to redress the
philosophical imbalance inherent today in so many
universities.
   Charles A. Mink
   Houston
   ---
   Mr. Timmons is hardly on target in insinuating that Prof.
Kennedy would be less of a "zealous redistributionist{s}" if
"educational prestige" -- rather than wealth and economic
advantage -- were the target of reform. To the contrary,
Prof. Kennedy has been a leading critic of the many elitist
aspects of traditional legal education; he is a vigorous
proponent of affirmative action in hiring and admissions, and
he has even proposed randomizing law-school admissions for
qualified candidates. As for pitching in to help "the common
man," we wish Mr. Timmons luck in doing as much for the
nation's elite as Prof. Kennedy has already accomplished on
behalf of the rest of America in his work on welfare and
housing issues for Jamaica Plain legal services office, in
his fund-raising efforts for the union campaigns among
Harvard's technical and clerical workers, and in his
inspiration and support of countless students who've gone on
to serve the public interest. In short, Mr. Timmons will have
to look elsewhere to substantiate his charge that progressive
intellectuals are merely out to win "notoriety and tenure."
   What disturbs us most about Mr. Timmons's enterprise,
however, is his wholehearted embrace of a bitterly divided
America. He claims academics are held in "contempt" by the
"common man," yet reveals his own distaste for the common
life that he says he is "trying desperately to escape." Prof.
Kennedy's job-swapping suggestion for overcoming such
attitudes may be somewhat impractical, but at least he cares
enough to try. By contrast, Mr. Timmons's vision of an
endlessly embittered future reminds us of the comments of one
elderly Harvard janitor at a graduation about a decade ago:
"If these are our future leaders," he remarked, "I'm glad I'm
dying."
   Richard Michael Fischl
   Professor
   University of Miami School of Law
   Coral Gables, Fla.
   Jeremy Paul
   Associate Professor
   University of Connecticut School of Law
   Hartford, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Computer `Hacker'
   Robert Morris Gets
   3 Years Probation
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Robert T. Morris Jr., the computer "hacker" who unleashed
a virus that disrupted a nationwide electronic mail network
in 1988, was sentenced by a federal judge in Syracuse, N.Y.,
to three years probation and a $10,000 fine.
   Judge Howard Munson also ordered Mr. Morris, 25 years old,
to perform 400 hours of community service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Computer experts said the sentence was too light to serve
as much of a deterrent to similar crimes by hackers.
   In January, Mr. Morris was convicted of violating the
federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, under which he could
have been imprisoned for as long as five years and fined as
much as $250,000. The case has been closely watched in the
computer industry because of rising concern about breaches of
computer security.
   "I don't think people in this country are quite ready to
send someone to the slammer" for launching a computer virus,
said Belden Menkus, a computer-security consultant in
Hillsboro, Tenn. "If there had been a theft of funds, a jail
term would have been more likely." Added Clifford Stoll, a
Harvard University astronomer known as an authority on
computer breakins: "I'm not surprised {by the sentence}
because of the nature of what {Mr. Morris} did and the lack
of malice involved."
   During Mr. Morris's trial, his attorney argued that he was
guilty of a mistake rather than a crime. Mr. Morris's virus,
or "worm" program, was designed to spread quietly through
Internet, an electronic mail system used by academic,
corporate and government researchers. But because of a
programming error, Mr. Morris said in his testimony, it
careened out of control. The program sped through thousands
of computers nationwide and disrupted operations at many
computer centers linked by the network.
   Federal prosecutors argued that Mr. Morris was guilty of
more than an innocent prank, noting that he stole computer
passwords and designed his program to be difficult to
eradicate from computers.
   Among computer professionals, "the consensus was that {Mr.
Morris} should have gotten at least a modest amount of jail
time as a deterrent," said Jack Bologna, editor of Computers
and Security magazine in Plymouth, Mich. "Even 90 days would
have been better than nothing at all."
   Mr. Morris plans to appeal his conviction in an attempt to
erase the felony from his record, said Thomas Guidoboni, his
attorney, at a news conference. He added that Mr. Morris
already has had offers from computer-service providers
willing to put him to work to discharge his community-service
requirement. One offer came from a state agency in West
Virginia that wants Mr. Morris to work on computer programs
that help in collecting child-support payments, Mr. Guidoboni
added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thermo Electron Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   TMO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Thermo Electron Corp. said it agreed to
acquire E.M. Lamort S.A., a closely held, French maker of
equipment for recycling paper.
   Thermo declined to disclose terms.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement is subject to approval by regulators in
France and the U.S. and by Thermo's directors.
   Under the agreement, Lamort, which had sales of more than
$35 million last year, would become part of Thermo's Web
Systems subsidiary, which makes equipment for the paper
industry. The two already have some joint-venture activities.
   Thermo Electron makes cogeneration systems,
industrial-process equipment, analytical instruments and
biomedical products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zenkel Ruskin &amp; Schoenfeld
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two Wall Street executives and a former
retailing head formed Zenkel Ruskin &amp; Schoenfeld, a
merchant-banking partnership to serve closely held small and
medium businesses.
   The three partners are Bruce Zenkel, former president of
McKinley Allsopp Capital Holding Inc.; Lester Schoenfeld, a
former managing director of Merrill Lynch & Co.; and M.
Ronald Ruskin, former president of Batus Retail Group, which
supervised the U.S. retail units of B.A.T Industries PLC,
London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We want to provide services not generally available to
smaller companies," says Mr. Ruskin. Such services will
include providing equity capital, strategic financial and
operational advice as well as traditional investment-banking
services.
   The partnership, one of the many boutiques being formed by
former Wall Street executives, also will assist public
companies in divestiture efforts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Auto Makers' Decision
   Is Tragically Wrong
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   As your April 5 article "Ford Settles Big Lap-Belt Injury
Suit" correctly noted, the Institute for Injury Reduction is
predicting that rear lap-belt deaths and injuries could reach
1,200 a year at current rates. In fact, they may have done so
already.
   The important issue is that these injuries could be
largely headed off if auto makers would voluntarily undertake
vigorous programs to retrofit rear-seat lap-and-shoulder
belts into tens of millions of existing cars. That means
offering the belts at cost (no more than $30-to-$40 a car,
installed), advertising them aggressively, and keeping them
in stock at dealers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In both cases described in your article, Miller v. Ford
and McKenna v. GM, the families of the injured people offered
to reduce substantially the amounts of the settlements if the
manufacturers would agree to make an effort voluntarily to
having similar models retrofitted with rear lap-shoulder
belts. Their goal was to save others from these devastating,
largely preventable injuries.
   And in both cases, tragically, the auto companies
declined. They appear to prefer paying money after the
injurious damage has been done to paying the same money in
advance, to prevent the injuries in the first place.
   That is bad public relations for the companies and bad
policy for national health. We can't afford the medical
costs, lost time, pain and grief that lap-belt injuries are
producing -- and in greater volumes as responsible parents
buckle up their youngsters with lap-only belts in the back
seats.
   Benjamin Kelley
   President
   Institute for Injury Reduction
   Dunkirk, Md.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR FORGN FREST MDEST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST GERMAN UNEMPLOYMENT
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   West Germany's unemployment rate fell to its lowest level
in almost eight years, dropping to 7.3% in April from 7.7% in
March and 7.9% in April 1989, the Federal Labor Office said.
The unadjusted number of unemployed fell to 1,914,585 from
2,013,057 in March.
   The April unemployment rate was the lowest since 7.2% in
July 1982. In September and October, the unemployment rate
had also slipped to as low as 7.3%, but it began rising
sharply after that as a steady stream of resettlers from East
Germany turned into a flood.
   "This illustrates that the people coming from the East are
complementing the work force here," said Norbert Walter,
chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. "They're
not taking jobs away from Germans but are instead taking jobs
that Germans aren't mobile enough for or aren't vocationally
qualified for."
                                                                                                       

   WORLD'S AIDS CASES GOING UP
                                                                                                       

   The number of AIDS cases world-wide increased by nearly
17,000 in April over the previous month, the World Health
Organization said. WHO put the cumulative total of officially
reported cases at the end of April at 254,078, compared with
237,110 a month earlier. But the health agency believes the
true global number of AIDS cases to be 600,000, with three to
five million thought to be infected with the AIDS virus.
                                                                                                       

   NOVEL SOVIET TV FARE
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet Union will televise nationwide a Bible cartoon
series aimed mainly at children, a senior official of the
Finnish company supplying the film said. Hannu Haukka of the
religious-broadcasting company Hyva Sanoma said the series
based on the Old and New Testaments would be screened in all
15 Soviet republics for up to 200 million viewers by
agreement with Soviet television authorities. "It will be the
first time children in the Soviet Union have ever experienced
such an exposure to religion," he said.
                                                                                                       

   JORDANIAN EDICT
                                                                                                       

   The Jordanian government announced that men will no longer
be allowed to purchase beauty parlors or hire male
beauticians to work in them. The Interior Ministry order,
which took effect yesterday, doesn't apply to men who already
own such shops or work in them, a ministry official said. The
decision came in response to demands by Islamic
fundamentalists in Jordan's 80-member parliament. The Moslem
Brotherhood, the main Islamic faction, and Islamic
independents hold about three dozen seats.
                                                                                                       

   RELIEVING SPAIN'S CONGESTION
                                                                                                       

   The Spanish government unveiled a mammoth public-works and
transport program intended to alleviate the congestion that
is strangling Spain's major cities and turning highways into
permanent traffic jams. The project involves building
alternate routes around Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Seville
and Malaga by the end of 1992. Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez
said the program's goal is "to bolster the hope that big
cities can be made more livable in a few short years."
                                                                                                       

   CHINA'S FOREIGN DEBT
                                                                                                       

   China's foreign debt stood at $41.30 billion at the end of
last year. The State Administration of Exchange Control said
the debt included $37.03 billion in medium- and long-term
loans and $4.27 billion in short-term loans. Chinese
officials said the debt-service ratio, the principal and
interest to be repaid in a year as compared with total
foreign-exchange earnings, will remain between 15% and 20%.
The internationally recognized danger line is 25%.
                                                                                                       

   MRS. THATCHER BREATHES EASIER
                                                                                                       

   British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, in deep trouble
over the economy and a new local tax, won some breathing
space with her Conservatives' better-than-expected results in
local elections last week.
   Although the Tories suffered major losses in local-council
seats, the outcome fell short of the rout forecast by
pre-election opinion polls. And the Conservatives' victories
in some key London boroughs allowed Mrs. Thatcher to argue
that the controversial new local-government tax at last is
beginning to work.
   The opposition Labor Party fought the election as a
referendum on the flat-rate community charge, or poll tax.
The results make it easier for Mrs. Thatcher to resist calls
for sweeping changes in the new law -- and calls for her own
departure as party leader.
   The outcome gave a boost Friday to government securities,
the pound sterling and the London stock market. Nevertheless,
any respite for the prime minister is likely to be brief as
political attention swings back to the economy. Figures due
to be released this Friday are expected to show that the
annual rate of British inflation rose sharply last month from
its 8.1% level in March.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   American and Canadian citizens no longer need to obtain
Czechoslovak visas for visits of 30 days or less, the
official Czech news agency announced. . . . In the French
city of Nimes, about 15 members of France's bullfighters'
union occupied a chamber at City Hall protesting that
Spaniards were getting too many of the jobs at a coming
bullfight festival. According to the protesters, French
bullfighters were given only two of about 30 jobs at the
festival.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Brands Unit Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9H
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OLD GREENWICH, Conn. -- American Brands Inc. said its Acco
World Corp. office supply unit acquired Hetzel &amp; Co., a maker
of plastic folders, binders and other office accessories.
Terms weren't disclosed.
   Based in Stuttgart, West Germany, Hetzel also has
operations in Switzerland and Belgium. Its 1989 revenue was
$21 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Brands also has tobacco, distilled spirits and
life insurance businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Japan Cautiously Flirts With Geopolitics
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu gave what
the Japanese had billed as a major policy address to India's
Parliament last week, asserting that Japan has decided to
play a larger role in Asian affairs. The message was repeated
at the four other stops on his weeklong Asian tour,
Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and Indonesia. Japan would
use its economic and technological muscle to help build a
"new international order."
   It will come as no particular surprise that this statement
hardly made a ripple in the world press. The world has grown
accustomed to regarding Japan as an economic giant but a
political pygmy. In part, that's because the Japanese have
preferred it that way. Gradually, very gradually, that image
may require alteration. Japan probably will become a larger
player in world politics, whether it wants to or not.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One reason Mr. Kaifu didn't get much attention is that he
has been regarded as a caretaker prime minister. That theory
may have to be revised too. Polls show that his popularity is
rising in Japan, partly because he is identified with Japan's
transition from a single-minded focus on exports to economic
policies designed to give the Japanese more of the fruits of
their labors. His Asian tour was an assertion of
self-confidence that no doubt was directed not only at the
world but also at his elders in the Liberal Democratic Party
(LDP). Up until recently, there had been subtle hints that
his tenure as the LDP's Mr. Clean will end once the party has
put the Recruit scandal well behind it. He would be replaced
with an older hand with a more powerful constituency. But
there are fewer such hints now.
   On the other hand, it can hardly be said that Mr. Kaifu is
throwing his weight around. He promised the Indian
legislators that Japan would never again aspire to military
power. Given Japan's brutal pre-1945 imperialism, such
promises are obligatory for Japanese leaders on state visits
in Asia. Given the catastrophe that militarism brought to
Japan itself -- not to mention the stricture against military
conquest written into its postwar constitution -- it is an
obligatory promise to the Japanese people as well. Because
Japan is viewed as a nation unwilling and unable to use
muscle, it is often counted out of the world's games of
Realpolitik.
   Mr. Kaifu did inject himself into the current
India-Pakistan dispute over Kashmir by urging self-restraint,
a relatively bold intervention in a private dispute for a
Japanese prime minister. But his main message, that Japan
will use its economic and technological power to play a wider
role in world affairs, didn't carry much sex appeal. When
Japan says such things, it often is assumed that it is just
Japan conducting business as usual, offering Third World
countries aid as a means of gaining new trade relationships
and opportunities for direct investment.
   Indeed, the U.S. has put up some resistance -- not all of
it successful -- to Japan's proposals that it should become a
bigger factor in multilateral institutions, such as the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The Japanese
argument is simple. Japan is the country that has the most
money. It has been arguing that it is prepared to offer
foreign aid that has no mercantilist strings attached. But
the U.S., fearful of what Japan might be able to do with all
the dollars it has piled up, remains suspicious of Japan's
ambitions for a larger role in the multilateral banks.
   Such attitudes in the U.S. no doubt helped provoke last
year's much publicized counterattack by Sony Chairman Akio
Morita and right-wing politician Shintaro Ishihara, "The
Japan That Can Say `No.'" But some Japanese say the book gave
a misleading impression of a rise in anti-Americanism in
Japan. Polls indicate that the Japanese people welcomed the
market opening forced on the Japanese government by the U.S.
   Mr. Kaifu was willing to fly to California on short notice
some weeks ago to seal that bargain. Contrary to what some
observers expected, his popularity in Japan rose. Japan also
supported the U.S. in its unwillingness to allow the proposed
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to lend the
Soviet Union amounts in excess of its capital investment.
   More to the point, Japan is in no position to say no to
the U.S. even as it gains more muscle. To be sure, it has
been building its self-defense forces, expanding both its
navy and air force. With the help of U.S. air and naval
forces based in Japan, it now can apply significant military
power to the vital straits that adjoin the seas of Japan and
Okhotsk. Its defense budget is only about one-tenth that of
the U.S., but it is not very far below that of West Germany
and France.
   Yet Japan is well aware of the political dangers in its
part of the world. The major item on its foreign-policy
agenda has for years been its dispute with the Soviet Union
over four islands off Hokkaido that were awarded to the
Soviets at Yalta as a reward for their minimal role in
bringing about Japan's World War II surrender. The Japanese
have a historical claim to the islands and insist that they
will not establish normal relations with the Soviets until
the issue is settled. A much-discussed Gorbachev visit to
Japan has been the subject of political games within Japan
itself as well as with the Soviets. No firm date has
materialized.
   The Soviets, for their part, have become what Mikhail
Gorbachev chose to call a "Pacific power," with large air and
naval forces operating in the region. By U.S. estimates, this
includes two aircraft carriers, 77 major warships, 98
submarines and 1,300 tactical aircraft, not to mention
nuclear forces. Although the Soviets have made a big thing of
their scaling back of Asian forces, the Japanese are
convinced that this has mainly been the replacement of
obsolete equipment with more modern weapons, with an overall
improvement in the quality of forces.
   Because of its uneasy relations with the U.S.S.R., not to
mention other potential sources of trouble such as the
Koreas, the Philippines, Southeast Asia and China, Japan
values its military alliance with the U.S. It also values
U.S. efforts to develop and deploy a missile defense. Indeed,
Japan has some technologies, particularly in the area of
optical scanning and instrumentation, that could make a
contribution to the successful deployment of a spacebased
defense system that would protect not only the U.S. but its
allies as well.
   If the U.S. cuts its military forces in the Far East as
planned, the Japanese may have to play a bigger political
role in the region. It will be an unaccustomed role and not
one the Japanese particularly welcome. Mr. Kaifu was trying
to define its terms last week, but with limited success.
Perhaps it will become clearer in the months ahead.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Uncertainty Over Intentions of Soviets
   On Arms, Germany Clouds Summit Hopes
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- With the Bush-Gorbachev summit only three weeks
away, U.S. officials are concerned that the Soviet leadership
has yet to develop a clear position on the major issues of
arms control and German unity.
   After two days of talks in West Germany with Soviet
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, including the opening
of the six-power negotiations on German unity, Secretary of
State James Baker and his advisers were left with the
impression that Moscow is still wrestling with the issues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the meetings, Mr. Shevardnadze continued to press the
tough positions that first emerged a month ago at a meeting
in Washington. But U.S. officials said there were hints from
the Soviet delegation that these stands aren't necessarily
the final word from Moscow. Mr. Shevardnadze bolstered this
view by going to great lengths in his public appearances to
play down the Soviet opposition to Western proposals.
   "I don't think we should dramatize," he said at a news
conference. "After all, this is quite a normal phenomenon
around a bargaining table."
   The uncertainty about Soviet intentions is frustrating to
Mr. Baker and his aides, who flew here yesterday to assure
Poland's leaders that the German unity talks will respond to
their worries about guaranteeing the German-Polish border.
   Mr. Baker and his aides believe that, until a few weeks
ago, they were closing in on a series of historic accords
that would seal the Soviet retreat from Eastern Europe,
remove major Soviet advantages in nuclear weapons and reunify
Germany on Western terms.
   Now, the secretary of state can't be certain whether he
will find any flexibility in Moscow next week when he flies
there for crucial pre-summit bargaining. "We won't know where
they really stand on things until we get to Moscow," said a
senior State Department official after the Baker-Shevardnadze
meeting. "It may not emerge until Gorbachev sits down at the
summit."
   Mr. Shevardnadze laid out an uncompromising position at
the first meeting of the "two-plus-four" talks in Bonn with
Mr. Baker and the foreign ministers of the two German states,
Britain and France. He told them that the Soviets couldn't
accept a unified Germany as a member of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization with unlimited armed forces. And he
rejected a Western push to bless German unity even before
such issues are resolved.
   Meeting privately with Mr. Baker, the Soviet official also
clung to Moscow's hard line on such arms-control issues as
cruise missiles.
   American officials concede they aren't sure why Moscow has
dug in its heels. They see a possibility that the change is a
late-inning bargaining maneuver or a reflection of the
paralysis in the Soviet leadership caused by the distractions
of the economic and ethnic crises in the U.S.S.R.
   A more pessimistic view that is gaining ground in the
administration is that Moscow may resist further compromises
until the end of an historic Communist Party congress set to
start July 2. The theory is that Mr. Gorbachev may be
unwilling to anger hard-line opponents before the congress
convenes. That would mean that agreements on arms, trade and
other matters, which were expected to be reached at the
summit, could be delayed.
   But the American officials still express confidence that
the Soviets will come around. On Germany, they believe,
Moscow will have to drop objections to unity because the two
Germanys are rapidly merging and the Soviets wouldn't want to
risk losing German economic ties by playing the spoiler.
   On arms control, the administration is pinning its hopes
on unspecified "new ideas" that it is offering the Soviets to
resolve the sticking points. And officials hope that
President Bush's recent decision to abandon new nuclear
weapons in Germany will give Mr. Gorbachev more maneuvering
room with his internal critics.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seattle Starts to Extend Health Benefits
   To Unmarried Partners of City Workers
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4J
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seattle last week began extending health benefits to
unmarried partners of city employees, making it the largest
city in the U.S. to offer such benefits.
   The move might encourage campaigns by civil- and
gay-rights activists to convince other cities and states to
provide such benefits for domestic partners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seattle decided last fall to extend the benefits after its
Human Rights Department ruled that the city was violating its
own anti-discrimination laws by not providing coverage to
unmarried partners. Several other cities and states have
similar laws that civil-rights groups argued should be
interpreted in the same way.
   Seattle's decision also reflects the impact of the repeal
in December of a seemingly unrelated tax law. The law was
meant to prohibit inequitable benefit plans, but because of
the way it defined "family" it would have severely penalized
plans covering unmarried partners. Proponents of
domestic-partner coverage say the tax regulation, known as
Section 89, would have made it unfeasible for any employer to
offer such benefits.
   "The repeal of Section 89 takes away the only serious tax
impediment," said Matthew Coles, a lawyer with the American
Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Northern California. Mr.
Coles is a member of a task force appointed by San
Francisco's mayor to study possible domestic-partner benefits
in that city.
   The law, adopted as part of a tax-revision package in
1988, was to take effect Jan. 1, 1990, but during the budget
process it was repealed for reasons that had nothing to do
with unmarried couples.
   People were "holding their breath" until Section 89 was
dropped, said Evan Wolfson, a lawyer with Lambda Legal
Defense and Education Fund, a gay-rights group based in New
York. Mr. Wolfson said he expects proposals to be introduced
this year to extend health benefits to unmarried partners of
New York City and New York state employees.
   Only West Hollywood, Santa Cruz, and Berkeley, Calif.,
offer some health benefits to domestic partners. Several
private employers provide some health benefits to unmarried
partners; those plans too would have been jeopardized by
Section 89.
   Although domestic-partner benefits would apply to all
workers regardless of their sexual orientation, it is a
particularly strong concern for many gay and lesbian
employees. "Seattle's experience is going to show there's no
reason not to treat all people equally. It's a civil-rights
issue," Mr. Wolfson said. "It's a strong affirmation of what
we have been arguing in New York. This is the right thing to
do and it can be done."
   Plans such as Seattle's don't put unmarried relationships
on equal footing with married couples. The biggest difference
is that, for unmarried partners, the increase in the
employer-paid insurance premium is usually treated as taxable
income for the employee. Seattle is waiting for a ruling from
the Internal Revenue Service on how city employees will be
affected.
   Nearly 200 Seattle employees, or 2% of the work force,
have signed up for the coverage, said Claudia Ellsworth, the
city's employee-services administrator. The city expected 3%
of the work force to sign up. Based on that estimate, it
budgeted about $430,000 to pay for the benefits this year.
   Ms. Ellworth said nearly three-fourths of the enrollees
are part of heterosexual couples. To qualify for the
benefits, city employees have to sign affidavits swearing
that the relationship is exclusive, that the partners aren't
related by blood, that they share household expenses, and
that they "are responsible for each other's common welfare."
Married employees have to sign the same affidavit.
   "The importance of getting domestic-partner benefits is
making society acknowledge that there are people,
particularly gay people, in serious relationships that aren't
defined by marriage," Mr. Coles said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FarWest Financial Posts 1st-Period Loss
   Of $26.2 Million Due to Junk Portfolio
   ----
   By G. Christian Hill
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Belzberg family's FarWest Financial Corp.'s $26.2
million first-quarter loss leaves the big California
thrift-holding company roughly $140 million short of a
federal capital requirement it must satisfy to survive.
   FarWest's loss, disclosed late Friday, is equal to $3.36 a
share. It resulted from a $36 million reduction in the
carrying value of the company's junk-bond portfolio, once one
of the largest among thrifts. The company now has a tangible
capital ratio of slightly more than 1% of assets, nearly $20
million short of the required 1.5%. But more importantly, it
appears to be about $140 million short of meeting a stricter
so-called risk-based capital requirement. In the year-earlier
period, FarWest earned $5.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
FarWest shares closed at $2.125, unchanged.
   Canada's Belzberg family is FarWest's controlling
shareholder; William Belzberg is chairman. Unless the family
provides a capital infusion, FarWest will have difficulty
complying with the capital requirements. The company said it
continues to negotiate a compliance plan with regulators.
Failure to meet capital standards can result in federal
sanctions, including seizure of the institution.
   FarWest is one of about a half-dozen big California
thrifts who have faltered or failed this year because of
diversification either outside California or outside
traditional home mortgage lending. Junk-bond losses are
likely to cause the failure of another big Los Angeles
thrift, Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association.
   FarWest accumulated a junk-bond portfolio of $667 million,
much of it purchased in the 40 days prior to the August 1989
passage of the thrift-rescue legislation. That law required
thrifts to get out of the junk-bond business and, in effect,
carry those bonds at the lower of cost or market value. The
junk-bond market has plummeted since last fall as some highly
leveraged companies failed or sought refinancing. Junk-bond
sales by thrifts have worsened the decline in values.
   FarWest reported a 1989 net loss of $46.1 million, or
$5.90 a share, mostly because of junk-bond write-downs taken
in the fourth quarter. According to data compiled by Miami
thrift analyst Kenneth Thomas, the company sold $274 million
of high-yield, high-risk bonds in the fourth quarter, leaving
it with $393 million of junk bonds. FarWest shrank again in
the first period, to $4 billion in assets from $4.35 billion,
but it didn't say whether the decline resulted from more
junk-bond sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Gets Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN LK GM GMH
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raytheon Co. received a $41.3 million Navy
contract for North Atlantic Treaty Organization Seasparrow
missiles.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lockheed Corp. was awarded a $31.4 million Air Force
contract for C-130H aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Hughes Aircraft Co., a unit of General Motors Corp.,
received a $14 million Navy contract for Phoenix missile
support work.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heilig-Meyers Co. April Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   HMY
</CO>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Heilig-Meyers Co. reported that April
sales rose 7.6%, to $32.2 million, from $29.9 million a year
ago.
   The home furnishings retailer said same-store sales rose
1%. The company currently operates 306 stores in 12 states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IRS Retains Tax Restrictions on Bonds
   That Could Be Freely Converted Abroad
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Internal Revenue Service retained a tax
restriction that some investors believe hinders recent steps
to open the global capital markets.
   The IRS said Friday that "because of general tax
compliance concerns," it won't allow a special type of bond
that could be freely converted between the different types of
debt sold in the U.S. and overseas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. tax law requires that bonds issued to U.S. investors
be registered in the name of the owner. That way, the tax
authorities can tell who is receiving the interest income.
But foreign debt markets deal primarily in paper known as
bearer bonds, which don't carry the name of the owner.
   In light of recent securities-law changes intended to
facilitate the free international trade of securities, the
tax agency had been considering allowing bonds that could be
converted from one form to another, so U.S. investors could
resell their debt to a wider secondary market.
   James Duncan, a partner at the law firm Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen &amp; Hamilton in New York, called the IRS's decision not
to permit the new bond "a lost opportunity."
   "The continuing inability to offer securities within the
United States that are genuinely fungible with the same
securities offered outside the United States limits the
opportunities available to issuers," he said. "It restricts
the ability to make a genuinely global offering of debt
securities."
   Esta Stecher, a tax attorney at the law firm Sullivan &amp;
Cromwell in New York, said, "It really would be consistent
with the SEC's policy in globalizing the capital markets to
allow registered-form securities to be resold outside the
U.S. in bearer form."
   The IRS position on the convertible bonds was contained in
the preamble to a set of regulations covering the issuing of
bearer debt to investors outside the U.S.
   Attorneys said the regulations sever a longstanding link
between securities law and tax law covering international
capital market offerings. Generally in the past, if a deal
was found to satisfy the requirements of securities law, it
was acceptable to the tax authorities, too. These regulations
remove that so-called safe harbor.
   The securities and tax regulations, for example, now
differ in their definition of "U.S. person." Therefore, the
securities and tax laws have different rules for who can buy
bearer bonds.
   In the preamble, the IRS wrote, "These final regulations
are separate and independent from the rules and
interpretations that the SEC chooses to adopt in its
administration of the securities laws."
   While promising to consider the SEC's interpretations
"where appropriate," the IRS said it "must ultimately base"
its own interpretations on "the tax policies" underlying the
law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Aerosol Alternatives
   Rush Into the Market
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   SPURRED ON by environmental worries, the aerosol industry
is looking for new ways to dispense from a can.
   Ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons are banned from most
of the three billion aerosol cans sold each year in the U.S.
But many aerosols still are propelled by propane or other
hydrocarbons, which contribute to smog.
   Some newer manufacturers opt for pumps and other
mechanical solutions. Enviro-Spray Systems, a division of CLC
Technologies Inc. of Toronto, inserts a flexible pouch into
its aerosol can. The pouch contains citric acid and sodium
bicarbonate in separate inner compartments, which are
ruptured just before the can is filled with product. Mixed,
they form carbon dioxide, which expands the pouch and later
forces out the contents.
   Ultramotive Corp. of Bethel, Vt., develops a piston to
push the product out while preventing the compressed air
below from seeping around the piston and mixing with the
contents.
   The solution at Exxel Container Inc. of Somerset, N.J., is
to insert a flexible plastic bottle, surrounded with a rubber
sleeve, into the container. The sleeve expands when the inner
bottle is filled and contracts, forcing out product, when the
consumer pushes the valve.
   But William Gregg, a vice president at Precision Valve Co.
in Yonkers, N.Y., says mechanicals are much costlier and
produce a coarser spray than traditional aerosols.
   Instead, Precision and other makers of traditional
aerosols are turning in two directions. One is toward carbon
dioxide and other compressed gases. Those produce a fine
spray but have uneven pressure. Summit Packaging Systems of
Manchester, N.H., says it can even out the pressure with a
tiny laser-drilled hole in the valve body.
   The aerosol majors are also working on liquefied gases
such as hydrofluorocarbons, which don't hurt the ozone layer
or cause smog. "HFCs are the wave of the future," says Mike
SanGiovanni, editor of Aerosol Age, a trade journal.
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese Tile Sounds
   Good, Except for Price
                                                                                                       

   AFTER FLOPPING in an earlier run, a Japanese made
acoustical tile is trying again to win U.S. fans.
   Almute is a thin sheet of "sintered" aluminum, that is,
powders bonded together under high temperatures. It's 40% air
and sends back only 10% of the sound that hits it. Peer
International Corp. of Wheeling, Ill., its new importer, says
the tiles are better looking and more effective than
conventional mass-market acoustical materials -- fiberglass
and mineral fiber.
   Made by NDC Co. of Japan, Almute sold poorly when first
introduced in the U.S. a decade ago under the name Calme.
Peer International thinks Almute will have a better chance
this time, partly because the material has since proven
itself in Japan, where it's been used in Hiroshima's city
hall, Nissan Motor headquarters, theaters and even the koala
room at a zoo.
   The U.S. market is looking up. Architects have specified
Almute for lobby renovation at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minn., and at the new Denver airport.
   But cost remains an impediment. Almute sells for $7 to $14
a square foot, a lot more than conventional materials. "I'm
very interested," says San Francisco acoustical consultant
Elizabeth Cohen. "But at those prices, you need a
sky's-the-limit budget."
                                                                                                       

   When Half a Tread
   Is Better Than One
                                                                                                       

   MOVE ASIDE, old ladder-type stairs.
   Lapeyre Stair of New Orleans makes a staircase with
alternating treads that it says is safer and more comfortable
than the vertical ladders or steeply sloping stairs found on
ships and in factories.
   The Lapeyre model eliminates one side of a conventional
stair tread, allowing the foot to reach its next tread
directly. The tread depth makes it easier to descend facing
outward and to carry small loads up or down.
   Lapeyre has sold about 10,000 staircases so far, mostly to
industry. The Navy has recently bought one to test on a
destroyer. Eticam Co., a Fernley, Nev., waste-storage
company, has 30. Plant engineer Jim Bosley says his only
reservation is that once you've started up or down a Lapeyre,
it's hard to change your mind and go the other way.
   The Lapeyre stair -- even the wooden residential model --
isn't for everyone. Bob Larson, the company's general
manager, concedes he "wouldn't recommend it" for handicapped
people or small children.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   KEEP OUT: Blair Industries of Boca Raton, Fla., sells a
guard device for parking places. Bolted to the ground, the
hinged steel gadget can be flipped up to become a 20-inch
high barrier, after a car is driven away. . . . People Power:
The Society of Environmental Graphic Designers in Cambridge,
Mass., says entries in this year's sign competition will be
judged by two juries -- professional designers and members of
the public.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   When Owners of Family Businesses Die,
   Survivors Often Feel Unsuited to Fill Void
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   The death of an entrepreneur leaves a hole in the heart of
the business. That void lingers painfully no matter who steps
in to take charge, but it's especially difficult for the
reluctant, grieving successor.
   The survivor thrust into the role often feels
ill-prepared, awkward and undeserving of the mandate to run
things. At the same time, "the business is struck by the loss
and becomes self-doubting and paralyzed," says John Ward,
professor of private enterprise at Loyola University in
Chicago. It can take years for the individual and business to
adjust to each other.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consider the difficulty Cafe Provencal is having following
the recent death of its acclaimed chef and founder Leslee
Reis. For years, her exuberant personality lent a cultured
cachet to the dining room of the elite French restaurant in
Evanston, Ill. Her culinary tastes and expertise propelled it
to national critical praise. Its reputation hinged largely on
her image.
   Now, her widower, Andy Reis, the restaurant's
behind-the-scenes general manager, finds himself struggling
to assume a more visible role. Pressure is growing to
convince customers and critics that they can enjoy themselves
as much there now as before. The top chef questions some of
Mr. Reis's menu choices. And business has dropped off, as the
shadow of Ms. Reis's death amplifies effects of a general
restaurant-industry slump.
   Despite Mr. Reis's ideas for marketing the place, he
admits, "I don't know if we'll find another Leslee."
   Problems arise in large part because many entrepreneurs do
little planning to help ease the burden for heirs. Laventhol
&amp; Horwath, an accounting firm that has twice surveyed owners
of family businesses, found in a 1988 poll that fewer than
half -- 45% -- had selected successors. Only one in three had
put together a strategic plan.
   As a result, a surviving family member may feel pressed
into service out of guilt -- or to prevent damage to the
company. In such instances, "there's a greater potential for
all sorts of unwise decisions because people are likely to
act out of guilt or panic," says Glenn Swogger, a Topeka,
Kan., psychiatrist who counsels people with family
businesses.
   What's more, the twin stresses of handling grief and
stepping into a business cold take a huge emotional toll.
Last year, Shirley Sage found herself in charge of her
family's farm holdings in Lytton, Iowa, after her husband
died during cultivating season. Though friends and family
helped a lot, and she rented out the land rather than working
it herself, she says she still feels worn out.
   "It's a kind of exhaustion I've never felt {before}," she
says. "You go to sleep and wake up and feel as if you've
never slept."
   Even business owners who plan for succession often
overlook issues that may eventually tear apart their
companies -- or families. Richard A. Kuenster, a Chicago tax
lawyer, says the co-owner of a local laundromat wanted to
leave his share to his two sons. He planned for them to
inherit his stake over a period of five years and assumed
they would get along with their uncle, his father's partner.
But after the father died, the uncle objected to the sons'
plans to modernize the business -- and bought out their
shares instead.
   "Nothing in the plan said what should happen if they
didn't get along," says Mr. Kuenster.
   Survivors often find themselves facing creditors who doubt
their business abilities. When Jack Skinner took over his
family's nursery business in Topeka after his father's death,
he was shocked to learn the extent of the company's financial
troubles: It had been losing money for three years. Payments
on bank loans and other debts were overdue. And personal
assets intended to provide for his mother and aunt were
pledged as collateral for the business debt.
   The crisis intensified when a banker called to request a
family meeting. The lender told Mr. Skinner and relatives
that he believed their business could make it -- and he'd
foreclose unless they sold out quickly. As demands from
creditors mounted, the company filed for Chapter 11
protection -- just a month after the owner's death.
   Mr. Skinner and a cousin later bought some of the
company's assets to start their own nursery -- one that's
much smaller than the original company. Mr. Skinner says his
business is barely profitable now, but he hopes that it
eventually will be able to help support his mother and aunt.
   Customers can present problems by trying to take advantage
of successors' inexperience. Peter Hushek's father suffered a
fatal stroke while holding a party for the family's company,
in Phoenix, Ariz., which provides heat-treating service to
the metal-working industry. Within weeks of succeeding his
father as president, the shaken 30-year-old son faced the
company's most costly service problem ever: It had ruined
part of a customer's product by giving it the wrong
treatment, and the customer demanded $20,000 to cover the
damage.
   Mr. Hushek, who hadn't handled such matters while working
for his father, felt at a loss. "You can plan as much as you
want {for a death}, but whenever it happens, you are caught
off guard," he says. He wandered through his plant, reluctant
to consult underlings, missing his father and wondering what
to do. He finally opted to offer a credit of more than
$10,000 in hopes of keeping the customer. The strategy worked
-- though Mr. Hushek still struggles to win the confidence of
longtime suppliers.
   Employees, too, will try fooling their newly installed
boss, much like schoolchildren with substitute teachers. A
former housewife says that after she stepped in to run her
late husband's Midwestern manufacturing company, some top
executives tried to take advantage of her ignorance. The
woman, who requested anonymity because the people still work
for her, says they didn't inform her about a joint venture
they were negotiating with a Japanese supplier.
   The executives surprised her with a proposed deal that
would have awarded them a large stake in the venture, even
though they weren't putting up capital; her company would get
only a small stake, though it was expected to invest. "I was
livid," she says. "They must have thought I was stupid."
   Instead, she went to Japan herself, introduced her two
sons to the supplier, and struck a deal that split the
venture's ownership evenly between her company and the
supplier.
   Family squabbles can erupt over business ownership,
complicating the challenges already facing the entrepreneur's
successor. Sometimes the problems don't surface immediately.
   Albert Valliere, before his death 18 years ago, charged
his older son Albert Jr. with running the family business in
North Smithfield, R.I., and providing for his two sisters and
brother. He wanted his sons to oversee holdings that include
a construction company and a horse farm and other real
estate, but he also intended his daughters to share in the
value of the real estate. A decade or so later, one of the
women -- who held a low-paying job working for the brothers
in the family business -- says she began asking when she
could claim her share of the assets. In response, Albert Jr.
says, he insisted he had done his best for the family, taking
only a token salary for his efforts.
   By the mid-1980s, he says, "family blowups" were
"constant." As a result, the family broke up its holdings in
1986, distributing some of the real estate to the women. This
year, the brothers went their separate ways, too, one taking
the horse farm and the other the construction business. "As
people grow" and change, says Mr. Valliere, "it just doesn't
work having them all eat out of the same bowl."
   Clearly, business owners can't foresee every possible
problem their heirs may encounter. But they can do much to
prepare them. For instance, leaving behind a kit of essential
instructions can give the survivor somewhere to start.
"Usually the business owner is the family's chief financial
officer, and there's a lot {of information} in desk drawers
and inside heads that doesn't get communicated to anybody
else," says Mr. Ward, the Loyola professor.
   He suggests the kit contain a letter that names the chosen
successor, lists helpful advisers and gives the location of
key documents. It's also useful to offer advice on business
strategies and whether the survivor should sell the company
or continue running it, he says, adding that the kit should
be kept in a safety deposit box or other secure spot and
updated each year.
   Better yet, Mr. Kuenster recommends that the successor be
introduced to employees, customers, and creditors while the
owner is still around.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Commercial Bank Bailout of 1995
   ----
   By Martin Mayer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Legend tells of the traveler who went into a country store
and found the shelves lined with bags of salt.
   "That's a lot of salt," said the traveler to the
storekeeper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You think that's salt," said the storekeeper, and led his
visitor to the cellar, which was stacked high with bags of
salt.
   "You must sell a lot of salt," said the traveler.
   "Nah," said the storekeeper. "I can't sell no salt at all.
But the feller who sells me salt -- boy, can he sell salt."
   What brings this story to mind is the sight of tens of
billions of dollars in mortgage securities stacked in the
cellars after the S&amp;L collapse.
   They come in great variety. Some represent ownership of a
whole horse, packages of real mortgages such as an ordinary
investor's Ginnie Mae pass-through. Many others are
"derivative" securities, "strips" or "tranches" of mortgage
packages, reporting claims on just the interest payments,
just the early repayments of principal, just the late
repayments of principal, just whatever's left after all the
other tranches get paid, etc. Owen Carney, deputy national
bank examiner for the New York area, told a conference the
other day that the first "collateralized mortgage obligation"
he saw -- in the early 1980s -- had four "tranches," while
the most recent one he's looked at had 47. A lot of those 47
are the rear part of the horse.
   Thrifts supplied the necessary fodder to the investment
banks that created these securities by selling them the
mortgages from which the derivatives were made. And they were
big buyers of what came out the other end. The salesmen from
those same investment banks told them they were getting a
sure thing -- safe, risk-adjusted high returns.
   The Resolution Trust Corporation, as receiver for dead
S&amp;Ls, has come into possession of tons of this stuff, and a
lot of mortgages, too. So the investment banks are busy
colonizing the RTC, which likes the idea that it can get more
for its mortgages by paying fees to people who package them
than it would get simply by selling the paper.
   The RTC is under pressure to sell, because Congress and
investors in government securities are getting restless about
what promiscuous RTC borrowing for "working capital" will do
to the credit markets. And the live S&amp;Ls have become net
sellers, too, because the easiest way to improve their ratios
of capital to assets is to sell assets.
   So who's buying? Why, the commercial banks, of course.
They're stocking up. At the nation's banking trade shows
these days, presentations on the assured risk-adjusted
profitability of mortgage-backed securities have become the
most glamorous entertainments on the schedule. Every once in
a while, somebody asks a nasty question, like, "if this stuff
is so liquid, why do you make it so costly for me to do a
repurchase with you?" But mostly the show goes over well.
   At the end of 1986, commercial banks held a total of $37
billion in mortgage-backed securities. By September 1989,
they held $120 billion, and counting. The numbers clearly are
beginning to worry the Comptroller of the Currency. Last week
Wall Street buzzed with rumors, which were not denied, that
the comptroller has plans to forbid banks to buy some of the
most cleverly carved cuts of the mortgage-sellers' horses.
   From a bank's point of view, a mortgage security has three
great virtues. As a practical, day-to-day matter, it's an
easy place to put money in a time of poor loan demand. In
Texas, for example, NCNB, Banc One and Texas Commerce have
been scrapping for deposits but have no local use for them,
so they buy a lot of mortgage securities. From December 1988
to September 1989, NCNB went from $300 million to $6.9
billion in holdings of such securities.
   Then, for purposes of the Basel accords, which set minimum
capital standards for banks world-wide, these securities are
government-insured mortgages, which means they have a "risk
weighting" of only 20%. To keep faith with Basel, a bank must
put $30,000 of stockholder money into each million-dollar
commercial loan. To carry a million-dollar mortgage security,
however, the bank needs only $6,000 of equity.
   Finally, mortgage securities yield more than treasuries,
and the closer the tranches get to the rear of the horse, the
greater the yield. With securities representing strips of
adjustable-rate mortgages, a bank can claim almost any yield
it likes, because auditors and examiners will not enter the
analytic nightmare of calculating the real accretion of value
in such instruments.
   The bank examiners have no proclaimed standards for a
capital cushion to be kept against interest-rate risk. It's
understood that a modern bank will hedge such risks, and the
same gentlemen who sell the banks the securities will also
sell them hedges -- at a spread maybe four-times what the
bank would have to pay to buy a combination of Treasuries and
exchange-traded futures and options. After all, as the
salesmen point out, it's a customized service: You're getting
exactly the tranches you need, and you can be confident of
that because we tell you so.
   In theory, the tranches nearer the tail lose their
preferential weighting on the Basel scale, but first the
examiner has to find them, and then he has to withstand the
argument that, hell, we've hedged the risk. "Hedging" is a
term of art in bank examination. It means not that some
economic substance has been protected, but that there is a
"Memorandum to File" stating that a hedge has been purchased
and meets some artificial statistical condition.
   All mortgage paper has mysterious options embedded in it,
because homeowners can pay off their loans at any time for
any reason. Pricing these options is a highly technical
skill, and banks (let alone bank regulators) are not likely
to pay as much for such skills as the people in the
investment banks who design and sell such instruments.
"Regulators who let naive banks buy mortgage securities,"
says Sri Sankaran of SRI Inc., a Chicago based
options-analysis company, "are like the Red Cross sending
hospitals blood donations from drug addicts; they're
spreading a fatal disease."
   Most businesses that leverage their equity 150 to 1, which
is what the Basel rules permit for holdings of these
securities, live on the edge of a cliff. But banking
regulators make things look all right by permitting banks to
claim the house still stands even if the sea eats away its
foundations. Banks can continue to carry securities in their
investment portfolio at whatever was paid for them, even if
the market price goes down. Concealment of losses, approved
by the regulators, was what made the S&amp;L disaster
unmanageable.
   There are two ways to keep this slippery slope from
plunging the taxpayer into a commercial bank bailout. The
first is a requirement that everything in a bank's portfolio
for which there is a market be marked to the market price
every night. The second is that additional (not reduced)
capital be required from every bank that wants to buy strips
or lesser tranches of mortgage-backed securities. These
procedures are roughly what the Shadow Financial Regulatory
Committee has recommended.
   Purchases of the tail ends from the manufacture of
mortgage securities -- what the Salomon Brothers salesmen,
according to Michael Lewis in "Liar's Poker," called "toxic
waste" -- produced billions of dollars of losses at the S&amp;Ls.
The comptroller is right to be worried at the sight of so
much of this stuff moving from the S&amp;Ls to the banks. If he
doesn't move soon -- and carry the Fed and the FDIC with him
-- the legislative draftsmen had better get started writing
the Commercial Bank Bailout Bill of 1995.
   ---
   Mr. Mayer writes frequently for the Journal on the S&amp;L
bailout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Correction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   In our April 30 editorial on California gerrymandering
("Gerrymandered to the Kitchen"), we stated that Proposition
119, which takes the power to redraw districts away from the
legislature, was leading in the polls by 52% to 20%. Those
numbers actually referred to Proposition 118, a second
initiative to limit gerrymandering. Proposition 119 also has
led in the polls, but by 35% to 32%.
   {See: "REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial): Gerrymandered to the
Kitchen" -- WSJ April 30, 1990}
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel Payments of Over $600 Million
   Before Chapter 11 May Be Recoverable
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. made more
than $600 million in payments that may be recoverable under
bankruptcy law because the transactions occurred during the
three months immediately prior to the company's
bankruptcy-court filing.
   The payments were disclosed in the company's statement of
financial affairs, filed with the federal bankruptcy court in
Manhattan last week. The document also lists details of
millions of dollars owed to former employees who cashed in
their Drexel stock in the months before Drexel filed for
protection Feb. 13 under the federal Bankruptcy Code.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The filing, released Friday, discloses that Drexel paid
loans and interest totaling $621.8 million during the three
months immediately prior to filing for bankruptcy-court
protection. Bankruptcy lawyers say such payments, with
certain exceptions, can be recovered if it is shown that a
company gave preference to some creditors and if the debtor
was insolvent at the time. Such money can then be
redistributed to creditors.
   Creditors' and shareholders' attorneys are using the
statement of financial affairs as a road map to possible
pockets of money to pay off Drexel's debts, according to
bankruptcy lawyers familiar with the case. Creditors also are
likely to examine the document for any payments to company
executives, which could be recoverable if such payments were
made within a year before the Chapter 11 filing and if the
company was insolvent at the time of the transaction.
   "The primary issue will be whether Drexel was insolvent,"
said Barry Dichter, a bankruptcy partner at Cadwalader,
Wickersham &amp; Taft, who represents the Central Bank of
Portugal, one of Drexel's largest creditors. "It's fair to
say that determining whether Drexel Burnham Lambert Group was
solvent or insolvent at the time of the transactions will be
one of the toughest solvency problems ever presented to a
bankruptcy court." He said the hardest task for those
involved in the proceedings will be to determine the value of
junk bonds held by Drexel.
   "Preferences are a litigation goldmine," added Hugh M.
Ray, a bankruptcy law attorney in Houston. Creditors'
attorneys "will want to know who got what and when, and who
knew what and when," he said.
   Alan Miller, an attorney for Drexel, said: "At no point
was {Drexel} insolvent." However, bankruptcy lawyers say the
debtor is presumed to have been insolvent during those three
months. If the Drexel creditors' committee or shareholders'
committee seek to recover such payments, it will be up to the
parties that were paid to prove that the company was solvent.
   The largest amount paid during the three-month period was
$248 million, received by Taiyo Mutual Life of Tokyo,
Drexel's biggest unsecured creditor. AmBase Corp.'s Home
Capital Services Inc. unit, Drexel's second-biggest unsecured
creditor, was paid $66.7 million. Bank of China, another
major unsecured creditor, was paid $40 million. Also,
Chemical Banking Corp.'s Chemical Bank was paid $84 million
in loans and interest in January 1990.
   According to the filing, Michael Milken cashed in Drexel
stock with a book value of $62 million when the company
settled Securities and Exchange Commission charges last June.
Under the terms of that agreement, Mr. Milken, formerly head
of Drexel's junk-bond operation, was required to resign and
sell back his Drexel stake. His brother, Lowell Milken, also
resigned and was to be paid $8.9 million for his stock.
Neither has received any of the money, the filing said.
Drexel and the Milkens are still negotiating how much will be
paid for the stock. Recently, Mr. Milken pleaded guilty to
securities-law violations.
   As of March 30, Drexel said it had total assets of $3.26
billion and total liabilities of $2.8 billion. Drexel said
the assets include $1.5 billion in securities, much of it
junk bonds, which are high-yield, high-risk instruments.
   During the three months, Drexel also paid cash for
subordinated notes totaling $14.5 million to employees. The
company says it owes $19.9 million to employees who left
Drexel in the three months before the Chapter 11 filing and
cashed in their stock. Drexel employees are required to sell
back their stakes at book value when they leave the company.
But those who left during the three months have received
nothing for their stock. The largest amount -- $11.4 million
-- is owed to former Drexel president Joseph Vitanza, who
retired Dec. 31.
   The company's stock acquisitions from former employees
during the year before the bankruptcy filing had a book value
of $391 million. Under the company's payout schedule,
however, only a portion was initially paid; the rest is to be
paid out gradually, over 10 years in some cases.
   The list of stock transactions shows that the company
purchased $6.6 million in stock from Jon Burnham, a son of
Drexel's founder, when he left the company to join Smith
Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. in April 1989. The stock purchase
from Haig Casparian, former in-house general counsel, was
$6.5 million when he left to go into private practice in
February 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviets' Poultry Imports
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Soviet Union has emerged as a major new
market for broilers and may edge out Japan this year as the
traditional No. 1 foreign market for U.S. poultry, according
to U.S. Agriculture Department analysts.
   More than 110 million pounds of broiler leg quarters were
sold to the Soviet Union recently by U.S. companies, a sale
valued at an estimated $50 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Soviets began buying U.S. broilers last fall for the
first time in years. According to the department's Economic
Research Service, the 1989 sales involved about 26 million
pounds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Industrial Output
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's seasonally adjusted index of industrial
production fell 0.1% in the fourth quarter of 1989 from the
previous quarter but was up 3.2% from a year earlier, the
National Statistics Institute reported Friday.
   The state agency said the latest quarterly decline
followed a revised 0.6% advance in the third quarter. Prior
to Friday's revision, growth for the third quarter had been
reported as 0.4%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan's Trade Surplus Drops
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9G
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Taiwan's trade surplus in April totaled
$780 million U.S. dollars, a decline of 21% from the same
period last year, the government said Friday.
   The Directorate General of Budget, Accounting and
Statistics said April's exports reached $5.7 billion dollars,
up 1.2% from a year earlier, while imports rose 6%, to $4.92
billion dollars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Taiwan registered a trade surplus of $2.59 billion dollars
in the first four months of the year, down 31% from the
year-earlier period, the agency said.
   Government officials attributed the lower surplus mainly
to a stronger Taiwan dollar, which made locally manufactured
products less attractive to foreign buyers.
   In April, Taiwan had a trade surplus with the U.S.
totaling $670 million dollars, down 32.1% from a year
earlier. April exports to the U.S. reached $1.85 billion
dollars, while imports totaled $1.18 billion dollars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taiwan Offshore Banking
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   TAIPEI -- The total assets of Taiwan's 25 offshore banking
units increased 32% to $16.9 billion by the end of March from
$12.8 billion in March 1989, the Central Bank said.
   The report said 82% of the assets were from Asia, 12% from
North and South America, 5% from Europe and 1% from other
areas. Out of all assets, 88% were either deposited or loaned
in Asia, according to the Central Bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Soviet Joint Ventures Riding on Troubled Waters
   ----
   By Keith A. Rosten
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST PEP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the light of mounting U.S. pressure against Soviet
actions in Lithuania, the trade bill recently negotiated with
the Soviets is in jeopardy. But even if the bill were signed,
it is unlikely to reassure American investors, actual or
potential; the reports of Soviet joint ventures gone sour are
becoming legion. The magnitude of the failures has already
prompted the Soviets to initiate a wholesale overhaul of
their joint venture legislation. But the draft legislation
now circulating in Moscow may well deter further foreign
investment.
   In the three years since the Soviets adopted legislation
permitting joint ventures with foreign partners, hungry
Western companies have swooped down into Moscow, hoping to
penetrate this market of 285 million potential consumers. But
finding a partner, negotiating an agreement and registering
the venture takes an average one year. Few Western companies
have the resources or stamina to survive the arduous
undertaking. Maria Aronson, of the U.S. Commercial Office in
Moscow, told me of numerous invitations to ceremonies to sign
letters of intent to enter into joint ventures -- but wonders
aloud why she rarely hears anything from the parties after
the signing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Of about 10,000 letters of intent signed so far between
Soviet organizations and Western companies (about 1,000 of
which are U.S. companies), only about 1,500 (about 150 U.S.
companies) have produced registered joint ventures -- and
only about 140 joint ventures have commenced operations
(about 35 of which are U.S. companies).
   Once operating, joint ventures face an unforgiving
bureaucracy, supply shortages and a severe lack of
infrastructure. A study I did on Soviet joint ventures
already operating found that 43% of those sampled have not
performed to the expectations of the parties. A Ministry of
Finance official told me that the Soviets are also deeply
disappointed with the results of joint ventures.
   STIM, a Soviet-U.S. joint venture specializing in
children's toys, for example, was supposed to earn hard
currency by countertrade -- until the Soviets proscribed
countertrade for joint ventures, leaving the joint venture
"dead in the water," according to its general director,
Stephen S. Moody.
   A major subject of disagreement between the Soviet and
Western partners is the strategic direction of the joint
venture. The Western partner generally wants to confine the
joint venture's activities to a discrete area. The Soviet
partner, in contrast, wants to expand into activities
unrelated to the strategic competence of the Western partner.
(Although not a joint venture, the PepsiCo deal with the
Soviets might cause one to ask what PepsiCo's competitive
advantage is in selling shipssomething Pepsico has now agreed
to do in exchange for Soviet market share.)
   The personnel of the Soviet partner view themselves as
experts in the Soviet system, rather than in a particular
industry. They sincerely believe that the joint venture is
well-positioned to capitalize on emerging opportunities even
in unrelated industries.
   One joint venture, Intermedbio-I.M.B., formed to produce
pharmaceuticals, started sponsoring television productions.
Not surprisingly, the activities of the venture are "frozen,"
and the U.S. partner is seeking to withdraw, according to
Charles Rudd, a member of Intermedbio's board of directors.
   And there are other "cultural" problems. To assure its
guests of high quality food, INFA-Hotel, a Finish-Soviet
hotel joint venture, imports food directly from Finland. But
there is a Russian proverb that, "if you don't steal, you
won't survive." The Soviet employees of the hotel are rumored
to be substituting Russian fare for the imported food.
   Even success may bring complications. One joint venture in
the automotive industry has reportedly done so well that the
management is concerned that the Soviet government will close
the venture down on charges of profiteering.
   The vagaries of the Soviet marketplace exact a heavy toll
from even the most persevering companies. Western companies
entering simple purchase agreements are increasingly
demanding letters of credit, because the Soviets have been
unable to make their hard-currency payments. Also, the
political climate changes almost daily. Those companies that
have entered into joint ventures with Soviet organizations in
one of the Baltic republics or one of the republics in the
Caucasus should consult their political risk assessment
teams.
   The legal climate fares no better. University of Illinois
law professor Peter B. Maggs, an expert on Soviet law,
reports that legislation on joint ventures is "unstable,
unpredictable and largely unpublished." In December, for
example, without any advance warning, the Soviet government
pushed through new legislation imposing further export quotas
and licensing requirements. On the same day that the decree
was adopted, an unwary joint venture in the food industry
attempted to ship goods worth hundreds of thousands of
dollars. Soviet customs officials refused to allow the ship
to sail. Only after several days of intense negotiations did
the authorities allow the ship to leave.
   Some joint ventures -- such as Dialog, which develops
computer software -- have recently received hopeful
attention. But these cases are the exception. The Soviets
have proposed a comprehensive new joint venture law. But
instead of reaching out for foreign investment and
technology, in March of 1989 the Soviets forbade joint
ventures to engage in countertrade, one of only a few
mechanisms by which a joint venture can generate hard
currency. The draft law would reinforce this prohibition.
   A widely leaked unpublished portion of the current joint
venture legislation established an exception to hard currency
self-sufficiency requirements. But the draft law would revoke
this exception, requiring joint ventures to generate
sufficient hard currency to cover their expenditures.
   The draft law also gives short shrift to small
entrepreneurial ventures. It would require the Western
partner to contribute a minimum of $100,000, 25% of which the
Western partner must deposit in cash in a Soviet bank before
the Soviets will register the joint venture. It wholly
ignores the 1,500 joint ventures that have already been
registered; the Soviets have omitted any grandfather clause,
thereby potentially placing these joint ventures into
legislative limbo.
   The Soviet market presents tremendous opportunities,
offering a wealth of natural resources, inexpensive labor,
areas of advanced technology and a market of 285 million
consumers. As Western companies seek to capitalize on these
opportunities, they should recognize that penetrating this
market is a tortuous road fraught with uncertainty and
instability.
   ---
   Mr. Rosten is an attorney and consultant on Soviet trade
and law for Accord Consulting Group, Mountain View, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Jones Equity Index
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ROR RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Rorer Group Inc. is being dropped from the
pharmaceutical industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index, effective today, because most of the company was
acquired by Rhone-Poulenc S.A.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some CBOT Traders Are Pushing
   For Doubling of Limit on Futures
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Some of the country's hottest futures market
speculators want to get more bang for their buck on the
Chicago Board of Trade.
   Several large futures fund managers, including Paul Tudor
Jones, one of the most successful U.S. futures traders of the
past decade, want the exchange to as much as double the
number of contracts they can trade in corn, soybean and wheat
futures contracts. The managers say that sharp increases in
position limits are needed to accommodate their funds' rapid
asset growth in recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Raising the speculative limits would boost trading volume,
"adding liquidity and making the markets more efficient,"
says Mr. Jones, who trades $500 million, most of it for
customers, in futures, stock and currency markets world-wide.
   But opponents, led mainly by independent pit traders known
as locals, who are often overwhelmed by huge futures fund
trades, say that such a move would also boost volatility in
markets that are already being rocked by the large funds.
   Unlike stock market traders, speculators in the futures
markets are limited in the number of futures contracts they
can trade at a particular time in any given market. The
contract limit varies depending on certain factors, including
the trading volume, in each futures contract market.
   Responding to written requests from the funds, three
exchange committees last week narrowly approved proposals
that could lead to the doubling of limits for speculators to
24 million bushels for corn and soybeans and 18 million
bushels for wheat. One futures contract is equal to 5,000
bushels of corn, wheat or soybeans, which is roughly the
amount of grain required to fill one railroad boxcar.
   A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a
specific amount of a commodity at a certain price by a given
date. In practice, most futures contracts are nullified by
opposing trades, so futures traders rarely take delivery of a
physical commodity.
   Karsten "Cash" Mahlmann, Board of Trade chairman,
emphasized that proposed increases in the limits are still at
the committee stage within the exchange. "It's premature to
say that there is an exchange position on this," he says.
Whatever proposed increases that emerge from the exchange, a
process that could take several months, need the approval of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
   Exchange directors said that some local traders had
threatened to mount a petition opposing the proposed position
limit increases if they were rushed through Board of Trade
committees.
   Opponents of increased limits claim that the funds would
make the commodity markets even more volatile than they are
today if the funds could double their market impact. For
evidence of the funds' market clout under existing limits
look no further than this past Tuesday, the opponents say. In
the absence of any significant market-moving news, soybean
futures prices whipsawed up and then down in a
31-cent-a-bushel range before closing five cents a bushel
lower for the day. Futures fund managers, who tend to follow
market trends and buy when markets are rising and sell when
they are falling, were widely singled out by traders and
analysts as the force behind the market move.
   "It was a funds day at the Board of Trade," says Conrad
Leslie, founder of Leslie Analytical, a futures research
firm, and a frequent critic of the funds' influence on the
futures markets.
   Adds Frederick Uhlmann, senior vice president,
commodities, for Rodman &amp; Renshaw Inc., "We all want a
certain amount of volatility, but these huge fund orders are
very disruptive to the markets."
   Total U.S. and foreign speculative futures fund assets are
estimated to have increased at least tenfold over the past
decade to more than $10 billion.
   Futures traders are divided into two groups: speculators
and hedgers. Speculators, either individually or as managers
of others' money, trade futures as a bet on relatively
short-term price moves in the commodities or financial
instruments on which the contracts are based. Hedgers, such
as large grain-processing companies, trade futures to offset
potential losses on their inventories. Hedgers are granted
exemptions from position limits as long as they can
demonstrate that their futures trades are tied to the volume
of business they are conducting.
   Mr. Jones says that he and other fund managers are mainly
concerned with boosting position limits in just the one or
two most active contract months for each commodity, rather
than raising the total for all contract months. For instance,
most trading activity in soybean futures currently is
concentrated in the July and November contracts for this
year, even though 10 monthly contacts are traded, ranging out
to July 1991.
   Current limits in soybeans and corn, however, allow only a
maximum of three million bushels, or 600 contracts, for each
month, with a maximum of four months, or 12 million bushels,
for each commodity. The three-million-bushel limit applies to
each monthly wheat contract as well, but the total limit for
that contract is three months and nine million bushels.
   "We could live with the current totals if they would
double the amount we could trade in any one month," Mr. Jones
says.
   Because of the relatively large size of most of their
trades, speculative fund managers rarely trade in amounts
approaching their position limits in the less-active months.
   The grain futures position limits have forced Mr. Jones
and other futures fund managers increasingly to focus on
financial futures contracts, where position limits are much
larger or even nonexistent. The Board of Trade's Treasury
bond futures contract, for example, has a 10,000 contract
month limit, he says.
   "If my choice is between 600 and 10,000 contract limits,
what do you think I'm going to do?" he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, May 4, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                            Stock   N.A.   Stock      %
   Fund Name                Exch.  Value   Price     Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express            NYSE   17.72   15 5/8   -11.82
   Baker Fentress           NYSE   23.89   19 1/2   -18.38
   Blue Chip Value          NYSE    7.16    6 1/2   - 9.22
   Clemente Global Gro      NYSE  b11.24    9 1/4   -17.70
   Gemini II Capital        NYSE   15.13   13       -14.08
   Gemini II Income         NYSE   a9.46   12 3/4   +34.78
   General Amer Invest      NYSE   21.96   18 5/8   -15.19
   Growth Stock Outlook     NYSE   10.16    9 3/8   - 7.73
   Lehman Corp.             NYSE   14.72   12 1/2   -15.08
   Liberty All-Star Eqty    NYSE    9.23    7 7/8   -14.68
   Niagara Share Corp.      NYSE   16.72   14       -16.27
   Nicholas-Applegate       NYSE   11.17    9 3/4   -12.71
   Quest For Value Cap      NYSE   16.87   13 1/2   -19.98
   Quest For Value Inco     NYSE   11.65   13 1/4   +13.73
   Royce Value Trust        NYSE   10.11    9 1/4   - 8.51
   Source Capital           NYSE   39.79   40 3/8   + 1.47
   Tri-Continental Corp.    NYSE   27.03   22 7/8   -15.37
   Worldwide Value          NYSE   17.87   16 1/8   - 9.76
   Zweig Fund               NYSE   10.68   11 1/4   + 5.34
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs      AMEX    6.75    5 3/4   -14.81
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr     NYSE   b7.88    8 3/4   +11.04
   Franklin Universal Tr    NYSE   b7.56    7 1/2   - 0.79
   Municipal High Inco      NYSE    9.38    9 1/2   + 1.28
   Zenix Income Fund        NYSE    6.18    6 1/8   - 0.89
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn      OTC     5.71    4 1/4   -25.57
   Franklin M-M Inco        NYSE   b8.45    8       - 5.33
   Zweig Total Return Fd    NYSE    9.13    9 3/8   + 2.68
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance New Europe Fd   NYSE   11.20   10 5/8   - 5.13
   American Capital Conv    NYSE   21.29   18 5/8   -12.52
   ASA Ltd                  NYSE bc62.53   47 1/2   -24.04
   Asia Pacific             NYSE   14.81   14 1/2   - 2.09
   Austria Fund             NYSE   15.03   15 5/8   + 3.96
   Bancroft Convertible     AMEX   20.36   17 1/4   -15.28
   Bergstrom Capital        AMEX   58.56   57 3/4   - 1.38
   BGR Precious Metals      TOR  be10.68    9 1/8   -14.56
   Brazil                   NYSE  y11.30   10 3/4   - 4.87
   CNV Holdings Capital     NYSE    9.32    5       -46.35
   CNV Holdings Income      NYSE    9.45   10 1/2   +11.11
   Castle Convertible       AMEX   21.17   18       -14.97
   Central Fund Canada      AMEX   b4.95    4 15/16 - 0.25
   Central Securities       AMEX   11.04    9       -18.48
   Chile Fund               NYSE   16.23   17 1/2   + 7.83
   Couns Tandem Secs        NYSE   11.33   10 3/8   - 8.43
   Cypress Fund             AMEX    9.27    8 5/8   - 6.96
   Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE    8.06    8 1/8   + 0.81
   Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc        AMEX    8.29    7 1/8   -14.05
   Emerging Ger Fd          NYSE   11.21   10 3/4   - 4.10
   Engex                    AMEX   11.54    9       -22.01
   Europe Fund              NYSE   13.88   15 1/8   + 8.97
   1stAustralia             AMEX    9.21    8 1/2   - 7.71
   First Financial Fund     NYSE    6.75    6       -11.11
   First Iberian            AMEX   10.64   12 1/2   +17.48
   First Philippine Fund    NYSE   11.09    9 5/8   -13.21
   Future Germany Fund      NYSE   17.43   15 5/8   -10.36
   Gabelli Equity Trust     NYSE   11.86   11 3/4   - 0.93
   Germany Fund             NYSE   13.48   15 7/8   +17.77
   Global Utilities Fund    NYSE   10.62    9 1/8   -14.08
   Growth Fund Spain        NYSE   11.78   10 1/2   -10.87
   GT Greater Europe Fd     NYSE   14.14   15 1/8   + 6.97
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv       NYSE   11.00    9 1/2   -13.64
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap     AMEX  b10.94    9 5/8   -12.02
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref    AMEX  b49.08   48 3/4   - 0.67
   Helvetia Fd (Swiss)      NYSE   13.00   12 3/4   - 1.92
   India Growth Fund        NYSE  f12.68   14 5/8   +15.34
   Indonesia Fund           NYSE   14.28   15 7/8   +11.17
   Inefficient Market Fund  AMEX   10.76   10 5/8   - 1.25
   Irish Investment Fd      NYSE   10.88    9 5/8   -11.53
   Italy Fund               NYSE   b13.98  13 5/8   - 2.54
   Jakarta Growth Fd        NYSE   11.07   14       +26.47
   Japan OTC Equity Fund    NYSE  b11.27   16 5/8   +47.52
   Korea Fund               NYSE   15.72   21 3/8   +35.97
   Malaysia Fund            NYSE   13.03   17 7/8   +37.18
   Meeschaert G &amp; C         MWSE    8.35    8       - 4.19
   Mexico Fund              NYSE  b14.24   13 3/4   - 3.44
   Morgan Grenf SmCap       NYSE   10.75    9 3/8   -12.79
   New Germany Fund         NYSE   14.76   15 5/8   + 5.86
   Patriot Prem Div Fd      NYSE    8.72   10 1/8   +16.11

   Petrol &amp; Resources       NYSE   29.94   26 5/8   -11.07
   Pilgrim Regional         NYSE    9.16    8 1/2   - 7.21
   Putnam Dividend Inco     NYSE   10.17   11       + 8.16
   Portugal Fund            NYSE   13.58   14       + 3.09
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd    AMEX    6.59    6 1/8   - 7.06
   ROC Taiwan Fund          NYSE   13.57   11       -18.94
   Scudder New Asia         NYSE   15.97   13 1/2   -15.47
   Scudder New Europe       NYSE   11.76   10 1/2   -10.71
   SE Savings Inst Fd       OTC    b8.13    7       -13.90
   Spain Fund               NYSE   13.71   16 7/8   +23.09
   Taiwan Fund              NYSE  b22.59   24 3/8   + 7.90
   TCW Convertible Secs     NYSE   b7.77    8 1/8   + 4.57
   Templeton Em Mkts        AMEX  b14.63   13 3/4   - 6.02
   Templeton Value Fund     NYSE   b9.22    8 5/8   - 6.45
   Thai Fund                NYSE   18.27   24 1/8   +32.05
   Turkish Inv Fund         NYSE   15.19   12       -21.00
   United Kingdom Fund      NYSE   10.16    9 1/8   -10.19
   Z-Seven                  OTC    12.86   14       + 8.86
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close. y-Nav: would be 11.78 and difference would
be -8.74%, if possible Brazil tax not included.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Issue for Black Target-Marketing
   Is Expansion, Say Industry Executives
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9H
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   BALTIMORE -- The only problem with target-marketing to
blacks is that there isn't enough of it, concluded
participants at a national conference of black marketing
executives.
   Some 150 professionals from major consumer companies,
black media and black ad and promotion firms, grappled with
the issue in Baltimore at the annual meeting of the National
Association of Market Developers, a 36-year-old black
professional organization. In discussing the $253 billion
black market, the participants tried to reconcile their own
economic interests as marketers and their desire to serve the
interests of the African-American community.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both goals would be served, most say, if more companies
aimed a greater range of products specifically to blacks and
used black advertising, marketing and promotion professionals
to do it.
   "The question is not if it's okay to target. The question
is: Why isn't Bristol-Myers, and all the other companies who
market products blacks overconsume . . . into {targeting the
black} market?" says Larry Glover, director of corporate
marketing for Essence magazine. Mr. Glover says such
magazines as Essence do not get enough other ads to lessen
dependence on liquor and cigarette spots. Advertisers in many
product categories, including high-end fragrances, luxury
cars and ethical drugs, "still don't put much money with us,"
he adds.
   A case in point is consumer-products and tobacco giant RJR
Nabisco Inc., which was attacked earlier this year when
community protests scuttled plans for the first cigarette --
Uptown -- overtly targeted to blacks. According to Ken
Smikle, editor of Target Market News, a new trade
publication, such companies as RJR should advertise a wider
range of products on the billboards in the black community.
Tobacco and liquor billboards, which have been painted over
by protesters in cities across the nation, would not be as
much of a problem if there were more competition for the
spaces. "The {cigarette} ads are not being pushed out by the
Nabisco part of RJR," Mr. Smikle says.
   Mr. Smikle sees the lingering heat from the Uptown and
billboard controversies as an opportunity for the
black-marketing cause. Last week he appeared on the "Today
Show" to make the case, as did Essence editor Susan Taylor
the next day on the "CBS Morning News." And also last week,
after some months of quiet pushing by Mr. Smikle, a group
including the largest black-owned ad agencies, magazines and
broadcast outlets agreed to form a new trade association to
act as expert advocates for the black market.
   "Target marketing is not a constitutional issue or a
freedom of choice issue or a form of racism," Mr. Smikle told
the participants in a session subtitled, "What Went Wrong
With Uptown."
   "Target marketing is directly tied to the survival of
black media," he said. "Target marketing is why many of us in
here have a job."
   Indeed, the fear of losing hard-won gains in their
marketing careers underscored the urgency of taking the
offensive for black targeting. Companies that have only
gingerly embraced target marketing, the professionals say,
may see the controversy "as an excuse to back off," says
Renee Simons, director of special projects for a unit of
Phillip Morris Cos.
   As for "Uptown" itself, the black executives maintained
that if RJR had used the input of black professionals,
particularly a black advertising agency, the fiasco would not
have happened. Many say they were questioned by nervous top
brass when news of the Uptown controversy hit. Charles
Morrison, vice president for black and Hispanic marketing
with Coca-Cola Co., says he was more than ready with the
answers.
   "When they said what are the implications, I said there
are none -- because we'd never do anything this foolish," Mr.
Morrison says. Most marketers said that RJR blundered because
the company declared its intention to target a product to
blacks that is considered to be a health hazzard. A
spokeswoman for RJR in Winston-Salem, N.C., conceded as much,
saying, "If a mistake was made, it was with our honesty."
   The spokeswoman said the company's advertising agency in
the aborted Uptown campaign, Leber Katz Partners, did in fact
use the services of a black consultant, whom the company
would not identify. She said a black advertising firm was not
retained because Leber Katz had done a good job with programs
aimed at black smokers. Mr. Smikle notes that despite a
disproportionately high rate of smoking among blacks,
virtually none of the $2.5 billion spent on tobacco
advertising and promotion last year was placed with a
black-owned firm.
   One solution to the problem of selling harmful products
versus maintaining careers was offered by Benjamin Hooks,
executive director of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People. Mr. Hooks drove home the point
that blacks can use all the advertising and public relations
money that flows from marketers and still make their own
decisions about harmful products like cigarettes or
extravagances like sneakers. Mr. Hooks then interrupted his
speech to accept a check for $50,000 from a charity of Reebok
International Ltd. for the general fund of the civil-rights
group.
   "And that is my commercial for the day," Mr. Hooks said,
returning to his speech.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Sugar Futures Decline 7% in New York, London
   After Firm Revises Output-Consumption Estimate
   ----
   By John Valentine and Neil Behrmann
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- World sugar futures prices in London and New
York plunged 7% in hectic trading Friday after a major
London-based commodities firm slashed its estimate of how
much world sugar production would fall below consumption this
year.
   The report was released too late to affect the morning
session on the London Futures and Options Exchange. But in
afternoon trading, the price for the most-active October 1990
contract fell $23.60 a metric ton to $324.40, or nearly 7%.
The drop was equal to 1.07 cents a pound; a metric ton is 1.1
U.S. short tons, or 2,204.6 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London's markets will be closed today for a bank holiday.
   On the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York, the
soonest-to-expire and most-active July 1990 futures contract
sank more than 7%, or 1.16 cents a pound to 14.44 cents.
During the volatile session, it traded as high as 15.58 cents
and as low as 14.25.
   The New York decline was the biggest for a single day
since July 26, 1988, when the October 1988 contract dropped
2.41 cents to 12.06 cents from 14.47 cents, according to an
exchange spokeswoman. Total world futures trading volume
surged to an estimated 75,971 contracts, she said, topping
the previous record of 59,989 contracts set on July 6, 1989.
   E.D. &amp; F. Man (Sugar) Ltd. radically reduced its estimate
of how much world production will fall short of consumption
for the 1989-90 season, ending Aug. 31, to 258,000 metric
tons from its previous estimate in January of 1.46 million
tons. That 82% reduction in the shortfall would still result
in the fifth consecutive season of production deficits.
   The firm arrived at its latest estimate by raising
predicted output to 106.9 million tons from 106.5 million
tons forecast in January and by reducing its consumption
projection to 107.1 million tons from its previous estimate
of 108.0 million tons.
   While output increased in some producing countries, E.D. &amp;
F. Man said, these gains were more than offset by declining
use of the sweetener in other countries, mostly because
prices had climbed too high. This reduced consumption, the
firm said, stifled "the prospects of future price increases."
   Production in both China and India gained while domestic
consumption slowed. In the Soviet Union, good output and
rationed consumption reduced import requirements, the firm
said.
   "The initial forecasts of a massive shortfall have thus
been eradicated," E.D. &amp; F. Man said, adding that the sugar
market is gradually moving "toward more volatile times."
   New York analysts didn't attribute the severe price drops
solely to E.D. &amp; F. Man's revised estimate. They noted that
its January projection for the deficit had been far greater
than those of other analysts, which generally ranged around
500,000 tons. Now, one commented, "They are on the other side
of the fence" with one of the smallest deficit estimates.
   Judith Ganes, analyst for Merrill Lynch, New York, noted
that the market last week had failed to hold an advance of
more than 16 cents a pound, primarily because there was
little demand for physical sugar in the world market. "The
market was ripe for a decline," she said.
   Friday's development, however, she said, "may have been a
necessary evil," in that the lower prices the report helped
bring about may make sugar more attractive to potential
buyers. She noted that Yemen would be in the market to buy an
unspecified quantity of sugar and that Mexico may be seeking
to buy 200,000 tons.
   The part of the London firm's revision concerning reduced
consumption wasn't a complete surprise, because events had
already been suggesting as much. Higher prices have recently
been meeting resistance from developing nations, London
analysts said.
   Poorer countries such as India, China, Iran, Morocco and
Mexico account for about 80% of imports from the
international free market, and they can't afford to spend
scarce foreign exchange on large-scale pricey sugar imports,
said Farideh Bromfield, head of research of E.D. &amp; F. Man.
   Sugar has been one of the most buoyant commodities in the
past year, rising about 50% to 15.5 cents a pound, mainly
because of the persistent shortfall between production and
consumption. A recent increase in the U.S. sugar import
quota, which will draw additional supplies from the
already-tight world market, also was a price-firming factor,
they noted.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans: Expectations of continued export
demand are likely to support futures prices for the
foreseeable future, analysts said. Traders also are awaiting
Thursday's government crop report for additional information
about the size of corn, wheat and soybean crops that may move
futures prices, although no surprises are expected, analysts
said.
                                                                                                       

   Energy: Many traders were puzzled about the energy
market's reaction to the pledge last week by OPEC's oil
ministers to cut their combined output around 1.5 million
barrels a day in an effort to prop up prices. Few are certain
about this week's market direction.
   Last Thursday, after the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries wrapped up its emergency session in less
than two days, traders drove down the prices of crude oil,
gasoline and heating oil in frenzied activity. Market
participants said they were disappointed that OPEC didn't
accomplish anything more than reducing its production back to
its official quota level of 22.08 million barrels a day.
   But on Friday, with crude oil still weak, gasoline futures
soared on rumors of production problems at a number of big
U.S. refineries. The strength in gasoline contracts propped
up crude futures, with West Texas Intermediate for June
delivery ending down just one cent a barrel, at $17.98, on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. June gasoline ended up 1.44
cents, at 61.12 cents a gallon. Because of the topsy-turvy
trading at the end of last week, traders say they aren't sure
what market forces will drive prices this week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Fox Waiver
   Might Alter
   Syndication
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale and Bob Davis
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS CCB GE CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fox Inc. won a big victory in its effort to make further
inroads against the three broadcast networks without adhering
to federal rules blocking the networks from the booming
rerun-sales business.
   But the Fox win also improved the Big Three's chances of
easing the rules or eliminating them entirely.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fox network now airs programs three nights a week and
plans to add two more nights and a daytime children's lineup
by next fall. Adding the shows would have forced Fox -- which
is set to reap a fortune on sales of reruns of TV series made
by its own studio -- to follow the same rules that have
barred ABC, CBS and NBC from the rerun business for two
decades.
   Now the Federal Communications Commission has ruled that
Fox can add the new programming without the risk of
triggering the rerun restrictions, known as the Financial
Interest and Syndication Rules, or "fin-syn." It is a blow to
Fox's three bigger rivals, which have lost a sizable share of
the prime-time audience to the upstart and had opposed Fox's
request for a temporary waiver of the FCC rules.
   "It's incredibly important for us. Obviously, we're
delighted," says Jamie Kellner, president of Fox
Broadcasting, the network entity of Fox Inc. that is owned by
News Corp. While the Big Three networks can't syndicate
shows, Fox takes in more than $25 million a year in selling
the tabloid-news show "A Current Affair" to local stations.
Fox stands to reap a far larger fortune a few years hence on
reruns of "L.A. Law," which its studio makes for the NBC
network, and on reruns of the Fox network's screwy new
cartoon hit, "The Simpsons," which Fox also owns.
   But network officials believe the latest action signals
that the FCC will take a dim view of the burdensome fin-syn
rules when it begins a major review next month of whether to
lift the regulations. The networks are in stalled talks with
Hollywood studios -- which take in hundreds of millions of
dollars in rerun profits thanks to the rules -- to try to
craft a compromise for easing the network restrictions.
   "The commission obviously now is wrestling with the
reality that these rules do impose restrictions on networks
which are difficult to justify in today's world," says
Stephen A. Weiswasser, general counsel at Capital Cities/ABC
Inc., which owns the ABC network. At the very least, the FCC
move may strengthen the networks' hand in the talks with the
studios.
   A spokesman for NBC, a unit of General Electric Co.,
echoed those hopes. But NBC criticized the FCC ruling as
giving Fox an unfair edge and as an impediment to efforts to
ease the rerun provisions. "Granting special treatment for
Fox is unfair and counterproductive to the current round of
negotiations," the NBC spokesman said. "It removes the
immediate pressure on Fox and the studios to reach a
settlement."
   The FCC, which approved the Fox waiver 4-0, tried to blunt
speculation by stressing its ruling "in no way prejudges or
foreshadows" how it will rule on whether to lift the
regulations. But an FCC official said privately that the
waiver shows the commission's determination to spur
competition with the Big Three networks -- and a willingness
to grant them greater leeway in syndication. The official
asked, "Having given something to {Fox}, how can we not give
it" to the major networks?
   The FCC waiver gives Fox, now airing nine hours of
programming each week, the freedom to go up to 18 1/2 hours
of shows without having to follow the rerun rules. (FCC
regulations define a network as any service airing more than
15 hours a week, and Fox had sought a waiver from the 15-hour
cap.) In return, Fox vows to forgo acquiring an ownership
stake in programs supplied by other studios, since the rules
prohibit the networks from taking such a stake.
   The FCC's waiver, however, is so limited that Fox may yet
have to side with the Big Three networks and against its own
studio siblings in the rerun battle. The waiver won't let Fox
go beyond 18 1/2 hours, and it lasts for only a year. If the
FCC hasn't resolved the fin-syn debate in a year, Fox would
have to scale back its program lineup to fall under the
15-hour cap -- or withdraw from the rerun business
altogether.
   Generally, the studios in the rerun fight have appealed to
members of Congress, who are big beneficiaries of Hollywood's
campaign contributions. But such influential lawmakers as
House Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell (D., Mich.)
have said they back the FCC in its efforts to resolve the
issue. Now the FCC may be tilting away from Hollywood and
toward the broadcasters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Foreign Bonds Are Turning Into Big Disappointment
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   One of the most popular investment strategies of the past
decade is rapidly turning into one of this year's biggest
disappointments.
   Investing in foreign bonds produced glittering results,
easily surpassing returns on U.S. bonds, during much of the
1980s. Many investors reacted by sending part of their
savings overseas, buying foreign bonds directly or purchasing
shares of international bond mutual funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But investors who waited until this year to jump on the
international "bondwagon" are finding that it can be a very
treacherous ride. Results have been especially dismal for
investors holding Japanese, Canadian, British, Australian and
West German bonds, according to statistics compiled by J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc., a unit of J.P. Morgan &amp; Co.
   Japanese government bonds have produced by far the biggest
losses for U.S. investors. Since the start of 1990, the
Japanese securities have plunged almost 14%, when measured on
a total-return basis (including price changes as well as
interest income) in U.S. dollars.
   Fears of inflation, political uncertainty and surging
interest rates have produced "one of the worst sell-offs in
global bond markets since the early 1980s," said Nicholas
Sargen, a director of bond market research at Salomon
Brothers Inc. The strength of the dollar in world currency
markets has compounded the problems for U.S. investors in
many foreign bonds.
   Now, many advisers say U.S. investors should stay home, at
least for the next few months. "I would recommend buying
Treasurys right now," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman
of Goldman Sachs International, a unit of Goldman, Sachs &amp;
Co.
   "I think the U.S. bond market is going to be a better
investment {than most major foreign bonds} over the medium
term, because inflation has topped out and because the dollar
is likely to remain robust" against most major foreign
currencies.
   Treasury securities prices surged Friday, reducing yields
available to investors. But yields on Treasury notes and
bonds -- at around 8.75% -- remain very attractive
historically. The long-term average annual return on
far-riskier stock-market investments, for instance, is about
10%. And the interest-income from government-guaranteed
Treasurys is free from all state and local income taxes.
   As a result, individual investors are expected to buy
unusually large amounts of Treasury notes and bonds this week
at the government's "quarterly refunding." The government
will be selling $30.5 billion of notes and bonds to pay its
bills and redeem previously issued notes and bonds coming
due. The three-part auctions begin tomorrow, with the sale of
three-year notes.
   But while Treasurys look especially attractive, investors
shouldn't abandon foreign bonds completely, money managers
say. Foreign securities provide a way for U.S. investors to
broaden the diversification of their portfolios, which can
reduce an investor's overall risk. Even though many foreign
bonds have produced abysmal results in recent months, several
others have glittered.
   Over the past 12 months, Spanish, Italian, French and
Belgian bonds each produced total returns (in U.S. dollars)
of more than 16%, according to J.P. Morgan's government bond
index. That was far above the performance of U.S. bonds,
which produced a total return of 8.32% in that period, said
Victor Filatov, a vice president at Morgan Securities.
   "There is a place for international diversification, both
in bonds and equities," said A. Michael Lipper, president of
Lipper Analytical Services Inc. He warned, however, that
investors must be aware that their returns will be affected
heavily by foreign-currency fluctuations.
   Despite this year's bond-market problems, some global
mutual funds have managed to produce strong results. From
Aug. 20, 1987, through last Thursday, figures compiled by
Lipper show, Putnam Global Government Income chalked up a
total return of nearly 41%. PaineWebber Master Global was
close behind, with a total return of more than 38%.
   Mr. Hormats of Goldman Sachs recommends that investors
keep a small portion, perhaps 5%, of their money in foreign
bonds as part of a diversified portfolio. "When you invest in
a country's bonds, you are betting on the effectiveness of
that country's central bank in controlling inflation," Mr.
Hormats said. And right now, the best bet is here at home.
   He also warned against assuming that the foreign stars of
the past 12 months will continue to shine. "The past isn't
necessarily prologue," he said.
   Italian and Spanish bonds, the top performers in the past
12 months, are unlikely to be as strong in coming months
because of domestic spending concerns and inflation pressures
there, Mr. Hormats said. But he is more bullish on French
bonds. "France now looks good," he said. "Inflation looks
stable, and the general outlook is quite good."
   For investors already holding foreign bonds, sitting tight
could be the best strategy right now, if Mr. Sargen of
Salomon Brothers is right. He contends that the global-bond
"nightmare may be winding down."
   Global bond markets are likely to "recoup some of their
losses" through the rest of this year, as "fears of inflation
subside in most countries," he wrote in a report issued late
Friday. He said, rallies last week in the U.S. and overseas
bond markets "provided the first ray of sunshine this year."
   Don't expect huge rallies, though, Mr. Sargen warned.
"First, the political uncertainties that have contributed to
the bond-market setbacks -- especially in West Germany, the
United Kingdom and Canada -- won't disappear quickly." At the
same time, net capital outflows from Japan "increasingly will
be rechanneled to European markets and away from the U.S. and
Canada," he wrote. Thus, he concluded, yields in most bond
markets "should finish 1990 at levels still considerably
above those at the beginning of the year."
   ---
              The Ups and Downs of Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Total returns on foreign government bonds, measured in
U.S. dollars, through April 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

                                        12           SINCE
 COUNTRY                 1990        MONTHS          12/85
                                                                                                       

 Austraia             - 3.73%         6.34%         98.70%
 Belgium                4.56         16.49         108.24
 Canada               - 6.98          3.59          69.29
 France                 4.78         17.70         100.05
 W.Germany            - 3.49          8.55          69.27
 Italy                  8.11         27.58          23.54*
 Japan                -13.87        -20.87          45.67
 Netherlands          - 1.12         10.95          75.33
 Spain                  8.20         22.44          27.15*
 U.K.                 - 6.49        - 6.40          55.02
                                                                                                       

 U.S.                 - 1.94          8.32          41.17
                                                                                                       

 Non-U.S. average#    - 5.72        - 3.20          63.19
                                                                                                       

 Global average#
 (including U.S.)     - 3.53          3.43          47.80
                                                                                                       

   *Since 12/87
   #Weighted by market capitalization
   Source: J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oregon Court Says U.S. Can't Nullify
   Exemptions Granted to an Ailing Thrift
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   For the first time, the government has lost an important
legal round in its effort to renege on accounting gimmicks
granted in the 1980s to moribund thrifts to keep them afloat.
   The decision, stemming from a suit brought by Far West
Federal Bank in federal court in Portland, Ore., further
muddies the legal waters surrounding the huge and
much-maligned savings-and-loan bailout bill passed last
summer and complicates the already flagging effort to change
the industry. Current estimates of the ultimate cost of
cleaning up the savings-and-loan disaster range between $325
billion and $500 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bailout bill set more stringent capital requirements
for thrifts and required regulators to nullify breaks on
capital requirements -- as well as on other regulations --
that were given to sick thrifts in past years; those breaks
have swollen the ultimate cost of the thrift disaster
immensely, because the insolvent thrifts that were kept open
generally just piled up bigger and bigger losses and
ultimately failed anyway.
   The Portland court's ruling also appears to contradict at
least one other decision earlier this year in a similar case
that generally upheld regulators' power to back out of
agreements granting sick thrifts such breaks. Industry
officials said the government is almost certain to appeal.
   The latest decision came in a case brought in January by
Far West, which in January 1988 entered into an unusual
agreement with regulators that exempted it from normal
capital and accounting standards. The thrift subsequently
brought in $27 million of fresh capital from private
investors. Under normal accounting and the new requirements
of the bailout bill, Far West would have one of the largest
negative tangible capital levels of any thrift -- about
$280.1 million. With the accounting methods used under the
1988 agreement, it showed tangible capital of about $47.9
million.
   Far West said at the time of filing the suit that
regulators had indicated that the bailout bill would
invalidate its agreement, rendering it instantly insolvent
and likely resulting in a costly government takeover. But
U.S. District Court Judge Owen Panner upheld Far West's 1988
agreement, ruling that, in drafting the bailout legislation,
"Congress could not have intended a result so unjust and
inequitable as the complete abrogation of a long-term,
comprehensive agreement on which private third parties relied
to invest large sums of money."
   The judge also issued a temporary restraining order
barring the Office of Thrift Supervision or other regulatory
agencies from imposing any other restriction or modification
contained in the bailout bill.
   An OTS official in Seattle, which has direct
responsibility for regulating Far West, declined to comment
on the ruling.
   Far West officials hailed the ruling. David Nierenberg,
Far West's chairman, called regulators' intention of breaking
the 1988 agreement "dangerous and unwise," because by going
back on its word, the government would make private investors
and capital markets even more skittish about investing in
thrifts than they already are. "The court has recognized
this, and this is an important precedent," he said.
   However, other courts have ruled that the government can
back out of past agreements and impose the bailout bill's
provisions. A federal court in Washington, D.C., held in
January that regulators could void certain capital breaks
granted previously to Flagship Federal Savings &amp; Loan of San
Diego. Flagship had sued to prevent regulators from forcing
it to comply with provisions of the bailout bill.
   Further confusing matters, a federal court in Chicago
ruled about a month ago that none of the provisions of the
bailout bill could be imposed against Olympic Savings of
Berwyn, Ill. But that court ruled on narrow constitutional
grounds, holding that Congress had never formally approved
the appointment of Danny Wall, then director of the OTS. The
court said that since Mr. Wall's appointment hadn't been
approved, he had no authority to authorize regulators to make
Olympic comply with the bill. But that decision became moot a
few days later when Congress approved the appointment of
Timothy Ryan to head the OTS.
   With help from its special agreement with regulators, Far
West had been able to report skimpy profits through most of
1989, although it wound up with a net loss of $9.6 million
for 1989 because of a $10.3 million loss from discontinued
operations, reflecting the closing of its real-estate
development unit. For the first quarter ended March 31, it
had a net loss of $4.3 million. It has a relatively clean
portfolio, with repossessed property of $29.2 million and
past-due loans of about $21 million. It has assets of about
$3.5 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Crack, Murder and Miranda
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   The next landmark litigation could be the Central Park
Jogger Case. This is the young woman who while running
through New York's park was attacked by a band of young
thugs, beaten savagely, raped and left for dead. She
survived, and her alleged attackers are soon to go on trial.
Her attack is the kind of incident that makes people worry
about the levels of violent crime today, but the case also
points up the many ways that defendants now try to exclude
evidence against them. We've argued that this use of the
exclusionary rule makes it difficult to reduce violent crime.
   One defendant in the jogger case has said that his
confession should be suppressed because a lawyer wasn't
present, as juvenile rules require, because the defendant had
a fake ID saying he was 16. Another says his grandmother
didn't understand the Miranda warning even in Spanish, and
another was "coerced" by "the promise to go home." The judge
has rejected these claims, but the defendants will appeal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Protectors of the exclusionary rule insist that it's no
problem. They say that hardly anyone gets off because of it.
This misses the point. The real issue is not how many cases
are brought and lost, but how many cases are never prosecuted
in the first place.
   Prosecutors are not fools. They often don't bring brutal
cases when they know they will lose because a judge will
order that key evidence be suppressed. The defendant walks,
often laughing. Hiding evidence of guilt from jurors is a
major barrier to fighting crime.
   Studies have found that when prosecutors decide not to
bring felony drug cases, 30% of the time it's because of
search-and-seizure problems. No one knows how many cases are
plea bargained because of an exclusionary-rule problem. If
there is to be a war on drugs, the rules of engagement need
changing.
   This common-sense view is challenged by defenders of this
uniquely American concoction who claim no correlation exists
between suppressing evidence of crimes and failure to convict
criminals. This group includes criminal-defense lawyers,
police bureaucrats and the American Bar Association.
   To clear the air, we offer a primer on the various
exclusionary rules, starting in 1961. In the intervening
years, the murder rate has doubled, rape has quadrupled and
robbery has quintupled.
   -- 1961, Mapp v. Ohio: This applied a rarely used federal
exclusionary rule to state courts, where 99% of crimes are
litigated. Juries can't see relevant evidence if there is a
Fourth Amendment search-and-seizure problem, such as a faulty
warrant.
   -- 1964, Massiah v. U.S.: Said a jury can't know the
incriminating statements freely made by an accused cocaine
smuggler to an accomplice who was secretly cooperating with
the police. Problem: The defendant's lawyer was not present.
   -- 1965, Griffin v. California: Said a jury can't draw any
conclusion from a defendant's failure to defend himself or
hear that a defendant has a history of similar crimes because
such evidence might cause "prejudice."
   -- 1966, Miranda v. Arizona: Said a jury can't hear a
murderer's voluntary confession if the police failed to ask
his permission before asking him any questions or omitted the
specific words of a warning that the confession could later
be used in court.
   Federal judges may have thought this harsh remedy was
justified in the 1960s when the police, especially perhaps in
the South during desegregation, were guilty of routine
misbehavior. But the judicial experiment of suppressing the
truth has turned out to be disastrous overreaching. Nothing
in the Constitution requires suppressing evidence under any
of these circumstances. Justice Cardozo's famous complaint is
still valid: There's no reason for a criminal to go free only
"because the constable has blundered."
   Before the 1960s, the Supreme Court was generally guided
by its holding that Fourth Amendment search violations are
"no good reason for excluding the papers seized as evidence
if they were pertinent." England follows a better rule. It
allows the evidence, but also disciplines police misbehavior
with lawsuits, fines, pay cuts and removal from the force.
The exclusionary rule creates no such disincentives for
misbehavior by U.S. police. Legal scholar Dallin Oakes has
noted, "Only a system with limitless patience with
irrationality could tolerate the fact that where there has
been one wrong, the defendant's, he will be punished, but
where there have been two wrongs, the defendants's and the
officer's, both will go free."
   Criminal trials are not supposed to be games with arcane
rules. Trials are meant to achieve justice by finding the
truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. With the
truth known, the guilty are punished and only the innocent go
free. The exclusionary rules invented since the 1960s have
ensured that too often the people responsible for violent
crime don't come close to the system that is supposed to
establish guilt, innocence, justice or the truth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dillard to Buy
   B.A.T's Ivey
   For $110 Million
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI DDS CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Dillard Department Stores Inc. said
it agreed to acquire J.B. Ivey &amp; Co. from B.A.T Industries
PLC for $110 million, completing B.A.T's planned sales of its
U.S. retailing units.
   The agreement follows B.A.T's agreements last month to
sell its Saks Fifth Avenue unit to Arab investors for about
$1.5 billion and its Marshall Field's unit to Dayton Hudson
Corp. for about $1.1 billion. The London-based conglomerate,
which put the retailing properties up for sale last September
to fend off a takeover bid by Sir James Goldsmith, will
receive about $2.8 billion from selling the U.S. stores, when
proceeds from the Ivey sale and the John Breuner Co. retail
furniture and rental businesses are included.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although some in the industry had estimated that B.A.T's
U.S. retail properties could fetch as much as $3 billion, the
company's total take is considered quite high in light of
other retailers' current financial troubles.
   For Dillard, the acquisition marks its first expansion
into the Carolinas, where Ivey operates 13 stores, and gives
the company an additional 10 stores in Florida, where it
currently operates just one Dillard outlet. Although the
department-store chain had looked at Saks and bid for
Marshall Field's, analysts say the Ivey stores are the best
fit for Dillard, which operates about 162 department stores,
primarily in the Midwest and Southwest.
   The stock market also apparently liked the purchase, as
Dillard's stock climbed $2.50 Friday to close at $75.75 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   James Freeman, Dillard's chief financial officer, said
that the Ivey stores have annual revenue of more than $300
million, largely from the sale of moderate to upscale
apparel. He said that Dillard hasn't yet decided if it will
convert Ivey stores into Dillard department stores.
   Dillard, which grew by buying regional chains through the
1980s, will finance the transaction through internally
generated funds and hopes to close the purchase as soon as
possible after regulatory clearance is granted.
   Meanwhile, the company is expected to continue looking for
possible acquisitions. With Bloomingdale's off the auction
block, Campeau Corp.'s Federated Stores Inc. is expected to
try to sell other regional chains. And Dillard might want to
add stores in Florida, or move into Georgia, where it doesn't
currently have outlets.
   "We look at everything that comes along," Mr. Freeman
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, May 4, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8 1/8% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.20% 30 to 89 days; 8.175% 90 to 119 days;
8.15% 120 to 149 days; 8.125% 150 to 179 days; 8.10% 180 to
270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.30%
30 days; 8.30% 60 days; 8.35% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.82% one month; 7.89% two
months; 7.94% three months; 8.02% six months; 8.36% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.30% one month; 8.50% three months;
8.60% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.16% 30 days; 8.16% 60 days; 8.16%
90 days; 8.16% 120 days; 8.16% 150 days; 8.15% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 7/16% to 8 5/16% one month; 8
1/2% to 8 3/8% two months; 8 9/16% to 8 7/16% three months; 8
5/8% to 8 1/2% four months; 8 11/16% to 8 9/ 16% five months;
8 11/16% to 8 9/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 7/16% one month;
8 5/8% three months; 8 15/16% six months; 9 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 30, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.91% 13 weeks; 8.03% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.44%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.42%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 9.05%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.81%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Mood Shift
   Boosts Odds
   For Auction
   ---
   Jobs Report Cheers
   Traders on the Eve
   Of U.S. Bond Sale
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The mood in the bond market has suddenly
shifted from sour to sweet, increasing the odds that
investors will develop a hearty appetite for the $30.5
billion of Treasury securities to be sold this week.
   The change in sentiment, which was evident after the
Department of Labor released the April employment report
Friday, also means that some interest rates may not exceed
current levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's kind of crazy to think that one report can create
wild swings" in investor sentiment and interest-rate
expectations, said William Brachfeld, manager of government
trading at Daiwa Securities Inc. But that's exactly what
happened.
   And crazy or not, the mood swing is likely to help Uncle
Sam easily auction $10.5 billion of three-year notes
tomorrow. The two other auctions, $10 billion of 10-year
notes Wednesday and $10 billion of 30-year bonds Thursday,
should also run smoothly.
   Just a few days ago, sentiment in the bond market was so
ugly that traders were bracing for big trouble at the
auction.
   They worried that the Federal Reserve would soon jack up
interest rates in an effort to squash inflation. They warned
that yields on the new Treasury securities would have to
exceed 9% to lure buyers to the record bond sale. They said
the government's bond auction could be a fiasco because
institutional investors, who have seen the value of their
fixed-income portfolios plummet this year, didn't want any
more bonds. Sure, small investors were expected to buy bonds
at the auction because of attractive yields, but their
purchases wouldn't be large enough to ensure the auction's
success, the traders said.
   While traders' nightmares could still come true, many
economists believe such concerns are overblown.
   The reason: Friday's employment report, which suggested
that the economy is much weaker than previous economic
reports may have indicated. The Labor Department reported
that nonfarm jobs grew by just 64,000 in April. Excluding the
78,000 increase in employment related to temporary census
workers, the April total would actually have declined by
14,000 last month.
   The Labor Department also reported that average hourly
earnings rose three cents to $9.95 in April on an adjusted
basis, a sign that labor-cost inflation is well under
control.
   The jobs report was widely viewed as a sign that the spike
up in interest rates may be ending. Moreover, economists now
believe that the Federal Reserve will vote to keep interest
rates unchanged at its May 15 meeting of the Federal Open
Market Committee. Prior to the employment report, there was
concern that the Fed would raise rates because other recent
economic reports have suggested that the economy was picking
up and inflation accelerating.
   The employment report "reduced the market's fear that the
Fed has to tighten credit policy," said Brian Fabbri, an
economist at Midland Montagu Securities.
   Immediately after the data were released, Treasury bond
prices soared and yields eased to the lowest levels in weeks.
The benchmark 30-year bond jumped more than 1 1/2 points, or
$15 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount, while the yield
fell to 8.8%. Two days earlier, the yield had been more than
9%.
   Although yields could rise slightly ahead of the auction,
"my guess is that it will be difficult to push the bond back
over 9%, since sentiment has been bolted," said Mr. Fabbri.
He expects yields on new Treasury securities to average 8
7/8%, which he says is attractive enough to lure investors.
   Elliott Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp., is urging clients to buy bonds.
"We believe that inflation in the U.S. will be contained at
4.5%-5%. In this context, 30-year Treasury obligations at
roughly 8.8% are offering at least a 3.8% real yield. We
regard that as an extraordinarily high yield for long-term
Treasury obligations."
   Dealers are more uncertain about the level of Japanese
participation at the auction. Tokyo markets were closed most
of last week for holidays, so there won't be a good
indication of Japanese demand until today.
   Philip Braverman, senior vice president and chief
economist at DKB Securities Corp., a subsidiary of Japan's
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, said that Japanese investors should
participate sizably.
   "Japanese insurance companies have reportedly decided to
hold the percent of their dollar assets to total assets
stable this fiscal year, implying investment of their premium
income in U.S. Treasurys in the same proportion to their
current dollar asset holdings. This suggests a takedown of
some 30% or so of the Treasury refunding," said Mr.
Braverman. Moreover, Japan's Ministry of Finance and the Bank
of Japan have encouraged Japanese institutions to put in a
"good showing" at the auction, according to Mr. Braverman.
   Thomas Sowanick, senior fixed-income strategist at Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., believes that Japanese participation could be "a
pleasant surprise." He notes that yields on 10-year Treasury
notes are 1.65 percentage points higher than yields on
10-year Japanese government securities. That is up from
March, when the yield-spread was less than 1.20 percentage
points. He says that Japanese investors are flush with cash,
largely from recent bond redemptions. "The combination of
available cash, wider spreads and a stable dollar suggests
that the foreign-sector bid {at the auction} could in fact be
larger than the market is expecting," Mr. Sowanick said.
   Mr. Brachfeld also expects Japanese investors to show up
in large numbers at the auction, but he isn't sure whether
that will have a lasting positive impact on the bond market
after the auction. The question, he said, is whether the bulk
of Japanese buyers will be speculators or long-term
investors. While buying by long-term investors could help the
market, speculators may simply buy bonds at the auction and
turn around and dump the securities in the days and weeks
following the auction.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The employment report triggered an explosive rally in the
bond market.
   The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose more than 1 1/2
points, or $15 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
price was quoted late Friday at 96 19/32 to yield 8.81%, up
from 95 1/32 to yield 8.97% on Thursday.
   The yield on the benchmark bond, which recently rose above
9% for the first time in nearly a year, edged down to its
lowest level in more than two weeks.
   Yields on shorter-term securities fell even faster.
Two-year Treasury notes, which were quoted late in the day at
a price of 100 9/32, compared with 99 27/32 on Thursday, were
yielding 8.698% on Friday, compared with 8.926% on Thursday.
   In the corporate bond market, investment-grade bonds
followed the Treasury market. Most issues ended about 1/2
point higher.
   Junk bonds however, were little changed. Junk bonds are
high-yield, speculative-graded corporate bonds that have low
credit ratings or no credit ratings at all.
   Among Friday's major market movers were the junk bonds of
Greyhound Lines Inc., which sank on news that the strikebound
carrier won't make a semiannual interest payment on its
publicly traded 13% senior notes due May 15. In addition, the
bus company said it had a loss of $55.7 million during the
first quarter, sharply wider than a $14.4 million loss during
the same period a year ago.
   Prices of Greyhound's 13% senior notes due in 1995 slid
six points to a bid price of 42. However, dealers said that
very few bonds actually traded hands.
   Traders said that activity in the junk bond market was
extremely quiet on Friday, partly because many market
participants were attending Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.'s high-yield
conference in Phoenix, Ariz.
   Meanwhile, First Boston Corp. said its junk bond index
produced a positive 0.42% return during the month of April.
First Boston also reported that buy-backs of junk bond debt
hit record levels in the first quarter. The firm said that
about $1.5 billion of junk bonds was bought back by issuers
during the first quarter, and another $1 billion in
high-yield debt was retired.
   Ever since the junk bond market went into a tailspin last
September, companies such as Mark IV Industries Inc.,
Burlington Holdings Inc. and Colt Industries Inc. have been
in the market buying back their debt at discounts.
   "The market prices that we have now are such that the best
investment companies can make is to buy back their debt at
these levels," said Kingman Penniman, senior vice president
at McCarthy Crisanti &amp; Maffei Inc. "I think as we start
looking at the numbers, and we start seeing the 10-Qs coming
in, we are going to see continued repurchases of debt." A
10-Q is a filing a company makes with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that gives details of earnings and
related financial information.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Double Whammy
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Is there a way Congress can make last year's Exxon Valdez
disaster worse? It's possible, if Congress rashly decides to
force all tankers and barges in U.S. waters to have double
hulls within 15 years. The proposed cure not only would have
failed to prevent the Exxon Valdez spill, but it could
increase the chances of a major oil spill while needlessly
driving up shipping rates.
   The House has passed an oil-spill bill that would require
all tankers to be retrofitted with double bottoms within
seven years and double hulls within 15 years. The Senate's
version mandates double hulls only for new tankers, and
postpones a decision on existing tankers pending a National
Academy of Sciences study on tanker design due out later this
year. A conference committee is now negotiating which version
will become law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All this is happening even though there is no evidence
that double hulls or double bottoms better prevent a major
oil spill than other safety precautions. Under some
circumstances, double bottoms would prevent oil tanks from
being punctured. But they can also make it harder to salvage
a grounded tanker and can create stability problems. The
Exxon Valdez hit the rocks at such a speed that a double hull
would have done little good. Even so, 80% of its cargo
remained in the tanks. The ship's builders say that a
double-hulled Exxon Valdez might have been lost under three
out of five possible accident scenarios.
   After the 1978 Amoco Cadiz oil spill, the International
Maritime Organization considered requiring double-hull
construction. It rejected the concept in favor of relocating
ballast tanks in the most vulnerable parts of a ship, and
partial double bottoms. All tankers built since 1979,
including the Exxon Valdez, have those features.
   The head of the Coast Guard, Admiral Paul A. Yost, agrees
that "unilateral" action mandating double-hulled tankers is a
mistake and he "strongly recommends" that Congress wait for
the National Academy study on tanker design. Why then is
Congress in such haste to require a fast phase-in of double
hulls?
   One reason is that environmentalists are demanding
something be done to prevent oil spills, and requiring double
hulls is a popular quick fix. Another is intense lobbying by
special interests. A few shipping companies with relatively
new fleets want to force their competitors to retire or
sideline their older, single-hulled fleets. They would lose
perhaps 10% of their fleets while eliminating 60% of the
overall tanker market. Because there aren't enough shipyards
to build or retrofit all the double-bottomed tankers needed
by the proposed 1997 deadline, the resulting shipping
shortage would allow the firms with newer fleets to drive up
prices.
   A shipping shortage could be avoided if the 1920 Jones Act
didn't force all trade between U.S. ports to be carried in
high-cost, U.S.-flag carriers. That means oil companies
hauling Alaskan oil can't use tankers from Korea, where costs
are half that of U.S. shipyards. The Department of Energy
says that last December's heating-oil shortage wouldn't have
happened if available foreign vessels could have been used
between U.S. ports.
   Requiring double hulls or bottoms on tankers is an
expensive way for Congress to show it is doing something
about the dangers of oil spills. The Exxon Valdez was tragedy
enough. Congress shouldn't compound the folly by forcing a
dubious technical fix on the oil industry before the National
Academy of Sciences report lays out all the facts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Judge Invalidates Regulation
   In Key Aspect of Auto Insurance Reform
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A Los Angeles judge invalidated regulations implementing a
key aspect of Proposition 103, giving the insurance industry
another victory in its legal attack on the reformist voter
initiative.
   The regulations attempted to limit the ability of
insurance companies to use place of residence when computing
automobile insurance rates for the state's 16 million insured
drivers. The issue is hot in California, where motorists in
urban centers can pay several times the rate for suburban and
rural drivers, and was a major driving force behind the voter
revolt that resulted in Proposition 103's passage in November
1988. Proponents also believe that insurers have used such
"territorial pricing" to discriminate against the poor and
minorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Superior Court Judge Miriam Vogel preliminarily
enjoined the regulations, finding that they conflicted with a
separate provision of Proposition 103 that prohibits
"excessive, inadequate or discriminatory" rates. Insurance
companies had argued that limiting their ability to
incorporate territory-related factors in setting rates would
be unfair because they are valid in determining potential
losses.
   "This strikes at the very core of Proposition 103," said
Karl Rubenstein, special counsel to the state insurance
commissioner, who said he plans to appeal the decision. "Our
major complaint over the ruling is that it is not based on
any ascertainable facts" that the new regulations would have
caused insurers actual losses.
   "It is a travesty of justice," added Harvey Rosenfield, a
Los Angeles consumer activist who organized the initiative's
campaign drive.
   Reflecting the intent of Proposition 103's framers, the
regulations ordered insurers to fix rates primarily based on
driving record, experience and annual mileage driven, an
approach that is at odds with rate-making policies used by
most insurance companies across the country. The regulations
also barred insurers from using gender or age in computing a
rate, but the judge rejected that position, too, citing
evidence that such factors were actuarially valid in
predicting future accidents.
   The immediate effect of the decision is that the state's
automobile insurers can ignore a deadline of this Friday when
new rating plans in accordance with the regulations were
originally due. Judge Vogel said insurers could continue to
use their old rates, but continued a temporary freeze that
state insurance regulators ordered last October.
   Some observers said they expected the industry, having
incurred losses in the hundreds of millions of dollars since
the initiative's adoption, to begin pushing for emergency
rate increases in court. But such efforts didn't appear
imminent. For instance, Marc Fairman, a San Francisco lawyer
for Allstate Insurance Co., said, "We may at some point ask
for preliminary relief while we work through the
administrative process."
   The decision also ensures months of additional legal
warfare over the initiative, which, because of its own
ambiguous language, regulatory delays and industry legal
challenges, has stalled short of expectations since its
passage 18 months ago. For instance, Proposition 103's most
highly publicized feature, a 20% rollback in rates, was
undermined by a state Supreme Court decision last year.
   "The commissioner is going to have a very difficult time
writing regulations that are constitutional, nonconfiscatory
and don't violate other provisions of the laws," predicted
Jessica Pers, a San Francisco lawyer for State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Co., the state's largest automobile
insurer.
   Judge Vogel's decision, if upheld, could be potentially
good news for nonurban drivers in the state. Insurance
companies had argued that the new regulations, while likely
to force down rates in urban areas, would cause large,
offsetting increases elsewhere. Indeed, State Insurance
Commissioner Roxani Gillespie, herself fearful of big rate
increases, had ordered a rate ceiling as part of the
regulations, which was also struck down as part of Judge
Vogel's order.
   But Mr. Rosenfield and other proponents maintained that
any increases would be confined mostly to bad drivers, and
that rates in general would decline as stricter regulation
under Proposition 103 made insurers more efficient.
   "It is certainly a problematically written piece of
legislation which has ambiguities and inconsistencies," added
Mr. Rubenstein. "But we felt that the regulations validly
implemented the spirit and intent of the law."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Won't Be Dragged Down by Drop
   In U.S. Interest Rates, Specialists Say
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar is likely to resist being dragged
sharply lower by the sudden downturn in U.S. interest rates,
currency specialists say.
   Aggressive dollar selling isn't expected in the near term
despite April's surprisingly weak U.S. employment data, which
stifled predictions of near-term tightening by the Federal
Reserve and halted the ascent of Treasury bond yields.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That's primarily because there are still a lot of
unanswered questions about the path of interest rates in West
Germany and Japan and the impact of the planned German
monetary union that may keep investors from fleeing the "safe
haven" offered by U.S. currency, dollar watchers say.
   "Near term, I think the dollar can hold its own," says
Samuel Kahan, chief economist at Fuji Securities Inc.,
Chicago. The dollar, he adds, appears "fairly priced" at
current levels.
   At the close of dealings here Friday, the dollar traded at
1.6662 marks and 158.25 yen, compared with 1.6827 and 158.05
here late Thursday. Despite the defeat of Britain's ruling
Conservatives in Thursday's local elections, the pound
finished at $1.6630, having strengthened from $1.6410.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
158 yen.
   The dollar dropped against most foreign currencies just
after Friday's release of last month's U.S. employment data.
The report was eagerly awaited because of speculation that
the Fed was on the verge of tightening credit because of
signs of unexpected economic strength and rising inflation
pressures. Higher interest rates generally tend to bolster a
currency.
   But instead of vigor and higher inflation, the statistics
showed across-the-board employment weakness and hinted at
lessening price pressures.
   Non-farm payrolls, a closely watched indicator of the
economy's health, rose 69,000 after increasing 103,000 in
March. Some economists had forecast an increase of more than
350,000, expecting a hefty rise because of the hiring of
temporary census workers.
   The jobless rate rose to 5.4% of the work force from 5.2%
in March, and the number of manufacturing workers dropped
22,000. Average hourly earnings rose only three cents despite
a minimum wage increase that went into effect April 1,
stemming some of the concern about inflation.
   The report "throws the argument for Fed tightening out the
window," says Earl Johnson, a foreign-exchange adviser at
Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank, Chicago.
   Rather than increasing interest rates, the Fed will
probably sit tight and leave official interest rates where
they are, analysts say. The Federal Funds rate, which is the
rate on reserves traded among commercial banks overnight and
the Fed's main policy tool, has hovered around 8.25% since
last fall.
   "The economy is not going to run away at this point," so
the Fed doesn't have to act, says Diego Giurleo, senior
manager of treasury services at the Royal Bank of Canada.
While tightening is unlikely in the near term, persistent
inflation concerns will prevent the Fed from letting rates
edge lower, he says.
   Besides causing an alteration in predictions about the
Federal Reserve's actions, the April employment report shook
things up in the Treasury bond market.
   The yield on the bellwether 30-year bond tumbled Friday,
ending the week at 8.82% after rising to 9.03% earlier in the
week and hitting the highest level in nearly a year. The
yield had soared recently because of rampant inflation
concerns and worries about demand for the record $30.5
billion of new issues that will be auctioned by the Treasury
in its quarterly refunding this week.
   Some analysts had expected the bellwether yield would head
toward 9.25% soon if the market's thrashing continued, but it
is now believed the yield will stay under 9% if the auction
draws solid demand and the mood in the market remains
positive.
   Despite the thwarting of predictions for near-term Fed
tightening and the possibility of a further decline in
Treasury bond yields, analysts say the dollar probably won't
fall far below current levels anytime soon because of
continued capital flow into the U.S.
   "The dollar is still relatively attractive, interest
rate-wise. It's not a big sell," says Mr. Giurleo. In West
Germany, the benchmark government bond currently yields about
8.51%, while Japan's benchmark bond has a yield of
approximately 7.42%.
   Until the direction of interest rates in West Germany and
Japan is clearer, there probably won't be any big dollar
moves, analysts say. It is believed that both the Bundesbank
and the Bank of Japan may have to raise rates later this year
if inflation rises in West Germany and Japan.
   Among other market concerns are the rapid move toward
German monetary union and the future of Japan's financial
markets after the rout earlier this year.
   "There's too much uncertainty now" to dump the dollar,
says Mr. Johnson of Harris Trust &amp; Savings Bank. He sees the
dollar testing support at 1.65 marks and 156 yen in the short
run, but not likely sliding under those levels.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $370.90 an ounce, down 50 cents.
Estimated volume was a light 2.4 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong early Monday, gold was quoted at $371.75 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Right to Roam
   Is Protected by Law
   In the English Moors
   ---
   But Landowners Don't Like
   The Weekend Trespassers
   `Worrying' Their Sheep
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   EDENBRIDGE, England -- On a balmy spring day, Ken Eastwood
takes off his city shoes, pulls on plastic "bog trotters" and
rambles down a footpath in Kent.
   Stalks of green wheat and budding bluebells blanket the
fields. Robins chirp in the hedgerows, lambs gambol through
the flowers. The air is ripe with blossoms, new-mown grass --
and a steaming heap of horse manure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Eastwood stares at the dung, "mucked out" from a
nearby stable and deposited in his path. "Farmer
malpractice," he says with a frown. "Our way is completely
obstructed."
   In America, if man meets manure on a stranger's farm, it
is the man who doesn't belong. Not so in England. Here,
ancient footpaths crisscross the countryside, providing
public right of way through plowed fields and past farmhouse
windows. It is the landowner's job to keep the routes clear
and the job of men like Mr. Eastwood, a "footpath secretary"
with the Ramblers' Association, to expose foul play by
farmers.
   These days, he is busy. In a barnyard-to-barnyard battle,
farmers are plowing under paths and posting "no access" signs
on their pastures. The ramblers are fighting back,
prosecuting landowners and demanding the right to roam as
they wish -- on or off footpaths -- across all uncultivated
land.
   "It's war out here on the moors," says Benny Rothman, a
78-year-old rambler, clutching a tuft of heather on a
precipice of the so-called Dark Peak in north-central
England. Catching his breath, Mr. Rothman mimicks the bleat
of a passing sheep and answers the shout of a grouse. "Man is
descended from animals that wandered at will," he says.
"Private property can't change that."
   In 1932, Mr. Rothman, then a "city lad from the slums of
Manchester," as he puts it, made this same steep climb during
a "mass trespass" to protest the closing of the moor by
graziers and gamekeepers. He spent four months in prison, and
outrage over the case helped open moors and establish clear
legal status for rights of passage across Britain.
   Now, Mr. Rothman says, the fight must be renewed because
"farmers are stealing back the land." A recent government
survey showed that crops, bulls, barbed wire and other
obstacles encroach upon two-thirds of England's 108,000 miles
of footpath. "Greed, that's all it is," says the impish,
5-foot-tall Mr. Rothman. "A farmer will skin a louse if he
can get hold of one."
   Farmers say they would rather skin Mr. Rothman and other
militant ramblers. "They're muck-stirrers, anarchists," says
David Mellor, who raises livestock at the base of the Dark
Peak, so named because of the black, gritty stone beneath the
purplish heather. "They spend their money in the pub while we
save it to buy land. They've no right to moan."
   Another Midlands landowner, Stuart Elliott, illustrates
the conflict with a sunset stroll across his 160-acre
Farfield Farm. Five public paths cut across his land, at one
point forming a giant X across a small field defined by
ancient stone walls. "People think, `Oh well, it's just
grass,'" he says as, two-by-two, the evening ramblers walk
across fields he sows for animal feed. "That's my life
they're treading on."
   Mr. Elliott says that a rambler's unleashed dog once
killed one of his lambs and that dogs worry his sheep,
causing pregnant ewes to abort. Gates also are left open,
allowing stock to stray. And week-enders often lose their way
while trying to follow vague guidebooks. "On a Sunday,
they'll be wandering around like the children of Israel," Mr.
Elliott says.
   Mr. Elliott's wife, Gil, regrets the loss of privacy. One
footpath cuts right past the front door of their 300-year-old
stone farmhouse. "Ramblers always stop to stare in our
windows," she says, sitting by a wood fire. "They think we're
quaint."
   Most farmers accept footpaths as part of the landscape,
since they once were used as routes to markets, churches and
pubs. The paths historically were one of many common
privileges, including the rights to gather acorns for pigs
and peat for fires. These days, cars bring millions of city
dwellers to the country on weekends, and landowners say
public access should be "rationalized," with some paths
closed or diverted, particularly during lambing and at
harvest time.
   But ramblers resist any suggestion of a rollback.
"Compromise is the road to ruin," says Don Lee, hiking
through the Midlands village of Hayfield. Coming upon a sign
that says "Private: No Throughroad," Mr. Lee checks his
survey map. Sure enough, the driveway doubles as a public
right of way. Mr. Lee tries to knock the sign down, then
settles for turning it around. "Give a landowner one inch and
he'll turf you right off the land."
   Skirmishing is most fierce in lonely, windswept tracts
with names like Bleaklow, Far Moss and Nether Moor. This
wild, Wuthering Heights landscape is the scene each autumn of
grouse "drives," in which beaters herd ground birds into the
air to be shot. Hunters pay landowners up to $600 a day for
use of terrain that is otherwise of limited value.
   "If you're about to shoot at a pack of 500 birds, and a
rambler in a brightly colored coat pops up out of nowhere,
the whole sport is distorted," says Martin Gillibrand,
secretary of the Moorland Association, a lobbying group for
grouse-moor owners.
   Responds the Ramblers' Mr. Rothman: "Very sporty it is,
drinking whiskey and massacring birds. I'm told the grouse
love it." Grouse-moor owners want to limit rambling during
the nesting and shooting of birds. Ramblers, meanwhile, want
free access to moors where no paths exist, and they are
lobbying the House of Commons to toughen laws to keep
footpaths clear.
   Social tension magnifies the upland conflict. Many moor
ramblers come from grim industrial cities. Myra Gregory, a
retired teacher from Manchester, says she lives "in a row of
houses all stuck together with music going bumpety bump in
the night and cars rumbling past." Sprawled in heather atop
Dark Peak, she adds: "If I couldn't come out here and feel
the wind on my face, I'd go crazy."
   Many moor owners, on the other hand, are wealthy and
titled and hold vast estates. "It's the politics of envy,"
says Peter Geldart, an official of the Country Landowners
Association. "It pits those who have against those who think
they ought to have."
   Nationwide, though, most foot soldiers of the rambling
movement aren't havenots, nor are they anarchists. Mr.
Eastwood, the footpath secretary in Kent, is a 59-year-old
Tory who, until six months ago, put on a suit each day and
went to work as manager of Lloyds Bank's biggest branch, in
central London. These days, he dons a windbreaker, waterproof
pants and bog trotters to patrol green fields for rural
wrongdoing. "I didn't want to spend my retirement in a golf
cart," says the tall, lean rambler.
   At one field, he pauses to inspect a broken "kissing
gate," a sort of turnstile that lets people through but not
animals. Later, he admires a barley field where a farmer has
recut a path through the shin-high stalks. "Very
presentable," he says. "If everyone did a proper job, I could
retire." Hewing closely to the narrow path, he avoids
trampling the crop and calls to his sole companion, "Single
file]"
   Mr. Eastwood works as a volunteer, firing off letters to
county officials responsible for maintaining footpath signs
and enforcing the laws. One hiker recently won $100 when a
farmer's dog tore his pants. Another man is being prosecuted
for harassing hikers. Mr. Eastwood now is battling to
maintain rights of way through the dozens of golf courses
being built across Kent.
   At ramble's end, over a pint of beer and a ploughman's
lunch, Mr. Eastwood tells how he met his wife during a group
ramble through Wales. Almost every vacation they have taken
since then has been a walking holiday in rural England or
abroad. "In Italy, the locals thought we were mad," he
recalls, "walking in the midday sun."
   Usually, he sticks to the gentle countryside close to
home, with its half-timbered farmhouses, green fields and
areas marked "forest," though the trees were felled centuries
ago. "Some people pine for the Himalayas," he says, putting
back on his city shoes. "Me, I'll take Kent."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<LP>
   SEAN MULHOLLAND, who is suing his former employer,
Nordstrom Inc., for allegedly unlawful discharge, says he has
a written record of 16 contacts with Nordstrom managers, who
allegedly orally rejected his efforts to seek reinstatement
at Nordstrom. He didn't receive any letter of rejection, and
Nordstrom denies that he was unlawfully discharged. A Feb. 20
article mistakenly indicated that Nordstrom rejected Mr.
Mulholland's applications in writing.
   (See: "Sales Job: At Nordstrom Stores, Service Comes First
-- But at at Big Price --- Retail Clerks Work Overtime for No
Pay, Are Pressured to Meet Selling Quotas --- Claim for Back
Wages Upheld" -- WSJ Feb. 20, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   One Longtime Bull Believes a Rally
   Is About to Burst From the Gloom...
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   The stock market sure can be discouraging these days.
   Inflation is at worrisome levels. The bond market has been
slumping all this year, with interest rates high and maybe
headed higher. Corporate profits are lousy. And stock prices
remain stubbornly stuck in a trading range.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But is it possible that lurking somewhere in the gloom are
the makings of a big rally not too far in the future? Some of
the market's biggest bulls are contending these aren't really
big problems at all. And once that becomes evident to
investors, these optimistic analysts see nothing ahead but
blue sky for stock prices.
   "From sometime in the second quarter to sometime in the
second half, we should have a strong move up," says Peter
Canelo, the chief market strategist for Bear, Stearns and a
longtime bull. "We'll break out of this trading range we've
been in and be making new highs by midyear, possibly pushing
the Dow to 3,000 sometime in the second half."
   The logic behind Mr. Canelo's ebullience is
straightforward: None of the problems that are bothering
investors are as bad as they seem, and most of them will soon
get a lot better. Corporate profits, for instance, "are not
quite as bad as most people thought they would be and
certainly not as bad as the fourth-quarter profits," he says.
   Shrugging off Friday's weaker-than-expected employment
report as just another statistical fluctuation, Mr. Canelo
says recent reports are signaling stepped-up economic growth,
which will turn out to be stronger than most people thought.
That momentum will enhance corporate profits for the second
quarter and beyond.
   Key to Mr. Canelo's argument is that he doesn't think the
bond market -- the principal determinant of interest rates --
is nearly as sick as it appears. In part, that's because
inflation isn't as bad as it seems. While prices clearly rose
at an unusually rapid pace in the first quarter, he points
out that oil prices, one of the big factors in that rise, are
falling now along with gold, usually a reliable barometer of
inflation.
   And while many worry-warts focus on the consumer price
index, which rose 0.5% in March, Mr. Canelo argues that a
better guide to future inflation rates is the producer price
index, a measure of wholesale inflation that actually fell
0.2% in March.
   Some bond bears also complain that the economy is
reaccelerating at a pace that will drive up credit demands,
putting more upward pressure on interest rates, at a time
when the savings-and-loan industry bailout is already forcing
rates up.
   Not so, says Mr. Canelo. For one thing, he argues that the
S&amp;L crisis won't result so much in creating new debt as in
replacing individual S&amp;Ls' short-term funding with long-term
debt managed by the government.
   And is 3% growth really excessive? "People are arguing
that the economy may be growing at a 2% to 3% annual rate,"
he says. "But in a historical context, that's not even
hitting the average rate of growth we've seen in the past."
   All these budding silver linings may become evident in the
next week or so, says Mr. Canelo. Friday's employment
statistics support his argument that the economy is growing
at only a moderate pace. And the Treasury's big $30.5 billion
quarterly refunding auction later this week should
demonstrate that interest rates needn't rise higher to keep
investors interested in the bond market. Once that issue is
settled, stocks will become considerably more attractive, he
says.
   "The place to be will be in technology, capital goods and
some of the consumer and basic industry cyclicals," says Mr.
Canelo. Companies in those areas will benefit from continued
U.S. growth, and they stand to be the real winners over the
next several years as European economies begin expanding.
   "I don't believe we're going to be supplying Europe with
lots of McDonald's, Coca-Cola and Levis," he says. "What
we're going to be able to provide are Apple computers, Lotus
1-2-3 software, Caterpillar tractors, John Deere agricultural
machinery and Briggs &amp; Stratton motors."
   But Mr. Canelo's arguments don't sway nonbelievers. "Bad
news isn't necessarily followed by good news," says Abby
Cohen, market strategist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd in New
York. Indeed, she thinks the stock market has to go down, not
up, to reflect the true investment environment. "It's
remarkable to me that the stock market has been able to stay
in a state of suspended animation as long as it has."
   The problems that Mr. Canelo dismisses are precisely the
ones that have convinced Ms. Cohen the market is at
unsustainably high levels. She thinks profits are likely to
remain disappointing for several quarters. Inflation is and
will continue to be a problem, she argues.
   "A lot of people presumed that when the economy got
sluggish, they would see inflation come down," she says, "but
that isn't necessarily the case. It takes a pretty good
wallop to the side of the head for an extended period of time
to really reduce inflationary pressures, and we haven't had
that kind of downturn." And that's why the other big problem,
high interest rates, isn't likely to be solved anytime soon,
either.
   Ms. Cohen suspects U.S. stock prices have held up, not
because the U.S. outlook is so bright but because it isn't
nearly as bad as the outlook for other markets around the
world. The result is an influx of foreign money into U.S.
financial markets, encouraged by the dollar's relative
strength against other currencies. But can it continue? "Who
knows what happens to the dollar," asks Ms. Cohen. But unless
some unforeseen event comes along, she figures the stock
market is 15% to 20% too high.
   Suresh Bhirud, the chief strategist at Oppenheimer,
concurs. A big earnings rebound could make the stock-market
picture a lot brighter, he says, "but it's hard to make a
case that earnings would rise that spectacularly, because
profit margins are under enormous pressure." He says
companies are incurring steadily higher costs, especially
labor costs, that they're unable to pass along in sharply
higher price increases. For example, he notes, Caterpillar's
first-quarter revenue was up 8%, but profit fell nearly 30%.
   He also expects interest rates to keep rising as a
consequence of that inflation. His forecast is for the yield
on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond to hit 10% later
this year, compared with the current worrisomely high 9%.
   Like Ms. Cohen, he suspects stock prices are 15% to 20%
too high. They'll come down, he says, probably in a prolonged
decline. Unless an investor is prepared to weather that kind
of market, cash is king, he says. "In this kind of
environment, how can we recommend stocks?" he asks.
   ---
                       The Lonely Dow
                                                                                                       

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average has done pretty well for
the past year, but many broader stock-market indicators
haven't. Percent change over past 12 months*
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Industrial Average                 13.1%
                                                                                                       

 Standard &amp; Poor's 500                         9.0%
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Utility Average                     7.2%
                                                                                                       

 New York Stock Exchange Composite             6.8%
                                                                                                       

 Dow Jones Transportation Average              0.9%
                                                                                                       

 American Stock Exchange                     - 0.3%
                                                                                                       

 NASDAQ Composite                            - 0.9%
                                                                                                       

 Russell 2000                                - 3.3%
                                                                                                       

 Value Line (1700 stocks, equally weighted)  - 7.9%
                                                                                                       

 *Price only, 12 months ended May 3, 1990
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity

   Stock prices extended their week-long rally after a
surprisingly weak report on April employment took pressure
off interest rates.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.19 to 2,710.36.
The close above 2,700 was the first since April 19. Broader
measures fared well, too, and advancing issues on the New
York Stock Exchange outnumbered decliners, 1,020 to 465. For
the week the Dow Jones industrials rose 65.31 points, or
2.5%.
   Pfizer fell 7/8 to 57 on 2.3 million shares. The
California Supreme Court cleared the way for a trial in a
lawsuit filed by a recipient of a heart valve manufactured by
Pfizer's Shiley unit. The suit seeks damages for emotional
trauma suffered from having the valve, which was taken off
the market after a number of patients died following ruptures
in the devices. Responding to the ruling, Pfizer noted that
19 similar cases in other jurisdictions have been dismissed
and another 19 have been withdrawn voluntarily.
   Actively traded technology stocks posted solid gains.
International Business Machines rose 2 1/2 to 110 1/2 on 1.5
million shares, Compaq Computer advanced 2 1/4 to 103 3/4,
Digital Equipment climbed 1 3/4 to 88 and Hewlett-Packard
rose 3/4 to 44 3/4.
   Banking and financial-services stocks also paced the
market's rally, reflecting the sharp decline in rates. Among
bank issues, Citicorp rose 1/2 to 22 3/4 on 1.8 million
shares; J.P. Morgan went up 1 1/8 to 34 3/4; Bank of New York
rose 1 1/8 to 32; and Security Pacific rose 7/8 to 37 3/8. In
financial services, Federal National Mortgage Association
advanced 1 1/8 to 34 7/8, and American Express added 3/8 to
26 7/8.
   But Kemper dropped 5/8 to 34 1/2 after a former
public-finance executive with its Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben
unit won a $38.2 million arbitration award in an employee
contract dispute. Kemper said it would take a $19.5 million
charge in the second quarter for the award, although Prescott
will contest the decision.
   Several casino issues posted especially sharp gains;
Caesars World fared best by gaining 1 3/8 to 18 7/8, a 7.9%
advance. Golden Nugget gained 1 5/8 to 34 1/8, and Circus
Circus Enterprises added 2 to 54 1/2.
   Hibernia went up 1/4 to 16 1/4 on 1.7 million shares, with
one pair of large block trades designed to capture its next
quarterly dividend payment accounting for 1.6 million of the
total. The stock carries a 6.2% dividend yield and went
ex-dividend Thursday.
   A strong performance on the London stock market spilled
over into U.S. trading in the shares of a number of
British-based companies. British Petroleum rose 1 7/8 to 63
7/8; British Telecommunications rose 1 1/2 to 43 1/2; British
Gas gained 1 3/8 to 33 5/8; Glaxo Holdings added 3/4 to 26
1/8; SmithKline Beecham firmed 5/8 to 36 1/8; and Shell
Transport &amp; Trading rose 1 1/4 to 45.
   (See related story: "Heard on the Street: ...While Other
Analysts See Rough Times Ahead for DJIA" -- WSJ May 7, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   P&amp;G Tries Bolder Ads -- With Caution
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rosie, the waitress who mops up clumsy customers' spills
with Bounty paper towels, has joined Mr. Whipple and Mrs.
Olson in the television commercial graveyard at Procter &amp;
Gamble Co.
   She was replaced recently by a musical medley of kids
slopping spaghetti and eggs on the kitchen floor. The new ad,
says L. Ross Love, P&amp;G's vice president of advertising, shows
scenes consumers can relate to. "This brings it home," he
says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 20-year-old Rosie campaign and other slice-of-life ads
are slowly but surely vanishing from P&amp;G's television lineup.
Wordy scripts are out. Mini-musicals, complete with rap,
calypso and operas, are in. And some P&amp;G ads are actually
funny.
   A decade ago, two of every three P&amp;G commercials were
slice-of-life or testimonial. Now it's only one in four, says
Mr. Love. And the company is trying to change the remaining
slice-of-life commercials "to slice of reality," he says.
   Mr. Love cites the "Best Part of Waking Up" ads for
Folgers coffee as an example of greater realism. One recent
commercial shows an emotional homecoming when a son on
military leave greets his parents. That type of slice-of-life
ad can be "interesting and relevant" and more of a mirror of
people's lives, he says.
   He's convinced that less traditional approaches work,
suggesting that P&amp;G will increase its budget for such
campaigns in the years ahead.
   This is quite a change, considering stuffy P&amp;G was once
the king of slice-of-life and testimonial ads. "They were so
product driven, their ads were recognized as a genre on
Madison Avenue," says Scott Ellsworth, an advertising
historian at the Smithsonian Institution. "The old saying in
advertising is, `Sell the sizzle, not the steak.' But P&amp;G has
traditionally sold the steak."
   That philosophy had to change, observers say, as
competitors stole market share from P&amp;G in categories such as
diapers and toothpaste. "P&amp;G got a serious wake-up call,"
says Hugh Zurkuhlen, analyst with Salomon Bros. By making
dramatic changes in advertising, "they're implicitly
admitting that it's no longer a game of producing a better
quality product and flogging it."
   While P&amp;G certainly is more adventuresome, it has hardly
embraced the avant-garde styles adopted by other advertisers
in the 1980s. And it has stuck with its traditional roster of
big mainstream ad agencies, rather than giving any of the hot
little boutique agencies a try.
   "The ads are livelier . . . and less robotlike," says Gad
Romann, of Romann &amp; Tannenholz Advertising Inc. in New York.
"But they still have a long way to go." He notes that P&amp;G is
still very product driven. "P&amp;G is looking for more
modern-day advertising, yet they keep to their criteria --
persuasion and moving goods."
   Some of P&amp;G's ad agencies quietly indicate that getting
the company to sign off on quirky campaigns is still a
daunting task. They say creative executions that challenge
P&amp;G's subdued style are squashed right and left.
   An amusing spot for Prell shampoo last week won an Andy
award from the New York Advertising Club, for example, but
P&amp;G didn't give the ad the go-ahead and it will probably
never air.
   The ad, created by Leo Burnett Co., shows a macho baseball
pitcher stalling after throwing "ball three" while a packed
stadium whirrs in front of him. The fuming catcher runs out
to the mound and yells, "What are you thinking about out
here?" The guy pulls off his cap and says: "I dunno. I just
don't think this perm looks natural." Not to be outdone, the
catcher responds: "You think you've got problems] Take a look
at these split ends]"
   At the awards banquet Thursday night, ad executives
cheered and hooted. But P&amp;G apparently didn't find the spot
funny. "That advertising was really designed to explore
advertising more targeted toward men, but Prell is currently
focusing" on women, a spokeswoman says. The award-winning ad
has been shelved. P&amp;G is continuing instead with a more
subdued campaign: "Prell: The cleaner the rinse, the fuller
your hair."
   Similar quirky executions have been shot down on other
brands, including Safeguard soap, an account that P&amp;G
recently yanked from Wells, Rich, Greene Inc. and awarded to
Jordan, McGrath, Case &amp; Taylor Inc. P&amp;G is running a campaign
with a theme of "Safeguard makes it safe enough to get
close," but a new campaign is on the way, ad executives say.
   Significant changes already have been made in campaigns
for some P&amp;G products. Consider a new ad for Camay soap that
is being aired in European markets. The commercial describes
how the soap helps women get "ready for love." Hardly the
usual "it makes your skin soft" approach found in P&amp;G's
earlier U.S. Camay ads. European consumers expect commercials
to be more daring; P&amp;G is mum on whether the campaign ever
will be shown in the U.S.
   P&amp;G's Crisco ads no longer feature women complaining about
their tough pie crusts. Now the commercials show people
baking gooey chocolate chip cookies or apple pies. There's no
talking, just soothing classical music.
   Even Tide detergent, one of P&amp;G's most successful brands,
is getting a face lift in its ads. One new TV commercial for
Tide Liquid detergent uses no spoken copy -- it's just three
kids singing a rap song to their mother.
   Solo detergent uses an animated commercial featuring
Popeye cartoon characters, while Crest toothpaste ads feature
animated, singing chimpanzees and fruits. "Could you imagine
10 years ago someone coming into P&amp;G telling them about an ad
with cartoons?" says Mr. Love. "It wouldn't have happened."
   Mr. Love says the shift began with two commercials six
years ago. The ads, for Citrus Hill orange juice and Bounce
fabric softener sheets, both featured less copy and more
music. But change came slowly; neither ad remained on the air
for long. One reason: They weren't effective in building
market share. But they "helped encourage our agencies to
break out of the pattern," Mr. Love says.
   Then came a witty, award-winning Cheer campaign in 1987
that featured opera music instead of the usual laundryroom
banter. The ad proved that P&amp;G really wanted a change.
   P&amp;G, of course, still has its limits. It hates controversy
and is quick to pull an ad campaign if consumers don't
respond well. For instance, ads for Bain de Soleil sun-care
products last year featured a girl in a black bikini, sort of
a miniature of the sultry woman seeking the St. Tropez tan.
Some consumers were outraged, saying the child was too sexy.
The youngster has since been dropped from the ad.
   "It's not Procter that is killing the off-the-wall stuff,"
says Richard M. Karp, chief creative officer at Grey
Advertising Inc., which handles several major P&amp;G accounts.
"It's the consumer saying `I don't get it' or `I don't like
it.'"
   Indeed, a recent test of a Charmin bathroom tissue ad,
featuring a clown in a bathroom, apparently went too far and
won't be introduced in national markets. Says Mr. Love: "It
was unsuccessful. We were dealing in an area where there are
certain sensitivities. I think the execution missed the
mark."
   Some consultants suggest that P&amp;G should be careful not to
stray too far from its conservative roots. Gary Stibel, of
New England Consulting Group, says client studies show that
"the advertising pendulum will swing back from more
image-oriented campaigns to a more product-performance and
information-oriented campaign" in the 1990s."American
consumers have less time and tolerance," he says. "It's the
beginning of a trend that will benefit advertisers like
Procter."
   ---
   Thomas R. King contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Petrofina S.A.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   B.SGL B.GBL B.PET WNEWS F.CEA
</CO>
<LP>
   PETROFINA S.A. (Brussels) -- As expected, Petrofina
announced Friday a new slate of directors, giving more power
to the two Brussels-based holding companies that control it,
Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. and Groupe Bruxelles
Lambert S.A. The oil company named Albert Frere as chairman
and Viscount Etienne Davignon as vice chairman. Mr. Frere is
chairman of Groupe Bruxelles Lambert, and Mr. Davignon holds
the same post at Societe Generale. Groupe Bruxelles owns
about 20% of Petrofina's shares, and another company
controlled by Mr. Frere holds some 5%. Societe Generale
indirectly controls about 12% of Petrofina. In addition,
Petrofina named 40-year-old Francois Cornelis, currently an
executive director, as chief executive officer. Jean-Pierre
Amory is retiring as chairman and chief executive but will
remain a director. Pierre de Tillesse, who is stepping down
as vice chairman, also will continue as a director. Among
other appointments, Petrofina named as directors Guy
Dejouany, who is chairman of Cie. Generale des Eaux of
France; Gilles Samyn, a director of Groupe Bruxelles; and
Henrique Bandeira Vieira, Petrofina's senior vice president,
exploration and production. The board is being expanded to a
maximum of 20 members from 18. Ten of the directors are to
represent the big shareholders, six are to come from
Petrofina's management, and the rest are to be "independent"
directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- AmeriFirst Bank:
   Kidder Hired to Help Raise
   Capital, Add to Stock Value
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMRI GE
</CO>
<LP>
   AmeriFirst Bank said it hired Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. to
help raise capital for the bank and to develop plans to
enhance the value of its stock.
   Miami-based AmeriFirst said it will work with Kidder's
Financial Services Group, which specializes in transactions
for financial institutions, including restructurings and
recapitalizations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In April, AmeriFirst settled four shareholder lawsuits,
which had alleged that the bank had misled shareholders about
its financial condition in public filings. AmeriFirst said
the settlement was an essential step toward its objective of
raising new capital to meet regulatory requirements.
   Kidder is a unit of General Electric Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brazil Rescinds Ban on Many Imports
   But Puts High Duties on Most of Them
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM ERICY G.SIE NIPNY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIO DE JANEIRO -- The Brazilian government has begun
fulfilling its promise to liberalize its restrictive trade
practices by allowing the import of several hundred
previously prohibited products and opening up its market for
telephone equipment.
   But trade experts warned there's less to the change than
meets the eye because the government is slapping high import
duties on most products in order to protect its domestic
industry. Cars, for instance, will face import duties of 85%;
once local taxes are added on, a foreign car will cost 215%
of its original price, according to the National Association
of Auto Makers. Previously, the duty on cars was 65% -- but
importers also had to get an import license, which was almost
never granted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, government officials indicated that imports
would only be allowed in a first phase within the limits of
Brazil's foreign-exchange reserves, which amounts to a form
of quota. In addition, a number of products still remain
fully shielded from foreign competition, including computers,
arms and munitions, defoliants and "habit-forming substances"
such as cigarettes.
   Still, trade analysts welcomed the move as a step in the
right direction. "Getting into the tariff business rather
than imposing non-tariff barriers is a big step," said a
diplomat who follows trade matters.
   Brazil's move is likely to be well received in Washington,
which recently said it would remove Brazil from its list of
trade violators -- known as the Super 301 and Special 301
provisions of the 1988 Trade Act -- but said it would keep
the country on a Priority Watch List while monitoring whether
newly installed president Fernando Collor de Mello's acts
match his free-trade talk. Brazilian officials say they hope
to scrap all barriers and cut tariffs over the next two
years.
   Analysts noted that the announcement of Brazil's trade
liberalization coincided with Economics Minister Zelia
Cardoso de Mello's departure for Washington to attend the
Interim Committee meetings of the International Monetary Fund
and the World Bank, and appear designed to gain financial
backing for the sweeping anti-inflation plan Mr. Collor has
implemented. Brazil, whose $115 billion foreign debt is the
developing world's largest, is planning to resume
negotiations with its creditors within weeks.
   Brazil has repeatedly come under fire from its trading
partners for being one of the most protectionist countries in
the world. In a bid to develop its domestic industry, the
then-military government of General Ernesto Geisel in 1975
issued a list of 4,000 items whose import was "temporarily
suspended," running from perfume to automobiles. Although the
list has since been brought down to about 1,200 items, the
"temporary suspension" has survived until now.
   When he took office on March 15, Mr. Collor said the
country's protectionist policies have made it lag behind its
trading partners in terms of technology, quality and cost,
and vowed change. On his first full day in office, he
repealed the list of prohibited imports, but the repeal was
made inoperative by Brazil's failure to announce new import
tariffs.
   Friday's decision marks a first step in that direction by
setting tariffs on 308 goods, ranging from chemicals -- with
tariffs going from 40% to 85% -- to such products as kitchen
appliances and white goods (generally 60% tariffs), hi-fis
and videos (85%), cars and trucks (85%) and toys (105%).
   Government officials expect the trade measures to lead
Brazil to import about $1 billion more than in 1989, when the
country posted a trade surplus of $16 billion. Officials say
the trade liberalization has two aims: In the short-term,
Economy Secretary Joao Maia told the business daily Gazeta
Mercantil, imports will be a "powerful instrument" against
speculative price rises and shortages of goods that have
doomed past Brazilian anti-inflation packages. And over the
longer term, he said, it will destroy the cartels that
dominate much of Brazilian industry and restrict competition.
"Whoever doesn't have international standards of price and
quality must either change or die," he said.
   Brazil's government will take a first step toward breaking
up cartels by scrapping a law restricting the telephone
equipment market to the local subsidiaries of Telefon AB L.M.
Ericsson of Sweden, Siemens AG of West Germany and NEC Corp.
of Japan, officials say.
   In 1978, the three had won the exclusive rights to install
800,000 terminals in Brazil, but continued to dominate the
market after the contract was fulfilled, installing more than
two million terminals at nearly twice the cost of the
international market, according to Communications Secretary
Joel Rauber. The government also last week said it was
studying how to attract more foreign auto makers to spur
competition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   California Mulls
   Tying Auto Tax
   To Emissions
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GM TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The California Legislature is moving toward adopting a
plan that would tie state sales taxes on new cars to the
amount of air pollution they cause. Similar measures are
being considered in Massachusetts and Iowa.
   The bills borrow a tactic from the auto industry, which
has long used rebates to move slow-selling cars. The states'
measures propose to use sales tax rebates to spur the sale of
low-polluting vehicles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As currently written, the California bill would remove the
average $700 state sales tax on a low-polluting,
medium-priced car. Consumers who choose a similarly priced
model with a high pollution rating, however, would pay the
$700 in sales taxes, plus a surcharge of as much as $74.
   The theory is that such a price spread would give auto
makers an incentive to make cleaner cars while providing
consumers with incentives to buy them. "If we are serious
about cleaner air, we have to send the right price signals to
manufacturers and car buyers," says the bill's sponsor, Sen.
Gary K. Hart, a Santa Barbara Democrat. Autos are considered
the major source of California's air pollution problems.
   Sen. Hart's bill, known as Drive +, cleared an important
hurdle late last week when it was favorably reported from the
state Senate's Revenue and Taxation Committee. However, aides
to the senator and a coalition of environmental groups
supporting the measure concede that it's likely to face
stiffening opposition from industry during hearings before
the Senate Appropriations Committee.
   Already, General Motors Corp. has signaled it's unhappy
with certain provisions, including one that lumps
air-emission standards for trucks with those for cars. "They
aren't built to meet the same standards," says Lee Ridgeway,
a GM lobbyist who has followed the bill.
   Proponents believe, however, that some version of Sen.
Hart's bill will inevitably become law in California, where
voters in the past four years have given overwhelming support
to a variety of environmental initiatives regulating
everything from toxic chemicals to offshore oil drilling.
   On the ballot this November is the most ambitious of these
initiatives to date. Known as "Big Green," it would mandate a
sweeping array of controls on pesticides, air pollution and
forestry practices, among others. Although some industry
segments have vowed an intense campaign to derail the
measure, most also concede that the initiative will likely
pass.
   "If we get Big Green, we will pass Drive +," says Carl
Pope, a Sierra Club spokesman who predicts a steamroller
effect for environmental legislation in general should Big
Green win.
   Under Sen. Hart's bill, all new cars would have to meet
current state and federal emission standards. Essentially,
the bill rewards those that exceed those standards. It
mandates the state's Air Resources Board to test all new car
models and to establish a rebate benchmark, based upon the
average emission levels of those models that do better than
the state and federal guidelines.
   The models that meet or exceed that benchmark qualify for
rebates, while those that fall short would be burdened with
sales taxes, and in some cases, surcharges. Under the law,
dealers would be required to post the results of emission
tests, and any rebates or surcharges, on a car's sticker
price to aid consumers in comparison shopping.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mediagenic's Loss
   Totaling $19 Million
   Is Estimated for Year
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MGNC
</CO>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Mediagenic Inc. expects to post a
year-end loss of $19 million, on revenue of $65 million, and
is considering the possible sale of the company.
   The loss is because of discontinuing certain operations
and damages the company must pay in a patent infringement
case, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, Mediagenic was ordered to pay as much as $6.4
million in damages, interest and lawyers fee in connection
with a 1986 patent suit by Magnavox Co. Mediagenic is a
publisher of entertainment software formerly known as
Activision.
   Mediagenic said it will also discontinue or shrink
unprofitable product lines in the face of a stagnant domestic
market for computer-entertainment software, and strong
competition. The company has retained the investment-banking
firm of PaineWebber Inc. to advise it on ways to find
additional financing and the possible sale of all or part of
the company.
   A year earlier, Mediagenic had net income of $1.1 million,
or 28 cents a share, on revenue of $60.6 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Interco Inc.:
   Furniture Maker Says Banks
   To Extend Loan Payments
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   ISS
</CO>
<LP>
   Interco Inc. said its banks agreed to extend to Oct. 1
certain loan payments that were due today, including a $225.9
million payment on its bridge loan.
   Interco, which is suffering from a heavy debt and interest
burden, said the loan waiver extension will allow time to
complete an amendment to its existing bank credit agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of furniture and shoes also said its board will
consider "additional restructuring proposals" at a meeting
Wednesday. It didn't elaborate.
   Interco borrowed heavily in late 1988 to pay special
dividends to shareholders and fend off a takeover threat.
Asset sales have been less successful than expected.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Profits Slumped in 1st Period;
   Analysts Trim Forecasts for Rest of '90
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Weaker commodity prices and a slowing economy
drove Canadian corporate profits sharply lower in the first
quarter, prompting analysts to scale back their earnings
forecasts for the rest of the year.
   In a Wall Street Journal survey of 177 early reporting
companies, first-quarter earnings from operations totaled
1.86 billion Canadian dollars (US$1.59 billion), down 40%
from C$3.10 billion a year earlier. It was the third quarter
in a row that Canadian profits declined from year-earlier
levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You have to go back to the {recessions of the} early
1980s to see a similar period of pervasive weakness in
corporate profits. The pressures on profitability will
persist {although} the rate of decline may slow," said Aron
Gampel, a senior economist at the Bank of Nova Scotia.
   Like many Canadian economists, who earlier this year had
predicted moderate earnings growth for 1990, Mr. Gampel
expects after-tax profits to drop about 10% this year from
1989 before recovering in 1991 to show a gain of about 5%.
Meantime, Mr. Gampel predicts, Canada's annual growth in
gross domestic product, which measures total output of goods
and services, will decline to about 1% in both 1990 and 1991
from 2.9% last year.
   One reason for the gloomy outlook in 1990 is the Bank of
Canada's tight monetary policy, which has kept interest rates
at painfully high levels for longer than many private
economists had expected. Now, they say, stubborn inflationary
pressures in the economy, especially rising wage demands,
will probably mean continued high domestic rates perhaps for
another year.
   One result of Canada's high interest rates -- three-month
Canadian Treasury bills currently yield over five percentage
points more than comparable U.S. bills -- has been a strong
Canadian dollar. This depresses earnings of many Canadian
companies, especially exporting concerns, when revenues are
translated back into the local currency.
   In the first quarter, the Canadian dollar traded in a
range of 82.8 U.S. cents to 86.5 cents, compared with 83.2
cents to 84.8 cents a year earlier. The Canadian dollar
traded Friday around 86 cents.
   Forestry concerns were among the biggest decliners in the
first quarter, with 17 companies reporting profits from
operations of C$92.6 million, down 76% from a year earlier.
Raymond Kilroy, an analyst at Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc.,
said the sector was hurt by persistent weakness in newsprint
prices and lower pulp shipments to correct an inventory
buildup. The analyst expects continued weak profits in the
second quarter. Later in the year, he says, newsprint prices
should firm, but "the industry is going to have to work
awfully hard to prevent {pulp} prices from slipping."
   Among 21 mining concerns, profits fell 65% to C$252
million, mainly because of a steep drop in the price of most
base metals. The average price of nickel on the London Metal
Exchange, for instance, more than halved to $3.52 a pound in
the first quarter from a year earlier, said Victor
Lazarovici, an analyst at BBN James Capel Inc. Metal prices,
which have rebounded in recent weeks, will probably
experience a customary weakening in the summer months before
improving in the fourth quarter, the analyst said.
   Inco Ltd., the Western world's largest nickel producer,
posted first-quarter profit of US$67.7 million, down 75% from
a year earlier. Noranda Inc., with interests in mining and
forestry, had profit of C$59 million, down 63%.
   Oil companies benefited from higher crude prices, but this
was offset among the integrated producers by weakness in
refining and marketing operations. Overall, 16 oil companies
reported earnings of C$360.2 million, little changed from a
year earlier.
   Shell Canada Ltd., a 78%-owned subsidiary of Royal
Dutch/Shell Group, saw its profit drop 46% to C$63 million,
mainly because of lower results from its chemical and
oil-product businesses.
   Although Imperial Oil Ltd. reported a rise in net income
to C$150 million from C$113 million, a C$91 million gain from
the sale of properties in the latest period masked lower
results elsewhere. Last year's acquisition of Texaco Canada
Inc. raised Imperial's interest costs, and production at its
Syncrude oil-sands mining project was reduced by a fire in
December. Imperial is 70%-owned by Exxon Corp.
   In the manufacturing sector, 45 companies had
first-quarter profits of C$455 million, down 38% from a year
earlier. Steelmakers were among the biggest decliners because
of the high Canadian dollar and production cutbacks by the
automobile industry. Stelco showed a loss of C$13.3 million
after posting year-earlier profit of C$32.8 million. Dofasco
had earnings of C$10 million, compared with profit from
continuing operations of C$59.2 million.
   Alcan Aluminium Ltd., blaming lower prices and reduced
demand, saw its first-quarter earnings fall 36% to US$172
million.
   Northern Telecom Ltd. was one of the few gainers in the
first quarter, with profit up 50% to US$79.1 million, helped
by increased market share for its principal line, central
office switching equipment. NorTel Chairman Paul Stern
expects higher earnings for the full year, which, he said,
"is sort of amazing," in light of current economic
conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Coors to Tout Home
   Of Colorado as It
   Looks Elsewhere
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Adolph Coors Co. plans to test a new corporate ad campaign
that brags about the company's Colorado home and the mountain
spring water it brews into beer.
   Why then is the company shopping outside the state for new
breweries?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new television advertisements, which will start this
summer with four small markets, pose the question: "Where was
your beer born?" The 30- and 60-second segments cut back and
forth between quiet scenes of Colorado mountains and streams
and scenes of smokestacks and crowded highways of big cities.
   "Clean, fresh, pure Rocky Mountain spring water," the
voice-over says. "Next time you reach for a beer, remember."
Words on the screen boast: "Coors. Great Beers Start Here."
The spots were created by Foote, Cone &amp; Belding
Communications Inc., Chicago. Coors declined to say how much
it plans to spend on the campaign.
   The commercials, said Gary Naifeh, Coors vice president,
brand management, "show the contrast of Colorado to other
parts of the country." But, he maintained, the ads aren't
meant to "take a shot at our competition." Coors's biggest
competitors are Anheuser-Busch Cos. of St. Louis and Miller
Brewing Co. of Milwaukee, a unit of Philip Morris Cos. "We
think most people recognize that most places in the country
aren't as nifty as Colorado," he said.
   But the timing of the campaign is curious. The ads, which
stress that Coors beers are made in Colorado, come at the
same time the brewer is searching for new brewing capacity
that will likely be outside of its home state. Coors's recent
successful introduction of Keystone, a popular-priced beer,
and double-digit annual growth of Coors Light have pushed the
brewer's production right up against its Golden, Colo.,
brewery capacity of 20 million barrels a year. A deal that
would have given Coors some Stroh Brewery Co. breweries (none
in Colorado) fell apart late last year, but the company is
continuing to look at both Stroh and G. Heileman Brewing Co.
breweries as possible new brewing locations.
   The campaign "is self-defeating in the long run because
it's impossible to operate a national brewing company from a
single location," said Robert S. Weinberg, a consultant and
former Anheuser-Busch marketing executive, who also eschews
the emphasis on the spring water. "The water necessary to
brew good beer is available in many, many other places," he
said.
   Mr. Naifeh defended the campaign, saying it communicates
"the roots of Coors's heritage, the people, the culture. It's
much deeper than the water." He added that the company "might
be" brewing beer out of the state soon, but "we might be just
packaging beer somewhere else."
   Also puzzling is the advent of the campaign at a time
Coors has had phenomenal growth. Its sales grew 6.5% in 1989,
the largest increase among domestic brewers, in a relatively
flat market. "Their key brands are doing well," said Emanuel
Goldman, analyst for PaineWebber Inc., San Francisco. "It's
not clear to me that Coors needs a corporate campaign."
   But by starting out in only four markets -- Fresno and
Sacramento, Calif., Erie, Penn., and Rochester, N.Y. -- Coors
isn't gambling a lot of money on the venture, Mr. Goldman
pointed out. "They're going to have an opportunity to find
out it's not going to work before spending a lot of dollars,"
he said. "I think they're going to find out it's not worth
the money."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Costa Rica and Banks
   Sign Debt Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Costa Rica (AP) -- Costa Rica and a group of
U.S. banks signed an agreement Saturday restructuring the
Central American country's $1.8 billion commercial debt.
   The accord, which is expected to save Costa Rica $150
million a year, was signed by James Jardine of the Bank of
America, and Eduardo Lizano of the Costa Rican central bank.
Mr. Jardine acted as the representative of the creditor
banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   President Oscar Arias said the agreement removes one of
the main obstacles to his country's economic growth. Mr.
Lizano said earlier that under the agreement, Costa Rica will
buy 64% of its commercial debt at 16 cents on the dollar.
   Costa Rica will have until May 21 to pay $253 million to
bring itself up to date in payments and purchase the old
debt.
   Costa Rica was one of the earliest countries to reach
agreement in principle on new financing packages under a U.S.
plan unveiled in March 1989 by Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady.
   It focuses on enticing commercial banks to write off some
of their loans to Third World nations or reduce the interest
charged in return for guarantees that the remaining debt will
be paid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- PS Group Inc.:
   Buffett Firms Hold 11.04%
   Of Company as Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PSG BRK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warren E. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
said he controls an 11.04% stake in PS Group Inc.'s common
stock for investment purposes.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Buffett said that three companies he controls, National
Indemnity Co., National Liability &amp; Fire Insurance Co. and
Columbia Insurance Co., together hold 603,275 PS Group common
shares, including 373,575 shares bought March 16 to April 25
for $32.125 to $32.50 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Buffett said the PS Group shares were bought for
"investment purposes only."
   George Shortley, PS Group's president and chief executive,
said the San Diego, Calif., aircraft leasing and energy
company was pleased by Mr. Buffett's investment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Raychem Corp.:
   Sun Microsystems Agrees
   To Buy Silicon Valley Site
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   SUNW RYC
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Raychem Corp., Menlo Park, Calif., said it agreed to sell
an undeveloped 57.3-acre industrial site in Silicon Valley to
Sun Microsystems Inc. for $39 million. The transaction is
expected is be completed next year.
   Sun Microsystems, of Mountain View, Calif., makes computer
workstations. Raychem, which recently reported a
third-quarter loss of $108 million, previously announced it
would sell its land in Silicon Valley and acquire
manufacturing sites in other, less-expensive parts of the
U.S. The company, a maker of aerospace, automotive,
electronics and telecommunications products, said a
larger-than-expected drop in its defense business was partly
responsible for its most recent loss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Petro-Canada Inc.:
   Firm Is Offering Packages
   Of Oil and Gas Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Petro-Canada Inc. said it is offering for sale 10 packages
of Canadian oil and gas properties, representing about 9% of
its oil and gas liquids output and 4% of its natural gas
production.
   The state-owned integrated oil and gas concern, which is
preparing to be privatized, said the sale is part of a plan
to rationalize assets. It didn't disclose a value for the
properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The assets last year generated net operating revenue of
about 38.5 million Canadian dollars (US$32.6 million), on
average gross daily production of 8,900 barrels of oil or gas
liquids and 24 million cubic feet of natural gas.
   Waterous Securities Inc., Calgary, Alberta, has been
retained as Petro-Canada's financial adviser and agent for
the offering, which will take place in two phases, the first
of which is scheduled for this month, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NCNB Unit
   To Be Lender
   For IBM Project
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM NCB
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In a major coup for NCNB Texas National Bank,
International Business Machines Corp. chose the NCNB Corp.
unit to finance construction of a $150 million office complex
in Austin, Texas.
   NCNB Texas beat out a large banking concern and two
Japanese banks to make the loan, according to Ralph Carestio,
an NCNB corporate executive vice president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank, which has been dogged by its image as a
tight-fisted outsider since it entered the Texas market in
August 1988, touted the IBM deal as its largest real-estate
loan to date and "an excellent example of Texans helping
Texans."
   But the loan appears nearly risk-free. IBM will be the
sole tenant of the 1.1 million square feet of office space to
be built in a joint venture with Prentiss Properties, a
Dallas-based real-estate developer. The seven-building
complex, which will be owned by the joint-venture partners,
will house about 3,400 of IBM's Austin-based employees
beginning in spring 1991.
   "The lease term is long enough that we've got ample
debt-service coverage for a long, long time," Mr. Carestio
said. "It's as good as a real-estate loan gets."
   Neither Mr. Carestio nor an IBM spokesman would specify
the length of IBM's lease or other details of the financing.
   But Mr. Carestio said the loan "is not uncharacteristic of
what's going to be happening" in real-estate lending in
Texas. "You're going to see more of these kinds of things,"
with tenants financing their own buildings in so-called
"build-to-suit" developments, he said.
   Similar office projects are planned in the Dallas area by
J.C. Penney Co. and GTE Corp.
   Even with known tenants, however, developers aren't
finding eager lenders, said Mike Prentiss, president of
Prentiss Properties. (The development company scored a coup
of its own with the IBM deal, beating out Trammell Crow Co.
to become IBM's partner.)
   "Notwithstanding who the tenant may be, {lenders} are very
reluctant to finance office buildings in Texas," Mr. Prentiss
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   ...But Some Indicators Signal
   Rough Times Ahead for DJIA
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SYY KO GS ABT GPC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Respected stock-market average seeks attractive
companions. Has accomplished great things, but feels isolated
in current market environment. Wants to scale new heights;
prefers not to do it alone.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average can't place a personal
ad, but it's certainly lonely enough.
   The industrial average posted a new high of 2810 in
January and has stayed within hailing distance since, closing
at 2710.36 Friday. But most stock-market performance gauges
have been far weaker. These flagging indicators suggest to
some people that the Dow will topple soon.
   For example, the Dow Jones Transportation average peaked
in September. The New York Stock Exchange advance-decline
line, a cumulative measure of advancing Big Board stocks
minus decliners, peaked last August.
   Martin Zweig, a New York money manager and writer of a
market letter, notes that while the Dow industrial average of
30 blue-chip stocks has risen 53% since the crash of 1987,
the average stock on the Big Board (weighting stocks of
various-sized companies equally) has risen only 8.5%. And the
average stock on the American Stock Exchange is down 6% since
the crash.
   The isolation of the Dow industrials strikes quite a few
market watchers as a sign of rough times ahead. Mr. Zweig,
for example, warns that such a pattern has typically come
before severe bear markets such as those of 1929, 1973-74 and
late 1987.
   "Historically, preceding a decline in the market, it is
normal for the big-cap stocks {big-company stocks with large
market values} to hang up there longer," says John Mendelson,
consultant to Credit Lyonnais Securities New York and for
many years a widely followed market pundit with Dean Witter
Reynolds. He wouldn't be surprised to see the industrial
average topple to 2250 or so, bringing big stocks more in
line with the broad market.
   "The generals are first to rise and last to fall," says
Richard Evans, editor of Dow Theory Forecasts, a newsletter
in Hammond, Ind. "Typically in major market tops, the stocks
in the big market averages are the last to break."
   Mr. Evans believes that stocks are probably in a bear
market already, but are still in the mild early phase, not
the more severe panic phase. He finds it "quite discouraging"
that the Dow Jones Utility Average and Dow Jones
Transportation Average haven't kept pace with the industrial
average.
   Weakness in utility stocks, Mr. Evans and others say,
tends to mean that higher interest rates lie ahead. That's
important, because low or falling interest rates are like
spring rain for growing stock prices. High or rising interest
rates are poison to stocks.
   "The utilities haven't even been able to stage a modest
rally," says Mr. Evans.
   The utility average closed Friday at 208.38, a bit above
its year-to-date low of 203.09 on April 30, but well below
the Jan. 2 high of 236.23. This doesn't suggest an early end
to the recent rise in interest rates (30-year Treasury bonds
now yield nearly 9% vs. 8% when the year started).
   The transportation average has traditionally been used by
a group of market analysts called Dow theorists to confirm or
deny the evidence of movements in the industrial average.
When the two move together, the theory goes, a trend is
likely to persist. When they're out of synch, the trend is
likely to reverse.
   Mr. Evans is worried because the transports "have looked
awful" since setting highs in September. They "didn't
confirm" the industrials' new high in January, and they've
been weak recently as well. Mr. Evans's conclusion: "I think
we're going to have a break in the industrials." If the
January low of 2569 on the industrials is broken, he expects
a further drop of 300 points.
   Of course, the transportation average is distorted by the
gyrations of takeover talks at UAL Corp. Mr. Evans says that
may exaggerate the index's movements, but its direction is
still significant.
   Not all the technical tea leaves point to a further
stock-market drop. Investor sentiment is pretty gloomy, which
paradoxically is often viewed by market technicians as a good
sign. Cash levels at stock mutual funds were nearly 12% in
March, which means there's a lot of money on the sidelines
that could be redeployed into stocks. And the economy, which
has been limping along, looks slightly more brisk lately.
   What's more, different people draw different lessons from
the divergence between the Dow industrials and the broader
market. Some think big stocks have to fall; others think that
small stocks may play catch-up.
   Lois Burleigh, manager of the equity division at ASB
Capital Management in Washington, D.C., thinks such big
stocks as those in the Dow industrials will fall
substantially in the months ahead as small stocks pretty much
tread water.
   She says that investors have gravitated to the big stocks
for a feeling of security in an uncertain economy. "The Dow
is made up of very large companies. You know that even if
Exxon has a bad quarter, the company's not going to dry up
and blow away," she says. "But if you're talking about some
small parts supplier to the auto industry, a bad quarter may
be the end."
   At this point, Ms. Burleigh says, "Our scenario is that
most of the damage has been done" to the majority of stocks.
"If the economy keeps improving, people may say, gee, I don't
need the safety of PepsiCo, maybe I should be in
Weyerhaeuser."
   Jack Orben, chairman of Fiduciary Counsel Inc., thinks the
present two-tier market may persist for quite a while.
Accordingly, he recommends that investors stick with the
heavyweights -- stocks of big companies with strong earnings
trends. Among those he likes are Sysco, Gillette, Coca-Cola,
Abbott Labs, and Genuine Parts. (Of those, only Coca-Cola is
part of the Dow.)
   Eric Miller, chief investment officer for Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette, finds the divergence between the Dow and
other indicators "worrisome," and says it's more pronounced
now than it was before the 1987 crash. Such divergences, he
says, are "a warning light," though they "can't be used to
pinpoint the timing" of a decline.
   Compared with 1987, Mr. Miller notes, stocks are more
reasonably priced now. And a financial gimmick called
portfolio insurance, which exacerbated the crash, is
mercifully rare now. However, Mr. Miller adds that corporate
earnings, which were rising then, have been declining lately.
   He isn't ready to snap at the latest evidence that the
economy is perking up, citing three "delayed-action factors"
that may slow down the economy: increased interest rates,
more-stringent bank lending standards, and corporate
cost-cutting spurred by declining profits. He thinks it's
likely the Dow Jones Industrial Average will revisit its
January low of about 2543.
   ---
   Hiring coup at Goldman Sachs: "We are pleased to announce
that we have hired Mother Nature to assist us in our
portfolio strategy," the firm tells clients in its Investment
Strategy Highlights. Previously, "Mother Nature was employed
by a consortium of economists," relates Goldman strategist
Steven Einhorn; he explains that whenever business activity
exceeds economists' expectations, warm weather has been the
culprit, while cold weather takes the blame at other times.
For a good while, Mr. Einhorn says, "We have wanted a
catchall excuse when the market has been better or worse than
anticipated. Now, with the addition of Mother Nature to our
staff, we alone have access to the weather excuse."
   (See related story: "Abreast of the Market: One Longtime
Bull Believes a Rally Is About to Burst From the Gloom..." --
WSJ May 7, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Manville Reorganizes
   Some of Its Businesses
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MVL
</CO>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Manville Corp. reorganized some of its
operations and named two new group presidents as part of a
continuing effort to define its core businesses and better
focus its marketing efforts.
   The maker of wood, paper and fiberglass products named
Richard A. Kashnow president of the new Engineered Products
Group, which will make and market the company's fiberglass
mats, reinforcement fibers, and auto and aerospace filters
and insulation parts. Manville's Glaswerk Schuller unit in
West Germany will also be part of the group. Mr. Kashnow was
vice president and general manager of the former mats, fiber
and reinforcements division at Manville.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ronald W. Mathewson was named president of the new
Building Products Group, which will combine the company's
fiberglass-roofing and building-insulation businesses. He was
vice president and general manager of the company's former
building insulation division.
   Messrs. Kashnow and Mathewson were also named senior vice
presidents of the corporation.
   John D.C. Roach, an executive vice president, was named
president of the new Mining and Minerals Group, including
filtration and minerals production worldwide.
   Robert Anderson was named senior vice president for
science and technology. He will be in charge of health,
safety, environment and research departments at the company.
He succeeds William A. Sells, who has announced his plans to
retire.
   Manville Forest Products Corp. will continue to operate as
a unit, headed by President Thomas Johnson, who assumed that
title late last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Pathe Communications Corp.:
   Concern Reports 1st-Quarter
   Net Income of $46.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pathe Communications Corp. reported first-quarter net
income of $46.4 million, or 77 cents a share, compared with
$10.3 million, or 91 cents, a year earlier. The number of
outstanding common shares rose to 59.7 million, from 11.4
million.
   The results include a $50.1 million gain from the sale of
certain European movie theaters that the Los Angeles-based
company now operates. An additional $30 million gain will be
recorded later this year, the company said. The 1990 results
also list extraordinary gains of $18 million from an
extinguishment of debt and utilization of tax loss
carryforwards. The year-ago quarter included an extraordinary
gain of $23.9 million for repurchase of subordinated debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue was $76.6 million, compared with $91.8 million a
year ago. Pathe President Giancarlo Parretti said, "The
upcoming introduction of our first slate of films will have
an extremely positive financial impact on our company."
Pathe's first film is scheduled to be released this summer.
   Pathe is currently engaged in a $1.26 billion cash tender
offer for MGM/UA Communications Co., which could, with
extensions, continue until June 23. A third $50 million down
payment is due May 17.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   TW Services Outlets
   Pick Coke Over Pepsi
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KO PEP TWFS
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   SPARTANBURG, S.C. -- TW Services Inc. named Coca-Cola Co.
as the primary soft-drink supplier for its 465 Hardee's
restaurants and 1,700 Canteen cafeterias, giving Coke another
boost over archrival PepsiCo Inc.
   TW's announcement Friday came on the heels of Burger King
Corp.'s decision earlier last week to switch to Coke from
Pepsi in its 5,400 restaurants. Though Coke declined to
estimate potential sales, industry observers said the
agreement was significantly smaller than the Burger King
deal, which cost Pepsi more than an estimated $270 million in
annual sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest agreement shows that "any company that handles
a Pepsi-Cola food-service account is now being hotly
revisited by Coca-Cola executives," said Jesse Meyers,
publisher of Beverage Digest, an industry newsletter.
"Likewise, I would be amazed if Pepsi wasn't mounting a
full-scale attack on Coke's accounts."
   TW, the fourth-largest food-service concern in the U.S.,
is the largest franchisee of Hardee's Food Systems, which has
a total of about 2,700 restaurants. TW also operates its
cafeterias in places such as corporate offices and parks.
Coke is already the primary soft-drink supplier for TW's 213
Quincy's, 206 El Pollo Loco and 1,001 Denny's restaurants,
but has shared TW's Hardee's franchises with Pepsi before
now.
   A Pepsi spokesman said the company still supplies soft
drinks to about 600 Hardee's owned by other franchisees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM to Engineer, Direct
   `Smart Car' Project
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4G
</SO>
<CO>
   GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   ORLANDO, Fla. -- General Motors Corp. has agreed to manage
and engineer an $8 million Intelligent Vehicle/Highway System
project.
   The Orlando Smart Car project is jointly funded by GM, the
Federal Highway Administration, the Florida Department of
Transportation and the American Automobile Association. The
project will provide navigation assistance, real-time traffic
information, route selection and other information for
tourists and business travelers in the Orlando area.
Operations are planned for early 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project should disclose the feasibility of such a
system, user acceptance and possible reduction in travel
times. Other areas to be studied include increased safety,
fuel savings and improvements in air quality.
   This project is similar to the $1.6 million Project Path
Finder that involves GM, the California Department of
Transportation and the Federal Highway Adminstration. It will
begin in a few months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   G-7 Endorses
   50% Increase
   In IMF Funds
   ---
   Yen's Continued Weakness
   Is a Concern for Officials
   Of Industrialized Nations
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN CANDA FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Representatives of the Group of Seven
industrialized countries endorsed a 50% increase in the
resources of the International Monetary Fund and said that
the continued weakness of the yen "may have undesirable
consequences" for global economic adjustment.
   The endorsement of a 50% increase in IMF resources --
contained in a communique released last night -- makes it
likely that final agreement on the matter will be reached
today at meetings of the IMF's powerful policy-making Interim
Committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Representatives of the world's most powerful economies,
who met here yesterday, also seem to have removed a major
obstacle to the increase in IMF resources, by organizing
among themselves a new ranking of the IMF's major
shareholders.
   Under the proposed reorganization, the U.S. would remain
the largest shareholder with slightly more than 19%; both
Japan and West Germany would rank second with equal shares of
slightly more than 6%. If two countries are ranked second
there wouldn't be a No.3-ranked holder. Britain and France
probably would rank fourth with equal shares of about 5.5%
each.
   "There's a broad range of understandings" although "the
arrangements aren't yet finalized," David Mulford, U.S.
Treasury undersecretary for international affairs, said after
the G-7 meeting yesterday, which was held on Capitol Hill.
   Although unhappy about the continued weakness of the yen,
the G-7, which includes the finance ministers and central
bank presidents of the U.S., Japan, West Germany, France,
Britain, Italy and Canada, "noted with satisfaction the
recent stability in exchange markets and continued growth in
industrial countries."
   It also wasn't clear what the G-7 might do, if anything,
to boost the yen. When asked whether there might be concerted
intervention to shore up the Japanese currency, Mr. Mulford
said: "We never comment on operational matters."
   The Japanese themselves seem most concerned about the
yen's weakness. Japan's vice minister of finance, Makoto
Utsumi, stressed at a news conference after the G-7 meeting
that the yen's current level is a problem.
   Mr. Utsumi said that although stable, the yen's recent
value -- in a narrow range below 160 to the dollar -- remains
an obstacle to reducing imbalances. Central Bank Governor
Yasushi Mieno stressed that the G-7 made no agreement on a
specific appropriate level for the yen in the
foreign-exchange markets. But he said the group is clearly in
agreement that the yen should strengthen.
   The organization also expressed continued concern about
inflation, which recently has risen in some industrialized
countries. "Price pressures warrant continued vigilance," the
G-7 said in its communique.
   The G-7 also underscored its determination to resist trade
protectionism and emphasized that "a successful conclusion of
the Uruguay Round is essential for promoting an open and
growing world economy." That is the current round of
trade-liberalization talks being held under the international
trade treaty, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
   The current international debt strategy, which places more
reliance on cutting back bank debt and interest payments,
also drew renewed support from the G-7. But, in its
statement, the G-7 urged "a stronger emphasis in IMF and
World Bank programs on measures to attract new investment and
a return of flight capital." Critics have identified the
shortage of new investment capital as a weakness of the new
debt strategy.
   Flight capital is money held overseas by citizens of
debtor countries.
   Several points made in the G-7 communique released
yesterday followed those in the G-7's statement released in
Paris on April 7, when the group also stressed the
"undesirable consequences" of yen weakness.
   A weak yen tends to boost Japan's foreign sales, making it
harder for that country to reduce its large trade surplus.
The U.S. has run huge trade deficits with Japan in recent
years; last year's totaled $49 billion.
   The G-7 also, as it did in Paris, endorsed Germany's
expected unification. This process, it said, "would
contribute to improved non-inflationary global growth and a
reduction in external imbalances." It is widely expected that
the merging of the two Germanys will reduce West Germany's
huge trade surplus.
   The G-7 met yesterday prior to two days of half-yearly
meetings of the IMF and World Bank. A last-minute glitch at
tomorrow's Interim Committee meetings still could hold up the
increase in the IMF's resources. But most participants,
including IMF staff, are increasingly optimistic.
   A 50% increase in the IMF's resources would increase the
multilateral institution's current $120 billion of capital by
$60 billion for a total of $180 billion. The IMF's 152 member
countries finance the IMF by pledging reserves to the
institution in an exchange of assets.
   In a vigorous drive against continued delinquency on IMF
obligations by some countries, the U.S. is pressing for the
IMF to amend its articles to allow the organization to
suspend the membership of uncooperative and persistently
recalcitrant member countries.
   For that to happen, the IMF needs an 85% majority of its
voting membership to change its articles. The U.S. wants to
link a vote on the suspension issue to the IMF quota
increase.
   Nevertheless, the IMF's quota increase is likely to take
time to implement and may not be completed until late 1991.
In the past, increases in IMF's resources have taken as long
as two years to complete.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bernard Chaus Says
   Net Income Fell 74%
   In Fiscal 3rd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CHS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bernard Chaus Inc. said net income in the
third quarter ended March 31 fell 74%, reflecting
higher-than-normal liquidation of merchandise not shipped to
Campeau Corp. stores last January.
   The women's apparel maker's net fell to $182,000, or one
cent a share, from $691,000, or four cents a share, a year
earlier. Sales fell 10% to $71.4 million from $79.5 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, Chaus shares closed at $4.875, up 12.5 cents,
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   The recent Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law filing of Campeau,
parent of Federated Department Stores and Allied Stores, has
hurt many apparel makers that do business with them. Campeau,
based in Toronto, is a major client of Chaus.
   First-nine-month net was $295,000, or two cents a share,
compared with a year-earlier loss of $4.5 million, or 24
cents a share. Sales rose 3% to $221 million from $212.7
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Im Bank to Back
   Colombia Firm Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Export-Import Bank said it will
guarantee a $24.2 million private credit to an oil pipeline
company in Colombia for the purchase of equipment from U.S.
suppliers.
   The loan will be provided by New York-based Private Export
Funding Corp. to Oleoducto de Colombia S.A., of Bogota, which
is building a $321.5 million crude-oil pipeline from
Vasconia, Colombia, to Covenas on the Caribbean coast.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pipeline equipment and services will be supplied by
Ramseyer &amp; Miller, a unit of Techint Inc., of New York. The
Ex-Im Bank said R&amp;M will arrange for the purchase of pumps,
tanks, switches, control values and other equipment from
various U.S. suppliers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota Is Raising
   Price of LS 400 Model
   By 2.9%, to $36,000
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- Toyota Motor Corp.'s Lexus division
said it is raising the base price of its popular LS 400 by
$1,000, to $36,000.
   The 2.9% increase comes less than 10 months after Toyota
introduced the luxury car to the U.S. market. The price of
the LS 400's smaller and less successful sister car, the ES
250, will remain unchanged at a base price of $21,050.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Toyota officials said the price increase was
instituted partly to recover higher costs of doing business,
the company is clearly seizing an opportunity to boost
profits on a popular model. Toyota said it has less than a 15
days' supply of LS 400s in the U.S. Demand for the
250-horsepower sedan is accelerating, despite a sluggish
overall market. Since February, the daily selling rate for
the model has risen 21%, to 140 cars per day.
   "We knew when we announced our prices last May, we'd have
to evaluate our situation in about a year," said Dave
Illingworth, vice president and general manager of the Lexus
division.
   Toyota officials stressed that the LS 400's base price is
still thousands of dollars lower than competitive European
models, such as the $45,950 Mercedes 300 E, as well as
Nissan's $38,000 Infiniti Q45 luxury sedan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Valhi Inc.:
   Firm Says 1st-Quarter Net
  Fell 42%, Cites Proxy Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   VHI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Valhi Inc. said first-quarter net income declined 42%, in
part because of the expenses its NL Industries Inc.
subsidiary incurred in fighting a proxy battle with Lockheed
Corp.
   Valhi, the holding company controlled by Dallas investor
Harold C. Simmons, posted net of $14.1 million, or 12 cents a
share, down from $24.3 million, or 21 cents a share, a year
earlier. The 1989 results included a $6.2 million pretax gain
from the sale of assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company, which owns 66% of NL, a Houston specialty
chemical company, said results were hurt by $11 million in
expenses related to its unsuccessful effort to unseat
Lockheed's board, as well as by increased interest expenses
from NL's 1989 Deutsche mark financing. Part of that
financing was used to purchase shares in Lockheed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Daihatsu's U.S. Unit
   Is Sued by Distributor
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4J
</SO>
<CO>
   J.DHM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   ADDISON, Ill. -- A defunct U.S. distributor of Daihatsu
Motor Co.'s Hi-Jet off-road vehicles has filed a $11.9
million suit against the Japanese auto maker's U.S.
subsidiary, Daihatsu America Inc. and two of its officers.
   Terrain Vehicles Inc. said it filed the suit in December
in a California state court. The suit alleges that Los
Angeles-based Daihatsu conspired to interfere with Terrain's
contract with Daihatsu in an effort to acquire distribution
rights to Hi-Jet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two Daihatsu officers named in the suit are Sota
Fukunaka and Cecil R. Brown.
   Daihatsu America declined to comment on the suit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Talley Industries
   Is Seeking Advice
   On Reducing Debt
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   TAL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Talley Industries Inc. said it retained
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. for advice on asset sales and other
steps to reduce Talley's debt burden.
   Talley Chairman William H. Mallender said his goal is to
cut the company's debt in half during the next two years
through a combination of selling some of Talley's 14
operating companies and reducing real-estate holdings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move isn't triggered by any immediate financial
pressures or deadlines facing the company, said a company
spokesman. "We're trying to be prudent . . . in anticipation
of future maturities becoming more difficult to refinance."
   In a statement, Mr. Mallender said, "Turmoil in the debt
market world-wide makes it incumbent on the company to reduce
its dependence on debt financing." Talley's debt-to-equity
ratio is 2.2-to-1. At Dec. 31, total debt was $341 million,
including $27 million related to liabilities of the company's
savings banks. Talley had $153 million in equity.
   The spokesman said the Arizona real-estate depression is a
"factor" in the planned "restructuring," but didn't prompt
it. Last year, the company established a $36.6 million pretax
reserve related to its real-estate holdings.
   "We want to be able to wait and sell at the proper price,
and not take a fire-sale approach," the spokesman said. Of
the company's total assets of $1.09 billion at Dec. 31, $229
million were in real estate, mostly raw land in the Phoenix
area.
   Phoenix Metro Investors, a partnership that owns Talley's
corporate office building in Phoenix, sought bankruptcy-law
protection a few weeks ago, the spokesman said. Talley is the
managing partner. The move "is a reflection of what's
happening in the metro area and declines in real-estate
values," he said. "It's an unfortunate situation; we have an
investment in it, but it doesn't have any value on our
books."
   Talley said it is considering the sale of certain
operating companies, which it didn't identify, from its
industrial-products, specialty-products and savings-banks
segments. The concern plans to retain its holdings in two
other segments: real estate and government products and
services.
   Talley said it is reducing working capital programs,
capital expenditures and operating expenses. There will be
some "minor" personnel cuts, mostly from the corporate
office, the spokesman said. Talley has about 4,000 employees.
   In the first quarter, Talley had net income of $2.5
million, or 21 cents a share, about level with the
year-earlier quarter. Analysts expect income before special
items to be flat for the year, the spokesman said. In 1989,
Talley had net of $25.9 million, or $2.08 a share, which
included a $37.5 million gain from the sale of certain
operations and a charge of $24.2 million from the provision
on realty assets. Revenue was $421.1 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Talley was unchanged at $9 a share. The company's statement
was released after the close of trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Woolworth April Sales
   Increased 21%, Boosted
   By Easter Shopping
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   Z
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Woolworth Corp.'s April sales soared 21%,
because the period included Easter buying while the
year-earlier period didn't.
   Domestic sales rose to $421 million in the four weeks
ended April 28, compared with $348 million a year earlier.
Equally impressive, domestic sales growth for stores open at
least one year increased 18%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Our April sales were unusually positive because we had
all of the Easter business, as opposed to last year, when
Easter occurred in March," said Harold Sells, chairman and
chief executive of the retailer. If March and April were
taken as a single reporting period, he said, domestic sales
were up 8.3% and domestic comparable store sales rose 5.4%.
   Mr. Sells said that Woolworth was particularly strong in
Easter candies and gifts, as well as merchandise related to
the Simpsons, which are popular TV cartoon characters. Ninja
turtles and Nintendo game cartridges were also in demand,
said Mr. Sells. The apparel business was mixed. Men's apparel
was strong, but children's apparel sales softened.
   "About half of our Kids Mart children's stores are in
Caifornia, and last year they had an unusual heat wave that
benefited us tremendously," said Mr. Sells. "This year the
weather was back to normal. We showed gains, but not as much
as in men's wear."
   For the 13 weeks ended April 28, domestic sales increased
9.7% to $1.23 billion against $1.12 billion in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Arab Banking Corp.:
   Firm Plans Stock Offering
   To International Investors
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C.ABC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Arab Banking Corp. said it plans to offer 25 million
shares to international investors at about $15 apiece.
   Abdulla A. Saudi, president and chief executive officer of
the Arab world's largest bank, said that at $15 each, a price
close to the bank's estimated net asset, the offering would
raise $375 million before fees and expenses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arab Banking is the first Gulf-based institution to offer
its shares to non-Arab investors.
   Arab Banking said it has invited international financial
institutions to underwrite the offering, which the bank will
use to finance expansion plans in Europe and the Arab world.
   Underwriting commitments totaling $235 million have been
received from Arab Banking holders and other financial
institutions, including the banks that will organize the
offering, Mr. Saudi said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Settlement Plan
   Is Set for Parent
   Of Lincoln S&amp;L
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Calif. -- The government and the unsecured
creditors committee of American Continental Corp. unveiled a
settlement agreement that includes partial payment to
American Continental bondholders and the ouster of Charles A.
Keating Jr. and other senior officials.
   The settlement proposal, presented to Federal District
Judge Richard M. Bilby, requires the approval of the court
and creditors. The plan seeks to liquidate American
Continental, which is operating under Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection from creditors. The company's
Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan subsidiary of Irvine, Calif., was
taken over by the government shortly after the bankruptcy
filing in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plan would set aside $21 million to be paid to
American Continental's unsecured creditors, most of whom
invested $200 million in American Continental subordinated
debentures. Those investors, who would be among the last to
be paid in a reorganization, could recoup more if American
Continental is liquidated.
   Mr. Keating, who has sued the government to regain control
of Lincoln, wasn't consulted on the agreement. James J.
Feder, American Continental's lead bankruptcy laywer, said
that the proposal "settles nothing," adding that Mr. Keating
may step down as American Continental's chairman next week to
head up a shareholders' committee to negotiate a
reorganization plan.
   Details of the plan haven't been determined, but may be
presented to the court within a week. They include issues
such as which of American Continental's assets would be
assigned to the Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency
overseeing the U.S.'s thrift bailout.
   Despite the uncertainties, the proposal was seen as a
workable solution by some bondholder representatives. "We
believe the money itself is as well as the bondholders are
going to do, although we don't necessarily agree with all the
terms of the settlement," said Joseph Cotchett, a leading
bondholder attorney. The plan also is a step forward for the
RTC and the unsecured creditors committee, which had been at
odds on many issues.
   American Continental, the government and the bondholders
are still mired in a tangle of litigation not affected by the
settlement plan. The agreement doesn't affect the
government's $1.1 billion racketeering suit against Mr.
Keating and others, in which the U.S. charges that they
engaged in phony tax and loan transactions to divert money
from Lincoln into American Continental. Bondholder suits
against Mr. Keating and others also are pending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Suzuki, GM Venture
   In Canada to Double
   Certain Car Production
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   GM J.SUZ
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- General Motors of Canada Ltd. said its joint
venture with Suzuki Motor Co. of Japan will double production
of its subcompact passenger cars with the start of a second
work shift in September. GM Canada is a unit of General
Motors Corp.
   The joint venture, CAMI Automotive Inc., with one plant in
Ingersoll, Ontario, currently makes 60,000 subcompacts and
40,000 sport utility vehicles a year. A CAMI spokesman said
subcompact production will rise to 120,000; and the number of
CAMI employees will increase about 300, to 1,700 by November,
when the added shift is expected to reach full production.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The subcompacts are currently marketed by GM as the Geo
Metro in the U.S., and as the Chevrolet Sprint and Pontiac
Firefly in Canada. The Suzuki version is marketed as the
Swift in the U.S. and Canada.
   The CAMI spokesman said the increased production is needed
to meet demand for the subcompacts, particularly in Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   KOHL SAID no obstacles to German reunification remain
following six-power talks.
   The West German foreign ministry concluded that a
statement by Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze indicated
that Moscow is willing to allow reunification to proceed
without immediately addressing the problem of German
membership in NATO, which the Kremlin opposes. Secretary of
State Baker and his advisers were left with the impression
that the Soviet leadership has yet to develop clear positions
on arms control or Germany, even though the Bush-Gorbachev
summit is three weeks away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   East German Christian Democrats lost ground in local
elections, but incomplete returns showed the governing party
winning 32.4% of the vote.
   ---
   Latvian leaders braced for strikes, protests and an
economic blockade following reports that Soviet President
Gorbachev rejected the declaration of independence approved
Friday by the Parliament in Riga. Latvian President Gorbunov,
in a televised address, said the Baltic republic's secession
moves do not preclude talks with Moscow.
   ---
   Mandela told a Soweto rally that the African National
Congress is pressing the South African government to end its
insistence on protecting "white minority rights." During
three days of talks, the government said it would consider
ending a state of emergency and the ANC said it would weigh
ending its armed struggle.
   ---
   Former hostage Frank Reed said he was severely beaten
after he twice tried to escape from his Lebanese captors and
was held in solitary confinement for two years. Reed, one of
two U.S. hostages released in the past two weeks, called on
the U.S. and other governments to negotiate with pro-Islamic
groups holding hostages in Lebanon.
   ---
   Pope John Paul II arrived in Mexico City for an eight-day
visit to Mexico, which is officially anti-clerical and has no
relations with the Vatican. The visit, the second by the
pope, is aimed at strengthening the church in Mexico and
boosting followers' morale. In a break with tradition,
President Salinas greeted the pope as he arrived.
   ---
   The Soviet Union threw open the border between the
republic of Moldavia and Romania for six hours, the first
time free access has been permitted in 45 years. Tens of
thousands of Romanians streamed through eight crossing points
to visit friends and relatives in the area, which until 1940
had been the Romanian province of Bessarabia.
   ---
   Croatians voted in the second round of a parliamentary
election that is almost certain to give nationalists a
landslide victory over the ruling Communists and could
threaten the unity of Yugoslavia. The balloting will
determine who will fill the remaining 225 spots in the
356-seat Parliament of Yugoslavia's second-largest republic.
   ---
   The U.S. secretly purchased advanced Soviet military gear
from Romania for 10 years before former dictator Ceausescu
was executed, the Washington Post reported. The CIA-run
program resulted in $40 million being paid to Romania, with
about 20% of the total ending up in Ceausescu-controlled
Swiss bank accounts, the report said.
   ---
   Nicaraguan Contras are to begin handing in their weapons
tomorrow under an agreement signed Saturday with the new
U.S.-backed government of President Chamorro. Under the
accord, the rebels have been given until June 10 to disarm
fully after receiving guarantees of their personal safety, an
issue that sank an earlier pact.
   ---
   Mongolian protesters staged a sit-in in Ulan Bator in
support of hunger strikers who fasted through an eighth day
to press demands for an interim parliament to be set up
before nationwide elections in July. In China, President
Ochirbat traveled to Inner Mongolia as part of the first
visit by a Mongolian leader in almost three decades.
   ---
   Northern Cyprus's ruling party headed for victory in
parliamentary elections, beating off a challenge from an
opposition coalition that sought to bring about the first
change of power since the 1974 Turkish invasion that divided
the island nation. With 80% of the ballots counted, the
National Unity Party was leading with 54% of the vote.
   ---
   Philippine investigators said they had no firm evidence
linking Communist rebels to the slaying of a U.S. Marine
outside the Subic Bay naval base Friday. The killing led U.S.
officials to restrict travel by U.S. base personnel. No group
has claimed responsibility for the killing and investigators
say they are looking into nonpolitical motives.
   ---
   Died: Elton H. Rule, 73, former president of the ABC
television network, Saturday, in Beverly Hills, Calif., of
cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUDGET TALKS MAY BEGIN soon between the White House and
Congress. Four top congressional leaders told Bush yesterday
they are ready to begin negotiations on a package of big tax
increases and spending cuts aimed at sharply reducing the
federal deficit. Bush also signaled his willingness to
consider raising taxes, House GOP leader Michel said.
"Everything is on the table," Rep. Michel quoted the
president as saying.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Group of Seven backed a 50% capital increase for the
IMF and appeared to agree on revised rankings for the IMF's
top contributors. The group also said the yen's continued
weakness "may have undesirable consequences" but noted
currency markets have stabilized recently.
   ---
   Corporate profits fell 18% in the first quarter, hurt by
increased labor costs, higher interest payments and unusually
big write-offs, a Journal survey shows. Analysts expect
profits to remain soft in the current quarter but to pick up
in the second half.
   ---
   The jobless rate rose to 5.4% in April from 5.2% the
previous month, indicating continued weakness in the economy.
The increase surprised many analysts because of recent signs
the economy was picking up.
                                                                                                       

   Stock and bond prices rallied Friday as the jobless report
eased speculation that the Fed may tighten credit soon. The
dollar finished mixed.
   ---
   Drexel paid creditors over $600 million in the three
months before it filed for Chapter 11 protection, which means
the payments may be recoverable under federal bankruptcy law,
according to bankruptcy lawyers.
   ---
   First Executive has hired First Boston to explore a
restructuring of the struggling Los Angles-based insurer that
could include the sale of one or more operating units,
sources said.
   ---
   Two Campeau units, Allied Stores and Federated, posted
fiscal 1990 losses totaling $2.43 billion.
   ---
   Insurers won another legal battle against California's
Proposition 103. A Los Angeles judge invalidated a key aspect
of the 1988 auto-insurance law.
   ---
   Columbia S&amp;L posted a $293.3 million loss for the first
quarter, reflecting further decay in its junk-bond holdings.
But officials claimed progress in an effort to sell the
bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Far West Financial reported a $26.2 million quarterly
loss, leaving the Belzberg-controlled California thrift firm
short of a capital requirement.
   ---
   Fox Broadcasting won FCC permission to offer added
programming without having to adhere to network TV rules
affecting rerun sales.
                                                                                                       

   NBC News plans to launch a 24hour news service similar to
CNN's Headline News, sources said.
   ---
   Brazil began opening its market to more imports, including
telephone equipment, as promised. But high import duties were
imposed on most items to protect domestic firms.
   ---
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi fired two top executives in a power
struggle that was won by the ad giant's new chief executive,
Robert Louis-Dreyfus.
   ---
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh is likely to tap D. Leonard Wise, a
steel industry veteran, as chief executive after the company
emerges from Chapter 11.
   ---
   Several small Western firms are being severely hurt by
continued payment delays by Soviet concerns. Some of the
Western businesses have filed claims with export insurers.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 140,550,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2710.36, up 14.19; transportation 1145.09, up 4.62; utilities
208.38, up 2.27.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3286.69, up
43.74.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.37, off 0.29;
spot index 134.27, off 0.63.
   Dollar: 158.25 yen, up 0.20; 1.6662 marks, off 0.0165.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Horsham Corp. Plans
   To Boost Its Interest
   In Clark Oil &amp; Refining
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4D
</SO>
<CO>
   HSM X.COR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Jeremy Garbutt, president and chief operating
officer of Horsham Corp., said the company plans to exercise
an option later this year to raise its interest in Clark Oil
&amp; Refining Corp. to 75% from 60% currently.
   "Our ultimate objective is to have 100% of Clark," Mr.
Garbutt said after a meeting with analysts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Horsham officials wouldn't comment on a possible price for
the additional Clark stake. However, a Horsham spokesman said
a 1989 independent appraisal put a value of $550 million on
Clark's physical assets alone.
   Mr. Garbutt said Horsham, a Toronto investment concern,
can exercise its option to acquire an additional 25% of Clark
anytime after Oct. 26. At the same time, he said, Clark's
minority holders can elect to purchase 10% of Horsham for $10
million. He said the net result would give Horsham a 75%
interest in Clark, a St. Louis oil refiner and marketer.
   Mr. Garbutt said that, under the option agreement, the
price of the 25% Clark stake will be 10% below a "fair
valuation" as determined by independent valuators. Further
increases in Horsham's stake beyond 75% are subject to
negotiation with the minority holders, he said.
   Clark's minority holders are Anthony Novelly and Samuel
Goldstein, principals of Clark's former parent, Apex Oil Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Panel to Study
   Firm's Possible Conflict
   In U.S.-Japan Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee
will investigate a potential conflict-of-interest involving a
Washington consulting firm that simultaneously served
Japanese utilities and advised the Energy Department on a
U.S.-Japan energy agreement.
   "We are now learning that foreign and domestic commercial
interests may have had a hand not only in negotiating the
agreement, but in selling it on Capitol Hill," said Sen. John
Glenn (D., Ohio), chairman of the panel. He cited a recent
article in The Wall Street Journal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement lessened U.S. controls over future shipments
of plutonium to Japan, material derived from U.S. nuclear
fuel. The company, International Energy Associates Ltd., has
admitted that while advising the U.S. on the accord, it
provided newsletters to the Japanese utilities describing the
internal administration fight over the agreement. The
newsletters also discussed "anti-plutonium hard-liners,"
including Sen. Glenn, who were opposed to the pact.
   The firm, which has since changed its name to
Environmental &amp; Energy Services Co., insists that it fully
disclosed the newsletter and its contract with the Japanese
utilities to the Energy Department, as it was required to do
by federal law. Energy Department officials say they were
surprised to learn about the newsletters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hunt Manufacturing
   Acquires Bunzl Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   HUN U.BNZ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Hunt Manufacturing Co. said it completed
its acquisition of the Graphic Arts Group of Bunzl PLC for
#22 million ($36.1 million) plus a single contingent cash
payment.
   Hunt, a maker of office and art supplies, said the
contingent payment is for up to #4.75 million, based on the
next three years of cumulative net sales of the acquired
businesses and certain related products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquired businesses include Seal Products Inc., a
Connecticut-based marketer of mounting and laminating
equipment and supplies; Ademco Ltd., which markets a similar
line of products in the U.K.; and Coated Specialities Ltd., a
maker of adhesive-based films and tapes for the graphic arts
industry.
   Besides adding brands and distribution capabilities, the
acquisition will give Hunt a manufacturing base in Europe
through Coated Specialities, which has operations in West
Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Framatome S.A.:
   Profit Fell by 30% in '89,
   But a Rebound Is Expected
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4H
</SO>
<CO>
   F.FRM EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The French nuclear energy group Framatome S.A. said profit
fell by 30% in 1989 but is expected to show a significant
rebound this year.
   Framatome said the drop in its group profit to 742 million
francs ($131.4 million) from 1.06 billion francs in 1988
reflected the fact that it received payment for only one new
nuclear reactor during the year, down from three in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Group revenue rose to 19.9 billion francs from 10.8
billion over the same period, but Framatome noted that this
gain reflected the billing of a Superphenix generator that
hasn't yet had any impact on its profits.
   Looking ahead, Framatome said that "results for the year
1990 should show a significant improvement with the billing
of three new nuclear reactors and the favorable evolution of
profits from connecting rods activities." It didn't
elaborate.
   Framatome is controlled by the French government and
doesn't have any publicly traded voting securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Rhone-Poulenc S.A.:
   Paris-Based Firm Completes
   Purchase of Rorer Group
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   ROR RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rhone-Poulenc S.A. said it completed a $78-a-share tender
offer for about 50% of Rorer Group.
   The announcement came on the heels of a change in Rorer's
bylaws, approved by about 98% of voted shares, that exempts
Rorer from certain anti-takeover provisions in Pennsylvania
law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Holders in Rorer, a Fort Washington, Pa.-based
pharmaceutical concern, must vote again at a meeting still to
be scheduled whether to approve the second part of the merger
between the company and the drug business of Rhone-Poulenc, a
chemicals company based in Paris. Under that part, holders
will receive stock and other securities in the combined
company, to be 68%-owned by Rhone-Poulenc.
   Rorer has estimated the total value of the transaction at
$3.15 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemper Sets Charge
   Totaling $19.5 Million
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   KEM
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONG GROVE, Ill. -- Kemper Corp. said it's establishing an
after-tax charge of $19.5 million, or 35 cents a share, in
its second quarter for its arbitration loss to a former
executive of its Prescott, Ball &amp; Turben unit.
   In last year's second quarter, the insurance and financial
services concern earned $121.7 million, or $2.46 a share,
including profit from discontinued operations of $67.2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A panel of the National Association of Securities Dealers
has awarded the former executive $38.2 million. The award
stems from a disagreement over his employment contract, and
is one of the largest such awards in the securities business.
   Kemper said Prescott, a brokerage concern, will contest
and try to vacate the award.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aetna Unit Dissolves
   Joint Venture Insuring
   Multinational Firms
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   AET I.ASG J.TMI
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- Aetna Casualty &amp; Surety Co. has
dissolved a joint venture that provided property/casualty
insurance for multinational corporations because it wasn't
successful in a highly competitive segment of the insurance
market.
   Aetna, a unit of Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., and
Assicurazoni Generali S.p.A. of Trieste, Italy, each owned
45% of Aegen International Inc., which was formed in 1981.
Taisho Marine &amp; Fire Co. of Japan owned the remaining 10%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Aegen wrote just $10 million in net written premiums. It
faced huge competition from such larger, well established
insurers as American International Group Inc., Cigna Corp.
and Chubb Co.
   All three of the venture partners decided that each of
them individually will develop insurance coverages for
U.S.-based companies doing business abroad and for
foreign-based companies with U.S. ventures.
   The venture maintained 30 employees at New York's World
Trade Center, and they were told Friday that the company was
being disbanded.
   The Aetna/Generali International Benefits network, which
provides employee benefits for foreign employees of
multinational companies, is a separate entity and wasn't
affected by this change. Aegen was separate from Aetna's
international operations, which weren't affected by Friday's
actions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston
   Hired to Advise
   First Executive
   ----
   By David B. Hilder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC Z.CSU GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   First Executive Corp., the struggling Los Angeles-based
insurer, hired investment banker First Boston Corp. to
explore a restructuring that could include the sale of one or
more of First Executive's operating units, people familiar
with the company said.
   First Executive last year tried to sell its second-largest
insurance subsidiary, but the proposed buyer, a private
investor group, was unable to complete the purchase of the
New York-based unit. First Boston, which is owned by CS First
Boston Inc., will examine alternatives for First Executive's
New York subsidiary and other units, people familiar with the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, a top official of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., one of
First Executive's traditional investment bankers, said Kidder
is representing another company "that is interested in a
transaction with First Executive."
   Scott Newquist, an executive managing director at Kidder
in charge of investment banking, declined to identify
Kidder's client or specify the nature of its proposed
transaction.
   However, speculation within the insurance industry has
centered on Kidder's parent, General Electric Co., which may
be interested in purchasing part of First Executive's
junk-bond portfolio or one of its insurance units. In
particular, GE could be interested in First Executive's New
York-based unit.
   Fred Carr, chairman of First Executive, confirmed in an
interview yesterday that First Executive had hired First
Boston. He declined to specify First Boston's assignment.
First Boston officials declined to comment.
   One person familiar with First Executive said First
Boston's assignment is "to help the board and the management
understand what options the company might have in addition to
what it's doing now."
   First Executive's move comes as the company, which has
assets of more than $19 billion, is under pressure on several
fronts. For the fourth quarter of last year, First Executive
reported a stunning loss of $835.7 million, or $9.98 a share,
after writing down the value of its $8 billion junk bond
portfolio by $859 million. First Executive, which was a major
customer of now-failed Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., is
believed to hold the nation's largest portfolio of
high-yield, high-risk junk bonds and has been hurt by the
recent swoon in the market for such bonds.
   News of the write-down caused a surge in redemptions by
holders of policies issued by First Executive's two main
units, Executive Life Insurance Co. of California and
Executive Life Insurance Co. of New York. Policy surrenders
and redemptions were $559 million in the first two months of
this year, more than double the year-earlier rate. First
Executive has told securities analysts that the pace of
withdrawals slowed in March and April, but hasn't provided
specific figures.
   First Executive also could face problems from proposed new
insurance regulations that would force insurers to put up
more capital as a reserve against possible losses on the some
of the lowest-rated junk bonds they hold. Executive Life is
also being closely examined by California insurance
regulators and First Executive's securities offering last
year is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   As a result of these problems, First Executive's common
stock has tumbled from a price of about $17 a share within
the last 12 months to close at $2.75 a share on Friday in the
national over-the-counter market.
   One disgruntled major shareholder, Rosewood Financial
Corp., Dallas, which owns a 9.9% stake in First Executive,
offered earlier this year to buy the company for cash and
stock that it valued at $6 a share. First Executive rejected
the offer as inadequate. Rosewood, an arm of the Caroline
Rose Hunt trust, hasn't renewed its offer.
   Herbert E. Goodfriend, an insurance analyst with
Prudential-Bache Securities, New York, views the hiring of
First Boston as a sign that First Executive will become more
aggressive in defending itself. "We surmise that this new
step by the company will include possible recapitalization
and/or new money/new blood," Mr. Goodfriend wrote in a recent
report. Mr. Goodfriend declined to elaborate, citing a
Prudential-Bache policy that bars him from discussing First
Executive with the press beyond his written reports. A
Prudential-Bache spokeswoman declined to explain the firm's
reason for barring Mr. Goodfriend from speaking about First
Executive.
   Mr. Newquist of Kidder Peabody said his firm had discussed
with First Executive the possibility of evaluating First
Executive's portfolio. But, Mr. Newquist said, "we feel we're
conflicted from working for First Executive because of
another assignment we have." He said the assignment is from
"another company that is interested in a transaction with
First Executive." He declined to identify the company or the
nature of the transaction.
   For First Boston, the hiring by First Executive represents
the fourth major insurance or junk-bond assignment in recent
months. First Boston is trying to sell the insurance units of
AmBase Corp., New York; American General Corp., a Houston
insurance and finance company; and the $3 billion junk bond
portfolio of insolvent Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association,
Beverly Hills, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wise Is Expected to be Tapped to Lead
   Reorganized Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WHX
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   D. Leonard Wise, a tough-minded veteran of the steel
business, is likely to be tapped to lead Wheeling-Pittsburgh
Steel Corp. in the company's post-bankruptcy era.
   The 55-year-old Mr. Wise, elected vice chairman in March,
is expected to be named chief executive, succeeding
turnaround expert William J. Scharffenberger after the
company's reorganization plan has been approved. That should
occur this fall, after the company and United Steelworkers of
America reach an accord.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the move must be approved by directors of the
reorganized company, Mr. Wise appears to have the backing of
management and the company's largest creditor, a group led by
New York investor Ronald LaBow, which would own 50% of the
new Wheeling-Pittsburgh.
   At a recent meeting of company plant foreman and
superintendents at Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Club, Mr. Wise
joined chief operating officer James L. Wareham at the
podium, an arrangement that the workers took as a signal of a
new era. "Wise was the one who gave a sort of half-time pep
talk," says one union official. "Everyone was asking,
`Where's Scharffenberger?'" Mr. Wareham, who was hired last
year, is expected to continue as chief operating officer.
   Mr. Scharffenberger says it is premature to speculate
about a new CEO, but says Mr. Wise has been working closely
with him on the final stages of reorganization and with Mr.
Wareham on operations. "We have two very talented and
compatible executives and I feel I've done my duty in
attracting them," he says. Mssrs. Wise and Wareham declined
to comment.
   Wheeling-Pittsburgh hopes that Mr. Wise, known for his
no-nonsense style and steady, firm hand, will bring stability
to the nation's eighth-largest steelmaker. In the five years
since filing for Chapter 11 protection, Wheeling-Pittsburgh
has seen three different chief executives and four chairmen.
   The task will be even more difficult because it is a tough
time to bring calm to a steelmaker. The industry enters the
1990s high from a three-year expansion, but bracing for
flattening demand and increased competition. Only those
steelmakers who invest heavily in new technology and create
new markets are expected to survive. The challenge may be
even tougher for a company that has been somewhat spoiled by
bankruptcy protection and must resume burdensome interest and
pension payments. Wheeling-Pittsburgh owes the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. $85 million.
   "This company won't be able to report profits in the same
magnitude as in the past," concedes Mr. Scharffenberger.
"We're vulnerable."
   Mr. Wise learned the business at Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
then at the former Jones &amp; Laughlin Steel Corp., and most
recently as president of Toronto's Slater Industries Inc.
Thomas Graham, the president of USX Corp.'s steel operations
and former CEO of Jones &amp; Laughlin, says he has "high regard
and respect for Len's leadership and executive capabilities."
   Mr. Wise proved his mettle in the late 1970s, when he took
over Jones &amp; Laughlin's troubled Indiana Harbors Works. At
the time, the complex was floundering, with monthly losses of
up to $10 million. He turned the operation around, holding
mill superintendents responsible for costs, forging
cooperative labor agreements and using equipment more
efficiently. "He provided absolute first-rate direction," for
that plant, says Mr. Graham.
   The task could prove equally daunting at
Wheeling-Pittsburgh. The company is much stronger than it was
five years ago, having renegotiated lower raw material and
labor contracts, and closed a huge rail plant. It even
outperforms its larger competitors in some areas: More than
90% of its steel is continuously cast, compared with an
industry average of 64%. And earnings per ton of steel
shipped reached $58 last year, compared with $39 a ton for
the other major steelmakers.
   But labor costs will undoubtedly rise when the company
emerges from bankruptcy protection. And the company has less
flexibility than its larger competitors to close down lines
for maintenance and produces fewer tons of steel to offset
the high cost of modernizing plants.
   Christopher Plummer, an analyst with WEFA Group, says the
company needs to update its tin mill operations and expand
the more profitable, albeit highly competitive,
electrogalvanizing operations to keep pace with others
steelmakers. Mr. Wise is also expected to expand the
relatively new corrugated steel operations, which make roofs
and sidings for the construction industry, to protect that
niche market.
   "If a company is going to survive, it has to ante up with
these investments," Mr. Plummer says. "That may be somewhat
difficult for Wheeling-Pittsburgh."
   Even steelmakers who have never been close to bankruptcy
find it difficult to borrow needed capital. Upon emerging
from Chapter 11, Wheeling-Pittsburgh will have a higher debt
load than its competitors, so it will be extremely hard for
it to issue new debt. And it can't expect to raise money
through equity until investors feel confident in a new
management team.
   "They need to establish a track record for the company,"
Mr. Scharffenberger says of Mssrs. Wise and Wareham. "They
have to spend capital money wisely and that's going to take a
lot of good judgment."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Hampshire
   Savings Bank Posts
   Loss for First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9E
</SO>
<CO>
   NHSB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONCORD, N.H. -- New Hampshire Savings Bank Corp. reported
a first-quarter net loss of $6.7 million, or $1.09 a share,
and warned that its turnaround strategy has "experienced
setbacks in the face of a weakening economy."
   In the year-ago quarter, the thrift reported a net loss of
$6 million, or 97 cents a share. Like other New England
financial institutions, New Hampshire Savings's performance
has been battered by a sluggish economy and floundering real
estate market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the latest quarter, New Hampshire Savings took a
provision for credit losses of $6.4 million, compared to a
$9.4 million provision in the year-earlier quarter. It
currently has a $58.1 million allowance for credit losses,
nearly four times the yearago level.
   The bank said that its nonperforming assets now amount to
9.6% of its $1.38 billion in assets. That's three times the
yearago level of nonperformers and slightly wider than the
level three months ago. Its allowance for credit losses is
43.5% of its actual nonperforming assets.
   Joseph J. Butare Jr., chairman, said that "our ability to
implement our (turnaround) plan successfully depends on a
variety of factors, many of them beyond our control."
   He said that the bank's primary capital ratio declined
slightly to 5.74% from the year-end level, and remained below
the 6% regulatory minimum capital requirement.
   He said the bank had asked the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation to extend a temporary waiver allowing it to
continue to accept "brokered deposits on which its liquidity
in large part depends."
   The bank also said that it has received from the FDIC a
draft consent cease and desist order covering almost all
aspects of its operations. Such orders have been signed by
several troubled area banks.
   Mr. Butare said that he is working to reduce the size of
the bank and its costs. He said total assets have been
reduced 10% in the past year; the bank has cut its work force
10% as well.
   He added, "We don't expect the economy to rebound in the
near term, and (we) continue to strengthen measures to
safeguard asset quality against what promise to remain
difficult and challenging conditions."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Turning Over an Old Leaf
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In salads I'm
   Not picky, no;
   But I eschew
   Radicchio,
   And arugula
   Is depressing
   Even under
   Loads of dressing.
   So, if exotic
   Goodies fret us,
   We should stick
   To plain old lettuce.
   -- Robert Gordon.
   ---
   The New Elite
                                                                                                       

   Not titles, status, fame nor chic,
   Nor plaques upon the wall;
   We win our place in the elect
   With low cholesterol.
   -- Richard F. Barrett.
   ---
   New Standards
                                                                                                       

   These days a man isn't known by the company he keeps, but
by the ones he takes over.
   -- Marguerite Whitley May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Legislators Inform Bush of Readiness
   To Discuss Tax Increases, Spending Cuts
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Four top congressional leaders told
President Bush that, pending consultations with their
members, they are ready to begin talks on a package of big
tax increases and spending cuts aimed at significantly
reducing the federal deficit.
   At a meeting last night at the White House, President Bush
signaled his willingness to consider raising taxes, according
to House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois.
"Everything is on the table," Rep. Michel quoted the
president as saying. A White House spokesman had no immediate
response.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) said he will
recommend to House Democrats that they open negotiations with
the White House. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D.,
Maine) wouldn't share his views before talking to other
senators, but Rep. Michel said Sen. Mitchell indicated to Mr.
Bush that he, too, is willing to talk.
   The two top Democrats joined Senate Majority Leader Bob
Dole (D., Kan.) and Rep. Michel in the president's quarters
in the White House for a meeting with the president that
lasted more than an hour. Mr. Bush was joined by Budget
Director Richard Darman, Chief of Staff John Sununu and
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady.
   The four congressional leaders said that they agreed to
talk again with Mr. Bush within days, perhaps as early as
tomorrow night or Wednesday, after each of them meets with
his rank-and-file members.
   Increasingly fearful that rising interest rates threaten
the continued economic expansion on which Mr. Bush's
re-election hopes rest, the White House has been increasingly
anxious to get bipartisan talks going. Some Democrats,
unhappy with the results of last year's so-called budget
summit, have been resistant. But that resistance seems to be
receding.
   "We're going to need some coordination if we're going to
meet the requirements of this year," Speaker Foley said
outside the White House last night. To avoid triggering
across-the-board budget cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law, Mr.
Darman has said, Congress and the White House need to find at
least $45 billion and perhaps $55 billion in
deficit-reduction measures. Neither the budget that passed
last week in the House, nor the one approved by the Senate
Budget Committee, satisfies that goal.
   Reducing the approximately $150 billion deficit by that
much is almost certain to require sizable tax increases,
congressional leaders said. "I don't know how you make these
figures match without doing some on revenues," Rep. Michel
told reporters outside the White House. "I don't think we're
going to be talking about a small package of doings."
   Last night's meeting may prove to have been the opening
ceremony for the bipartisan deficit-reduction compromise that
has proved so elusive for the past several years. But the
political obstacles remain significant. Last year's budget
summit, which involved many of the same people, demonstrated
that bipartisan consensus can sometimes yield little more
than a package of modest spending cuts and major accounting
gimmicks.
   According to Rep. Michel, Sen. Mitchell told Mr. Bush that
he insisted on only two things: that everything be on the
table and that "we not fight it out every day in the press."
Sen. Mitchell himself told reporters only that "there was
general agreement that any discussions will be without
preconditions, if and when they occur."
   "We didn't discuss any specifics," Speaker Foley said.
Instead, the conversation focused primarily on "the process
by which we might begin discussions." Both he and Mr. Darman
have said that this year's talks, unlike last year's, must
involve the chairmen of the powerful congressional
tax-writing and appropriations panels to assure that any pact
is implemented. The president himself might chair the first
few negotiating sessions, Rep. Michel said.
   If talks proceed, the major issues are likely to include
what price Democrats want for agreeing to cut capital-gains
taxes, what kinds of tax increases both sides can support,
how much to cut the defense budget, how best to control the
rapid growth of Medicare and other so-called entitlement
programs and what other domestic spending programs to pare.
Mr. Darman and some congressional leaders say the only way to
enact such an unpopular package is for both parties to
embrace it simultaneously.
   Mr. Darman also wants to take up changes in the federal
budgeting process. Congressional Democrats also want to
change budgetary accounting so they can say that aren't any
longer relying on the Social Security surplus to reduce the
deficit in the rest of the government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Crown Books Corp. April Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CRWN
</CO>
<LP>
   LANDOVER, Md. -- Crown Books Corp. said April sales rose
12%, to $44.6 million, from $39.9 million a year ago. The
book store operator said same-store sales increased 5%. The
company currently operates 257 stores.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trak Auto Corp. April Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   TRKA
</CO>
<LP>
   LANDOVER, Md. -- Trak Auto Corp. said April sales
increased 12% to $67.1 million from $60 million a year
earlier.
   The auto-parts retailer, which currently operates 317
stores, said same-store sales rose 6%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sears Picks Outsiders in Reorganization
   Of Firm's Weak Women's Business Unit
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9G
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS S
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. completed a reorganization
of its weak women's business unit, consolidating
responsibility for merchandising mostly in the hands of
outsiders in a bid to boost sales.
   The U.S.'s largest retailer appointed Dorrit Bern, one of
the first departmentstore managers recruited as part of the
current drive to update stores, to the new post of national
merchandise manager of women's ready-to-wear apparel. The
selection greatly expands Ms. Bern's responsibilities by
adding the big sportswear category. She had been national
merchandise manager for women's dresses, coats and junior
apparel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement followed the appointments of two other
outsiders as top managers of Sears women's merchandise
categories. Only one women's merchandise category, intimate
apparel and hosiery, is still overseen by a company veteran.
   The personnel moves amount to an admission by Sears that
it desperately needs to revamp its women's business -- and
that its mostly inbred managers aren't up to the task on
their own. "The important thing is Sears is looking for the
best people," said Michael Bozic, chairman and chief
executive officer of the Sears merchandise group. He added
that Sears's strengths "sometimes are more visible to
competitors and people on the outside than they are to us."
   The stakes are high. "If Sears can't figure out how to
sell women clothes, it is going to be very limited in its
ability to grow," said George Rosenbaum, president of Leo J.
Shapiro &amp; Associates, a market research firm. Women surveyed
in the fall by Shapiro &amp; Associates were significantly more
confident of finding what they wanted at J.C. Penney Co.
stores than at Sears, Mr. Rosenbaum said.
   Mr. Bozic said the company's latest image survey indicated
some improvement in the way women view Sears, probably the
result of its efforts to add national labels to what had been
mostly a private-label lineup. He declined to say how much
the favorable feelings had risen.
   Still, Mr. Bozic isn't satisfied with the current
performance. He said he expects the new women's organization
to produce double-digit sales increases in the second half of
the year, which includes the important Christmas season.
Store sales of women's apparel last year accounted for less
than 10% of the company's merchandise group revenue of $31.6
billion.
   The 40-year-old Ms. Bern already has a track record at
Sears, where she is credited with reviving the once-moribund
teenagers' and young women's business known as juniors. After
jumping to Sears in 1987 from the Bon Marche department store
chain in Seattle, Ms. Bern recruited department-store buyers
to develop new Mainframe departments, stocked mostly with
national labels. Sears says the departments, which feature
harem pants and other trendy styles, are a success.
   This past year, Sears rewarded Ms. Bern by adding dresses
and coats to her responsibilities. She has recruited buyers
from department stores in these areas too. And Mr. Bozic said
dress sales are "exploding now" from what he acknowledged was
a small base.
   The women's sportswear business was formerly run by Joe
Silvestri, a Sears veteran, who is moving into the top
marketing job in the women's business unit, Mr. Bozic said.
   Heading the other three women's merchandise categories at
Sears are:
   -- John Guze, who joined Sears in April as general manager
of footwear, luggage and women's accessories. The 44-year-old
Mr. Guze, who had been a divisional merchandise manager at
Dayton Hudson Corp.'s department store unit in Minneapolis,
holds the title of general manager because he is responsible
for both buying and selling operations.
   -- Kenneth Cort, general manager of the fine jewelry
business since last year. The 47-year-old Mr. Cort formerly
was chairman and chief executive of Zale Jewelry.
   -- Janice Page, a 41-year-old Sears veteran, remains in
her post as national merchandise manager for intimate apparel
and hosiery.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Imperial Debt Issue
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said it
plans to issue 150 million Canadian dollars (US$128.6
million) of 12.45% debentures to mature Dec. 1, 2000. It said
proceeds will be used to increase its capital base. Wood
Gundy Inc. is lead underwriter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Review of Corporate Earnings:
   First Quarter, 1990
   ---
   Companies' Net Income Fell 18%;
   Despite Some Pickup in Economy
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The U.S. economy is displaying fresh signs of life, but
corporate earnings still are sagging. Many securities
analysts look for another soft profits showing in the current
quarter but expect a pickup in the second half.
   In the 1990 first quarter, net income of 654 major
corporations fell 18% from a year earlier, a Wall Street
Journal survey finds. This compared with a 14% drop in last
year's fourth quarter. After-tax earnings on continuing
operations fell 15%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The inflation-adjusted gross national product rose at an
annual rate of 2.1% in the first quarter -- hardly
spectacular but a substantial improvement over the 1.1% gain
in the fourth quarter. But profits were depressed by
increases in labor costs and interest payments. In addition,
earnings were held down by unusually large writeoffs. In
part, banks were writing off bad loans, but Susan Lakatos, a
Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. economist, says that, in addition,
"corporate America is still cleaning up its balance sheet."
   Melissa R. Brown, a Prudential-Bache Securities analyst,
has been pessimistic about earnings for some time, but she
says first-quarter profits "came in worse than expected.
Although earnings for the quarter are not wildly
disappointing, there's not much to cheer about." Even sectors
that did a little better than expected, she says, did less
well than a year ago.
   Richard D. Rippe of Dean Witter Reynolds, however,
believes that continuing moderate increases in growth will
raise business volume. By later this year he expects rising
capacity utilization to widen profit margins. He expects
pretax reported profits for the full year to decline somewhat
less than they did in 1989 and predicts a sharp gain in
earnings in 1991.
   The 51 economists interviewed monthly by Blue Chip
Economic Indicators in general share Mr. Rippe's view. Last
month on the average they forecast a 2.4% drop in pretax
profits this year, down from the 8.3% drop in 1989. But they
predicted that earnings would rise by 7.4% in 1991.
   Among major groups, profits were down sharply in autos,
oil and steel. Most aerospace concerns posted gains but some
had major downturns. Computer company results were mixed.
   The Big Three auto makers took strong medicine to cut
bulging North American vehicle inventories and suffered the
side effects of sharply lower profits. General Motors, Ford
and Chrysler shut nearly all of their U.S. factories for one
to two weeks during January, and slowed output during the
rest of the January-to-March period. At the same time, the
Big Three continued to offer heavy discounts in an effort to
stimulate a sluggish market and hold ground against Japanese
competitors.
   Detroit's first-quarter retrenchment rippled back to auto
parts makers, who saw sales volumes and profits squeezed hard
during the period. And it didn't help relations with the
United Auto Workers union, which will negotiate new contracts
with the Big Three this fall. On the positive side, overall
Big Three inventories now are at relatively lean levels.
   One-time gains last year at Boeing, McDonnell Douglas and
GenCorp create the deceptive appearance of a sharp drop in
first-quarter aerospace and defense industry profitability.
But quarterly earnings for most companies actually rose this
year, and Boeing's operating profit -- after negating a $298
million credit in 1989 from an accounting change -- surged
87% on the strength of its booming airliner deliveries.
Northrop's rise in net income included $67 million in the
latest quarter from the sale of its headquarters building.
Lockheed got better results from its technological services
and aeronautical systems segments -- and found itself free of
write-downs for a change. Wolfgang Demisch of UBS Securities
noted that despite having operating earnings that generally
have been "really quite upbeat," defense companies, with few
exceptions, have had their stocks hammered because of the
turmoil in the Pentagon budget. Wall Street's reaction, he
says, reflects that even if short-term earnings are strong,
"it's hard to make out a scenario where the aerospace results
will accelerate from here on out."
   Computer makers showed wide variations in profits. But
industry watchers were generally heartened by
better-than-expected news from the two biggest players,
International Business Machines and Digital Equipment, and
they talked of a possible revival in domestic demand, which
has been sluggish for years.
   IBM's strong showing, which included the company's best
U.S. results in recent memory, surprised Wall Street and sent
the stock surging. But IBM has had isolated good quarters
before, and analysts cautioned that the company soon may face
competitive pressures in its backbone business of mainframe
computers.
   Even though Digital's profit fell 90% on a $150 million
charge, analysts were relieved that the company didn't post a
loss, as had been feared. In addition, Digital posted its
first rise in domestic sales in four quarters. Because NCR
and Tandem Computers also had reported modest gains in U.S.
business, analysts smelled a trend and said reports of the
home market's death might have been exaggerated.
   Crude oil prices that were $3 to $4 a barrel higher
boosted exploration and production profits of the major oil
companies. Higher natural gas prices early in the quarter
also contributed. But petrochemical profits declined, largely
because crude is the main feedstock for chemicals. Gasoline
refining and marketing profits were generally weaker for the
same reason. Texaco a year earlier took a $1.19 billion gain
from the sale of Texaco Canada Inc., throwing off results for
the company and the group. Phillips had gains totaling $238
million in the latest quarter and a $90 million charge. Exxon
had a $535 million gain a year earlier.
   Steel industry profits were reduced by sharply lower
volumes and weaker prices because of the general slump in
manufacturing. Auto plant shutdowns and efforts by other
major steel users to cut inventories whacked steel operations
to less than 80% of capacity during January, and the mills
didn't get up to 85% of capacity until the last half of
March. By contrast, the industry operated at nearly 90% of
capacity during the 1989 first quarter. Bethlehem Steel had a
$55 million restructuring charge in the 1989 quarter.
   While the outlook is brighter for the second quarter,
profits, nonetheless, will fall well below the year-ago
period, when most manufacturing was booming. "It remains to
be seen whether the second quarter will be just the
seasonally strongest quarter in a weak year, or something
better than that," says Jeffrey F. Miller, metals analyst
with Duff &amp; Phelps. Shipments of many types of steel are
relatively good, reflecting a general improvement in U.S.
manufacturing and an end to six months or more of inventory
reduction.
   Here are the first-quarter profits for various industry
groups and comparisons with the year-earlier quarter. When
individual companies report for three-month periods other
than calendar quarters, the nearest comparable periods are
used. In all the tables, 000s are omitted.
                                                                                                       

   BASIC MATERIALS
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      4,065,287               5,313,582           - 23
                                                                                                       

   Aluminum companies felt the manufacturing slowdown in the
quarter. Profits dropped sharply, mainly because of lower
prices. Aluminum ingot prices dropped 40% from a year
earlier; prices for sheet and most other products also
declined, but by a lesser amount. In addition, Aluminum Co.
of America lost can sheet sales because it refused to match
an industry price cut last fall. Aluminum's outlook is
brightening as the manufacturing economy picks up. Shipments
are increasing, and the price of ingot has started to rise.
Nonetheless, second-quarter profits are expected to fall well
below the year-ago period, the peak earnings quarter in an
extremely strong year.
   Some gold companies boosted output significantly and sold
their gold for higher prices, mitigating the impact of higher
cash mining costs. Homestake, for example, increased gold
production by about 33% and sold its gold for about $14 an
ounce more than the year before, posting a nearly twofold
increase in earnings.
   Copper companies' earnings declined on a 20% to 30% drop
in realized copper prices.
   Forest products concerns saw profits drop, citing
softening pulp and paper markets. Georgia-Pacific was also
hurt by higher interest expenses. Besides a decline in price
and demand for pulp, Louisiana-Pacific blamed unusually wet
weather that slowed building activity and precluded some
logging, and uncertainty over interest rates. Willamette was
helped by increased operating efficiencies and
stronger-than-expected building materials markets. At
Weyerhaeuser, lower prices and margins in most pulp and paper
markets were only partially offset by improved results in
forest products.
   Paper companies saw profits fall, citing price
discounting. Bowater's profit drop reflected increased
discounting in the newsprint, coated-paper and pulp markets.
Union Camp cited lower prices for linerboard and uncoated
business paper. Boise Cascade was hurt by lower prices and
sluggish demand for most of its paper grades.
   Chemical industry earnings were down because of weak
demand, price declines and cold weather-related increases in
raw materials costs. Many companies, including Dow, Du Pont
and Monsanto, were affected by slowdowns in the U.S. auto and
construction industries. Analysts say most companies will
continue with flat to negative earnings comparisons this
quarter.
                                                                                                       

   METALS
                                                                                                       

   -- STEEL
                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   7 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Allegheny Ludlum            23,258      34,366     - 32
   Armco Inc                   12,900      40,900     - 68
   Bethlehem Steel             21,300      64,700     - 67
   Inland Steel Ind            18,743      49,390     - 62
   LTV Corp                    44,200      76,600     - 42
   Nucor Corp                  14,994      15,969     -  6
   Worthington Indus           10,975      15,869     - 31
   TOTAL                      146,370     297,794     - 51
                                                                                                       

   -- ALUMINUM
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Aluminum Co of Amer        148,600     276,000     - 46
   AMAX Inc                    50,000     114,200     - 56
   Maxxam Inc                  33,800       7,000     +383
   Reynolds Metals             77,700     124,500     - 38
   TOTAL                      310,100     521,700     - 41
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Asarco Inc                  35,800      68,600     - 48
   Brush Wellman Inc            5,500      10,200     - 46
   Cyprus Minerals             30,100      81,000     - 63
   Magma Copper Co             11,707      22,799     - 49
   Phelps Dodge Corp          111,300     165,900     - 33
   TOTAL                      194,407     348,499     - 44
                                                                                                       

   -- MINING, DIVERSIFIED
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   2 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Cleveland-Cliffs             5,500      12,900     - 57
   Freeport McMoRan           219,411      69,937     +214
   TOTAL                      224,911      82,837     +172
                                                                                                       

   -- PRECIOUS METALS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   ASA Ltd                      7,864       9,356     - 16
   Battle Mtn Gold              7,001      10,820     - 35
   Hecla Mining                 4,599      -2,539      ...
   Homestake Mining            13,249       7,138     + 86
   Newmont Mining              57,407       9,403     +511
   TOTAL                       90,120      34,178     +164
                                                                                                       

   LUMBER AND PAPER
                                                                                                       

   -- FOREST PRODUCTS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Georgia-Pacific            101,000     154,000     - 34
   Louisiana Pacific           35,800      39,900     - 10
   Potlatch Corp               37,007      35,912     +  3
   Weyerhaeuser Co            130,058     148,087     - 12
   Willamette Indus            42,437      39,793     +  7
   TOTAL                      346,302     417,692     - 17
                                                                                                       

   -- PAPER
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   13 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Boise Cascade               33,570      78,250     - 57
   Bowater Inc                 22,208      38,913     - 43
   Champion Int'l              69,774     113,508     - 39
   Consolidated Paper          40,331      43,410     -  7
   Fed'l Paper Board           38,786      47,096     - 18

   Int'l Paper Co             180,000     223,000     - 19
   James River Corp            46,946      58,979     - 20
   Kimberly-Clark             117,200     103,100     + 14
   Mead Corp                   39,500      52,600     - 25
   Scott Paper Co              60,100      86,500     - 31
   Union Camp Corp             67,407      79,718     - 15
   Westvaco Corp               46,438      48,650     -  5
   TOTAL                      782,224     998,110     - 22
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- CHEMICALS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   22 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Air Products &amp; Ch           60,600      56,700     +  7
   American Cyanamid           90,900      85,000     +  7
   Betz Labs                   15,398      13,159     + 17
   Cabot Corp                  26,252      29,039     - 10
   Dow Chemical               462,000     743,000     - 38
   Du Pont Co                 615,000     736,000     - 16
   Ethyl Corp                  52,447      56,388     -  7
   Goodrich (B.F.)             16,200      53,000     - 69
   Grace (W.R.) &amp; Co           32,609      29,414     + 11
   Great Lakes Chem            34,308      28,575     + 20
   Hercules Inc                33,711      59,805     - 44
   Int'l Min &amp; Chem            19,200      23,500     - 18
   Lubrizol Corp               29,135      30,700     -  5
   Monsanto Co                194,000     222,000     - 13
   Morton International        39,090       9,628     +306
   Nalco Chemical              29,667      25,148     + 18
   Olin Corp                   32,000      34,000     -  6
   Quantum Chemical             5,800      75,300     - 92
   Rohm &amp; Haas Co              54,100      53,100     +  2
   Sigma Aldrich Corp          18,201      15,801     + 15
   Union Carbide               94,000     201,000     - 53
   Vista Chemical              16,235      32,515     - 50
   TOTAL                    1,970,853   2,612,772     - 25
   ---
   ENERGY
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989       % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      4,540,201               6,251,198          - 27
                                                                                                       

   A pickup in oil field activity in the U.S. and continued
exploration activity world-wide contributed to strong gains
for the equipment companies and drillers. While the increase
in activity was not huge, companies have trimmed so much from
their cost structures that any increase in business flows
quickly to the bottom line. Even some long-suffering contract
drilling companies, which narrowed their losses, believe an
end to their red ink is in sight.
   Natural gas pipeline companies, despite one of the warmest
first quarters on record, managed generally higher net in
come, what with special items, non-pipeline operations and
Panhandle's acquisition of Texas Eastern. Panhandle's results
for the rest of 1990 will be hurt by high interest expense,
possible cash refunds to customers and ambitious capital
spending.
   Coal industry results were mixed, with good weather,
productivity gains and mining expansions helping some
producers boost profits. Ashland Coal revenue grew 18%,
largely from the recent acquisition of new mines.
                                                                                                       

   OIL
                                                                                                       

   -- INTEGRATED OILS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Amoco Corp                 466,000     458,000     +  2
   Chevron Corp               473,000     313,000     + 51
   Exxon Corp               1,280,000   1,810,000     - 29
   Mobil Corp                 400,000     429,000     -  7
   Phillips Petroleum         259,000     190,000     + 36
   Sun Co                      71,000      81,000     - 12
   Texaco Inc                 328,000   1,455,000     - 77
   Unocal Corp                 77,000      87,000     - 11
   TOTAL                    3,354,000   4,823,000     - 30
                                                                                                       

   -- SECONDARY OILS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   15 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Amerada Hess                39,700     220,200     - 82
   Anadarko Petroleum          20,000      26,100     - 23
   Ashland Oil                    913     -13,776      ...
   Kerr-McGee Corp             27,100      63,900     - 58
   Louisiana Land              13,300      20,600     - 35
   Mapco Inc                   36,700      35,400     +  4
   Mesa L P                   -18,241      14,613      ...
   Murphy Oil Corp             21,998       6,405     +243
   Noble Affiliates            10,411      14,956     - 30
   Occidental Petrol          108,000      67,000     + 61
   Oryx Energy                 40,000     102,000     - 61
   Pennzoil                    32,693      52,537     - 38
   Quaker State Corp            2,326         580     +301
   Union Texas Petro           31,000      50,000     - 38
   USX Corp                   176,000     296,000     - 41
   TOTAL                      541,900     956,515     - 43
                                                                                                       

   -- DRILLERS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Global Marine              -11,100     -14,300      ...
   Helmerich &amp; Payne            6,808       5,412     + 26
   Parker Drilling             -1,192      -8,757      ...

   TOTAL                      -11,647     -28,774      ...
                                                                                                       

   -- OILFIELD EQUIP/SVCS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   3 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Baker Hughes                30,303      14,722     +106
   Halliburton Co              36,200      13,700     +164
   Schlumberger Ltd           128,554      82,326     + 56
   TOTAL                      195,057     110,748     + 76
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- PIPELINES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Burlington Resources        87,728      69,221     + 27
   Coastal Corp                75,600      60,400     + 25
   Enron Corp                 101,000      89,000     + 13
   Enserch Corp                44,737      35,844     + 25
   Panhandle Eastern           60,300      33,000     + 83
   Sonat Inc                   32,485      26,416     + 23
   Transco Energy              27,563      21,111     + 31
   Williams Cos                32,000      30,000     +  7
   TOTAL                      461,413     364,992     + 26
                                                                                                       

   -- COAL
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   3 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ashland Coal                 6,831       6,282     +  9
   Pittston Co                -10,102      14,985      ...
   Westmoreland Coal            2,749       3,450     - 20
   TOTAL                         -522      24,717      ...
   ---
   INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      2,730,744               3,646,449           - 25
                                                                                                       

   The rail group's earnings decline reflected a drop in
carloadings of motor vehicles, metal products and other
higher-value freight. But Burlington Northern and Norfolk
Southern benefited from strong coal shipments. First-quarter
losses at Santa Fe resulted from a litigation settlement.
Some analysts predict modest rail-traffic gains in the second
quarter.
   Trucking company profits were hurt by higher fuel and
labor costs as continued rate discounting held down revenue.
Consolidated Freightways' first-quarter results reflected
losses at its Emery Worldwide air-freight unit.
   The two largest air-freight carriers, Federal Express and
United Parcel Service, are still racking up large operating
losses on their efforts to expand overseas, offset somewhat
by recent price stabilization in the U.S. Federal Express is
also still struggling to meld its Tiger purchase,
particularly the seniority lists of its pilots. Paul
Schlesinger, an analyst with Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette,
expects revenue for the industry to continue growing in the
10%-to-15%-a-year range, with profit growth remaining spotty.
   Among the marine transport concerns, American President's
loss stemmed from competitive pressures in its Asia
transportation business and thinner profit margins at its
freight-brokerage operation.
   The sharp slump in the market for big trucks, diesel
engines and other parts continued to depress profits.
Cummins, which supplies about half the diesel engines for
heavy-duty trucks, said first-quarter production in North
America for those trucks fell 23% from a year ago. Although
they expect no immediate rebound, some companies, including
Cummins and Eaton, predict improved truck demand late in
1990.
   Several heavy-machinery makers continued to benefit from
increased demand for their products, though some reported
slowdowns in certain areas. Clark Equipment, for example,
said its U.S. forklift and off-highway components businesses
are in a "slight downturn." Although business for equipment
used in road repairs and mining remains strong, Caterpillar
continues to be hurt by soft demand for machines used in
private construction projects, particularly in the U.S. It's
not optimistic about the rest of the year. But Deere is
likely to continue its strong gains in agricultural machinery
as farmers continue their mini-spending spree. Larry D.
Hollis, an analyst at Robert W. Baird &amp; Co. in Milwaukee,
said improved industrial production later in the year should
help machinery makers.
                                                                                                       

   TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                                       

   -- RAILROADS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Burlington North            63,000      33,000     + 91
   Consolidated Rail           25,000      60,000     - 58
   CSX Corp                    77,000      82,000     -  6
   Norfolk Southern           140,200     133,800     +  5
   Santa Fe Pacific           -61,400     187,500      ...
   Union Pacific              128,000     138,000     -  7
   TOTAL                      371,800     634,300     - 41
                                                                                                       

   -- TRUCKING
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Carolina Freight               977       1,520     - 36

   Hunt (J B) Transp            6,049       4,934     + 23
   Roadway Services            16,501      15,749     +  5
   Yellow Freight Sys          13,431      44,958     - 70
   TOTAL                        3,072      99,699     - 97
                                                                                                       

   -- AIR-FREIGHT COURIERS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Air Express Intl             1,609       1,218     + 32
   Airborne Freight             6,343       2,660     +138
   Federal Express              5,213      24,795     - 79
   Harper Group                 4,241       3,282     + 29
   TOTAL                       17,406      31,955     - 46
                                                                                                       

   -- MARINE TRANSPORT
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   2 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Alexander &amp; Bald            47,125     135,334     - 65
   American President          -2,500       5,800      ...
   TOTAL                       44,625     141,134     - 68
                                                                                                       

   -- EQUIPMENT TRANSPORTATION
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   2 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Cummins Engine               8,900      19,500     - 54
   Eaton Corp                  53,700      67,200     - 20
   TOTAL                       62,600      86,700     - 28
                                                                                                       

   -- FACTORY EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Cincinnati Milac             2,507      10,038     - 75
   Interlake Corp              -2,318       8,183      ...
   Keystone Int'l               9,959       8,522     + 17
   Nordson Corp                 6,715       8,130     - 17
   Parker Hannifin             29,714      30,178     -  2
   TOTAL                       46,577      65,051     - 28
                                                                                                       

   -- HEAVY MACHINERY
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Caterpillar Inc             99,000     141,000     - 30
   Clark Equipment             20,045      14,034     + 43
   Deere &amp; Co                  78,529      48,386     + 62
   Harnischfeger Ind           17,595      12,360     + 42
   Manitowoc Co                 4,361       3,098     + 41

   TOTAL                      232,263     226,731     +  2
                                                                                                       

   -- ELECT. COMPONENTS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   7 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   AMP Inc                     79,833      77,297     +  3
   Emerson Electric           156,200     147,800     +  6
   Grainger (W.W.)             28,851      27,561     +  5
   Square D Co                 27,114      27,604     -  2
   Tecumseh Products           15,800      21,700     - 27
   Thomas &amp; Betts              15,500      15,440        0
   Westinghouse Elec          210,000     189,000     + 11
   TOTAL                      533,298     506,402     +  5
                                                                                                       

   -- HEAVY CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Fluor Corp                  28,200      21,600     + 31
   Foster Wheeler               8,374       6,992     + 20
   Kasler Corp                    605         578     +  5
   Morrison Knudsen             7,210       6,343     + 14
   Stone &amp; Webster              5,235       6,565     - 20
   TOTAL                       49,624      42,078     + 18
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- BUILDING MATERIALS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Armstrong World             65,200      37,400     + 74
   CalMat Co                   10,398      13,220     - 21
   Manville Corp               24,900      34,352     - 28
   Masco Corp                  69,800      75,400     -  7
   Owens-Corning               32,000      34,000     -  6
   Sherwin-Williams             9,995       8,810     + 13
   USG Corp                     8,000       3,000     +167
   Vulcan Materials            18,677      17,176     +  9
   TOTAL                      238,970     223,358     +  7
                                                                                                       

   -- CONTAINERS/PKGING
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ball Corp                    9,200       7,700     + 19
   Crown Cork &amp; Seal           21,361      19,210     + 11
   Sonoco Products             24,812      24,573     +  1
   Stone Container             36,800      86,800     - 58
   Temple-Inland               62,200      54,500     + 14
   TOTAL                      154,373     192,783     - 20

   -- INDUST/COMM SERV
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   15 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Comdisco Inc                19,000      25,000     - 24
   Commerce Clearing           29,151      28,836     +  1
   Deluxe Corp                 36,051      30,495     + 18
   Donnelley &amp; Sons            43,545      40,760     +  7
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet           110,310     143,303     - 23
   Ecolab Inc                  -2,342      -7,746      ...
   Equifax Inc                  9,769       8,465     + 15
   Flightsafety Int            24,479      14,217     + 72
   Harland (John H)            14,895      14,167     +  5
   Kelly Services              15,840      15,538     +  2
   Nat'l Education             -8,431       7,015      ...
   Nat'l Service Ind           22,438      21,575     +  4
   Ryder System Inc             7,257      26,186     - 72
   Safety-Kleen                11,193      10,040     + 11
   ServiceMaster L P           16,671      16,354     +  2
   TOTAL                      349,826     394,205     - 11
                                                                                                       

   -- POLLUTION MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Browning-Ferris           -226,342      58,783      ...
   Ogden Corp                  28,016      16,531     + 69
   Rollins Environ              5,892       4,395     + 34
   Waste Management           144,027     115,539     + 25
   Wheelabrator Tech           15,000      13,100     + 15
   TOTAL                      -33,407     208,348      ...
                                                                                                       

   -- DIVERSIFIED INDUST.
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   18 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Allied Signal              129,000     126,000     +  2
   Cooper Industries           59,800      38,000     + 57
   Crane Co                    13,517      10,695     + 26
   Dexter Corp                  9,991      11,430     - 13
   Dover Corp                  36,368      32,120     + 13
   Engelhard Corp              14,751      14,355     +  3
   FMC Corp                    38,000      30,000     + 27
   Harsco Corp                 13,002      15,483     - 16
   Illinois Tool Wks           40,618      37,028     + 10
   Ingersoll-Rand              45,600      49,200     -  7
   Norton Co                   19,400      30,500     - 36
   Penn Central Corp           25,000      92,700     - 73
   PPG Industries             125,300     129,800     -  3
   Raychem Corp              -107,916       2,354      ...
   Stanley Works               22,500      24,600     -  9
   Tenneco Inc                134,000     109,000     + 23
   Trinova Corp                14,480      18,401     - 21

   TOTAL                      659,717     793,705     - 17
   ---
   CONSUMER, CYCLICAL
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      4,962,068               8,109,396           - 39
                                                                                                       

   Many builders reported higher earnings in the quarter, but
the profits mask underlying trouble. Relatively stable
mortgage interest rates during the winter months helped buoy
sales; among national concerns, diversification into healthy
markets such as California and the Pacific Northwest also
helped. But recent rate increases on mortgages and a
liquidity crisis for builders induced by tighter thrift
lending laws have created worries for the second-quarter
outlook.
   Retailers are expected to report mixed results for the
April quarter. Discounting wasn't as prevalent as in the
important fourth quarter, and some apparel stores fared well.
But demand for goods sold by general merchants was soft,
hurting profits for some. Sears Roebuck, which is on a
calendar year, reported a big drop in profit because of what
it called an "unsatisfactory" performance by its giant U.S.
retail operation; the unit's loss widened to $134.2 million
from $42.7 million a year earlier, when results were helped
by publicity surrounding the company's launch of its
"everyday low pricing" strategy. K mart is expected to report
earnings that, at best, will be slightly higher than a year
ago.
   Lodging companies reflected the usual seasonal
fluctuations, while casino companies reported mixed results
largely because of the vagaries of luck at the gambling
tables. Marriott's results didn't include airline catering
operations that were shed last year. Hilton Hotels bene fited
from sharp improvement in its casino segment. Golden Nugget
soared because of business at its new Mirage resort, which is
expected to give Las Vegas a boost during the spring and
summer seasons.
   Restaurant companies are still battling fiercely for
market share, particularly in the high-profile, fast-food
segment. That the latest quarter is also the industry's
slowest of the season was evidenced by the failure of both
McDonald's and Wendy's International to meet sales
expectations. But smaller, niche companies seem to remain in
control of their own destinies. For example, the benefits of
franchising growth, aggressive advertising and tighter
quality controls are starting to kick in at Shoney's, a big
regional player in the family-restaurant market.
   In recreational products, the first quarter is a
seasonally low one for movie companies, particularly those
that don't enjoy a big "spillover" from their Christmas
films. This hurt Paramount, which was also affected by the
seasonality of its publishing business. Disney managed
another record-breaking quarter in spite of a disappointing
slate of films (redeemed by the March release of "Pretty
Woman") and the lack of the Easter holiday falling in the
quarter, which affected the theme parks. Summer box office
projections so far look as strong as last year's record
level.
   In the media sector, heavy demand for commercial time on
the television networks led to a strong quarter for some
concerns. CBS was boosted by its Super Bowl telecast. Capital
Cities/ABC climbed with help from strong gains in broadcast
revenue, which includes the network and eight TV stations.
ABC's network and stations saw strong advertising demand and
healthy ratings, except for the daytime schedule.
   The nation's economic sluggishness dragged down earnings
for most of those media companies with major daily newspapers
and magazines. They were hit on two levels: falling spending
by national advertisers and a continued slump in local retail
ads. National and retail ad spending levels aren't expected
to improve through 1990.
   Newspaper publishers' earnings were helped by lower
newsprint costs and industrywide cost cutting.
   Fuel costs that soared by as much as 27% pummeled airline
earnings. In addition, soft demand for travel early in the
quarter made it hard for airlines to get fare increases to
stick. Those factors caused many airlines to post losses,
with the rest reporting meager profits. Analysts expect a
better second quarter, although the improvement will be
small. AMR, parent of American Airlines, ended a string of
eight consecutive quarters of profit with its first loss
since 1987. United's parent, UAL, was hurt by a one-time,
$77.5 million payment to Texas Air's Continental to settle
charges that United competed unfairly in the
computer-reservation business.
   For some apparel and textile makers, the seasonally
sluggish first quarter saw lackluster retail sales and
depressed earnings, though others posted healthy gains. At
Hartmarx, menswear sales at retail and wholesale continue to
lag.
                                                                                                       

   AUTOS
                                                                                                       

   -- MANUFACTURING
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   3 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler                    71,000     351,000     - 80
   Ford Motor                 506,200   1,637,000     - 69
   General Motors             710,000   1,553,000     - 54
   TOTAL                    1,287,200   3,541,000     - 64
                                                                                                       

   -- PARTS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Dana Corp                   23,100      38,900     - 41
   Echlin Inc                   6,638      12,490     - 47
   Genuine Parts               46,986      44,999     +  4

   Johnson Controls             8,100      19,400     - 58
   Masco Industries             6,710      21,020     - 68
   Snap-On Tools               31,132      31,370     -  1
   Timken Co                   19,059      27,729     - 31
   TOTAL                      162,625     290,408     - 44
                                                                                                       

   HOUSING
                                                                                                       

   -- HOME BUILDERS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Centex Corp                 15,627      13,147     + 19
   Kaufman &amp; Broad Home        13,344      11,521     + 16
   PHM Corp                    12,233      10,769     + 14
   Standard Pacific            18,712      23,591     - 21
   U S Home Corp                  126         421     - 70
   TOTAL                       60,042      59,449     +  1
                                                                                                       

   -- FURNISHINGS/APPLIANCES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Black &amp; Decker              10,000      25,900     - 61
   Leggett &amp; Platt             12,317      11,401     +  8
   Maytag Corp                 32,600      34,100     -  4
   Shaw Industries             14,952       9,634     + 55
   Whirlpool Corp              29,500      40,700     - 28
   Zenith Electronics         -15,000      -4,000      ...
   TOTAL                       84,369     117,735     - 28
                                                                                                       

   RETAILING APPAREL
                                                                                                       

   -- RETAILERS
                                                                                                       

                              Quarter     Quarter      %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Gap Inc                     34,205      32,195     +  6
   General Cinema              20,124      44,434     - 55
   Limited Inc                153,087     120,145     + 27
   Mercantile Stores           52,641      57,348     -  8
   Nordstrom Inc               31,422      47,514     - 34
   Petrie Stores Inc           19,642      18,853     +  4
   TJX Cos                     25,183      16,871     + 49
   U S Shoe Corp               23,200      17,992     + 29
   TOTAL                      359,504     355,352     +  1
                                                                                                       

   -- BROADLINE RETAILERS
                                                                                                       

                              Quarter     Quarter      %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Carter Hawley Hale          20,040      13,645     + 47

   Dillard Dept Strs           85,517      65,672     + 30
   K mart                     -20,500     393,200      ...
   May Dept Stores            283,000     276,000     +  3
   Sears Roebuck &amp; Co         106,300     257,700     - 59
   Wal-Mart Stores            425,862     323,186     + 32
   Woolworth Corp             175,000     144,000     + 22
   TOTAL                    1,325,219   1,655,403     - 20
                                                                                                       

   -- DRUG-BASED RETAILERS
                                                                                                       

                              Quarter     Quarter      %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Long's Drug Store           18,905      16,948     + 12
   McKesson Corp               98,700     100,600     -  2
   Rite Aid                    34,951      36,095     -  3
   Walgreen                    61,935      57,301     +  8
   TOTAL                      214,491     210,944     +  2
                                                                                                       

   -- SPECIALTY RETAILERS
                                                                                                       

                              Quarter     Quarter      %
   9 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Circuit City                35,913      30,228     + 19
   Home Depot Inc              29,585      18,887     + 57
   Josten's Inc                10,675       9,994     +  7
   Lowe's Cos                  10,121      11,794     - 14
   Melville Corp                7,811      24,230     - 68
   Pep Boys-M M J               8,454      10,074     - 16
   Price Co                    25,887      25,552     +  1
   Tandy Corp                  53,034      66,680     - 20
   Toys R Us                  241,759     196,589     + 23
   TOTAL                      423,239     394,028     +  7
                                                                                                       

   LODGING AND RECREATION
                                                                                                       

   -- LODGING
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Hilton Hotels               25,100      13,100     + 92
   La Quinta Motor Inns          -717        -673      ...
   Marriott Corp               28,000      46,000     - 39
   Motel 6 L P                 -6,921      -7,600      ...
   Prime Motor Inns               209      18,176     - 99
   TOTAL                       45,671      69,003     - 34
                                                                                                       

   -- RESTAURANTS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   McDonald's Corp            158,100     141,700     + 12
   Shoney's Inc                 4,735       2,971     + 59

   TCBY Enterprises             3,238       2,860     + 13
   Wendy's Int'l                3,476       6,344     - 45
   TOTAL                      198,071     176,376     + 12
                                                                                                       

   -- CASINOS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Aztar Corp                   9,299     -18,629      ...
   Caesars World                1,427      10,383     - 86
   Circus Circus               12,373      11,570     +  7
   Golden Nugget               17,314      10,104     + 71
   TOTAL                       40,413      13,428     +201
                                                                                                       

   -- RECREATIONAL PRODS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   9 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Brunswick Corp              14,700      17,200     - 15
   Disney (Walt)              178,487     149,018     + 20
   Eastman Kodak              199,000     212,000     -  6
   Hasbro Inc                 19,4311       8,727     +  4
   MCA Inc                     31,578      27,341     + 15
   Outboard Marine             -3,800      11,900      ...
   Paramount Communic          21,200      69,200     - 69
   Polaroid                    31,800      25,900     + 23
   Time Warner Inc            -51,000      50,000      ...
   TOTAL                      441,396     581,286     - 24
                                                                                                       

   MEDIA AND ADVERTISING
                                                                                                       

   -- MEDIA
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.    %
   15 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Affiliated Publications      6,502      -9,909      ...
   Belo (A H)                   2,782       2,385     + 17
   Capital Cities/ABC         106,303      82,773     + 28
   CBS Inc                     85,300      56,100     + 52
   Dow Jones &amp; Co              24,866     200,003     - 88
   Gannett Co                  75,001      74,901        0
   Harcourt Brace Jovanovich  -71,968    -116,093      ...
   Knight-Ridder               25,849      20,489     + 26
   Lee Enterprises              4,875       6,337     - 23
   McGraw-Hill                 16,489      31,171     - 47
   Multimedia Inc               6,051       4,640     + 30
   New York Times              16,589      33,516     - 51
   Times Mirror                46,013      68,787     - 33
   Tribune Co                  33,521      36,774     -  9
   Washington Post             39,020      41,500     -  6
   TOTAL                      417,193     533,374     - 22
                                                                                                       

   -- ADVERTISING

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   3 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Interpublic Group            8,636       8,011     +  8
   Mickelberry Corp              -151        -223      ...
   Omnicom Group               10,849       9,000     + 21
   TOTAL                       19,334      16,788     + 15
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Alaska Air Group            -2,060       6,406      ...
   AMR Corp                   -19,300     101,000      ...
   Delta Air Lines             31,300      85,000     - 63
   Pan Am Corp               -190,689    -151,139      ...
   Southwest Airlines           5,094      19,644     - 74
   Texas Air Corp            -107,100    -255,526      ...
   UAL Corp                   -36,424      65,437      ...
   USAir Group                -37,965      15,528      ...
   TOTAL                     -357,144    -113,650      ...
                                                                                                       

   -- TEXTILES/APPAREL
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   9 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Brown Group                 10,606     -15,721      ...
   Hartmarx Corp                2,365       9,750     - 76
   L A Gear                    13,899       5,358     +159
   Liz Claiborne               52,614      44,300     + 19
   Nike Inc                    63,105      48,828     + 29
   Reebok Int'l                52,719      49,409     +  7
   Russell Corp                14,358      12,992     + 11
   Springs Industries           7,563      15,289     - 51
   V F Corp                    23,216      38,267     - 39
   TOTAL                      240,445     208,472     + 15
   ---
   CONSUMER, NONCYCLICAL
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      6,368,144               6,247,960           +  2
                                                                                                       

   For most food companies, solid sales gains, coupled with
leaner operations, combined to boost earnings. Tyson realized
a hefty sales gain, reflecting its acquisition of Holly
Farms, while General Mills benefited from unit volume
increases on both its consumer foods and restaurant sides.
Corn refining fueled much of CPC International's profit
increase. But below-normal sales growth in ready-to-eat
cereals stung Kellogg, and ongoing problems in its
Fisher-Price toy business dragged down Quaker's numbers. At
Ralston-Purina, a hefty sales gain was largely offset by
costs of a pet-food plant closure and settlement of
patent-infringement litigation. Unusual items skewed results
at Whitman, where year-ago earnings were augmented with gains
from pension plans and favorable currency adjustments.
McCormick's results last year included $80 million from
discontinued real estate operations.
   Food retailers, aided by improved margins on brisk sales,
generally posted impressive overall gains during the quarter.
Companies that weren't profitable, including Circle K and
Kroger, cited costs associated with recent acquisitions or
restructuring efforts. What one analyst called the
"surprisingly good" results should carry over into the
current quarter.
   As pricing concerns seemed to fade, most of the beverage
group's earnings rose on higher volumes. Strong overseas
sales bolstered Coca-Cola Co.'s earnings, while PepsiCo's
results rose despite continued expenses related to a
multibillion-dollar acquisition spree. A 2.9% increase in
beer sales to wholesalers boosted profit for Anheuser-Busch.
The surprise brewer in the quarter was Adolph Coors, which,
led by sales gains for its Coors Light and Keystone brands,
posted an earnings turnaround. In the second quarter, Wheat
First Securities' John Maxwell sees per-share earnings gains
of 20% for Coke, 16% for Pepsi and 12% for Anheuser-Busch
compared with a year earlier.
   Higher Medicare rates and stabilized hospital admissions
fueled continued profit growth among health care companies.
Humana's advance reflected a turnaround in its health
maintenance organization subsidiary while National Medical
Enterprises showed improved results at its acute-care
hospitals. Community Psychiatric profit was off slightly as
insurers increased their scrutiny of usage at psychiatric
facilities. Kenneth S. Abramowitz, analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, sees current-quarter growth generally in the
midteens.
   Results at medical supply concerns were mixed. Baxter
International's big loss reflected a restructuring while C.R.
Bard continued to struggle with the effects of recalling its
angioplasty catheter. Bausch &amp; Lomb was propelled by strong
international sales and its optics business.
   Profit growth slowed somewhat for most major drug makers.
The industry is under stiffening pressure to hold down
prices, which had been rising by about twice the inflation
rate the past few years. Meanwhile, some U.S. makers were
buffeted by currency translations due to the strong U.S.
dollar abroad and by competition from generic drugs.
   Personal care companies reported mixed results during the
first quarter. International sales were strong, but a weak
U.S. retail environment hurt some companies. Margins got a
small boost as materials costs stayed low and consumer prices
increased slightly. More of the same is expected during the
second quarter.
   Among household product concerns, profit margins continued
to expand, thanks in part to an extended truce in the
consumer goods marketing wars. Margins got an additional
boost as most manufacturers avoided new-product
introductions. With sales overseas continuing strong, the
outlook for the coming quarter is also bright. At Clorox,
however, earnings dropped slightly from the year-earlier
period, as the company spent heavily to roll out a new
detergent and several other products.
   Despite a troubled image, tobacco makers reported strong
gains, driven by robust sales overseas and
smaller-than-expected volume decreases in the U.S. Analysts
expect continued strong profits this quarter. Philip Morris's
earnings were powered by strength at its domestic tobacco and
Miller Brewing operations.
                                                                                                       

   FOOD AND DRINK
                                                                                                       

   -- FOOD
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   20 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Archer-Daniels-Mid         116,362     116,180        0
   Borden Inc                  63,097      59,036     +  7
   Castle &amp; Cooke              18,075      12,485     + 45
   ConAgra Inc                 44,239      37,560     + 18
   CPC International           78,873      67,651     + 17
   Dean Foods                  13,129      12,329     +  6
   Flowers Indust               7,708       5,817     + 33
   General Mills Inc           99,800      81,400     + 23
   Heinz (H J)                117,196     103,034     + 14
   Hershey Foods               47,090      39,689     + 19
   Hormel (George A)           14,377      13,655     +  5
   Kellogg Co                  96,300     159,500     - 40
   Lance Inc                   10,835       8,436     + 28
   McCormick &amp; Co               9,905      87,835     - 89
   Quaker Oats Co              25,600      64,100     - 60
   Ralston Purina              91,600      90,800     +  1
   Sara Lee Corp              108,900      95,000     + 15
   Tyson Foods Inc             26,305      21,675     + 21
   Whitman Corp                25,700      37,800     - 32
   Wrigley (Wm) Jr             29,841      26,361     + 13
   TOTAL                    1,044,932   1,140,343     -  8
                                                                                                       

   -- FOOD RETAILERS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   12 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Albertson's Inc             60,280      51,890     + 16
   American Stores             53,127      20,232     +163
   Bruno's Inc                 15,468      12,699     + 22
   Circle K Corp              -28,133      12,794      ...
   Fleming Cos                 28,567      24,063     + 19
   Food Lion                   37,129      28,720     + 29
   Giant Food                  38,782      35,720     +  9
   Great Atl &amp; Pac             34,509      30,590     + 13
   Kroger Co                  -10,265     -18,971      ...
   Super Valu Stores           43,506      37,955     + 15
   Vons Cos                    15,200     -13,400      ...

   TOTAL                      330,203     259,727     + 27
                                                                                                       

   -- BEVERAGES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   A&amp;W Brands Inc               3,386       2,758     + 23
   Anheuser-Busch             182,500     167,100     +  9
   Brown-Forman                31,237      57,925     - 46
   Coca-Cola Btlg              -1,979      -2,558      ...
   Coca-Cola Co               283,465     259,809     +  9
   Coca-Cola Enter              8,033      13,452     - 40
   Coors (Adolph)               7,687      -4,805      ...
   PepsiCo Inc                181,900     165,100     + 10
   TOTAL                      696,229     658,781     +  6
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH CARE
                                                                                                       

   -- HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
                                                                                                       

                              Quarter     Quarter      %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Community Psych             18,811      20,518     -  8
   Humana Inc                  75,861      62,430     + 22
   Manor Care                   4,959       5,169     -  4
   Nat'l Medical Enter          62,782     49,433     + 27
   U S Healthcare               11,980      5,239     +129
   TOTAL                       174,393    142,789     + 22
                                                                                                       

   -- MEDICAL SUPPLIES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Abbott Labs                224,950     197,965     + 14
   Acuson Corp                 10,693       8,569     + 25
   Bard (C R) Inc               9,200      21,300     - 57
   Bausch &amp; Lomb               22,427      19,224     + 17
   Baxter Int'l              -383,000     101,000      ...
   Becton Dickinson            45,515      45,066     +  1
   TOTAL                      -70,215     393,124      ...
                                                                                                       

   -- PHARMACEUTICALS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   10 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American Home Prod         314,488     280,092     + 12
   Bristol-Myers Squibb       409,075     343,587     + 19
   Lilly (Eli) &amp; Co           340,800     284,700     + 20
   Merck &amp; Co                 403,800     340,400     + 19
   Pfizer Inc                 251,900     240,800     +  5
   Rorer Group                 -7,688       9,771      ...
   Schering-Plough            150,400     125,700     + 20

   Upjohn Co                  114,276     103,024     + 11
   Warner-Lambert             120,274     101,071     + 19
   TOTAL                    2,169,325   1,912,645     + 13
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- COSMETICS/PERSONAL CARE
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Avon Products               15,200       6,200     +145
   Gillette Co                 87,000      77,600     + 12
   Int'l Flavors &amp; F           41,588      38,485     +  8
   Neutrogena                   8,750       8,748        0
   Tambrands                   22,065      18,022     + 22
   TOTAL                      174,603     149,055     + 17
                                                                                                       

   -- HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   9 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American Brands            195,400     172,200     + 13
   Clorox Co                   38,352      38,432        0
   Colgate-Palmolive           81,239      67,203     + 21
   Johnson &amp; Johnson          244,000     317,000     - 23
   Philip Morris Cos          775,000     590,000     + 31
   Procter &amp; Gamble           404,000     310,000     + 30
   Rubbermaid Inc              33,110      29,305     + 13
   Universal Corp               8,558      12,426     - 31
   UST Inc                     52,645      44,015     + 20
   TOTAL                    1,832,304   1,580,581     + 16
                                                                                                       

   -- CONSUMER SERVICES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Block (H&amp;R) Inc             -3,875      -9,646      ...
   CPI Corp                    10,653      12,408     - 14
   Fuqua Industries             5,986       5,119     + 17
   Rollins Inc                  3,606       3,034     + 19
   TOTAL                       16,370      10,915     + 50
   ---
   TECHNOLOGY
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      4,316,331               5,061,374           - 15
                                                                                                       

   In office equipment, results were down, but one-time items
masked some bright spots. Xerox reported record losses on a
$375 million charge related to bad real estate investments,
but it posted strong profit gains in its core
document-processing operation. Analysts noted, however, that
revenue on equipment sales rose a meager 2%, and they feared
for the rest of the year.
   Is the chip industry out of the woods after a year of
sluggish growth? Semiconductor sales are up, chip gluts have
dried up, prices have stopped plummeting and makers have even
put some semiconductors on allocation, sparking a barrage of
better-than-expected profit reports. But chip makers warn
that it's too soon to know whether the pickup will last.
Although National Semicondcutor posted a loss, it reported
strong bookings late in the period.
   Software and data processing companies reported mixed
results. Ashton-Tate's performance was hurt because of
continuing delays in shipping new data-base products, while
Oracle Systems reported only a slight earnings increase
because of an unexpected accounting glitch that resulted in
lower-than-expected revenue. Microsoft showed strong gains as
did Lotus, whose performance benefited by comparison with a
relatively weak year-ago quarter.
   Profits from telecommunications services defied a
generally weak earnings environment as traffic volume from
corporate customers remained brisk and cost-reduction
programs improved margins. The second quarter and beyond
could bring further profit boosts as carriers begin to sell
services based on features rather than price. Market leader
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph couldn't match its profit
growth of 18% in last year's first quarter.
   On the equipment side, cut-throat pricing and sluggish
orders from phone companies and corporate customers continued
to hurt margins. This probably won't improve much through the
next quarter.
                                                                                                       

   DATA PROCESSING
                                                                                                       

   -- COMPUTERS/INFORMATION
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   14 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Amdahl Corp                 29,904      45,595     - 34
   Apple Computer             131,815      56,372     +134
   Compaq Computer             92,172      83,201     + 11
   Control Data                 6,800       3,500     + 94
   Cray Research                9,478       1,509     +528
   Data General                -8,600       7,000      ...
   Digital Equipment           24,934     256,442     - 90
   Int'l Business M         1,037,000     950,000     +  9
   NCR                         52,000      61,000     - 15
   Seagate Technology          28,320      21,503     + 32
   Sun Microsystems            36,694      31,031     + 18
   Tandem Computers            26,827      16,858     + 59
   Unisys Corp                 -3,200     -78,700      ...
   Wang Labs                 -146,600     -63,700      ...
   TOTAL                    1,317,544   1,391,611     -  5
                                                                                                       

   -- OFFICE EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %

                                                                                                       

   AM International            -2,799       5,784      ...
   Nashua Corp                  3,600       2,558     + 41
   Pitney Bowes                59,721     119,547     - 50
   Smith Corona                 6,100      12,400     - 51
   Xerox Corp                -254,000     158,000      ...
   TOTAL                     -187,378     298,289      ...
                                                                                                       

   -- SEMICONDUCTOR
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Advanced Micro              13,119      10,071     + 30
   Analog Devices                 812       9,491     - 91
   Applied Materials           11,115      13,498     - 18
   Avnet Inc                   16,000      10,700     + 50
   Intel Corp                 143,768      97,004     + 48
   Nat'l Semiconductor        -10,200     -44,600      ...
   TOTAL                      174,614      96,164     + 82
                                                                                                       

   -- SOFTWARE/PROCESSING
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ashton-Tate                   -979      11,502      ...
   Autodesk Inc                12,527       9,344     + 34
   Automatic Data Pro          65,030      56,150     + 16
   Computer Sciences           24,006      16,842     + 43
   Lotus Development           22,792       5,299     +330
   Microsoft Corp              75,169      41,119     + 83
   Novell Inc                  15,062      10,975     + 37
   Oracle Systems Corp         24,282      23,964     +  1
   TOTAL                      237,889     175,195     + 36
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American Tel &amp; Tel         668,000     594,000     + 12
   Communic Satellite          19,000      16,500     + 15
   General Instrument          21,462      20,639     +  4
   Harris Corp                 34,776      27,555     + 26
   Motorola Inc               127,000     123,000     +  3
   TOTAL                      870,238     781,694     + 11
                                                                                                       

   -- AEROSPACE/DEFENSE
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   11 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Boeing Co                  302,000     459,000     - 34

   Gencorp Inc                 22,000     143,000     - 85
   General Dynamics           123,700      75,400     + 64
   Grumman Corp                16,471      16,027     +  3
   Lockheed Corp               69,000      62,000     + 11
   Martin Marietta             67,093      59,212     + 13
   McDonnell Douglas            2,000     169,000     - 99
   Northrop Corp               96,000       9,700     +890
   Precision Castparts          8,800       6,700     + 31
   Sundstrand Corp             26,593      26,271     +  1
   TOTAL                      755,555   1,045,379     - 28
                                                                                                       

   -- DIVERSIFIED TECH
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   12 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Corning Inc                 47,100      41,800     + 13
   EG&amp;G Inc                    14,654      16,710     - 12
   Honeywell Inc               90,100      62,900     + 43
   Litton Indust               44,573      43,450     +  3
   Minnesota Mng &amp; M          335,000     318,000     +  5
   Raytheon                   130,900     120,800     +  8
   Rockwell Int'l             173,400     270,700     - 36
   Tektronix Inc              -25,494       6,380      ...
   Texas Instruments           13,000      85,000     - 85
   TRW Inc                     57,000      69,000     - 17
   United Technolog           134,500     123,700     +  9
   Varian Associates            7,800      12,000     - 35
   TOTAL                    1,022,533   1,170,440     - 13
                                                                                                       

   -- INDUSTRIAL TECH
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ametek Inc                   9,758      11,304     - 14
   General Signal              20,250      19,818     +  2
   Intergraph Corp             14,965      19,508     - 23
   Millipore Corp              13,015      12,427     +  5
   Pall Corp                   13,435      11,813     + 14
   TOTAL                       71,423      74,870     -  5
                                                                                                       

   -- MEDICAL/BIO TECH
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Amgen Inc                    6,397      -8,963      ...
   Cetus Corp                 -15,862     -12,364      ...
   Genentech Inc               13,271       7,430     + 79
   Medtronic Inc               27,060      23,688     + 14
   St Jude Medical             16,737      12,876     + 30
   Stryker Corp                 6,310       5,065     + 25
   TOTAL                       53,913      27,732     + 94
   ---
   FINANCIAL SERVICES

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      5,869,510               7,321,615           - 20
                                                                                                       

   For banks, "the first quarter was an extremely difficult
period," said James J. McDermott Jr. of Keefe, Bruyette &amp;
Woods Inc. Looking at the 150 banking companies Keefe tracks,
results showed a 1% median earnings decline. Results varied
widely by region: Banks in the Northeast showed a 30% decline
-- reflecting "a lot of real estate problems" -- while banks
in the West were up 11%, the analyst said. Banks continued to
be hounded by bad loans and lower corporate-finance fees, but
some bucked the trend. The top two, Citicorp and Chase,
boosted provisions for possible losses on real estate loans;
Citicorp's consumer business world-wide continued strong,
however. Absent an accounting change in the latest period,
J.P. Morgan's net fell 6%. And looking ahead, "pressures
evident in the first quarter are likely to be visited" on the
industry in the second period, as the "economy continues soft
and credit quality remains an ongoing concern," he said.
   The increases in premium rates that many property/casualty
insurers had expected to see failed to materialize.
Underwriting results deteriorated because of the weak
pricing. Companies writing personal auto and other consumer
insurance products, such as Aetna Life &amp; Casualty, Cigna,
Travelers, Xerox's Crum &amp; Forster unit, and New Hampshire
Insurance, a unit of American International Group, have
announced plans to cut back on their personal lines or leave
this business entirely as a way to stem losses.
   Several thrifts benefited from increased interest income
and improved margins, in part because of measures implemented
under last summer's massive thrift bailout.
   Though the bailout has largely flopped, it did enable
regulators to shut down some of the sicker thrifts, which had
been paying large premiums to attract deposits; those
premiums had forced up funding costs, even at healthy
thrifts. As some of the sick thrifts have been closed,
funding costs at many institutions have come down, boosting
margins. Great Western Financial's net interest margin -- the
difference between what it pays for money and earns on assets
-- rose to 3.01 from 2.43 a year ago, helping lift net
interest income 24% to a record $286 million. H.F. Ahmanson's
net interest margin increased to 2.68 from 2.41 and net
interest income rose 21% to $286.4 million; it also generated
$3.1 billion from loan sales, compared with $249 million from
loan sales a year earlier. Golden West, which has the
toughest cost controls in the industry, saw net interest
income increase 24% to $125.2 million.
   Securities brokers' profits remained depressed in a
sluggish investment-banking environment and a falling stock
market. But year-to-year profit comparisons were generally
positive because the year-earlier period was also a poor one.
Most big brokerage firms, including industry leader Merrill
Lynch, suffered 20% to 30% declines in investment banking
revenue. Salomon's profit turnaround resulted from trading
gains for its own account, which offset losses in its
commodities unit. The bright spot for brokers was that most
continued to increase customer assets under management.
Analysts say brokers' earnings will remain weak this quarter.
                                                                                                       

   BANKS
                                                                                                       

   -- MONEY-CENTER BANKS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   8 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Bankamerica                278,000     275,000     +  1
   Bankers Trust NY           198,000     164,000     + 21
   Chase Manhattan             44,000     132,000     - 67
   Chemical Banking           151,700     117,900     + 29
   Citicorp                   231,000     529,000     - 56
   First Chicago               68,600     124,700     - 45
   Manufacturers H             96,000     103,000     -  7
   Morgan (J P) Co            399,000     180,000     +122
   TOTAL                    1,466,300   1,625,600     - 10
                                                                                                       

   -- CENTRAL-STATES BANKS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   15 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ameritrust Corp            -51,600      27,800      ...
   Banc One Corp              101,818      87,161     + 17
   Boatmen's Bancsh            32,498      30,930     +  5
   Comerica Inc                31,547      27,393     + 15
   Fifth Third Banc            26,471      23,935     + 11
   First Bank System           28,500      50,300     - 43
   Huntington Bancsh           27,407      26,062     +  5
   Manufacturers N             21,913      24,844     - 12
   Michigan Nat'l              20,014      23,415     - 15
   National City Corp          64,465      62,443     +  3
   NBD Bancorp                 66,622      63,479     +  5
   Northern Trust              25,900      25,400     +  2
   Norwest Corp                62,800      57,000     + 10
   Society Corp                40,340      34,541     + 17
   Star Banc Corp              17,236      15,477     + 11
   TOTAL                      515,931     580,180     - 11
                                                                                                       

   -- EASTERN BANKS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   17 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Bank of Boston              43,600      89,100     - 51
   Bank of New Eng            -46,612      42,280      ...
   Bank of New York           102,302     101,050     +  1
   BayBanks Inc               -13,750      20,828      ...
   CoreStates Fin'l            61,903      76,486     - 19
   First Fidelity              21,110      65,002     - 68
   Fleet/Norstar Fn           -98,109      92,433      ...
   KeyCorp                     36,281      31,006     + 17
   Mellon Bank Corp            65,000      77,000     - 16

   Midlantic Corp               1,404      59,549     - 98
   MNC Financial Inc            6,189      57,387     - 89
   PNC Financial Corp          74,514     123,587     - 40
   Republic New York           44,400      41,800     +  6
   Shawmut Nat'l               40,600      64,700     - 37
   State Street Boston         27,610      24,020     + 15
   UJB Financial Corp          24,734      31,870     - 22
   TOTAL                      412,408   1,022,024     - 60
                                                                                                       

   -- SOUTHERN BANKS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   11 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Amsouth Bancorp             20,497      20,868     -  2
   Barnett Banks Inc           15,500      62,400     - 75
   Citizens &amp; South            41,640      57,768     - 28
   Crestar Financial           27,100      24,400     + 11
   First Union Corp            77,559      72,181     +  7
   First Wachovia              71,310      67,292     +  6
   NCNB Corp                  140,062      75,790     + 85
   Signet Banking Corp         27,133      31,495     - 14
   Southeast Banking          -56,792      33,085      ...
   Sovran Financial            66,581      61,891     +  8
   SunTrust Banks              87,900      84,000     +  5
   TOTAL                      518,490     591,170     - 12
                                                                                                       

   -- WESTERN BANKS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   7 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Bancorp Hawaii              22,540      18,046     + 25
   First Interstate           127,220     132,200     -  4
   Security Pacific           188,400     179,300     +  5
   U S Bancorp                 42,154      35,184     + 20
   United Banks Colo            4,600       4,500     +  2
   Wells Fargo Co             159,800     141,500     + 13
   Zions Bancorp                5,965       5,900     +  1
   TOTAL                      550,679     516,630     +  7
                                                                                                       

   INSURANCE
                                                                                                       

   -- FULL LINE
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Aetna Life &amp; Cas           179,800     173,600     +  4
   American General           107,141      97,172     + 10
   Cigna Corp                  42,000      85,000     - 51
   Kemper Corp                 38,900      80,787     - 52
   Lincoln National            26,210      51,022     - 49
   Travelers Corp              91,600      97,800     -  6
   TOTAL                      485,651     585,381     - 17
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   6 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American National           24,875      26,193     -  5
   Capital Holding             30,430     -18,001      ...
   Provident Life &amp; A          36,800      26,100     + 41
   Torchmark Corp              60,365      51,551     + 17
   UNUM Corp                   43,500      32,900     + 32
   USLife Corp                 13,501      15,523     - 13
   TOTAL                      209,471     134,266     + 56
                                                                                                       

   -- PROPERTY/CASUALTY
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   11 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American Int'l             355,656     343,480     +  4
   Chubb Corp                 111,100     104,900     +  6
   Cincinnati Fin'l            35,300      39,200     - 10
   Fund American Cos           34,909      36,470     -  4
   General Re Corp            147,100     155,900     -  6
   Loew's Corp                223,647     204,474     +  9
   Ohio Casualty Corp          16,377      38,633     - 58
   Progressive Cp Ohio         27,400      22,500     + 22
   Safeco Corp                 56,292      65,594     - 14
   St Paul Cos                 76,914      90,231     - 15
   USF &amp; G                     51,000      31,000     + 65
   TOTAL                    1,135,695  1,132,3820      ...
                                                                                                       

   OTHERS
                                                                                                       

   -- SAVINGS &amp; LOANS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   7 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Ahmanson (H F)              61,751      39,200     + 58
   CalFed Inc                  18,900      17,500     +  8
   Glenfed Inc                 26,261      20,160     + 30
   Golden West Fin'l           46,974      35,026     + 34
   Great Western Fin           74,152      57,205     + 30
   Homefed Corp                34,545      30,472     + 13
   Meritor Savings            -29,197      12,188      ...
   TOTAL                      233,386     211,751     + 10
                                                                                                       

   -- REAL ESTATE INVEST
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   4 Firms                      1990       1989       Chg
                                                                                                       

   First Union R E              5,147      5,093      +  1
   Henley Properties          - 2,230      1,197       ...
   Newhall Land &amp; Farm         13,105      8,412      + 56
   Rockefeller Center           9,607      9,703      -  1
   Total                       25,629     24,405      +  5

   -- DIV FINANCIAL SERV
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   9  Firms                     1990       1989       Chg
                                                                                                       

   Alexander &amp; Alex             5,200     12,000      - 57
   American Express          -619,800    251,900       ...
   Beneficial Corp             31,800     27,700      + 15
   Dreyfus Corp                19,279     21,199      -  9
   Fed'l Nat'l Mortg          276,600    165,200      + 67
   Household Int'l             52,200     55,200      -  5
   Marsh &amp; McLennan            94,000     88,300      +  7
   Primerica Corp              83,200     51,400      + 62
   Transamerica Corp           70,294     70,883      -  1
   TOTAL                       12,973    743,782      - 98
                                                                                                       

   -- SECURITIES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   7 Firms                      1990       1989       Chg
                                                                                                       

   Bear Stearns Cos            34,652     41,059      - 16
   Edwards (A G) Inc           12,500     11,400      + 10
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co          41,306     37,186      + 11
   Morgan Stanley Gr           82,134     81,129      +  1
   PaineWebber Group           10,781      9,177      + 17
   Quick &amp; Reilly               2,524      2,093      + 21
   Salomon Inc                119,000    -28,000       ...
   TOTAL                      302,897    154,044      + 97
   ---
    UTILITIES
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      6,974,929               6,917,457           +  1
                                                                                                       

   Several phone companies reported hefty earnings gains, but
a few had declines, primarily because of higher expenses.
   United Telecommunications showed strong improvement in its
long-distance business. So did MCI Communications, despite
heavy capital investment and a steeper effective tax rate. U
S West, Bell Atlantic and Nynex reported solid gains, aided
by non-telephone operations such as cellular service. Nynex
results would have been even higher except for a $39 million
pretax charge for an early-retirement program.
                                                                                                       

   -- TELEPHONE
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   15 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Alltel Corp                 42,268      38,955     +  9
   Amer Info Tech             303,500     300,800     +  1
   Bell Atlantic Corp         355,300     330,800     +  7
   BellSouth Corp             423,200     449,600     -  6
   Centel Corp                 14,166       4,701     +201

   Contel Corp                 54,000      64,000     - 16
   GTE Corp                   355,167     329,235     +  8
   MCI Communicat             163,000     135,000     + 21
   NYNEX Corp                 291,400     283,600     +  3
   Pacific Telesis Grp        262,000     317,000     - 17
   Southern N E Tel            39,000      41,300     -  6
   Southwestern Bell          247,800     238,800     +  4
   U S West Inc               271,900     249,600     +  9
   United Telecom             107,600      76,400     + 41
   TOTAL                    2,948,637   2,884,395     +  2
                                                                                                       

   -- ELECTRIC
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   55 Firms                     1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Allegheny Power             63,611      62,471     +  2
   American Elec Pwr          144,867     159,782     -  9
   Atlantic Energy             15,100      12,600     + 20
   Baltimore G &amp; E             47,884      70,527     - 32
   Carolina Pwr &amp; Lt          115,865     104,083     + 11
   Centerior Energy            50,509      67,690     - 25
   Central &amp; So West           33,000      72,000     - 54
   Central Ill P S              8,232       3,198     +157
   Cincinnati G &amp; E            64,593      63,004     +  3
   CMS Energy                 103,318     106,321     -  3
   Commonwealth Ed             87,157     139,455     - 38
   Consolidated Ed            138,074     152,532     -  9
   Delmarva P &amp; L              24,677      23,840     +  4
   Detroit Edison             136,548     102,748     + 33
   Dominion Resource          127,000      93,100     + 36
   DPL Inc                     50,305      53,508     -  6
   DQE Inc                     33,337      27,722     + 20
   Duke Power                 127,045     127,280        0
   Entergy Corp                88,676      97,033     -  9
   FPL Group Inc               39,389      70,550     - 44
   General Public Ut           77,461      80,436     -  4
   Gulf States Utilities        2,455     -10,675      ...
   Idaho Power Co              16,858      24,553     - 31
   Illinois Power             -13,080    -348,450      ...
   Ipalco Enterp               25,689      25,640        0
   Kansas City P &amp; L           13,952      17,711     - 21
   Louisville G &amp; E            36,723      23,030     + 59
   Montana Power Co            34,575      35,353     -  2
   New England El Sy           49,387      40,963     + 21
   New York St E &amp; G           70,321      67,738     +  4
   Niagara Mohawk Pwr          91,801      71,246     + 29
   NIPSCO Indust               42,500      48,286     - 12
   Northeast Utilities         66,109      70,099     -  6
   Northern States Pwr         65,900      71,000     -  7
   Ohio Edison                 96,656      98,825     -  2
   Oklahoma Gas &amp; El           12,535      12,522        0
   Pacific Gas &amp; Elec         210,412     244,438     - 14
   PacifiCorp                 130,800     131,700     -  1
   Pennsylvania P &amp; L         107,626     101,249     +  6
   Philadelphia Elec          -60,005     143,310      ...

   Potomac Electric             6,081      27,776     - 78
   PSI Resources Inc           38,000      40,000     -  5
   Public Service Colo         42,289      43,672     -  3
   Public Service Ent         144,660     154,423     -  6
   Puget Sound P &amp; L           50,770      50,514     +  1
   San Diego G &amp; E             56,141      35,919     + 56
   SCANA Corp                  33,782      33,909        0
   SCECorp                    171,649     117,538     + 46
   Southern Co                113,080     196,978     - 43
   Southwestern P S            22,945      21,107     +  9
   TECO Energy                 27,400      27,900     -  2
   Texas Utilities            188,841     131,402     + 44
   Union Electric              41,170      36,058     + 14
   Wisconsin Energy            53,644      57,875     -  7
   TOTAL                    3,604,851   3,571,072     +  1
                                                                                                       

   -- GAS
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   9 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   Arkla Inc                   55,936      53,695     +  4
   Consolidated N G            91,326     101,557     - 10
   Equitable Resourc           25,538      28,136     -  9
   Kansas Pwr &amp; Lt             29,984      33,713     - 11
   Nicor Inc                   43,800      54,600     - 20
   Oneok Inc                   23,357      28,534     - 18
   Pacific Enterprise          68,000      67,000     +  1
   Peoples Energy              39,632      51,681     - 23
   Questar Corp                28,973      28,195     +  3
   TOTAL                      406,546     447,111     -  9
                                                                                                       

   -- WATER
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   American Water Wks           8,376       8,708     -  4
   California Water             1,556       1,626     -  4
   Consumers Water              1,608       1,326     + 21
   Hydraulic Co                 1,377       1,579     - 13
   United Water Res             1,978       1,640     + 21
   TOTAL                       14,895      14,879        0
   ---
   CONGLOMERATES
                                                                                                       

    1ST QTR. 1990           1ST QTR. 1989        % CHG.
                                                                                                       

      1,344,390               1,197,636           + 12
                                                                                                       

   ITT called its results "better than expected"; profit
before tax and interest on all businesses except electronic
parts equaled or exceeded year-ago levels. The latest quarter
reflected a $47 million gain on the sale of its investment in
Compagnie Generale d'Electricite. Without the gain, net grew
3%. At Textron, "balanced diversity" gave it "a good start on
the year, despite softness in several of our markets," the
company said. Continued strength in finance and insurance
more than offset the current slowdown in its automotive
divisions. Per-share net was flat as shares outstanding rose
4%. GE continued double-digit earnings growth into a fourth
consecutive year, though NBC broadcasting reported "somewhat"
lower revenue and profit and the materials unit was weak.
   Candice Eggerss of Morgan Stanley is estimating $4.90 a
share for GE in 1990, up 12% from $4.36 in 1989. With the com
pany's stock buy-back program and productivity improvements,
"I'm confident of double-digit {earnings} improvement this
year," she says.
                                                                                                       

   -- CONGLOMERATES
                                                                                                       

                              1st Qtr.    1st Qtr.     %
   5 Firms                      1990        1989      Chg
                                                                                                       

   General Electric           950,000     849,000     + 12
   Greyhound Dial Corp         16,890      14,836     + 14
   ITT Corp                   253,000     200,000     + 27
   Teledyne Inc                58,300      70,500     - 17
   Textron Inc                 66,200      63,300     +  5
   TOTAL                    1,344,390   1,197,636     + 12
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   ABC's `Twin Peaks'
   Receives Strong Rating
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The fourth weekly episode of the ABC series
"Twin Peaks" drew 19% of the TV audience, improving its
chances of joining ABC's fall schedule.
   The seven-week trial series, co-created by film director
David Lynch, has become a barometer of ABC's turnaround
efforts and of the networks' willingness to gamble on
"different" shows. "Twin Peaks" started strong and then
faltered, raising doubts about whether ABC, owned by Capital
Cities/ABC Inc., would pick up the series.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ABC Entertainment President Robert Iger said the latest
rating "was the most significant number we've had. It's very
positive, and it bodes well in terms of the future of the
program." "Twin Peaks" in four weeks has fared well among two
key targets for advertisers, drawing 24% of women ages 18 to
34 and 28% of women ages 35 to 49 who were watching
television when it aired.
   The series, about sordid secrets in a small town, has
fared better than any of 14 shows to inhabit its time slot
since 1985, said Lawrence Hyams, ABC's director of audience
analysis. "Twin Peaks" increased its audience share from the
previous week despite airing in a tough time slot, opposite
NBC's hit comedy, "Cheers," which won 33% of viewers last
week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   As Israeli Hard-Liners Gain Ground,
   U.S. Seeks to Bolster Mideast Moderates
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- With extremism surging in Israel, the U.S.
is seeking to bolster moderates on both sides of the
Israeli-Palestinian dispute. The effort may further strain
Israeli-U.S. relations.
   As a gesture to Palestinians, U.S. officials are
discussing taking a firmer stand against Israel's forced
separation of thousands of Palestinian families in the
occupied territories. They believe focusing on these
human-rights abuses, previously given little prominence,
would give Palestinians some hope.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials also say that in an attempt to rein in Israeli
right-wingers, the administration will continue to respond
sharply to such incidents as the recent attempted takeover by
Jewish settlers of the St. John's Hospice in the Christian
quarter of East Jerusalem. State Department spokeswoman
Margaret Tutwiler labeled that effort, secretly subsidized by
the Israeli government, "an insensitive and provocative
action."
   Washington's concerns are mounting because U.S. analysts
see rough times ahead as Yitzhak Shamir, Israel's caretaker
prime minister, attempts to form a government. They believe
Mr. Shamir would rather lead another "national unity"
coalition with the Labor Party than head a narrow-based
government with the right-wing extremists in his own Likud
bloc and hard-line fringe parties. He fears the extremists
want to purge him and take control.
   But Mr. Shamir has a problem. It was Labor that brought
down the last coalition government in March, charging that
Mr. Shamir wasn't sincere about pursuing peace. To coax Labor
into another coalition, U.S. analysts believe, Mr. Shamir
must first make it appear that he is on the verge of forming
a government with the right-wing extremists. As a result, in
the next few weeks Israeli politics will be dominated by
hard-liners calling for more Jewish settlements in the West
Bank and Gaza, a tougher policy against the Palestinian
uprising and even the expulsion of Arabs from the
territories.
   "The bargaining will take a form that will alarm Americans
and alarm President Bush and strain the fabric of the
{U.S.-Israel} relationship," says a pro-Israel member of the
U.S. Jewish community.
   The process also will take time. The dovish Shimon Peres,
who heads the Labor Party and who pushed to end the last
coalition, isn't likely to agree to another stint as junior
partner with Likud. Mr. Shamir would like to work with
Labor's more conservative Yitzhak Rabin, who was defense
minister in the past coalition government. But for that to
happen, Labor would have to make Mr. Rabin head of the party,
and that could be a protracted process.
   U.S. officials estimate that it could take up to two
months to form a coalition, or, if the effort fails, six
months to hold elections and form a new government. The
Americans say that Mr. Shamir could form a narrow-based
right-wing government more quickly but that would mean the
end of peace efforts.
   Meanwhile, Palestinian frustrations are building. That
plays into the hands of Arab hard-liners, including leftists
who advocate intensifying the uprising, and Islamic
fundamentalists who call for a holy war for the liberation of
Palestine. "As is often the case in the Middle East, these
two extremes have the capacity to work together and squeeze
out the center," says William Quandt, a Mideast expert at
Washington's Brookings Institution.
   So some U.S. officials want to press Israel to resolve
family-unification cases quickly to show Palestinians that
their interests aren't being ignored amid the chaos of
Israeli politics. These cases arise because Israel sometimes
refuses to renew visas of Palestinians attempting to return
to their families in the territories after working abroad, or
because it denies entry or permanent residency to
non-Palestinian spouses or children of people who live in the
territories, according to the State Department's 1989 Human
Rights report. The report cites Israeli statistics showing
that in the past two years 3,266 family-unification
applications were filed but only 695 were approved.
   Any such U.S. effort would be a symbolic gesture. But with
extremism on the rise, officials are searching for ways to
hold the political middle until the storm subsides.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Pfizer Can Be Sued for Alleged Anxiety
   Caused by Heart Valve, Court Rules
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   PFE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pfizer Inc. can be sued by a woman who claims that concern
about the quality of her implanted heart valve made by a
Pfizer unit has caused her anxiety, California's Supreme
Court ruled.
   Under the ruling, Judy Kahn, a Virginia woman, can sue
Pfizer's Shiley Inc. unit for damages even though her heart
valve is working properly. In January, a California appeals
court ruled that Mrs. Kahn could sue Shiley, which is based
in Irvine, Calif., but Pfizer had appealed that decision to
the state's Supreme Court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   News of the higher court's decision late Thursday spread
quickly through Wall Street and among heart valve recipients.
Pfizer has succeeded in having 19 other similar cases
dismissed by the courts. Mrs. Kahn, therefore, is expected to
be the first of perhaps several hundred recipients who could
sue Shiley in California for anxiety-related damages.
   In New York, Pfizer said it will defend itself
"vigorously." The company said it believed Mrs. Kahn and
other similar cases face "stringent legal and factual
burdens."
   Still, the court's decision sent Pfizer shares shuddering,
falling more than $2 in New York Stock Exchange trading
during the day Friday, and closing at $57, down 87.5 cents.
Pfizer was also the most-actively traded Big Board stock on
Friday. The company's shares have dropped from about $70 in
January when concern about the company's liability received
publicity.
   Analysts said the ruling meant there would be a cloud of
uncertainty hanging over Pfizer until the case goes to jury.
"It means the {heart valve problems} are going to be around
for a while," said James Keeney of Mabon, Nugent &amp; Co. Mr.
Keeney said the valve problem may be the "catalyst" to force
the company to shed some slow-growing businesses or buy back
shares.
   In Minneapolis, Mrs. Kahn's lawyer said he didn't expect
the case to go to trial in Orange County Superior Court in
California until late 1991 because of the immense amount of
documents that needed to be addressed. The attorney, Bruce
Finzen of Robins, Kaplan, Miller &amp; Ciresi, said there are
about one million pages of documents to work through. Mr.
Finzen said there are 200 similar cases that he could bring
to suit after this one.
   The Kahn case stems from structural problems associated
with the Shiley-Bjork convexo-concave valve. The valve was
pulled from use in the mid-1980s when it was found that a
defect caused the valve to fracture. Pfizer said that by the
beginning of this year, 389 valves had broken and 248
patients had died, while about 56,000 people were alive with
working valves.
   The company said it has settled numerous suits related to
the failed valves, but it has refused to settle claims made
by those people whose valves are still working. It said it
has sufficient reserves to cover the cases it expects to
settle.
   Pfizer said that Mrs. Kahn's lawyers must prove in court
that Pfizer and Shiley engaged in "deceit" in marketing and
testing the valves. The New York-based health-care company
said proving deceit is "difficult." The company also noted
that a federal court in Missouri recently rejected claims
similar to those made by Mrs. Kahn's lawyers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campeau Units
   Post a Deficit
   Of $2.43 Billion
   ---
   Federated and Allied Stores
   Attribute Much of Loss
   To Non-Cash Charges
   ----
   By Robert Melnbardis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp.
had after-tax losses totaling $2.43 billion in fiscal 1990
after big non-cash charges that include a $1.15 billion
write-down of good will in Federated in the fourth quarter.
   In their Form 10-K filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Campeau Corp. units attributed the
bulk of their losses to non-cash accounting treatments of
their Chapter 11 bankrupcty status.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federated's $1.5 billion net loss for the 53 weeks ended
Feb. 3 includes a $1.15 billion write-down of good will,
reflecting the company's "deteriorating financial situation"
during the year. It said further adjustments may be made to
good will during its efforts to restructure and emerge from
Chapter 11 proceedings.
   Allied's share of Federated's write-down and equity in
losses at Campeau's Ralphs Grocery Co. chain totaled $660.3
million, bringing its net loss to $925.2 million for the
year. Allied owns 50% of Federated and has direct and
indirect equity stakes in Ralphs, a Southern California
supermarket chain.
   In a summary of their 10-K filings, the department store
operators said that despite "extreme pressures" on their
operations in the third and fourth quarters,
comparable-division sales were up by 7.2% to $4.87 billion at
Federated and increased by 5.2% to $2.71 billion at Allied.
They said combined net interest expenses of $806.7 million
took one of the "biggest bites" out of their annual earnings.
The retailers said the write-down of good will and interest
charges had "little or no bearing" on their operations since
they sought Chapter 11 bankrupcty protection on Jan. 15.
   Under Chapter 11, a company continues to operate under
court protection from its creditors while it tries to work
out a plan to pay its bills.
   In other financial information provided to the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Cincinnati, Federated and Allied said
operations continue to improve since January, when many
vendors resumed shipping merchandise to their department
stores. Their net losses for the five weeks ended April 7
totaled $18 million, compared with $48 million for the four
weeks ended March 3. Sales at Federated and Allied in the
latest five weeks were $405.3 million and $234.4 million,
respectively.
   In a statement, Allen Questrom, chairman and chief
executive of the retailers, said they have "turned the corner
on stabilizing the business."
   "The results do very little other than confirm something
which we already know, namely that Federated and Allied are
sound and reasonably good retailing operations," said Kurt
Barnard, publisher of Retail Marketing Report, a New
York-based industry newsletter.
   But the figures also show, he said, that despite their
improving retail health since January, Federated and Allied
can't escape from the "intolerable ocean of debt" Campeau
plunged them into. "That's why we all shuddered when we saw
what Campeau was doing to those stores," Mr. Barnard said.
   In its 10-K filing, Federated blamed its financial woes on
the massive debt it was burdened with by Campeau's $6.6
billion highly leveraged buy-out of Federated in May 1988.
"Ultimately, this drain on revenues from the company's
{Federated's} retail operation contributed to cash shortfalls
which precipitated the company's Chapter 11 filing," it said.
   Federated said most of its cash interest outlays are
frozen by its Chapter 11 status and it is no longer accruing
annual interest charges of about $200 million on its
unsecured debt. Its interest expense is expected to drop by
between $375 million and $400 million, it said. In fiscal
1990 Federated had interest expense of $516.1 million, it
said. Allied is no longer accruing annual interest of about
$90 million on its unsecured debt. It had net interest
expense of $290.6 million in fiscal 1990.
   Federated said it also wrote off $120.5 million of
unamortized deferred financing costs and reorganization
expenses incurred after its acquisition by Campeau. Allied
had $21.6 million in reorganization costs and $138.8 million
in income tax expense.
   The units said they had combined cash on hand of $552
million on April 25, and hadn't drawn on a total of $700
million in debtor-in-possession financing available for
working capital needs.
   Separately, in an information circular for a special
meeting of holders of its 7 1/2% convertible debentures,
Campeau said it plans to sell a "substantial portion" of its
real estate assets to restructure its own ailing finances.
The circular said Campeau has a "significant negative cash
flow" as a result of its debt-service obligations, and the
assets sales would leave it with a positive cash flow.
   The sales are expected to generate enough cash to repay
secured debt on the properties, it said. Secured loans on
other properties would be serviced using cash flow from the
properties, and senior unsecured creditors would begin
receiving payments after "substantial completion" of the
planned asset sales "only to the extent that cash is
available following certain deductions." Campeau also
proposes the accrual of dividends on preferred shares, with
no retractions or redemptions.
   Campeau said its investment in and advances to its U.S.
units totaled $1.27 billion as of Jan. 31, and it plans to
participate in their restructuring.
   Campeau has 184 million Canadian dollars (US$157.7
million) of 7 1/2% debentures outstanding. At the June 1
meeting, debenture holders will be asked to approve a
resolution to waive existing and future defaults and to defer
interest payable on the debentures until Dec. 31, 1991.
Support for the resolution by holders of two-thirds of the
debentures is almost assured because Campeau Chairman Robert
Campeau and his wife are able to vote 42% of the debentures,
and the Reichmann family's Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd.
holds another 25.3%.
   Campeau defaulted on the debentures in March when it
missed interest payments on that series and $260 million of
convertible debentures held by Olympia &amp; York. Sources close
to the Reichmanns have said previously that Olympia &amp; York
would support the interest deferrals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Reportedly Plans News Service
   Operating 24 Hours for Its Affiliates
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE TBSA
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- NBC News is planning to launch a 24-hour news
service, similar to Cable News Network's Headline News, and
offer it to the network's 208 affiliates, according to people
familiar with the proposal.
   Although plans aren't finalized, NBC News, a division of
National Broadcasting Co., reportedly would provide fully
produced newscasts -- with anchors separate from NBC News --
to affiliates during periods when the network isn't
operating. For example, NBC doesn't transmit programming for
several hours during the morning beginning at 9 a.m., in the
afternoon beginning at 4 p.m. and overnight beginning at 2
a.m.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, the network is "dark" during many hours on the
weekend, when affiliates must provide their own programming
or buy it from syndicators.
   NBC is planning to announce details of the service in June
at its annual convention with affiliates in Washington. It
would be offered exclusively to NBC affiliates.
   It would be the first time a broadcast network attempted
to distribute news and informational programming on an
around-the-clock basis.
   "Affiliates could take this news and informational
programming during some of those (dark) periods," said an NBC
official, who didn't want to be identified. "This is an
alternative to NBC stations that don't necessarily want to
buy syndicated shows but want to enhance their news image."
   NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., declined to comment.
However, the NBC official said discussions have taken place
over the past several months and have focused on the
service's content, its value to affiliates and how it will be
distributed. Although there has been discussion that the
service will be based in Dallas, no final decision has been
made.
   There is a possibility that NBC News, the only network
news division that didn't make a profit last year, would
eventually sell the service overseas. CNN, for example, sells
its programming world-wide. However, the NBC official said no
discussions for overseas distribution have been held.
   The network already has a service, called A-News, that
delivers footage and news reports from NBC News and NBC
affiliates. The stations pick which stories they want to air
on local newscasts. It is unclear how the new 24-hour service
would affect A-News. It also isn't clear if NBC Cable's
network, Consumer News and Business Channel, would be
providing material to the service.
   There is additional competition other than Headline News,
however, including the All News Channel, a co-venture between
Conus Communications, a subsidiary of Hubbard Broadcasting
Inc., and Viacom International Inc. An NBC-owned station,
KCNC in Denver, last week agreed to become a subscriber to
the All News Channel.
   About one-fourth of NBC's affiliates already subscribe to
CNN's Headline News, a subsidiary of Turner Broadcasting
System Inc.; Headline News is a separate service of CNN that
is similar to all-news radio, with news, weather and sports
updated every half hour. In fact, Turner and NBC News had
negotiated to form a joint news-gathering operation. When
those talks collapsed in February, NBC News President Michael
Gartner said "a joint operation would not best serve our
affiliates or our viewers." Instead, he said, NBC would
develop a "stronger" news service for the stations.
   NBC News was sharply criticized by its affiliates for its
lackluster performance in getting footage on the air from
last October's San Francisco area earthquake, for instance.
   "I have encouraged NBC to do anything that can make our
news product more valuable," said William L. Bolster, head of
the affiliate board's news committee and general manager of
KSDK, the NBC affiliate in St. Louis.
   NBC News needs to give the stations some good news by June
3, the first day of the network's convention. The affiliates
are furious over the plunging ratings of the formerly No. 1
rated "Today" morning news show, which since January has
slipped to second place behind ABC's "Good Morning America."
Last week's ratings for "Today," for instance, were the
lowest since August 1983.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sotheby's Holdings Inc.:
   Profit Rose 15%, Sales 26%
   During the First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   BID
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sotheby's Holdings Inc. reported that first-quarter net
income rose 15% on strong buying in all collecting areas.
   The New York auction concern's net rose to $6 million, or
10 cents a share, from $5.2 million, or nine cents a share, a
year earlier. Sales grew 26% to $61.4 million from $48.9
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Michael L. Ainslie, Sotheby's president, said that in the
first quarter, auction sales of $282.3 million were up 39%
from a year earlier, with strong buying in Old Master
paintings, jewelry, furniture and rare books.
   Sotheby's shares rose 50 cents Friday to close at $19.75 a
share in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.8 billion of three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   $10.5 billion in three-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $10 billion in 10-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10 billion in 30-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Banc One Corp. -- 10 million common shares, via Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co.
   Builders Express Inc. -- initial one million units,
representing three Class A common shares and three redeemable
Class A common warrants, via D.H. Blair &amp; Co.
   France Growth Fund Inc. -- initial 10 million common
shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc. -- 3.21 million common
shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Lidak Pharmaceuticals Inc. -- initial one million units,
representing five Class A common shares and five redeemable
Class A warrants, via D.H. Blair.
   Plains Resources Inc. -- two million common shares, via
Smith Barney.
   Rasterops -- initial 1.52 million common shares, via
Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   RYKA Inc. -- four million common shares, via Ladenburg
Thalmann &amp; Co.
   Unit Corp. -- one million shares of convertible
exchangeable preferred stock, via PaineWebber.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Pennsylvania -- $185 million of general obligation bonds,
via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   City and County of Denver, Colo. -- $600 million of
airport system revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, with capital
appreciation bonds, via a Goldman Sachs group.
   District of Columbia -- $162 million of general obligation
bonds, via a R.W. Corby &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Mississippi Hospital Equipment and Facilities Authority --
$58.095 million of revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, Mississippi
Baptist Medical Center Issue, via a John Nuveen &amp; Co. group.
   Modesto, Calif., Stanislaus County -- $92 million of waste
energy revenue bonds, via a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding
group.
   Rhode Island Housing Mortgage Finance Corp. -- $103
million of homeownership opportunity bonds, Series 2A
(non-Alternative Minimum Tax) and 2B (AMT), via a Goldman
Sachs group.
   University of Houston System Board of Regents -- $56
million of consolidated revenue refunding bonds, via a Lovett
Underwood Neuhaus &amp; Webb Inc. group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Washington Campus Pays Legislators, Lobbyists
   To Teach Executives the Ins and Outs of Influence
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- This capital city has its own graduate
school of influence-peddling. It's called The Washington
Campus.
   Its "students" are corporate executives who pay from
$1,300 to $2,500 apiece to be made Washington-wise in
two-to-six-day seminars. The "faculty" consists of well-known
lobbyists, members of Congress, their current and former
staff members, and pundits of both the academic and
journalistic variety. They are paid in that prized Washington
currency known as honoraria.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.), for one, has earned
$90,000 in honoraria over the past five years from The
Washington Campus. He is a faculty regular and receives a
$1,000 honorarium for a 45-minute talk on Congress and the
life of a legislator. He gave this same basic speech 22 times
last year.
   Mr. Riegle doesn't have to go far to teach because,
despite its bucolic name, The Washington Campus is all
Washington and no campus. Congressional offices, hotel
meeting rooms and club anterooms double as ad-hoc classrooms.
   He also doesn't have to disclose the different corporate
interests that attend his lectures. Mr. Riegle has a policy
of not accepting honoraria from corporations that fall under
his purview as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. But
the senator pocketed a $1,000 honorarium from The Washington
Campus in March for talking to a group of executives from
Citicorp. Mr. Riegle has also been paid to participate in
Washington Campus programs for John Hancock Mutual Life
Insurance Co. and Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co., which also have
an interest in legislation before the banking panel.
   "He enjoys teaching the governmental process," says
Karolyn Wallace, an aide to Sen. Riegle. She contends her
boss's Washington Campus fees are in line with his
no-honoraria-from-banking-interests policy, because he gives
the same speech each time and doesn't tailor his remarks to
fit any particular audience. Mr. Riegle did doctoral work at
Harvard Business School and has some university-level
teaching experience.
   More and more lawmakers and Washington pundits are hopping
on the academic gravy train, taking advantage of a
proliferation of high-priced seminars on how Washington
works. Some are run by such think tanks as the Brookings
Institution. Others are sponsored by universities,
inside-the-beltway publications and pundits themselves,
including columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak.
   Sen. Timothy Wirth (D., Colo.) even sponsors his own
program, called the Wirth Washington Seminar. In late April,
300 Coloradans ponied up $250 a head (including a hotel room)
for a three-day program of speakers, including Sen. Bill
Bradley (D., N.J.), Sen. Albert Gore (D., Tenn.), Sen.
William Cohen (R., Maine), White House economic adviser
Michael Boskin and other big Washington names. Mr. Wirth's
clout is such that he doesn't even have to offer his speakers
honoraria.
   Stricter ethics rules passed by Congress last year have
only enhanced the popularity of such programs as The
Washington Campus. Beginning next year, House members can't
accept honoraria for speeches to corporations, trade
associations or other interest groups, but they can apply for
waivers for teaching income. The Senate has two bills pending
that would also ban honoraria.
   Sen. Riegle's former staff chief, Kevin Gottlieb, also
lectures frequently to Washington Campus corporate groups and
has earned hefty lecture fees. Controversy over Mr.
Gottlieb's high outside earnings, as well as questions about
his and his boss's ties to savings-and-loan executive Charles
Keating, presaged his departure as staff director of the
Banking Committee earlier this year. Mr. Riegle is one of
five senators facing a pending Ethics Committee inquiry into
the Keating affair.
   Last week, Mr. Gottlieb gave the opening lecture on the
role of Congress to the group from United Technologies Corp.
In 2 1/2 days, the United Technologies executives also heard
from lobbyist Tom Korologos; Rep. Nancy Johnson (R., Conn.);
Joseph Crapa, a top staffer of the House Appropriations
Committee; Stephen Bell, a former staff director of the
Senate Budget Committee; and an assortment of other political
and regulatory experts. They also met with United
Technologies' team of Washington lobbyists. Mel Elfin, an
editor at U.S. News &amp; World Report, led a session on the
press.
   Antoinette Pace Durkin, a former scheduler for the 1984
Mondale presidential campaign and executive director of The
Washington Campus, says the seminars offer the business world
an opportunity to see up-close "how the process works." This
year, The Washington Campus expects to run seminars for 30
different corporate groups.
   The United Technologies sessions, on which a Wall Street
Journal reporter was permitted to sit in, were mostly
condensed versions of basic political-science courses, with
some conventional inside-the-beltway wisdom and jargon thrown
in, along with some of the rudiments of lobbying. The eight
United Technologies executives, whose crash Washington
education cost their company at least $11,000, all seemed to
think they got their money's worth, although one confided
that by the end he had an even dimmer view of Washington than
he had before coming to The Washington Campus.
   "The purpose isn't to turn these people into instant
lobbyists. It's to shed light on their understanding of how
the process works," says Jim Lindse, who works in the
company's Washington office. United Technologies has sent 22
different groups to The Washington Campus since 1985.
   Ms. Durkin says the money made from the executive programs
is used to fund summer fellowships when real M.B.A. students
come to The Washington Campus for two-month sessions.
   The Washington Campus was founded in 1978 by William
Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
After working as an economic adviser in the Ford White House,
Mr. Seidman says, "It impressed me that the system would work
better if executives had some idea how Washington worked." He
approached several business schools about launching a joint
program in Washington, but says they didn't have the
necessary funds.
   So Mr. Seidman and his wife successfully approached more
than 40 companies and foundations, including International
Business Machines Corp., BankAmerica Corp. and the Lilly
Endowment. Eventually, 16 business schools signed on to
sponsor the summer program, including Cornell and Dartmouth.
Some colleagues from the Ford White House, including Sidney
Jones and Roger Porter, joined Mr. Seidman on the faculty.
   Like Mr. Seidman, Mr. Jones and Mr. Porter are
high-ranking officials in the Bush administration, Mr. Jones
at the Treasury, Mr. Porter in the White House. They still
occasionally lecture to Washington Campus groups, although
executive-branch officials can't be paid for such speaking.
Mr. Seidman says he isn't active in the program anymore; The
Washington Campus lists him as an honorary member of its
board. Mrs. Seidman is on the board.
   Other insiders, including lobbyist and former White House
aide Anne Wexler; former Treasury official and lobbyist
Charls Walker; and David Gergen, a former communications
adviser to President Reagan and editor-at-large of U.S. News
&amp; World Report, are also on the board and faculty of The
Washington Campus.
   Most of the Washington Campus regulars say they
participate because they enjoy teaching, not for the money.
Mr. Korologos, for one, says he puts his Washington Campus
honoraria and other speaking fees into a special kitty that
he draws on for making political contributions. "I use it as
my nest egg to pay my way into the fundraisers," says Mr.
Korologos. "But it isn't enough."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L
   Reports Loss
   Of $293.3 Million
   ---
   Harshfield's Compensation
   Surprises Some Analysts;
   Pay for Spiegels Is Cut
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association reported a $293.3
million first-quarter net loss, reflecting further decay in
the company's junk-bond portfolio, although officials claimed
progress in a last-ditch effort to sell the bonds and finally
end the flood of unprofitability.
   Separately, the company, based in Beverly Hills, Calif.,
disclosed what some analysts considered to be a surprisingly
lucrative compensation arrangement with its new president and
chief executive officer -- and some big pay cuts for members
of the controlling Spiegel family.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss, equal to $14.62 a share, is somewhat wider than
Columbia indicated in April when the company said it would
have a deficit of at least $200 million based on junk-bond
losses in January and February. The company had profit of
$7.9 million, or 20 cents a share, in the year-earlier
quarter. The latest result indicates that the monthly rate of
deterioration in the thrift-industry-leading portfolio,
valued at about $2.9 billion at March 31, slowed somewhat in
March but still lost $50 million, despite firming in the
overall junk market.
   As a result, Columbia, insolvent since Feb. 28, was pushed
further under. At March 31, it reported a stockholders'
deficit of $215.6 million. Moreover, at that date, the
company needed to raise $338.3 million to comply with minimum
federal tangible capital requirements. Many analysts question
whether Columbia can survive without federal help, and some
said continued erosion in the value of its junk bonds was an
ominous signal.
   Columbia officials said they were encouraged about the
level of interest in their previously reported plan to sell
the junk. Columbia said its financial adviser, First Boston
Corp., had obtained "several qualifying bids" to purchase
substantially all of the portfolio and that discussions with
a select number of parties were intensifying.
   Columbia's president and chief executive officer, Edward
G. Harshfield, said, "I feel very confident about doing the
transaction at book {value}, if not better." He added: "I am
still optimistic that we can put together a transaction to
satisfy all our constituents," including regulators. "We
anticipate being able to say something publicly by late June
or early July."
   But a sale at current book value won't put a dent in
Columbia's insolvency, so many thrift experts still expect
Columbia to be taken over by federal regulators.
   Columbia is trying to attract investor interest with an
offer to finance as much as about 90% of the purchase price
-- and with a sales pitch that recent declines in the market
don't reflect the securities' long-term value. Regulators,
having approved the financing terms, are considered as eager
as the company to put the bonds in someone else's hands; the
Resolution Trust Corp. already holds roughly $4 billion in
junk bonds from failed thrifts that it has taken over.
Columbia wouldn't name the bidders or the level of bids.
   Other analysts are skeptical about whether the proposed
transaction, internally code-named "The Big Lift," will ever
get off the ground because of the risks. Roughly $1 billion,
or about 30% of the portfolio, is classified as troubled or
not accruing interest. About $800 million is considered
extremely difficult to value because it was issued in private
placements. Some analysts said there are better buying
opportunities available.
   "The way Columbia appears headed, a takeover seems
imminent. Why not let the RTC take over and buy from the RTC?
Then, you don't have the artificial restraint to buy the
entire package," said Kenneth Thomas, a Miami thrift analyst
and consultant.
   Even if Columbia succeeds in selling most of the bonds
without further losses, analysts said, the company would
still need an equity infusion of as much as several hundred
million dollars to fully comply with federal capital rules
that become effective in 1994. A person close to the company
said it may propose swapping about $100 million in
convertible debt for equity, a move that would boost capital
but ensure that current holders would be essentially wiped
out.
   Columbia has said that it is considering alternatives for
its bond portfolio, including a phased divestiture. Indeed,
Columbia said it sold $245.4 million in junk bonds and
preferred stock in the first quarter, and has sold roughly
$620 million since August. The $2.9 billion book value of
Columbia's junk bonds and preferred has declined from the
$4.5 billion peak last year.
   Separately, Columbia disclosed with the Office of Thrift
Supervision that it is paying Mr. Harshfield $500,000 a year,
and that he could earn as much as $3.4 million in salary and
bonuses over three years, not counting profits from options
granted to him covering one million Columbia shares. Mr.
Harshfield is a former Citicorp and Household International
Inc. executive and was hired with clearance from regulators
in March to succeed Thomas Spiegel as chief executive.
   The yearly salary is less than what some other large
thrift chief executives earn, although some analysts thought
the total terms were a little rich.
   Mr. Spiegel, who has been doing consulting work for
Columbia on the junk-bond sale, and his father, Abraham,
Columbia's chairman, are doing much less well. According to
the filing, Thomas Spiegel's pay was "at the behest of
regulators" recently reduced to $1 a year from $41,666 a
month. According to a person close to the company, Abraham
Spiegel's compensation has been reduced to standard director
fees of about $12,000 a year and may soon be reduced to zero.
Last year, he earned about $500,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Jobless Figures
   Show Weakness
   In the Economy
   ---
   April Unemployment Rate
   Rose to 5.4% as Payrolls
   Increased by Only 69,000
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The latest unemployment numbers suggest
there is still widespread weakness in the American economy.
   Private-sector employment declined in April, pushing the
nation's civilian unemployment rate to 5.4% of the work force
from 5.2% in March, the Labor Department said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall, employers outside the farm sector added only
69,000 new workers to their payrolls, the department found in
a survey of businesses and other employers. Excluding the
government's hiring of 79,000 temporary census workers,
payrolls actually shrank.
   The unemployment numbers jolted a number of economists who
had been pointing to a string of recent statistics they
thought might be suggesting an upturn, following a brush with
recession at the end of last year.
   "One would have to conclude that the underlying economic
situation was weak," said Paul McCracken, an economist at the
University of Michigan who was chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers in the Nixon administration. "My
own view is that for a variety of reasons too much got made
here recently of a few scattered bits of evidence that the
economy was taking off again."
   Recent data have shown pickups in factory orders and
industrial production. Auto companies have successfully
trimmed inventories and rehired laid-off workers. Consumer
spending has held its own. And just over a week ago the
Commerce Department said the economy, aided by unseasonably
warm weather, grew at a 2.1% annual rate in the first
quarter, nearly twice the pace of the fourth quarter.
   But the new employment numbers -- the first government
economic reading for the month of April -- hardly sketch a
healthy economy, many analysts said.
   Manufacturing employment fell, as it has in 12 of the past
13 months. Construction employment fell. Real estate
employment fell. Employment in retail trade, transportation
and public utilities was flat.
   The average weekly hours of manufacturing workers fell.
Overtime hours fell. Hours for all private workers showed no
change.
   "I was one of those people who was concerned last fall and
turned off the panic button in the past few months. What this
tells me is we may have passed bottom but we're certainly not
growing very fast," said Peter Radford, chief economist at
National Westminster Bancorp, in New York.
   Of course, a single month's numbers don't provide any
conclusive evidence about the economy. "If the small job
gains in April continued at that slower rate we would be
concerned. But we don't make a lot out of any one month's
numbers," said Michael Boskin, chairman of the White House
Council of Economic Advisers.
   The change in payrolls is one of the government's most
closely watched economic statistics, and economists consider
it a more precise indicator of economic strength than the
unemployment rate, which is derived from a survey of
households.
   The department did make a steep upward revision to its
calculation of job growth in March. After reviewing
additional data, department analysts said payrolls increased
by 103,000 workers during the month, instead of the faint
26,000 gain the department originally reported last month.
   But even with the revision, the payroll gain was
considered mild. For the first four months of 1990, the
average monthly growth in non-farm payrolls was 175,000,
compared with a 200,000 monthly average for all of 1989 and
275,000 for 1990.
   Janet Norwood, the federal commissioner of labor
statistics, told Congress that it will take another month or
two of data to understand more clearly what's going on in the
nation's labor markets. But she said, "What does seem clear
is that the goods-producing sector has seen reduced
employment during the past year and job increases in many of
the service-sector industries have slowed recently."
   Mrs. Norwood suggested that strong employment growth in
January and February, influenced by unusually warm weather,
may have made hiring in March and April look particularly
weak.
   For example, she said a 99,000 drop last month in
construction jobs, after seasonal adjustment, followed very
large gains in February and January "because of unusually
mild weather which made it possible to sustain construction
activity that would have normally been curtailed. Therefore,
relatively few new hires occurred in March and April."
   But the weakness in the report led many analysts to
predict that the Federal Reserve will refrain from pushing up
interest rates for now. Recent statistics showing increased
inflation coupled with hints that the economy could be
picking up strength have led some analysts to conclude that
the central bank had little choice but to tighten credit to
squeeze out price pressures in the economy.
   The employment report also offered some sign that
inflation pressures could be abating. Average hourly earnings
grew only three cents during the month, to $9.95, despite a
50-cent increase in the minimum wage, to $3.85. Weekly
earnings grew by $2.38 to $343.97, a gain of 0.3%. Over the
past year, average hourly earnings have risen 3.6% while
average weekly earnings have grown 2.7%, the report said.
Economists viewed those increases as mild and not the kind of
cost pressure that leads businesses to raise the prices.
   "I'd think the Fed would be very encouraged by the wage
number," said Barry Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings
Institution here.
   April was the first time the unemployment rate has hit
5.4% since January 1989. The rate is still low by the
standards of the past couple of decades, however. Since
mid-1988, the rate has bounced between 5% and 5.5%, the
lowest range since the early 1970s.
   The slight rise in the jobless rate last month meant that
people looking for work but unable to find it grew to 6.8
million during the month from 6.5 million in March.
   Mrs. Norwood told Congress, however, that "thus far we can
discern no meaningful change in the measures that might
signal a deteriorating unemployment situation. In particular,
neither the number of newly unemployed -- those jobless less
than five weeks -- nor the number of job losers has started
to climb."
   But she added, "We have, however, seen an inching up of
the unemployment rates for factory and construction workers
and, in some cases, rising employment in particular areas of
the country."
   All the numbers in the report were adjusted for seasonal
fluctuations.
   ---
   Here are excerpts from the Labor Department's employment
report. The figures are seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                April       March
                                1990        1990
                              (millions of persons)
                                                                                                       

   Total labor force .........  126.5       126.5
     Total employment ........  119.8       120.0
   Civilian labor force ......  124.9       124.8
     Civilian employment .....  118.1       118.3
     Unemployment ............    6.8         6.5
   Payroll employment ........  110.5       110.4
                                                                                                       

   Unemployment: (percent of labor force)
                                                                                                       

   All workers ...............    5.3         5.1
   All civilian workers ......    5.4         5.2
     Adult men ...............    4.8         4.5
     Adult women .............    4.8         4.7
     Teen-agers ..............   14.7        14.4
     White ...................    4.8         4.5

     Black teen-agers ........   25.8        28.2
     Hispanic ................    8.0         7.7
                                                                                                       

   Average weekly hours: (hours of work)
                                                                                                       

   Total private nonfarm .....   34.6        34.6
     Manufacturing ...........   40.6        40.8
     Factory overtime ........    3.5         3.7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   HBOL NWPS UDR ISB ASPT DNST IGLI IMNR SB TKA UG
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced three
new stock listings, the American Stock Exchange two and the
National Market System of the over-the counter market four.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Big Board, Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection &amp;
Insurance Co., a Hartford, Conn., engineering service and
insurance firm, will begin trading Wednesday under HSB.
                                                                                                       

   Northwestern Public Service Co., a Huron, S.D.,
electricity and natural gas utility, joins the New York
exchange tomorrow under NPS.
                                                                                                       

   Union Dominion Realty Trust Inc., a Richmond, Va., real
estate investment trust, begins trading today under the
symbol UDR. Joining the Amex is Interchange Financial
Services Corp., a Saddle Brook, N.J., bank holding company,
under ISB.
                                                                                                       

   United-Guardian Inc., a Hauppauge, N.Y., pharmaceuticals
company, began trading under UG. The five new Big Board and
Amex companies previously traded over the counter. On the OTC
market, Aspect Telecommunications Corp., a San Jose, Calif.,
telephone transaction-systems maker, began trading under
ASPT.
                                                                                                       

   Dynasty Classics Corp., a Carson, Calif., home decorating
products firm, started trading under DNST.
                                                                                                       

   IG Laboratories Inc., a Framingham, Mass., genetic testing
services firm, was listed under IGLI.
                                                                                                       

   Immune Response Corp., a San Diego biopharmaceutical
company, began trading under the symbol IMNR. The Amex also
opened trading on a second offering of put warrants by
Salomon Inc., based on the Financial Times Stock Exchange
100-share index, under the symbol FTP.WS. And the American
exchange began trading put and call options on the shares of
Tonka Corp. Options give the holder the right but not the
obligation to buy or sell shares of a company at a set price
within a certain period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dow Chemical Names
   Buzzelli to New Post
   For Ecology Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DOW
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIDLAND, Mich. -- Dow Chemical Co. created a new
environmental corporate vice-president position in an effort
to make the company's world-wide business decisions more
responsive to ecology concerns.
   The company says David T. Buzzelli, president and chief
executive officer of Dow Chemical Canada, has been appointed
vice-president and corporate director of environment, health
and safety. Mr. Buzzelli, a member of Dow Chemical's
management committee, will assume the post on Aug. 1 and will
report directly to Frank Popoff, president and chief
executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Buzzelli's job will be to "fully integrate
environmental concerns into all of our business and
operations decisions," Mr. Popoff says. "How we address the
environment will have an enormous impact on our future
success."
   Mr. Buzzelli says Dow Chemical faces increasing pressure
to meet higher environmental standards from regulatory
agencies, consumers and communities where plants are located.
In his new role, Mr. Buzzelli will coordinate all of Dow
Chemical's health and safety activities, including
environmental affairs, product testing and occupational
health, which are currently decentralized.
   After joining Dow Chemical in 1965 as a chemical engineer,
Mr. Buzzelli held various positions in agricultural chemicals
production, served as director of government and public
affairs, and was appointed head of Dow Canada in 1986.
   Denis Wilcock, executive vice-president of Dow Europe,
will succeed Mr. Buzzelli and will join Dow Chemical's
management committee. Yves Bobillier, president of Dow Latin
America, has been named executive vice-president of Dow
Europe with responsibility for the plastics group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Huntaway Partners
   Plans Distribution
   To Its Unit Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
05/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   HWY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   VALENCIA, Calif. -- Huntway Partners L.P. said it expects
to make a first-quarter distribution to its preference unit
holders after reaching agreements for a capital infusion and
restructuring of the partnership's bank loan.
   Huntway, a refiner of asphalt and petroleum products,
declared a distribution of 34.5 cents a unit, payable May 30
to preference units of record May 15. But Huntway said that
the payment is contingent upon completion before May 30 of
the capital infusion and the revised bank loan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Huntway's operating committee agreed to a proposal by
Bankers Trust Co. to restructure the partnership's debt into
a $17 million term loan and a $31 million letter of credit
and working capital facility. Huntway said it must make
quarterly payments on the proposed term loan, which must be
paid off by the end of 1993.
   Huntway said it expects to receive $5 million from the
sale of 625,000 units, at $8 each, to an affiliate of its
general partner. The sale would increase by 12% the number of
Huntway's preference units outstanding to about 6.2 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Huntway's preference units rose 62.5 cents, to close at $7.50
after trading was delayed pending dissimination of news about
the agreements. Members of management and a private investor
hold common units that aren't publicly traded.
   Huntway said that future distributions to preference unit
holders will be permitted under the revised bank agreement if
the partnership's operating performance meets "certain
targeted levels." A spokesman said the partnership hopes to
meet those targets, but cautioned that he couldn't make any
guarantees. Distributions on the common units won't be made
until the term loan has been reduced to $5 million, Huntway
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/04/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   F AIG TEX GM CPH DXYN CNG WPO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Ford Motor Co         $1.10   $ .99 (3) $1.24 (15)   11.11
  American Intl Grp      2.16    2.00 (4)  2.01  (9)    8.00
  Texas Air             (2.80)    ...     (4.97) (4)     ...
  General Motors         1.02     ...       .94 (14)    8.51
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Capital Holding       $ .60  $1.10 (3) $ 1.11  (8)   45.45
  Dixie Yarns Inc         .14    ...        .17  (4)   17.65
  Consol Natural Gas     1.08    ...       1.26  (9)   14.29
  Washington Post        3.16    ...       3.43  (8)    7.87
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900507-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900507-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Gerrymandered to the Kitchen
</HL>
<DATE>
04/30/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   It's something new for the California League of Women
Voters to be branded a puppet of the Republican Party, but
that's exactly what opponents of an initiative to curb the
political abuse of gerrymandering are calling the 70-year old
voter-education group. Assembly Speaker Willie Brown, the
most powerful Democrat in California, went so far as to tell
a League audience last month that the group should "stay in
the kitchen where it belongs."
   Mr. Brown's press secretary denies the Speaker used those
exact words, but admits he implied the League "should stay in
the kitchen because they have the luxury of sort of taking on
issues as a hobby." The Speaker's Chief of Staff recently
canceled a meeting on legislative ethics with the League's
lobbyist because the group has become "too partisan."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   League members see it differently. They say California
voters are being denied a free choice at the ballot box by
carefully gerrymandered districts that make it impossible for
an incumbent to lose. In the 580 state and federal races in
California since the 1981 gerrymander, only nine incumbents
have been defeated.
   The League says it is backing Proposition 119 on the June
7 ballot because its members are demanding reform. Prop 119
would take the drawing of district lines away from
self-interested state legislators and give it to an
independent commission selected by three retired judges.
   The late U.S. Rep. Phil Burton's 1981 redistricting plan
virtually ended competitive elections for Congress. Some GOP
House Members went along with his plan because it also left
them with safe seats for life. An example of the Burton
handiwork in California is shown nearby.
   Voters rejected the Burton gerrymander at the ballot box,
but the Legislature merely changed a few details and -- with
the help of the partisan Rose Bird State Supreme Court --
cemented the lines back into place. Polls indicate voters are
determined never again to have the value of their vote so
diluted. The latest Field Poll shows the initiative leading
by 52% to 20%.
   Incumbents, fearing the storming of their political
castles, are fighting back. California's Democratic
congressmen asked unions to give $1 million in so-called
"soft money" to fight Prop 119, but abandoned the idea after
inquiries by the Journal's Jill Abramson and Jeffrey
Birnbaum. There is also evidence that Democrats have been
pressuring corporations not to support redistricting reform.
   Although Prop 119 leads in the polls, its supporters are
bracing for a tidal wave of TV ads seeking to discredit it.
They recall that in 1984 a similar reform effort was narrowly
defeated on the strength of an ad campaign that Speaker Brown
later boasted amounted to a "con job" on voters.
   If Prop 119 loses, the real con job will be done by
California legislators when they redraw district lines next
year. New computer technology and census data will allow them
to calibrate carefully how districts should be gerrymandered
down to the block level. As Phil Burton once noted, the best
election for incumbents is one where the outcome has been
determined in advance.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   In our April 30 editorial on California gerrymandering
("Gerrymandered to the Kitchen"), we stated that Proposition
119, which takes the power to redraw districts away from the
legislature, was leading in the polls by 52% to 20%. Those
numbers actually referred to Proposition 118, a second
initiative to limit gerrymandering. Proposition 119 also has
led in the polls, but by 35% to 32%.
   (WSJ April 30, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
