<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Corporate Insiders Continue to Purchase
   Bank Stocks Despite Industry's Problems
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   STB I BOAT CRFC FESX SNC CC DIS SWY
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Despite the well-publicized problems in the
banking industry, bank stocks remain popular with corporate
insiders. Reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission by officers, directors and other insiders who buy
shares in their companies continue to list bank stocks among
the most-bought issues.
   It could be a case of bargain-hunting. The stocks are
selling at prices well below what they were just a few months
ago. "Just about every bank stock is depressed," said George
Salem, an analyst who follows banks for Prudential-Bache
Securities Inc. "Some may be takeover targets, but it would
be because they're ailing, not because they're beautiful."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Miami-based Southeast Banking Corp., SEC filings show,
Alfonso J. Fanjul Jr., a director, paid $3.4 million to buy
250,000 shares last month. While the stock was selling for
more than $20 at the beginning of the year, Mr. Fanjul paid
between $13 and $13.50 a share, the filings show. Southeast
Banking stock closed yesterday at $13.125, down 12.5 cents,
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Fanjul, who a Southeast Banking spokeswoman described
as an investor with a number of holdings, was out of the
country and couldn't be reached for comment. According to SEC
filings, his latest purchases bring his Southeast Banking
holdings to 251,584 shares held indirectly and 3,183 held
directly.
   Insiders at First Interstate Bancorp in Los Angeles also
bought company stock last month, SEC filings show. Director
William F. Miller bought 1,000 shares for $35.25 each,
bringing his holdings to 1,310 shares; Warren Christopher,
another director, bought 500 shares at $35.13 each, raising
his total holdings to 1,545 shares. First Interstate's stock
price, which was about $44 in early January, closed yesterday
on the Big Board at $38.50, down 25 cents. Mr. Miller and Mr.
Christopher couldn't be reached for comment.
   Other banks where insiders have bought stock recently
include Boatmen's Bancshares Inc., St. Louis; Crestar
Financial Corp., Richmond, Va.; First Essex Bancorp Inc.,
Lawrence, Mass.; and Shawmut National Corp., Boston.
   "The worry list is still out there," said James McDermott,
a bank analyst with Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc. "But for
those willing to brave some of the near-term uncertainty . .
., there are some very attractive yields."
   ---
   SELLING THE STORE: The chairman and the president of
Circuit City Stores Inc. sold significant portions of their
company holdings last month, SEC filings show.
   Richard L. Sharp, president and chief executive officer of
the Richmond, Va.-based electronics retailer, sold 110,000
shares, about 19% of his holdings, for nearly $3 million.
Alan L. Wurtzel, chairman, sold 85,000 shares, about 30% of
his stake, for about $2.2 million.
   Neither was available for comment. A company spokeswoman
said Mr. Sharp sold to diversify his personal holdings; he
still holds 454,530 shares. She said Mr. Wurtzel has been
gradually selling his stock since he retired from active
management of the company in 1986; he continues to hold
197,500 shares, plus options.
   Mr. Sharp sold most of his shares at $27.25 each and the
remainder at $27 a share. Mr. Wurtzel sold at between $26.75
and $27.13 a share. The stock closed yesterday at $26.50,
unchanged, in Big Board trading.
   Circuit City reported a 12% increase in earnings for the
year ended Feb. 28 and reported increases in sales for the
first two months of the current fiscal year.
   ---
   SELLING MICKEY AND DONALD: Gary L. Wilson, who stepped
down as chief financial officer of Walt Disney Co. at the end
of last year, sold $17.3 million of Disney stock last month,
reports filed with the SEC show. Roy E. Disney, vice chairman
and a nephew of the company founder, sold about $3.6 million
of the stock, according to the filings.
   The 150,000 shares Mr. Wilson sold were his entire stake
in the Burbank, Calif.-based entertainment giant, although he
continues to hold options to buy more than 300,000 Disney
shares. The executive, who remains a Disney director and
adviser, was part of the group that bought Northwest Airlines
for $3.65 billion last year.
   Mr. Wilson said the Disney shares he sold were bought
through the exercise of options in August. "You just can't
afford not to sell from an economic point of view," he said,
noting the tax advantages of selling six months after an
option-related purchase. "I have great confidence in {Disney}
and think it's one of the great companies in America," he
added.
   Mr. Disney wasn't available to comment on his sale of
32,000 shares, which was just slightly more than 1% of his
total holdings. A spokesman said the sale was for estate and
tax-planning purposes and to help pay for a new house.
   Mr. Wilson sold his stock at between $115 and $115.38 a
share, Mr. Disney at between $112.13 and $112.50 a share. The
shares closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange trading at
$119.50, up $3.25.
   ---
   BUYING IN: SEC filings show that nine Safeway Inc.
executives bought stock late last month in the company's
initial public offering of 10 million shares. The Oakland,
Calif.-based supermarket chain, which went private in
November 1986 in a leveraged buy-out led by Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co., sold 10% of the company back to the public at
$11.25 a share. The stock closed yesterday at $12, down 12.5
cents, on the Big Board.
   The nine executives, including seven vice presidents and
two divisional managers, reported buying between 100 and
15,200 shares each. A company spokesman said the purchases
were individual decisions and that he didn't know how many
employees bought stock in the offering.
   In addition, James H. Greene Jr., a Safeway director and a
KKR associate, bought 7,000 shares. George R. Roberts, a KKR
partner, reported the purchase of 200,000 shares, held by a
trust for the benefit of his children, and Robert I.
MacDonnell, another KKR partner, reported the purchase of
30,000 shares held by a trust for the benefit of his
children.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   President's Son Neil to Appear on Hill
   Today to Explain Role in S&amp;L's Demise
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Neil Bush, son of the president, will be
asked to explain publicly today why he and others approved a
series of transactions that led to the demise of a
Denver-based thrift. He is to appear before the House Banking
Committee to testify about his role as a director of
Silverado Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association.
   Mr. Bush didn't gain directly from the transactions but,
as a director, he approved loans to his outside business
associates. In at least one case, Mr. Bush didn't disclose on
financial forms that he had a business relationship with a
borrower, whose $106 million in Silverado transactions
eventually soured. Thrift regulators are pursuing an
administrative action against Mr. Bush, which he is
contesting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Silverado differed from other big thrift failures,
regulators said. For example, compared with Lincoln Savings &amp;
Loan Association, Irvine, Calif., and CenTrust Savings,
Miami, whose failures may end up costing taxpayers twice as
much, Silverado's records and underwriting were more
complete. And it was less combative with regulators than
other more high-flying S&amp;Ls.
   But regulators accuse Silverado, whose losses could total
$1 billion, of requiring borrowers to also become Silverado
investors by tying Silverado loans to the purchase of
Silverado preferred stock that the thrift could count toward
capital. It also inflated appraisals and granted preferential
loans to officers, not including Mr. Bush. It also hid losses
by selling pieces of a loan pool to borrowers, who took
millions in Silverado's losses, which violates accounting
rules.
   "Much of Silverado's high-flying was in the same
stratosphere with the Lincolns and the CenTrusts, but the
Denver thrift wins the title for the most creative
self-financing mechanisms," said Rep. Henry Gonzalez, (D.,
Texas), chairman of the committee.
   As previously disclosed, JNB Exploration, Mr. Bush's
energy company, had oil and gas deals with two of Silverado's
major borrowers, real-estate developers Kenneth Good and Bill
Walters. Although Mr. Bush didn't vote to approve Silverado
loans to Mr. Good, in 1986 he did approve $106 million in
loans and other transactions to Mr. Walters.
   So far, thrift regulators said they have made 11 referrals
of criminal activity to the Justice Department for possible
legal action. They declined yesterday to identify the parties
involved or the actions that are the subject of the
referrals.
   Five former directors and officers of Silverado have
signed consent agreements barring them from working in the
financial industry without receiving permission from
regulators.
   Mr. Bush, asserting he did nothing wrong, refused to sign
a consent agreement in January, and the matter is being
pursued in an administrative proceeding. That action would
prohibit Mr. Bush from engaging in similar lending agreements
if he were to serve on the board of any financial institution
in the future. At that time, Mr. Bush also said that he
didn't benefit directly or indirectly from the loans to Mr.
Walters.
   The banking committee also said it plans to issue a
subpoena to Kermit Mowbray, former president of the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Topeka, Kan., who declined to appear
yesterday.
   The committee, which asked Mr. Mowbray to testify, said it
wants to ask him why, as the top regional regulator, he
waited weeks after a staff recommendation to seize the
institution -- until after the 1988 presidential election.
   Federal regulators said yesterday that hundreds of ailing
thrifts were being seized during late 1988, and that the
election and the presence of Neil Bush on the Silverado
board, didn't influence the timing of Silverado's takeover.
   In December 1988, Silverado was sold to First Nationwide
Bank, the thrift subsidiary of Ford Motor Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Better Than the Clean Air bill
   ----
   By S. Fred Singer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Today the House is scheduled to begin voting on
contentious Clean Air legislation that addresses -- without
much concern for costs and benefits -- acid rain from
electric power plants, air toxics from industrial sources,
and the urban smog problems ascribed mainly to automobiles.
Yet there is little point in heroic and expensive efforts to
build super-efficient and super-clean cars and mandate exotic
fuels, unless we also reduce urban congestion.
   A car that's stuck in rush-hour traffic gets zero miles
per gallon and the pollution per mile goes through the roof
no matter how well the car was designed or what the EPA test
stickers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Market-based economic policies that charge for
externalities -- such as pollution and congestion -- with
pollution fees, road tolls and other user fees are usually
more effective than the command-control laws and regulations
now being fashioned by Congress. A fee system is certainly
less costly, and does not use up scarce resources of energy,
materials, and capital and labor.
   One of the goals of the Clean Air Act is to force a
super-clean car on every car buyer -- no matter where he
lives -- in the mistaken belief that this will solve the smog
problem in such places as Los Angeles. Yet adding super-clean
cars to the fleet can do little to improve air quality as
long as older, polluting cars remain on the road and as long
as there is no adequate monitoring of individual cars.
   The cost to the nation will be enormous; the White House
says it is willing to live with $20 billion a year. Don't
believe it] A little amendment, introduced at the last minute
by Democratic Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota -- and
co-sponsored by Minority Leader Bob Dole -- would force
refineries to produce a custom-designed gasoline with a large
percentage of -- you guessed it -- ethanol made from corn.
The current best estimate is that this gift to farmers and
distillers would add 20 cents to the price of each gallon of
gas -- more than twice the nine-cent federal gas tax -- and
thus increase the cost of the Clean Air Act to as much as $40
billion per year, or about $400 per household.
   Sadly, not one penny of this new gas tax would go to build
better highways or repair collapsing bridges. On the
contrary: The Highway Trust Fund would lose more than $1
billion a year because ethanol is exempted from the federal
gas tax -- on the quaint theory that if your car burns
ethanol it won't wear out the interstate highway system.
Ethanol, of course, is too expensive to compete with
gasoline, and therefore has to be subsidized in this sneaky,
roundabout way.
   But that's not all. While ethanol produces less carbon
monoxide, it will raise smog-forming emissions. If the
Daschle-Dole amendment survives the House (where it was
introduced by New Mexico Democrat Bill Richardson), it will
also raise the price of corn and of meat, for sure, and
deliver a double-whammy to America's poor.
   Of course, what really matters is what comes out at the
end of the tailpipe. There must be a better way than to
regulate the fuel -- and there is. It's called a pollution
fee, and it's set by the amount of emission from each
individual car. Thanks to new optical technology this can now
be done by remote sensing; as each car goes by the checking
device, a reading is taken, the license number is recorded,
and the fee is calculated and billed.
   With the scheme automated, the fee can be varied to
achieve the desired policy goal, including congestion
control. Each community or region is free to decide on the
best fee schedule. For example, the fee can be raised during
rush hours in urban areas that have smog problems and lowered
at night or even during days when meteorological conditions
would dissipate pollutants. By reducing the fee to zero in
rural areas we can effectively encourage a transfer of the
oldest, heavily polluting cars -- perhaps to Sen. Daschle's
home state -- and thus improve urban air quality without
wasting any resources.
   For a pollution fee, unlike a new motor fuel, doesn't
present a real cost to society. It is instead a transfer of
money that requires no expenditure of physical resources. It
goes without saying that pollution fees can then fund local
transportation infrastructure, now being paid for with other
tax dollars or with bonds.
   Another mistaken policy idea is that super-efficient cars
necessarily save energy. CAFE (corporate average fuel
efficiency) standards were originally introduced as a
conservation measure following the 1973 oil panic. The
current standard of 27.5 miles per gallon for the passenger
automobile fleet is well above the efficiencies of 20 years
ago. But the fat has been cut out, and further improvements
are likely to be very costly. Aerodynamics and lightweight
materials may be at their limits; further downsizing doesn't
jibe with what consumers demand, and will further decrease
safety, increasing injuries and deaths in collisions.
   Increasing CAFE is likely to be counterproductive also for
two reasons:
   -- Raising the capital cost of new cars will induce
drivers to hold on to their old, less efficient, more
polluting cars.
   -- Lowering the incremental cost of driving the additional
mile will induce more driving, less car-pooling, less use of
mass transit, and, of course, more congestion.
   To cut down vehicle-miles traveled (VMTs) requires more
than just CAFE. It would take a stiff gasoline tax to
overcome the reduced cost of driving additional miles in a
higher-efficiency car. Fewer VMTs mean less oil use, less
pollution, and, of course, less congestion -- which in turn
reduces pollution and oil use even further.
   A motor-fuel fee is not as flexible as road tolls in
reducing congestion, but it is a lot easier to collect. It
can best be levied at the state and local levels and act as a
user fee to finance the construction and upkeep of state and
local roads now paid for by other state and local taxes.
Contrary to accepted wisdom, a gasoline tax has been shown
not to be regressive -- unlike the costs that are imposed on
low-income consumers by the Clean Air Act. But politicians
don't want to take the heat and much prefer to put the monkey
on Detroit's back -- even if such a policy is ineffective and
costly. Tens of billions of dollars per year will go down the
drain, or up in smoke -- take your choice of metaphor.
   Granted that the ideal way to control congestion (and
thereby reduce pollution and oil use) is through the use of
highway tolls. Here, too, technology is advancing. Automated
toll booths that recognize cars as they whiz by, and bill
them automatically, are already operating on an experimental
basis in several states. But there are less high-tech methods
that seem to work well in other congested places, such as
Singapore.
   To further control congestion -- hand in hand with road
tolls -- requires realistic fees for the use of curb space in
city streets. Parking charges that are commensurate with
commercial parking, and can be varied with time of day, would
avoid the traffic problem created when people circle the
block time after time looking for an empty 25-cent parking
spot.
   It's hard to overstate the importance of reducing traffic
congestion, which is estimated to cause economic losses to
the nation of $50 billion to $100 billion per year. But
instead of using essentially cost-free policies that don't
use up scarce resources -- like congestion tolls and
pollution fees -- we seem to be stuck with blunt and costly
instruments that are not likely to be effective in doing what
they are supposed to do -- like the new Clean Air Act and
CAFE.
   So to all those cheering for the Clean Air Act and higher
CAFE standards I can only say: Great] They'll raise the cost
of gasoline, cars, electricity and food. And some 200,000
people will be thrown out of work -- coal miners, auto
workers, and employees in small businesses that cannot cope
with the regulations. (Democratic Sen. Alan Dixon of Illinois
even quotes a figure of 3.7 million "at risk.") But never
mind] We'll get federal money to retrain these people. The
country will surely need more lawyers and lots of
environmental consultants who can figure out what the Clean
Air regulations mean.
   For the sake of our politicians, let's just hope that
people won't notice when prices go up and living standards go
down. At least they won't know which party to blame. After
all, the Clean Air Act was crafted in a bipartisan
compromise.
   ---
   Mr. Singer, professor of environmental sciences at the
University of Virginia, served in the EPA, as adviser to the
Energy Department, and as chief scientist of the
Transportation Department.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Striking Greyhound Union Makes Offer
   To Return in Move Tied to Back-Pay Bid
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In a maneuver that further clouds the future of
troubled Greyhound Lines Inc., the union representing
striking Greyhound employees has made an unconditional offer
to return to work.
   But instead of being an earnest effort to end the
often-violent walkout that began March 2, Amalgamated Transit
Union officials acknowledged that the action was a legal
tactic aimed at setting the stage for a potentially huge
back-pay claim against the struggling unit of GLI Holding Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer, made in a letter to the company, comes one week
after the National Labor Relations Board issued a complaint
alleging that Greyhound had engaged in an unfair labor
practice in contract negotiations with the ATU.
   Greyhound has promised to fight that complaint through the
federal courts if necessary, but if unfair bargaining
practices and not economic issues are ultimately found to
have caused the strike, the company could be forced to rehire
striking drivers and pay them for time lost during the
strike.
   "In order to start the clock on back pay running, we have
to make an unconditional offer to return to work," said Earle
Putnam, ATU general counsel. "That is what the (union) has
done."
   "They have done what was smart and that's a first," said
P. Anthony Lannie, Greyhound executive vice president and
chief labor negotiator. He estimated the company's back pay
liability at about $13.6 million a month.
   Mr. Lannie said Greyhound would offer its remaining job
openings to striking union members under the terms of a May 5
contract offer rejected by the union. "But the bottom line is
that we just don't have many vacancies left," he said.
   Since the strike by 9,400 ATU members began, Greyhound has
struggled to operate a slightly smaller regular-route system
with a work force that now includes 598 union drivers who
crossed picket lines and 3,177 newly hired replacement
drivers.
   Although Greyhound could need as many as 500 additional
drivers in the event of a busy summer travel season, company
spokesman George Gravley said Greyhound has openings for only
108 full-time drivers now, and 98 of those positions are part
of a local transit contract that expires July 1.
   The union's offer comes a day after Greyhound said it
would offer to redeem about $191 million in face amount of
debt for about $86 million. Some bond analysts said the
union's move could make it more difficult for debt-burdened
Greyhound, which has already suffered huge losses from the
strike, to finance the tender offer.
   "It does have a negative impact on the company's ability
to raise the financing," said Leigh Walzer, a bond analyst
with R.D. Smith &amp; Co. "Now, anyone who would put the new
money into Greyhound, aside from the other economic risks
they face, has to worry about a back-pay claim that the union
could win down the road."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasury Bond Prices Rise as Foreign Investors,
   From Mideast and Japan, Stage a Buying Spree
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Stuart Drown
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR CMDA MCAWA CANDA CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Foreign investors flush with cash went on a
bond buying spree yesterday, pushing bond prices higher in
moderate trading activity.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose 3/4 point
yesterday, a gain of $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction from its price, eased to 8.61% from 8.68% on
Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders said the market started to climb early in the
morning as Arab and Japanese investors used proceeds from
some maturing Japanese government bonds to buy U.S. Treasury
securities.
   Raymond Stone, a managing director at Stone &amp; McCarthy
Research Associates, estimates that $22 billion of Japanese
securities matured yesterday, providing fixed-income
investors with a huge amount of cash to re-invest.
   Bonds were also supported by a story in yesterday's
Chicago Tribune, which suggested that the federal budget
deficit was smaller than official forecasts. Such news can
boost bond prices because investors reason that a smaller
deficit would reduce the government's borrowing needs and
would eventually lead to lower interest rates.
   The story, which traders eventually discounted and
economists discredited, said that 13 federal agencies had
accumulated $50 billion in unspent appropriations. By
afternoon, analysts had concluded that the $50 billion did
not represent cash that could be applied to the government's
deficit.
   Still, prices continued to climb due mainly to
short-covering by dealers. Traders said the short-covering
occurred as bond futures on the Chicago Board of Trade moved
through technical resistance levels. In a short sale, dealers
and professional traders sell borrowed securities and later
seek to make a profit by replacing what was borrowed with
cheaper securities. Essentially, these dealers are betting
that prices will fall. But when prices rise instead, many
dealers rush to cover the short before prices move any
higher.
   Bond dealers said that yesterday's trading activity could
cast a positive light over the Treasury's notes sales, which
are scheduled to take place this week. The Treasury will sell
two-year notes today and five-year notes on Thursday.
   In when-issued trading, the two-year Treasury notes were
quoted to yield 8.55%, compared with 8.61% on Monday. The
five-year notes set for sale Thursday were quoted to yield
8.59% compared with 8.68% late Monday.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Continued buying interest by retail investors helped
sustain momentum in the junk-bond market, forcing prices of
speculative-grade issues higher once again.
   Most junk bonds, or high-risk corporate bonds that have
low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, gained 1/4 to
1/2 point.
   Pay-in-kind bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. continued to
outshine the broader high-yield market, recording gains of as
much as 7/8 point. Pay-in-kind bonds, which are extremely
volatile, pay interest in the form of more securities instead
of cash.
   Market participants say the bullish sentiment, which first
hit the market's top-tier issues, is rapidly spreading to the
middle-tier and lower-tier names, which also registered
impressive gains this session.
   Among the leading winners were junk bonds of Charter
Medical Inc. and McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. Charter
Medical's 14% senior subordinated debentures due in 2000,
chalked up one point to finish at 52 1/2 while McCaw
Cellular's 12.95% senior subordinated debentures, due in
1999, surged two points to end at 80 1/2.
   Joseph Bencivenga, director and manager of high-yield
research at Salomon Brothers Inc., said that since
"high-quality, high-grade names do not have the upside
potential of the other two tiers of the market," many
investors are focusing less on these names and concentrating
more on the middle-tier and lower-tier junk bond issues.
   "The bottom two tiers -- that's where the real value
lies," he said.
   High-yield analysts said the junk bond market's recent
rise has been fueled by the relative scarcity of new issues
in which investors can reinvest cash interest income.
   According to Robert Long, managing director and head of
high-yield research at First Boston Corp., about $6.5 billion
of cash interest income was generated from outstanding junk
bond issues during the first quarter.
   In the absence of a heavy new-issue calendar, most of
these funds will have to be reinvested in the secondary
market.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Canadian bond prices plunged as investors reacted to
uncertainty over the outcome of the country's constitutional
debate.
   Reports that a key minister in the Canadian government,
Lucien Bouchard, would resign from the Progressive
Conservative Party triggered the rout.
   In a letter to Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Mr. Bouchard
said he was strongly opposed to any change to the proposed
Meech Lake constitutional accord, which recognizes Quebec as
a "distinct society" within Canada.
   The announcement follows the resignations of two other
Conservative Members of Parliament from Quebec.
   Investors are concerned that if the accord fails to pass
by the June 23 deadline, Quebec will begin serious talk of
separating from the rest of Canada. Quebec independance would
create a large gray area about currency value, debt and
stability, analysts said.
   Canadian bond prices sank as much as 2 3/8 points by
midafternoon. The market recovered slightly and the Canadian
20-year bellwether bond closed about 2 points lower at 89.00
to yield 10.82%.
   Dan Gosselin, chief bond trader at Wood Gundy Inc., said
selling pressure was broadly based, but trading activity was
thin. The thin market conditions, he said, exaggerated the
decline. He calls the drop "significant" and said a decline
of this size hasn't occurred in "recent memory. I can't
recall a day being this bad."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 101 15/32,
up from 100 20/32 on Monday. Ten-year notes ended at 101
15/32 to yield 8.63% compared with 100 27/32 to yield 8.73%.
   Short-term rates were little changed yesterday. The
discount rate on three-month Treasury bills ended unchanged
from Monday's average auction of 7.74% for a bond-equivalent
yield of 7.98%. The rate on six-month bills was slightly
lower when compared to Monday's average auction. The rate
ended yesterday at 7.76% for a bond-equivalent yield of
8.17%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-backed securities ended as much as 3/8 point
firmer, reflecting Treasury gains.
   Spreads widened slightly from late Monday, with Government
National Mortgage Association 9% bonds for June delivery now
yielding 1.13 percentage point more than 10-year Treasurys,
compared with a spread of 1.11 percentage point late Monday.
   Ginnie Mae 9% issues for June delivery were last quoted at
95 19/32, up 3/8 point, to yield 9.78%.
   Two new issues priced this session are said to have been
well bid.
   In the mortgage-derivative market, Fannie Mae issued a
$300 million real estate mortgage investment conduit offering
backed by its 8.5% bonds via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   In the asset-backed arena, Citicorp's $1.41 billion issue
of global credit card-backed bonds priced in the morning was
all sold soon after its launch.
   More than $625 million of securities were sold to non-U.S.
buyers.
   Citicorp has made other credit-card issues to
international buyers, but those deals didn't allow
settlements in different markets. This issue was the first
that could be settled through the U.S. Depository Trust and
both Eurobond clearing agents, Euroclear and Cedel.
   The issue was lead-managed by Salomon Brothers
International, and consisted of $1.25 billion of Tranche A
bonds carrying a 9 3/8% coupon that were priced to yield 0.80
percentage point over five-year Treasury notes. A much
smaller Tranche B, $155 million of 9 5/8% bonds, yielded one
percentage point over the five-year Treasury.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Most investment-grade corporate bonds ended between 1/4
point and 1/2 point higher yesterday.
   The major news in the market yesterday was that Moody's
Investors Service Inc. reduced Citicorp's senior-debt rating
to single-A-3 from single-A-1 and its commercial-paper rating
to Prime-2 from Prime-1.
   Moody's cited Citicorp's comparatively low reserve and
capital levels and rising number of problem loans.
   Analysts say the Moody's downgrade, which came late
yesterday, may have only a modest impact on the bonds during
trading today. Some expect spreads on Citicorp debt to widen
by about 0.1 percentage point.
   "I think the {market's} expectation was probably {a
downgrade} of one notch with some chance of two," said Jay
Weintraub, a director in the corporate bond research
department at Salomon Brothers Inc. "This represents the
downside but was not totally unexpected."
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   Tax-exempt issues were up 1/8 to 3/8 point in quiet, late
dealings, as they underperformed U.S. Treasurys.
   While an early report of $50 billion in surplus U.S.
government funds was later discounted, Treasurys continued to
exhibit strength, which helped to pull municipals higher,
traders said.
   However, with more than $1 billion in new issues priced,
activity during the session focused on the new issue market,
traders said.
   In one of the largest deals of the session, a Bear Stearns
&amp; Co. group set the preliminary pricing for an issue of $250
million of Connecticut special-tax, general-obligation,
transportation-infrastructure bonds, to yield from 6.10% in
1992 to 7.23% in 2007.
   The bonds are rated single-A-1 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and double-A-minus by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
and Fitch Investors Service Inc.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was up 3/8 point at 97 7/8 to
yield 7.37%.
   No large competitive deals are expected to be priced
today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Orphan Drug Act Needs Discipline
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<CO>
   AMGN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   As the principal sponsor of the Orphan Drug Act of 1983, I
was surprised to read your claims that recent legislation I
introduced would "repeal the law's only reason for being, to
encourage development of drugs for rare diseases" ("Waxman
Threatens Orphans," Review &amp; Outlook, May 8). Since 1983, the
law has worked very well in encouraging investment in drugs
for rare diseases -- those affecting fewer than 200,000
people. Today, 45 orphan drugs have been approved by the Food
and Drug Administration, and human trials are under way on an
additional 133.
   The theory of the act is that certain diseases have
populations so small the usual market incentives are not
enough to stimulate investment. The act provides grants, tax
credits and seven years of market exclusivity to any company
willing to make the investment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In most cases, companies investing in orphan drugs have
made at most a modest profit. In those instances, the act has
worked as intended. But at hearings held by our subcommittee,
witnesses identified two serious problems.
   First, under the act, the determination as to whether a
disease is rare is made close to the time that research is
begun, rather than when the drug is placed on the market. In
the case of AIDS, which has a rapidly growing population,
drug companies have known for years that the population is
likely to exceed the 200,000 level in the near future. No one
can claim AIDS is an orphan disease for which we need to give
incentives to invest in this research. Therefore, we should
allow the FDA to look to the future in deciding whether the
200,000 threshold has been surpassed, for AIDS or any similar
disease. An amendment to do this should bring down the price
of certain AIDS drugs.
   The second problem is trickier. In three instances, the
profit potential was so clear from the beginning that two or
more companies were eager to invest. In one case, sales will
reach $200 million in 1991, virtually all underwritten by the
federal government, and the other two products have
comparably large markets. These figures translate to very
high prices to patients.
   If our only goal were research, then we would not be
concerned about the fact that the Orphan Drug Act creates a
seven-year monopoly for these blockbuster products. But we
also must be concerned about drug prices. The societal value
of innovative drugs is diminished drastically when they cost
more than most people can pay. Patent laws are in place to
protect drug innovators; a law for rare diseases should not
be distorted to give companies a windfall at the expense of
patients.
   The act should continue to apply with full force to the
orphan drugs that have only one sponsor. It would continue to
stimulate research on drugs for rare diseases. But where a
drug's profit potential is so great that it has many parents
competing to invest in its future, it is no orphan and should
not have protection against price competition.
   Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D., Calif.)
   Washington
   ---
   In a strained effort to deify profit you performed a grave
disservice to millions of sufferers from rare diseases. You
stated that the organization I represent, the National
Organization for Rare Disorders, is "delighted with the law
as it is." This implies we oppose the Waxman amendment, but
this is incorrect. Our directors and voluntary health agency
members voted unanimously to support the amendment.
   You ignored the fact that while certain drug firms have
made a rich profit as a result of the law, some of that
profit has been at the expense of victims of certain rare
diseases who are forced to pay up to $30,000 a year for the
drugs.
   The intent of the law is to give incentives to companies
to develop "drugs of little commercial value" for small
populations of sufferers who might otherwise be ignored. In
the main, it has worked very well. But in some cases, four or
more companies simultaneously developed the same drug (hardly
indicating a lack of commercial motivation), and the first to
push its application across the FDA finish line has been
granted a monopoly while patients have had to pay
monopolistic prices.
   The Waxman amendment would close such unintended loopholes
while preserving all major incentives and thus would make a
very good law even better.
   Abbey S. Meyers
   Executive Director
   National Organization for Rare Disorders
   New Fairfield, Conn.
   ---
   You imply that research incentives are threatened by Rep.
Waxman's proposal to permit shared exclusivity where more
than one company has simultaneously developed an orphan
product. It is our belief at Memorial Sloan-Kettering that
the incentive to undertake research projects is much more
threatened by the prospect of being absolutely foreclosed
from the market simply because another company obtains first
approval from the FDA, possibly for reasons unrelated to the
quality of either the product or the supporting data.
   In the case of aerosol pentamidine, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering researchers were the first to explore its use
as a prophylaxis for AIDS-related pneumonia and were ahead of
the competition at virtually every juncture. However, the
FDA, employing a standard far less stringent than that which
was required relative to Memorial's application, approved the
competitor's application first. As a result, under the
current terms of the Orphan Drug Act, the competitor has been
allowed seven years' exclusivity through 1996.
   The net effect of the FDA's approving orphan-drug status
to the competitor is that AIDS patients who are at high risk
for pneumonia and the American public will now bear an
unnecessary increased cost for the drug and its delivery
system.
   In these times of constricting research resources, many
institutions like Memorial Sloan-Kettering will certainly
give serious consideration to limiting institutional
resources for the support of research programs where the
likelihood of transfer of research results to patent
application is likely to be limited because of uncertainties
of the application of the law.
   The Orphan Drug Act can be improved greatly by correcting
its few shortcomings. The Waxman amendment goes a great
distance in addressing these.
   James S. Quirk
   Senior Vice President
   Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
   New York
   ---
   You were right on target. We are dismayed that Congress
would consider breaking its covenant with pharmaceutical
pioneers such as AMGEN, which did the crucial research to
create orphan drugs that now provide hope to thousands
suffering from rare diseases.
   As you pointed out, debate now centers on the fact that
AMGEN and other companies are supposedly reaping undeserved
"profits" under the marketing-exclusivity provisions of the
Orphan Drug Act. Let me clarify AMGEN's situation.
   AMGEN spent eight years and more than $100 million to
develop the genetically engineered drug Epogen (Epoetin alfa)
to treat anemia in kidney-dialysis patients. Epogen is the
only drug currently available to treat this type of anemia
and is also AMGEN'S only product on the market. Yet for the
first time this quarter, AMGEN will recover the remainder of
its prior losses and realize a profit, despite the enormous
investment of private capital and scientific effort we
devoted to developing Epogen. The expectation of orphan-drug
exclusivity was critical to our ability to attract the kind
of investment needed to pursue this breakthrough therapy, and
our investors should be allowed to receive a reasonable
return.
   Finally, to argue that the Orphan Drug Act automatically
creates monopolies is not accurate. The exclusivity provision
granted any one company applies only to its use to treat a
specific condition and not to the drug itself. For example,
while AMGEN has an exclusive FDA orphan-drug license for the
use of Epogen for treating chronic renal failure anemia, our
competitors could obtain FDA licenses for the use of Epogen
on patients with cancer, AIDS or rheumatoid arthritis.
   The existing orphan-drug law encourages pioneers such as
AMGEN to develop drugs for rare diseases and discourages
copycat development of the same drug for the same rare
diseases. Rep. Waxman's bill would reverse these incentives,
encouraging copycat companies and discouraging pioneers.
Which is in the best interest of patients?
   Gordon M. Binder
   Chief Executive Officer
   AMGEN
   Thousand Oaks, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deere's Net Rose
   In Its Second Quarter
   On 11% Sales Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   DE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOLINE, Ill. -- Deere &amp; Co. said that strong North
American retail sales contributed to a 10% increase in net
income for the second quarter ended April 30.
   The maker of farm and industrial equipment said net was
$144 million, or $1.90 a share, compared with the
year-earlier $130.5 million, or $1.74 per share. Sales rose
11% to $2.12 billion from $1.91 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six-month period ended April 30, Deere's earnings
rose 24% to $222.5 million, or $2.94 a share, from $178.9
million, or $2.39 a share in the year-ago period. Sales
during the six-month period increased 14% to $3.76 billion
from $3.29 billion.
   Deere attributed its second-quarter and year-to-date
improvements to increased sales, higher production volumes
and improved operating efficiency in the company's North
American operations. The company also noted that the
six-month results last year were adversely affected by the
manufacturing start-up costs of new combines and large
tractors.
   "North American agricultural conditions continue to be
favorable, and our outlook for retail sales of John Deere
agricultural equipment remains positive," the company said.
   The company said that improved moisture conditions should
stimulate demand for lawn and grounds-care equipment. Outside
the U.S. and Canada, the company said, retail sales of John
Deere farm equipment are expected to be "modestly" higher
this year.
   Due to increased interest rates and slower construction
activity, particularly in the eastern United States and
Canada, the company said the outlook for North American
retail sales of John Deere industrial equipment has become
"cautious."
   The company said its "overall outlook" for the remainder
of the year looks positive, but inflation and price
competition demands cost-control efforts and improved
operating efficiency.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   3Com Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   COMS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   3COM Corp. (Santa Clara, Calif.) -- Bob Metcalfe,
44-year-old founder and former chairman of this computer
networking systems company, will retire from the board and
his latest position as marketing vice president to become a
consultant to the company, effective next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   T-Bond Futures Trading Ignites
   As Investors Look for Safe Bets
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Economic uncertainty and surging Japanese
interest in U.S. futures markets are igniting trading in
Treasury-bond futures.
   Volume in T-bond futures has jumped more than 21% this
year at the Chicago Board of Trade as investors, daunted by
stock-market volatility and market jitters overseas, look for
safer bets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "When you have an economy that's risk-ridden, there's a
genuine flight to quality," says Jeffrey Priest, who heads
fixed-income trading for Miller, Tabak, Hirsch &amp; Co. in New
York.
   An average of 331,109 contracts a day are being traded in
the Board of Trade's T-bond pit, compared with a daily
average of 275,250 contracts during the first four months of
last year. A contract is for future delivery of a $100,000
face value Treasury bond. In practice, futures traders rarely
take delivery of Treasury bonds, and most trades are canceled
by making an offsetting trade. In all, 27.4 million contracts
have been traded for the period, compared with 22.5 million
contracts a year earlier.
   Some institutional investors, worried that the economy
isn't strong enough to sustain the stock market's record
highs, are opting for bonds instead. Treasury-bond futures --
the most popular futures contracts -- are widely used to
offset the risk of bond holdings.
   The strategy, known as hedging, works like this: An
investor who buys Treasury bonds risks losing money if
interest rates rise and the price of bonds falls. To reduce
the risk, the investor can sell bond futures on the CBOT,
essentially betting that rates will rise.
   The investor sells T-bond futures contracts for the
prevailing price on the day of the sale. If bond prices later
decline, the price of bond futures also drops, enabling the
investor to buy back the futures for less. If bond prices
rise, the investor loses some money on the futures, but makes
more money on the bonds.
   The economic factors prompting big investors to step up
T-bond futures trading coincide, analysts say, with the
discovery of U.S. futures and options markets by foreign
investors, particularly cash-rich Japanese.
   Japanese securities firms, which bought memberships on the
CBOT about two years ago, are beginning to establish
themselves there. With growing success, they have been
recommending futures to their institutional clients in Tokyo.
"Our clients' use of financial futures has increased very
sharply, especially in T-bonds," says Masumi Yamaguchi,
executive vice president of Nikko Securities Co.
International in Chicago.
   The dollar's recent declines against the yen make U.S.
bond futures a good buy for Japanese investors. And the
easing of restrictions on Japan's financial markets over the
past few years has stimulated Japanese interest in foreign
futures and options markets, including those in Chicago.
   The presence of large investors, both Japanese and
American, is having a dynamic effect on the CBOT's T-bond
pit, an already frenzied throng of 500 screaming traders in
brightly colored jackets.
   New money in the pit creates price volatility, and rapidly
changing prices mean opportunity for a quick profit in T-bond
futures. Traders on the top rows of the octagonal pit set the
pace, buying and selling large blocks of contracts for their
employers and large securities firms. Bottom-row "locals,"
trading for their own accounts, jostle for a piece of the
action. More and more speculators, enticed by the activity,
pour money into the pit.
   For instance, on May 11 -- the day after the U.S. Treasury
completed its quarterly refunding of $30.5 billion in bonds
and notes -- a burst of trading hit the pit. The price of
T-bond futures, which normally fluctuates by only a few
hundred dollars a contract per day, rose $1,562.50 a
contract. More than 546,000 T-bond contracts changed hands
then, the second most active trading day in CBOT history.
   "The overriding fear from the beginning of the year has
been that we were going into a recession," says Karen Gibbs,
an analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago. "That
meant a lot of people turned to bonds," she says. Interest
rates usually fall in a recession, and bond prices rise.
   Early this year, economic worries overseas -- particularly
in West Germany and Japan -- made U.S. bonds and bond futures
attractive to foreign investors. Now foreign bonds are
rallying world-wide, but some analysts expect interest in
U.S. T-bond futures to remain strong. They cite fears that
German reunification will spawn inflation there and doubts
that Japanese bond prices have truly stabilized.
   And while U.S. inflationary fears have eased and the stock
market has surged, many investors still remain leery of
stocks. "Even as we were having this rally, there was a
shipment of speculative funds from the equity market into the
fixed-income market," and investors looked to hedge their
bonds with futures, says Samuel D. Kahan, senior vice
president and chief economist for Fuji Securities, Inc. in
Chicago.
   The futures markets are drawing big investors who
previously might have shunned them, such as pension funds and
large companies. In growing numbers, financial advisers are
encouraging clients to trade T-bond futures, either as a
hedge or to control a large number of Treasury bonds for less
money than an outright purchase.
   Pacific Investment Management Co., Newport Beach, Calif.,
a major bond manager, favors portfolios that include bond
futures. And Pacific Investment officials say they have
converted some of the firm's larger clients, such as Digital
Equipment Corp. and Kroger Co., to their thinking.
   "We use {futures} on their own merits, because we find
that it's cheaper to buy whatever we're buying through the
futures markets," says Dean Meiling, a Pacific managing
director. "We also use them as a risk-management tool."
   Miller Tabak's Mr. Priest tells of a client, a manager of
school trusts, who recently was converted to trading T-bond
futures. "He didn't want anything that looked like a
commodity, and T-bond futures don't," Mr. Priest says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   J. &amp; W. Seligman &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   J. &amp; W. SELIGMAN &amp; Co. (New York) -- Arturo E.
Brillembourg, 43 years old, previously president and chief
executive officer of Farmington Asset Management Ltd., a
Chevy Chase, Md., money management firm, was named senior
vice president, global fixed-income markets, a new position
at this financial services and money management concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC Cable Channel to Offer Incentives
   To Operators to Get Them to Carry It
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CVC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- National Broadcasting Co.'s Consumer News and
Business Channel, struggling to gain acceptance in an
overcrowded field of programming choices, will begin offering
cable operators a cash incentive to carry its service.
   At the National Cable Television Association conference
here, CNBC said it will pay $3 a subscriber to cable
operators who commit 75% of their subscriber base to carry
the 24-hour channel by July 1, 1991. The deal is being
offered until August 15.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CNBC's unusual move comes as the overpopulated cable field
is becoming even more cramped. A number of other new "basic
services," which are offered as part of the standard
programming package on a cable subscriber's bill, are vying
here for the attention of cable operators.
   Although the newcomers are optimistic about the chances
for acceptance, there's a shortage of channel capacity in the
cable industry at present, and some cable operators are
putting expansion plans on hold until the industry has a
better idea of what new regulations Congress may slap on the
industry. Even the industry's most powerful players are
having a tough time: Time Warner Inc.'s Comedy Channel and
Viacom Inc.'s Ha] Channel are discussing a merger because of
the difficulty in selling cable operators on the idea of two
comedy networks.
   Among the new channels being hawked at the cable
convention are the Career Television Network, or CTVN, which
will program tips on how to find jobs; the Cowboy Channel,
which boasts singer Willie Nelson as its chairman; and the
Golden American Network, which is targeted at older viewers
and plans shows such as "Satellite Bingo" and a "Dating Game"
for people over 50 years old.
   There is also a "How-To" channel, as well as "Sci-Fi,"
which hopes to get off the ground by year end. Add to that
two channels programming legal shows and headline grabbing
trials.
   Each programmer hopes to launch with at least five million
subscribers. That's a far cry from the most recent successful
launch, Turner Network Television, from Turner Broadcasting
System Inc. The 24-hour channel, which features films and
made-for-TV movies, began Oct. 3, 1988, with approximately 17
million subscribers and now boasts 45 million.
   Thomas Rogers, president of CNBC, said the service,
launched last August, has 16 million subscribers, a level
that he characterized as "way ahead of schedule." Mr. Rogers
said the payment to cable operators, which he labeled as a
"marketing incentive plan," was being done to "accelerate
distribution." NBC's partner in CNBC is Cablevision Systems
Corp., an owner of cable systems and cable program networks.
NBC is a unit of General Electric Co.
   CNBC's primary competitor, Financial News Network, which
has been on the air since November 1981, has 33.5 million
subscibers, said Gil Faccio, FNN senior vice president of
affiliate relations. Mr. Faccio said the service has no plans
to pay cable operators for subscribers. "We believe our
product should be product-motivated, not financially
motivated," he said.
   While the major broadcast networks pay TV stations to be
affiliates and to carry network programs, it's usually the
cable operators who pay programming suppliers for the right
to carry a channel in the cable industry. Such payments are
determined by the number of subscribers a cable system has.
Only rarely has a cable channel paid cable operators for
space on their system.
   For example, American Broadcasting Co., prior to its
acquisition by Capital Cities Communications Inc., and
Westinghouse Electric Co.'s Group W unit paid cable operators
six years ago to carry Satellite News Channel, an attempt to
compete in the all-news arena with Turner's Cable News
Network. The Satellite News Channel was unable to compete
effectively with CNN, which eventually bought it out and
folded it.
   Mr. Rogers dismissed the charge that CNBC was desperate to
sign on cable operators. "This shows the confidence our
owners have in the service," he said, sitting in an elaborate
CNBC booth on the convention floor. "This shows we're here to
stay."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Express
   Stock Plunges
   On Growth Data
   ---
   Lower April Volume Hurts
   Chances for Turnaround;
   Earnings Estimates Cut
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   FDX ABF
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   A sharp and unexpected drop in Federal Express Corp.'s
shipment growth in April sent the company's stock tumbling
almost 10% as investors lost patience with the struggling
air-express carrier.
   Though Federal Express has posted year-to-year earnings
declines in each of the past five quarters, industry analysts
-- encouraged by recent statements by the Memphis,
Tenn.-based company -- had expected a solid turnaround in the
fourth quarter ending May 31. Since December, investors have
bid up the price of the company's shares about 25%, to the
mid-$50 range, despite disappointing operating results.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late Monday, however, after the markets closed, Federal
Express disclosed more bad news that seemed to crush hopes
for an early turnaround: The company said shipment volume of
express packages and documents rose just 10.1% in April from
a year earlier, a steep dropoff from volume growth of 16% to
20% in previous quarters.
   Because of the low volume of shipments, a company
spokesman said, Federal Express is now "pessimistic" that it
can match or exceed year-ago net income of $41 million, or 78
cents a share.
   In heavy New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
Federal Express tumbled $5.125 to $47.
   "There's great conceptuals here -- there's great long-term
potential -- but there has to come a time when you start
seeing some results," said Kevin Murphy, an analyst with
Morgan Stanley. Mr. Murphy was one of the industry analysts
who had been touting Federal Express's stock loudest before
yesterday, when he lowered his fourth-quarter earnings
estimate for the company about 34%, to 65 cents a share from
98 cents a share.
   "The script has changed," he said.
   The Federal Express spokesman attributed April's
lower-than-expected volume growth to a price increase April
1. Federal Express's average daily volume of express packages
and documents increased in April to 1.3 million from 1.2
million a year earlier.
   The spokesman also said Federal Express's heavyweight
cargo -- the business it entered upon acquiring Tiger
International Corp. last year -- dropped to an average daily
volume of 2.8 million pounds in April from 3.3 million pounds
a day in March. He cited weaker-than-expected exports from
Asia, particularly textiles and toys.
   Analysts said Federal Express's lackluster shipment growth
in the express-package market indicates that rival Airborne
Freight Corp. may be winning business away from the
much-larger Federal Express. Airborne has been targeting
large-volume express customers with lowball prices, according
to James Parker, an analyst with Robinson Humphrey Co. in
Atlanta, a strategy that has proven particularly successful
in the wake of Federal's price increases, he said. Airborne's
volume grew 35% in April, Mr. Parker estimates.
   "What really scares everyone is the possibility that
Federal's business will remain soft and Airborne's will
remain strong, prompting Federal to become very aggressive on
pricing and start another price war," said Mr. Parker. "A
price war could negate major earnings improvements" across
the industry for several more quarters.
   Mr. Parker slashed his projections of Federal Express's
fourth-quarter earnings to 62 cents a share from 92 cents a
share. He also revised his profit expectations for Federal
for fiscal 1991 to $3 a share from $4 a share.
   "This was the quarter when they were supposed to begin
putting it all together," said Paul Schlesinger, an analyst
with Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., who cut
his fourth-quarter profit projections for Federal Express to
60 cents a share from 78 cents a share. "I'm not at all
confident that they can even make 60 cents a share," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   This May Really Be the One That
   Ain't Over Till the Fat Lady Sings
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   "Think Sphinx," shout giant signs on New York buses. And
people in Egyptian garb hand out leaflets at Long Island and
New Jersey shopping malls.
   It's part of the hype for Giuseppe Raffa's production of
Verdi's "Aida," to be staged at Giants' Stadium in New Jersey
on June 1 and 2. Mr. Raffa says he wants to liberate opera
from "museums" and deliver it to "the people."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The wrong people, perhaps, say some huffy New York
aficionados.
   "I can't think of any singer I'd go to Giants' Stadium to
hear," says Jerry Patterson, a rare-book expert. "And I'm not
sure I want any of those people to start coming to the Met
{Metropolitan Opera}: What if they sit next to me and start
eating potato chips during `La Boheme?'"
   "The whole thing sounds sleazy," says Walter Price, a New
Yorker who writes about opera. "This is an opera about
intimate human emotions, not elephants."
   And the New York City Opera's latest brochure on 1990
season offerings, of which "Aida" isn't one, trumpets
emphatically on its front cover: "No Elephants."
   But Mr. Raffa says yes, elephants. His Giants' Stadium
cast of 1,200 people and 35 animals will also include camels,
tigers, lions, leopards, horses, doves and a python. Plus
dancers, flame throwers, fireeaters, jugglers and a
46-foot-tall Sphinx that splits in two and belches fire.
   An Italian-born, free-lance conductor based in Montreal,
Mr. Raffa has been trotting his eight-ton Sphinx around the
world since 1987, attracting illustrious, if slightly faded,
singers for the opera's leading roles. He says 750,000 people
have seen his stadium "Aida" in Toronto, Tokyo, Sidney and
other cities, and at least 80% of them had never seen an
opera before. While Mr. Raffa says the New York ticket sales
are strong, he just canceled two Los Angeles performances of
"Aida" because of disappointing sales. But he still plans to
stage the opera in San Francisco's Candlestick Park on July
14.
   The Giants' Stadium opera novices needn't panic about
studying the libretto beforehand: Two giant screens will
flash all the words, translated from the Italian. But it may
still be hard to persuade neophytes to buy stadium tickets
for between $35 and $75 (Met tickets can actually be had for
less -- $15 for the cheap seats).
   In any case, Mr. Raffa, who runs his International Opera
Festival for profit, plans to mount an international "Carmen"
next year -- with an electronic bull.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   El Paso Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ELPA
</CO>
<LP>
   EL PASO ELECTRIC Co. (El Paso, Texas) -- Curtis L.
Hoskins, formerly executive vice president, administration,
at the Utah Power &amp; Light Co. unit of PacifiCorp, was named
to chief operating officer and executive vice president, new
posts at this utility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sierra Pacific Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SRP
</CO>
<LP>
   SIERRA PACIFIC RESOURCES (Reno, Nev.) -- Austin W.
Stedham, 61-year-old president, was named to the additional
posts of chairman and chief executive officer of this energy
and utility concern, succeeding Joe L. Gremban, 70, who
retired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dresser Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DI HAL
</CO>
<LP>
   DRESSER INDUSTRIES Inc. (Dallas) -- James L. Bryan was
elected to the new post of vice president, operations, of
this energy services concern. Mr. Bryan was formerly
president of M-1 Drilling Fluids Co., a Houston-based joint
venture owned 64% by Dresser and 36% by Halliburton Co. of
Dallas. William A. Lakey, former president of Dresser's Swaco
Geolograph division, which is now part of M-1 Drilling,
succeeds Mr. Bryan as president of M-1 Drilling.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CL K.BOL GIS MOB
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Computer Keyboards:
   Which Type Is Right?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   INVENTORS of computer keyboards are departing from the
typewriter design, but acceptance is slow.
   Tony Hodges of Palo Alto, Calif., says several newspapers
as well as some of the regional Bell phone companies, at
their unions' urging, have expressed interest in his
keyboard, which splits in the middle and resembles an open
book face down. The adjustable "Tony" allows users to type
with palms facing each other, a position Mr. Hodges says
causes less strain than flat keyboards.
   Lawrence Langley of Christiansburg, Va., says his Vatell
Corp. has small contracts with the Navy and NASA to try his
"Ternary Chording Keyboard," which has only eight keys. Each
finger operates one key, and each key has three positions:
forward, back and neutral. By combining movements of left and
right fingers, the user can generate 64 characters. The keys
are angled to avoid wrist strain.
   Experts have their doubts. "The connection between injury
and the design of the keyboard is not well established," says
William Muto, human factors director at Texas Instruments.
Others warn of the expense of retraining typists.
   Concerned about retraining, Stuart and Barbara Herzog of
Tucson, Ariz., have put on hold a design that rearranges the
lefthand keys. Instead, they are trying a more modest
solution: plastic caps to fit over the D, K, 3, 5, and 8
keys. Each cap has a circle of bumps designed to make it
easier to keep fingers in the right position with less
strain.
   Meanwhile, Easy Office Products of Marblehead, Mass.,
offers a foam wedge that tips a keyboard toward the user to
relieve hand, neck and eye discomfort.
                                                                                                       

   Awarding Black Marks
   To Un-`Green' Packages
                                                                                                       

   MORE PACKAGES are blasted as wasteful, costly and bad for
the environment. Some manufacturers cry "uncle," others cry
foul.
   Colgate-Palmolive Co.'s Fab 1 Shot contains 16 single-use
packets of detergent placed in a segmented plastic tray,
covered with plastic and encased in a cardboard box. Rep.
Frank Pallone Jr. (D., N.J.) and three environmental groups
recently said this package creates "unnecessary plastic
waste."
   "We totally agree," a Colgate spokesman says, adding that
the company plans to bring out a new package that's 100%
recyclable cardboard and 60% smaller.
   Bang &amp; Olufsen AS encases a three-quarter-inch
record-player stylus in a 5 1/2-inch plastic cylinder wedged
by two pieces of plastic foam inside a foot-long cardboard
box. Rep. Pallone called this an "almost comical example of
excessive, wasteful packaging." Leif Lundin, president of the
Danish company's U.S. unit, says he probably will turn to a
"much smaller" package.
   General Mills Inc., on the other hand, is making no
apologies for Betty Crocker's MicroRave cake mix. Recyclers
with Connecticut's Capitol Region Council of Governments
complain that the package contains a plastic throwaway pan. A
company spokesman says the pan is reuseable, and General
Mills has removed the "not intended for reuse" label.
   The Washington Citizens for Recycling Foundation recently
awarded a "packaging booby prize" to the plastic egg that
encloses L'eggs panty hose. But Mary Gilbert, public
relations manager with L'eggs Products, says the company
won't give up the egg. "It's part of our total marketing
concept," she says.
                                                                                                       

   It's a Gas Station]
   No, It's a Seafood House]
                                                                                                       

   PUT A LOBSTER in your tank? Portland, Maine, holds a
competition to replace a prominently located, rundown Mobil
gas station.
   After the city rejected Mobil's standard design, a
revitalization group and station owner C.N. Brown Co. sought
other ideas for replacing the 40-year-old building.
Architects in 26 states submitted 160 entries. One first
prize went to William Collett of Cambridge, Mass., whose
design includes a large Pegasus (Mobil's trademark) and upper
roof elements that resemble dinosaurs and move in the wind.
   The other first prize went to Willis Pember and Andrew
Blanda of Philadelphia, who put four huge lobsters at various
heights on four oversized round canopies.
   Will any of the entries ever get built? Mobil spokesman
Thomas Collins says he sees "a certain charm to a lobster in
Maine" but adds that he's "not sure it's suitable to a Mobil
service station." Mr. Collins hastens to say that the
decision rests with the owner.
   Harold Jones, president of C.N. Brown, says his company
will "probably" use a half-dozen of the entries when it comes
time to rebuild some of the 100 gas stations it owns in New
England. The dinosaur design has possibilities, says Mr.
Jones. As for the lobsters, he says: "I don't know where I'd
go to get them made."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Conferees Vote $4 Billion Spending Bill;
   House Signals Delay on El Salvador Aid
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House-Senate conference approved a $4
billion fiscal 1990 spending bill that incorporates more than
$2 billion in cuts and transfers from military accounts to
help finance increased domestic appropriations and new aid to
Panama and Nicaragua.
   The action came as the House stepped back into the debate
on the long El Salvador war by signaling its support for the
withholding of substantial portions of U.S. military aid to
that country in an effort to spur both sides in the conflict
toward a settlement. The 250-163 roll call led Republicans
and the Bush administration to scuttle the underlying bill
244-171 minutes later, but behind the seesaw votes was a
clear coalition demanding conditions when fiscal 1991 aid is
debated this summer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last night's standoff only heightened the importance of
the appropriations bill reported from conference hours
before. With Congress scheduled to recess for the Memorial
Day holiday, it is the last remaining vehicle for releasing
the Panama and Nicaragua aid.
   The $720 million in assistance for the two Central
American governments remains a major priority for the
president, and the domestic portion of the bill has grown
steadily under pressure from lawmakers and behind-the-scenes
lobbying by executive agencies.
   More than $1.7 billion is provided to meet increased costs
for food stamps and veterans' programs, and current
appropriations for the Head Start preschool program for
low-income children would be raised 11%, or almost $166
million, in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   Southern and Western states hit by recent flooding would
share in an estimated $216 million in new disaster
assistance, and lawmakers devised their own list of dire
political emergencies to win funding for everything from
their election-year mail to a $185 million down payment on a
costly new federal crime facility in the home state of Senate
Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.).
   Amid the final bargaining yesterday, proponents of
high-definition television succeeded in lifting restrictions
on $20 million in prior appropriations for Pentagon-financed
research, while in the atmosphere of defense cuts, lawmakers
maneuvered to salvage funds for Southern ammunition plants
and a new environmental center for the military in
Pennsylvania.
   The domestic pressure bid up the cost of Pentagon cuts
required to stay within budget ceilings, and the
administration still faces a potentially explosive problem
because of an unresolved shortfall in military medical and
personnel accounts this year. House and Senate appropriators
had proposed shifting nearly $1.45 billion within Pentagon
accounts to address the problem, but House Armed Services
Committee Chairman Les Aspin balked yesterday at accepting
the list and demanded that more be taken first from strategic
programs.
   The debate is colored by the politics of the current
budget negotiations, and Mr. Aspin argues that White House
Budget Director Richard Darman contributed to the personnel
shortfall by failing to protect these accounts from
Gramm-Rudman cuts, known as sequestration, last fall.
   Modest transfers would be made from the Trident and MX
missile programs, but the Wisconsin Democrat argued that the
adjustments permit the administration to maneuver around the
very Gramm-Rudman mechanism it used against domestic programs
last year. "I want people to understand that sequestration
means pain," Mr. Aspin said.
   Until now the fight has been confined to angry letters and
maneuvering between the Pentagon and individual lawmakers,
but Mr. Aspin's objections could force the issue into the
open when the compromise bill is taken back to the House and
Senate for final action this week. President Bush has
demanded passage of the Panama and Nicaragua aid before the
Memorial Day recess begins this week, but the Senate Armed
Services Committee leadership served notice last night that
it was prepared to ask for deeper cuts to head off the crisis
in personnel accounts this summer.
   The $2.03 billion in reductions already incorporated in
the compromise bill are scattered among scores of Pentagon
and military construction accounts in an apparent effort to
minimize the policy impact of the budget exercise. Air Force
operations and maintenance faces a $380 million rescission,
and an estimated $258.6 million would be taken from a backlog
of Air Force procurement appropriations over recent years.
Among Navy accounts, $40.6 million would be cut from past
appropriations for procurement of the Tacit Rainbow missile
built by Northrop Corp., and Army research-and-development
accounts would be reduced by $82 million, including cuts from
armor and sensitive chemical-warfare programs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cabot Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CBT
</CO>
<LP>
   CABOT Corp. (Waltham, Mass.) -- Robert P. Henderson,
chairman of Greylock Management Corp., a venture capital
company in Boston, was named a director of this specialty
chemicals and energy concern, expanding the board to 16
members. The company also named Charles A. Gray, vice
president of technology and general manager of its carbon
black technology division, both new positions. Previously,
Mr. Gray was director of technology and chief technologist,
chemical products group of FMC Corp., a Chicago machinery and
chemicals concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Questech Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS QTEC
</CO>
<LP>
   QUESTECH Inc. (Falls Church, Va.) -- Bruce Sundlun, a
director of this professional-services firm since 1971 and a
former chairman of Outlet Communications Inc., was elected
chairman, succeeding John L. McLucas, who plans to pursue
other interests in space and aviation. Mr. Sundlun has been
in private investment banking since he retired from Outlet
Communications in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Travelers Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TIC
</CO>
<LP>
   TRAVELERS Corp. (Hartford, Conn.) -- Dr. David J.
Ottensmeyer, formerly executive vice president and chief
medical officer at Equicor Inc., Nashville, Tenn., was named
senior vice president and chief medical officer, new posts at
the managed-care and employee-benefits operations division of
this insurance, financial-services and investment company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of New England Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NEB
</CO>
<LP>
   BANK OF NEW ENGLAND Corp. (Boston) -- Larry W. Reed, 45
years old, a financial consultant and formerly senior vice
president at Columbia Savings &amp; Loan Association, Irvine,
Calif., was named president and chief executive officer of
BancNewEngland Mortgage Co., a Rhode Island-based subsidiary
of the company's affiliate bank unit, BNE-Old Colony. He
succeeds Joseph Whiteside, 48, who the company said "wants to
seek new challenges and opportunities," possibly within Bank
of New England.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Golden Valley Microwave Foods Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GVF
</CO>
<LP>
   GOLDEN VALLEY MICROWAVE FOODS Inc. (Minneapolis) -- Glen
E. Morin was named president and chief operating officer,
filling a post that has remained vacant since March, when
former President Robert A. Sander died of a heart attack. For
the past two years Mr. Morin, 63 years old, served as
chairman of the food company's audit committee. Prior to
assuming that position in 1988 he was Golden Valley's
executive vice president, finance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Is Higher Despite Profit-Taking;
   Technology Stocks Spur Upward Charge
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Undaunted by mid-day profit-taking, over-the-counter
stocks crept higher in the year's second busiest session.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 1 to 453.89, a 0.2% gain,
after slipping 0.50 in profit-taking earlier in the day.
Volume rose to 190.1 million shares from 169.6 million
Monday. Advancing shares again led declining stocks, 1,091 to
901, and issues hitting new highs continued to outnumber
those reaching new lows, 205 to 63.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Every time the market rests, it seems to come back," said
Peter Coolidge, senior trader at Kidder Peabody. The prospect
of stable or even lower interest rates remains "the
overriding factor" reassuring investors, he explained.
   As for OTC bargains, PaineWebber investment strategist
Mary Farrell said in an interview that she doesn't expect
small stocks to show a "terrific" performance
across-the-board. However, she cited evidence that companies
with a strong competitive position in specialty niches are
outperforming the OTC market and keeping up with the Dow's
blue chip stocks.
   For example, she cited Allen Group, a maker of clean-air
testing equipment and cellular telephones, which is up 57%
since the end of 1989; A.L. Labs, a specialty pharmaceutical
concern, is up 18%; Giddings &amp; Lewis, a maker of machine
tools, is up 17%; AST Research, which makes IBM-compatible
personal computers, is up 136%; and Centocor, a biotechnology
concern, is up 59%.
   Ms. Farrell said she's advising investors interested in
smaller stocks to buy the shares of specialty companies with
high visibility and estimated earnings growth of 12% to 15% a
year. That's about double the growth she expects from the
stocks in the S&amp;P 500 and well ahead of the 2% increase in
the gross national product she's expecting in both 1990 and
1991.
   Technology stocks continued to fuel the market's gains.
Intel gained 1/2 to 46; Apple Computer rebounded 1 7/8 to 41
3/8 and Oracle added 1/8 to 18 3/4.
   Microsoft, which unveiled its long-awaited Windows 3.0
software, climbed 1 1/4 to 71 1/2. Micropolis, a Chatsworth,
Calif., maker of disk drives, set a 52-week high after
Shearson Lehman Hutton analyst Doug van Dorsten raised his
short-term investment opinion on the stock to a "weak buy"
from a "hold," Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said.
The stock made the most actives list as 1.4 million shares
changed hands, nearly 10 times average volume.
   Sensormatics Electronics lost 1 to 13 3/4 on 1.5 million
shares after a group including Fort Worth, Texas, investors
Sid and Lee Bass said it lowered its stake to 2.4% of
outstanding common shares in the Deerfield Beach, Fla.,
electronics equipment maker.
   Astec Industries gained 5/8 to 6 1/8. A jury awarded $4.4
million to another company, CMI Corp., in a patent
infringement suit against a subsidiary of Astec, a
Chattanooga, Tenn., maker of construction equipment. CMI had
asked for $15 million to $38 million in damages.
   American Film Technologies climbed 1 to 10 1/2 after the
Wayne, Pa., color imaging and film distributor said late
Monday that it hired investment banker Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
to assess strategic possibilities, including a merger.
   Two of the eight publicly traded funds originally
sponsored by VMS Realty Partners of Chicago rose after a
spokesman said they may resume cash distributions. VMS
Strategic Land Trust rose 7/8 to 3 3/4; VMS Strategic Land
Fund II edged up 3/8 to 2 3/4.
   Together, VMS Strategic Land Trust and VMS Strategic Land
Fund II gained full repayment of about $100 million of loans
to their former sponsor, according to Leonard G. Levine,
president of the eight funds. The land trust now claims a
book value of $6.85 and the land fund quotes its book value
at $6.32.
   Immunex jumped 1 1/2 to 19 1/2 after a researcher
favorably reviewed data from trials of GM-CSF, a drug to
stimulate white-blood-cell production made by the Seattle
company, according to DJPIR. The review is part of this
week's meeting in Washington of the American Society of
Clinical Oncology.
   But profit-taking sideswiped several stocks, among them
Immunex competitor Amgen, which slipped 1 3/4 to 71 1/4, and
Autodesk, down 1 1/4 to 51.
   Kidder Peabody biotechnology analyst Robert Kupor lowered
his rating on shares of Amgen, a Thousand Oaks, Calif.,
biotechnology concern, to a "hold" from an "attractive"
because the stock had become too high-priced, Mr. Coolidge
said. However, PaineWebber analyst Linda Miller repeated her
"attractive" rating on the stock after a researcher favorably
reviewed Neupogen, Amgen's drug that stimulates
white-blood-cell production, according to DJPIR. The stock's
52-week high is 73 3/4.
   Autodesk, coming off a 52-week high, dropped 1 1/4 to 51
after the Sausalito, Calif., maker of design and drafting
software reported net income for the first quarter ended
April 30 of 55 cents a share, up from 45 cents a year
earlier.
   FSI International dropped 1/2 to 4 3/4. Citing a cyclical
slowdown in the market for semiconductor equipment, the
Minneapolis concern said Monday it expects to report an
unspecified loss for the third quarter ending Saturday,
compared with net income of 20 cents a share a year earlier.
   ChemDesign tumbled 2 to 11\ after the Fitchburg, Mass.,
specialty-chemical maker said Tuesday it expects sales for
the second quarter ending in June will be flat with sales of
$10 million in the yearago quarter and of $10.4 million in
this year's first quarter. ChemDesign's chief financial
officer, Jay R. LaMarche, said the company doesn't expect to
continue the nearly 39% gross margin rate in the first
quarter, but still expects margin rates to be "generally
higher" than in 1989.
   Southeastern Michigan Gas Enterprises slipped 2 1/4 to 15
3/4 after its Southeastern Michigan Gas utility received an
unfavorable ruling from the Michigan Public Service
Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Glenfed Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GLN
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   GLENFED Inc. (Glendale, Calif.) -- Norman M. Coulson, 57
years old, currently vice chairman, president and chief
executive officer of this thrift holding company, will become
chairman effective July 1, succeeding Raymond D. Edwards, 71,
who is retiring. Keith P. Russell Jr., 44, currently senior
executive vice president and chief operating officer, will
become president, succeeding Mr. Coulson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   M/A-Com Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MAI
</CO>
<LP>
   M/A-COM Inc. (Burlington, Mass.) -- Raymond F. Pettit,
senior vice president of Rockefeller Group, was elected a
director of this electronics parts maker. Mr. Pettit succeeds
John Lynch, who resigned from the board and his posts as
president and chief operating officer of the company in
March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wells Fargo &amp; Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WFC
</CO>
<LP>
   WELLS FARGO &amp; Co. (San Francisco) -- William S. Davila,
president and chief operating officer of Vons Cos., a Los
Angeles-based grocery chain, was named a director of this
bank holding company, increasing board membership to 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ginne Mae to Block `Live Free' Mortgages
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Want a free mortgage?
   Mortgage-industry officials say a few lenders are offering
a new type of home-purchase loan dubbed the "live free"
mortgage. It allows home buyers to skip loan payments for as
long as two years. After that, the borrower begins paying off
the loan at market interest rate, without extra penalties for
the missed payments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So what's the problem? Industry officials claim those left
holding the bag with "live free" mortgages aren't the home
buyers or mortgage lenders. Instead, it's a problem for
unsuspecting investors, especially mutual funds, that often
buy packages of home mortgages in the form of mortgage-backed
securities.
   The Public Securities Association, which represents
dealers selling mortgage-backed securities, wants "live free"
mortgages outlawed by the Government National Mortgage
Association. Ginnie Mae buys mortgages from lenders and
assembles them into pools for sale to investors.
   Ginnie Mae officials say they don't consider "live free"
mortgages a significant problem. "This is a minor percentage
of a small subset," a Ginnie Mae spokesman said.
   Nevertheless, Ginnie Mae said yesterday that it planned to
issue a "cease and desist" letter to all industry
participants prohibiting "live free" mortgages. The agency
also said it was considering a change of its official
rulebook on the subject.
   After weeks of trying to get Ginnie Mae to change its
mind, the dealers' trade group earlier in the day had set a
deadline of Friday for Ginnie Mae to ban "live free"
mortgages from Ginnie Mae pools. Failing that, the Public
Securities Association said it would amend its guidelines for
delivering securities to weed out "live free" mortgages.
   That move could have disrupted the market for many other
mortgage-backed securities. Estimates of the amount of "live
free" mortgages vary widely, ranging from $50 million to $500
million. About $900 billion in mortgage-backed securities are
outstanding.
   The "live free" home mortgages carry premium interest
rates of at least one percentage point or more above the
market rate, currently about 10.5%. But the borrower never
has to pay the premium rate because the lender picks up the
tab while the mortgages are repeatedly paid off and replaced
with new mortgages.
   Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., in a recent report, says a typical
"live free" mortgage might be issued with a 12.5% rate. The
lender agrees to pay the principal and interest on the
mortgage for a set period of, say, six months, after which
the borrower and lender agree that mortgage will be
refinanced.
   The lender then sells the high-rate mortgage as part of a
Ginnie Mae mortgage pool. Because of the premium rate, the
mortgage commands a higher price for the lender, which more
than covers the monthly mortgage payments due to the eventual
buyer of the Ginnie Mae securities.
   After six months, the first mortgage is prepaid and a new
mortgage is issued at 12%, according to the Kidder Peabody
example. This also is sold at a premium price into a Ginnie
Mae pool. The process is repeated until a market rate is
reached, at which point the borrower picks up the monthly
payments.
   Kidder Peabody says the practice amounts to
"misrepresentation . . . since the premium mortgages are
prepaid at the end of six months, and the investor never has
a chance to earn the premium coupon for a long enough period
to justify the premium risk, even adjusting for normal
prepayment risk."
   The Public Securities Association won't name the lenders
it says are making and then pooling "live free" mortgages for
sale.
   While industry participants think the number of "live
free" mortgages outstanding is relatively small, the
mortgages may be concentrated in the hands of a few
investors, exposing them to potentially significant losses.
In particular, Kidder says Ginnie Mae mutual funds could be
attracted to the pools carrying high interest rates, not
knowing that these pools contain some "live free" mortgages
likely to be quickly prepaid.
   One Ginnie Mae fund operator, T. Rowe Price Associates of
Baltimore, says it checked its holdings of mortgage pools
formed since 1988 and carrying interest rates over 11%,
trying to estimate how many might contain "live free"
mortgages.
   "Our involvement would be very, very minimal," says
Heather Landon, vice president of T. Rowe's $360 million
Ginne Mae fund. "We do have a handful that are in question,
but it's not a problem for us."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Divided:
   French-English Split
   Over Quebec's Status
   Is Widening in Canada
   ---
   As a Proposed Accord Falters,
   People Now Talk Vaguely
   Of New, Much-Looser Tie
   ---
   Language Battles Grind On
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad and John Urquhart
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Getting to the altar can be tricky when your
country may be heading for divorce.
   Jeff Lumby, who is from English-speaking Saskatchewan, and
Julie Lafontaine, from French-speaking Quebec, were happily
planning a bilingual wedding here when they hit a roadblock.
Ms. Lafontaine's parish priest won't allow English to be
spoken in his church.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We couldn't believe it," she says. "The gulf is getting
wider and wider, and soon we won't be able to build a bridge
across."
   French-English nastiness is cropping up more and more in
Canada. President Bush saw it last month at a ball game in
Toronto. Blue Jays fans booed the French verses of the
Canadian national anthem.
   Relations between Quebec and the rest of the country
haven't been this sour in decades. For the first time, polls
show that most Quebecers want some form of independence. And
an increasing number of English-speaking Canadians don't
care.
   Ms. Lafontaine and Mr. Lumby solved their problem. They
found a more tolerant parish, where they plan to be married
next month. They also wrote and recorded a bilingual love
song that has become a hit on Montreal's CJFM-FM, where Mr.
Lumby is host of the morning show.
   Fixing Canada's marriage won't be so easy. Language
hostilities have crystallized around a package of proposed
constitutional amendments, called the "Meech Lake accord,"
that would meet Quebec's longstanding demand to be officially
recognized as a "distinct society." The amendments will die
unless legislatures of all Canadian provinces ratify them by
June 23. So far, three have refused. Yesterday, Canadian
Environment Minister Lucien Bouchard resigned from the
federal government over the Meech Lake impasse, pushing the
Canadian dollar and Canadian bond prices sharply lower.
   Quebecers see rejection of the Meech Lake accord as
rejection of Quebec. Even the province's business people, who
once strongly favored Canadian union, are changing. A poll by
a Quebec business magazine recently found 57% of its readers
in favor of independence.
   "Even if Meech Lake is adopted, the damage is done," says
Claude Beland, president of Mouvement Desjardins, a sprawling
financial institution that counts nearly two of every three
Quebecers among its depositors. "Everybody is tired" of
talking about Quebec's place in Canada. "It's time to decide
if we should sleep in the same bed or in separate rooms," Mr.
Beland says.
   Full-blown independence, with sullen customs guards
harassing travelers at a Quebec-Canada border, seems
unlikely. Quebecers talk about a vague concept called
"sovereignty-association." Quebec Premier Robert Bourassa
speaks about a "superstructure" modeled on the European
Community if the Meech Lake accord dies. "Whatever happens in
Canada, you will have {some} common institutions in a common
territory," he says.
   The opposition Parti Quebecois wants independence whether
the accord is approved or not. But Jacques Parizeau, its
leader, says it would still want a common currency with the
rest of Canada.
   Nevertheless, failure to pass the Meech Lake accord could
spark a constitutional crisis and rattle markets.
Scotia-McLeod Inc., a big Toronto securities dealer, figures
the Canadian dollar would quickly fall to 81 U.S. cents (from
84.15 cents now) and the interest rate on Canadian
three-month treasury bills would rise to 14.25% from 13.76%.
Longer-term effects could be worse, as investors fret about
Canada's $180 billion foreign debt, which nearly equals
Brazil's and Mexico's combined.
   The uncertainty is already affecting business. Bonds of
Quebec's big power utility, Hydro-Quebec, trade at a discount
from comparable bonds of Ontario Hydro. The yield spread
between the two concerns' 10-year bonds has widened to almost
a quarter of a percentage point from a tenth of a point a few
months ago. Paul Desmarais, the chief executive of Power
Corp. of Canada, says two big deals involving "hundreds of
millions of dollars" are on hold because would-be foreign
partners of the big Quebec holding company are worried about
the Meech Lake accord.
   Meech Lake itself is a placid body of water near Ottawa,
once better known for a nude beach than constitutional
crisis. Meeting there in 1987, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney
and the premiers of the 10 provinces hammered out the
constitutional package. They thought they had finally solved
200 years of discord between French-speaking and
English-speaking Canada.
   The French-English marriage had always been uncomfortable.
It was a shotgun wedding, imposed by British redcoats when
they scaled the cliff below Quebec City and defeated France's
garrison there in 1759. French-Canadians rose in armed
rebellion in 1837. During World War I, many refused to fight
for an English king. A Quebec cabinet minister was murdered
by independence-minded terrorists in 1970, and 40% of the
province voted for "sovereignty-association" in a 1980
referendum.
   Quebecers often had good reason for resentment. Twenty
years ago, the French majority still had to speak English to
be served in some Montreal stores. Business was run by an
English-speaking elite.
   The rest of Canada finally responded in 1969, when French
was given equal standing with English in the federal
government. Labels on cereal boxes and other consumer goods
had to be written in both languages. Bilingual bureaucrats
were favored for promotion. The theory was the French would
be happy if both languages were used all across the country.
   But bilingualism didn't answer Quebecers' deep-seated fear
that their small French-speaking society would gradually be
absorbed by English-speaking North America. In 1977, a Parti
Quebecois government made French the province's only official
language. Quebec took down all the English road signs,
compelled new immigrants to send their children to French
schools and required big companies to handle internal
correspondence in French.
   This discrimination irked many English-Canadians. They
felt they already had done enough by paying for federal
bureaucrats to learn French and struggling with bilingual
government forms. French words on cereal boxes still raise
hackles in English Canada. "I doubt if too many people have
learned another language by reading the back of a box or the
bottom of a bottle," says British Columbia Premier Bill
Vander Zalm. English Canadians felt Quebec kept asking for
more.
   "For 30 years, you had the question, `What does Quebec
want?' When I took power in 1985, I said I want to solve that
question," Quebec Premier Bourassa says. His government
devised "the most moderate proposals" Quebec had ever
offered.
   Meech Lake satisfied his minimum demands. All provinces
got greater powers in relation to the federal government. The
other nine premiers were pleased.
   But Meech Lake catalyzed latent anti-French hostility and
triggered opposition by lobbying interests pushing their own
constitutional amendments. Indians and Inuit (Eskimos)
complained that the accord didn't promise them
self-government. Women's groups feared that the "distinct
society" clause might undermine the cause of women's rights
in Quebec.
   Politicians in English Canada started getting complaints.
Then three provinces turned against Meech Lake when the
provincial governments that had signed it lost elections.
   During the debate, Quebec shocked English Canada by
thumbing its nose at Canada's bill of rights and passing a
law forbidding stores to post signs in any language but
French. About 50 municipalities outside Quebec responded with
resolutions declaring English as their official or only
working language. Then last month, Quebec's largest school
board gave preliminary approval to a ban on students speaking
any language but French at school.
   One incident, shown repeatedly on television, most enraged
Quebecers: Two well-dressed, elderly men stomped on the
Quebec flag at a pro-English demonstration in Brockville,
Ontario.
   Now, angry and frustrated, 60% of Quebecers favor
sovereignty-association. That's a big jump from 48% in
January and the most, one polling concern says, since it
first asked the question in 1978.
   Previously, Quebec has always drawn back from the brink of
separation because of economic worries. But a robust economy
and the growth of a French-speaking business class have
changed that.
   Quebec "executives have more self-assurance now," says
Pierre Peladeau, the chief executive of Quebecor Inc., North
America's second-largest commercial printer. "We weren't
really scared before, but we lacked self-confidence." The way
East Germans and Czechoslovaks seized control from the
Soviets also bolstered support for independence, says Mr.
Parizeau of the Parti Quebecois.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., in a report that made headlines
across Canada earlier this year, said an independent Quebec
would hang onto its credit rating. Quebec's gross domestic
product, about $130 billion last year, would put it ahead of
Denmark and Austria, the report said. Quebec's population, at
6.5 million, is 26% of Canada's total of 25.3 million.
   This newfound confidence has sharply changed Quebecers'
attitudes. In 1980, Madeleine Saint-Laurent, a housewife,
worked hard to defeat the sovereignty-association referendum.
Quebec was so divided that she still can't talk about
politics with her sister, who lives nearby in the coastal
village of Cap Chat. "We weren't ready in 1980. We've covered
a lot of ground since then. If we have to {separate}, why
not? I'm ready," Mrs. Saint-Laurent now says. Even
English-speaking Quebecers, though less than 20% of the
province's population and its only group overwhelmingly
opposed to independence, aren't kicking up much of a fuss.
   The irony of the current crisis is that Quebec really is a
distinct society, even though the Canadian constitution
doesn't say so. French-speaking Quebecers are a close-knit
clan, most of whose members can trace their roots back to a
few thousand French settlers here in the 1600s. They have
their own customs, tastes and national holidays.
   So, Quebec already has most of the institutions and
gadgets of a nation: A stock exchange, universities, fashion
magazines and a 24-hour music-video channel. French theater,
film, music and television are in much better shape in Quebec
than their English counterparts are in the rest of Canada.
Aside from news and sports, the top-rated shows in English
Canada are all American imports, but in Quebec, every top-10
show is a local product. "We want to see our own lives {and}
our own values reflected on television," says Michel
Chamberland, vice president for programming at Montreal's
leading TV station.
   Quebec's music industry also is blooming, producing
everything from teen-age pop to heavy metal to rap.
"Quebecers have a need to assert themselves. Often we do it
through culture. It's a way of saying we're here to stay,"
says Richard Pelletier, a record-company executive.
   Even in the grocery store, Quebecers stand out. The
province accounts for 26% of national grocery sales, but 54%
of the tomato juice sold in Canada, according to A.C. Nielsen
Co. Quebecers buy lots of yogurt but hardly any sour cream;
the reverse is true in English Canada. Quebecers love poutine
-- French fries smothered in hot gravy and soft cheese -- a
delicacy unknown in the rest of Canada.
   Despite a vibrant culture and economic success, the notion
that Quebec is on the brink of melting into the North
American pot is an article of faith here. "French will always
be under threat," says Laurence Jalbert, a pop singer. "We
succeed because we have the energy of despair. You can hear
it in our songs," she says.
   Commenting that "Quebec has the only French-speaking
government in North America," Premier Bourassa adds:
"Quebecers want it to be recognized as such in the Canadian
constitution."
   Most Canadian politicians agree, but the three holdout
provinces are determined to block the Meech Lake accord
unless it's changed. Various compromises are being discussed,
but they all tinker with the "distinct society" clause.
"Unacceptable," Mr. Bourassa says. "Until Quebec is better
understood, I think it will be very difficult to reach any
agreement" with Canada.
   If Meech Lake dies June 23, Quebecers will be braced for
trouble the following day. June 24 is St. Jean Baptiste Day,
Quebec's "national" holiday. In the 1960s, St. Jean Baptiste
Day celebrations were marred by separatist riots.
   Julie Lafontaine and Jeff Lumby will be safely out of town
that weekend, on their honeymoon, celebrating their union
while Canada struggles with its own.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Study Says Minors
   Buy $1.25 Billion
   Of Tobacco a Year
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Children and teen-agers purchase $1.25 billion in tobacco
products annually, according to a study published in today's
Journal of the American Medical Association.
   Although 43 states prohibit the sale of tobacco to minors,
American children between the ages of eight and 18 consume
947 million packs of cigarettes and 26 million containers of
smokeless tobacco each year, according to the survey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The survey also estimates annual federal and state tax
revenues from tobacco sales to children at $325 million.
   The authors of the study -- Joe Tye, president of Stop
Teenage Addiction to Tobacco, and Joseph DiFranza, an
assistant professor at the University of Massachusetts
Medical Center -- blame the problem on lax enforcement of
minimum-age laws by local officials and indifference to the
problem on the part of tobacco marketers.
   "It really is an enormous business," said Dr. DiFranza,
"In medicine we treat tobacco as an addictive substance, yet
an 11-year-old can buy a pack of cigarettes."
   Some critics fear that's happening more frequently.
Although unit sales of cigarettes in the U.S. slumped 3% last
year, one independent study, the Gallup Youth Survey, shows
that the percentage of teenagers aged 13-15 who smoke jumped
to 11% last year from 7% in 1988. At the same time, sales of
moist snuff, which is popular among teen-age boys, increased
4.6%.
   Although most states have laws in place that restrict
tobacco sales to minors, few are enforced, according to the
JAMA study. Several small communities, however, have enacted
tough new laws, and early results indicate they can be
effective. In Woodridge, Ill., a Chicago suburb, an ordinance
enacted a year ago requires merchants selling tobacco to
purchase licenses from the town. Retailers who repeatedly
violate the ban may lose their license and be fined up to
$400.
   To test compliance, the Woodridge police department
regularly sends out 13-year-old "agents" to try to buy
tobacco from the village's 38 licensed vendors. Last March,
three stores lost their licenses for supplying cigarettes.
Since then, according to local police officials, no retailers
have gotten caught in the sting operations.
   Tobacco marketers deny targeting children. The $40 billion
industry steadfastly maintains its ads and promotions are
meant for adults only. "The tobacco industry is diametrically
opposed to kids using tobacco," said a spokeswoman for the
Tobacco Institute, an industry trade group.
   Manufacturers argue that their customers are wholesalers,
rather than consumers, and that they can't always control
retailers' actions. A spokesman for Philip Morris Cos. said
the company provides retailers with signs that proclaim age
limits, and gives out brochures to instruct store clerks
about tobacco laws.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   International Business Machines Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS IBM
</CO>
<LP>
   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP. (Armonk, N.Y.) --
Arthur J. Hedge Jr., formerly vice president, real estate and
construction, was named vice president, environmental
affairs, for this computer company. In the new position, he
will oversee IBM's environmental, energy and safety programs.
His previous post will be filled by Lee A. Dayton, formerly
senior managing director, management services, IBM Asia
Pacific.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Drops
   Its Plan to Sell
   Defense Unit
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   C F
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chrysler Corp. says it has stopped seeking a buyer for its
defense-related operations and will restructure and increase
funding for research and development at the unit.
   The move comes nearly six months after the Highland Park,
Mich., auto maker announced plans to sell Chrysler
Technologies Corp. At the time of that announcement, and
again earlier this month, Chrysler officials said they
wouldn't sell any of the subsidiary's businesses if they
didn't get satisfactory offers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In March, Chrysler sold aircraft maker Gulfstream
Aerospace, by far the largest of Chrysler Technologies'
operations, for $825 million. Chrysler has been unsuccessful,
however, in unloading the remaining three defense-related
companies: Electrospace Systems, a defense and electronics
parts company; Pentastar Electronics, a spin-off subisidary
of Electrospace; and Airborne Systems, a manufacturer of
systems for military and commercial airplanes.
   Initially, Chrysler said it wanted to divest Technologies
to focus on its core auto operations. But despite a
significant drop in the auto maker's first-quarter net
income, there is "no dire need to sell the {subsidiary} at a
value less than what {it's} worth," said John Stellman,
Chrysler Technologies vice president and chief financial
officer. "Chrysler has a strong cash position."
   Partly because it wasn't a surprise, Chrysler's
announcement had little impact on the auto maker's stock,
which closed yesterday at $15.875, down 25 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. "There is no pain in
continuing to hold" the three businesses, said David Healy,
auto analyst at the investment banking arm of Barclays Bank.
"Clearly {Chrysler doesn't} need the money and the units are
profitable."
   Since putting Technologies up for sale last December,
Chrysler has recorded its financial results as discontinued
operations. Mr. Stellman said the subsidiary now will have to
be "reconsolidated" into Chrysler's financial report, but the
effect of this wasn't immediately available.
   Chrysler originally paid a total of $1.04 billion for the
businesses that it eventually combined into Chrysler
Technologies. When the auto maker announced they were for
sale, some analysts doubted the auto maker would recover its
expenditures. The defense industry was in a downward spiral
and widespread funding cuts for defense-related contracts had
brought more sellers than buyers to a depressed market.
   Keeping the three units will allow Technologies to move
ahead with plans put on hold last December, said Paul E.
Wright, Chrysler Technologies chairman. "The matter at hand
is to posture the companies for the 90s and to continue their
momentum and earnings growth," he said in a statement.
   This will mean increasing funding for research and
development. Expansion at Airborne Systems in Waco, Texas,
also will continue; capacity there was doubled last year.
Chrysler officials didn't disclose how much investment these
moves will require.
   Chrysler Technologies' defense-related contract awards
rose 12% in 1989 from a year earlier and "we hope 1990 will
be better," Mr. Stellman said. "We see healthy growth in new
business opportunities."
   Ford Motor Co. also is trying to sell its aerospace
operations, but doesn't expect it will have the same
difficulties as Chrysler. "I don't anticipate this kind of a
problem," Philip E. Benton Jr., president and chief operating
officer, said at a news conference in Phoenix, Ariz.,
yesterday. "In this kind of a market we could run into the
same problem, but right now there are enough prospective
buyers out there to give us an optimistic outlook." Mr.
Benton said Ford is "in the midst of talks" on the subject,
but didn't provide any details.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Study on School, Job Testing Finds Bias
   And Misuse, Urges Special Regulator
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   MHP U.MXC LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   School and employment testing is growing out of control
and needs a special regulator, according to a study
commissioned by the Ford Foundation.
   The report, the outcome of three years of work, says that
standardized multiple-choice tests in the schools are widely
misused, misreported and cheated on, with virtually no
meaningful regulatory monitoring. As a result, the report
said, minority groups and female students are unfairly
discriminated against, and all students are distracted from
learning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although various groups have criticized the tests in the
past over particular issues, the study was the first from a
broad-based group of politicians, educators and businessmen
to be so critical of mass testing. Many of the new tests were
produced by state laws and other school-reform initiatives in
the 1980s.
   The report estimated that U.S. students from kindergarten
to 12th grade are taking 127 million standardized tests a
year -- almost three per student and higher than any previous
estimate. The report said that from 1972 to 1989, the number
of statewide school testing programs grew to 50 from one. It
also said more schools are relying heavily on tests to decide
entry to and exit from kindergarten, promotion from grade to
grade, placement in remedial programs and graduation from
high school.
   "Current testing, predominantly multiple choice in format,
is over-relied upon, lacks adequate public accountability,
sometimes leads to unfairness in the allocation of
opportunities and too often undermines vital social
policies," the report said.
   Although no tests were named in the count, included in the
study were exams such as the Scholastic Aptitude Test for
college admissions, publishing-house products such as the
California Achievement Test and the Metropolitan Achievement
Test, and assessments created and given by state departments
of education. The study's authors, calling themselves the
National Commission on Testing and Public Policy, included
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, Julius Chambers of the NAACP
Legal Defense Fund, and officials from Apple Computer Inc.,
Pacific Telesis Group, and Aetna Life &amp; Casualty Co.
   Testing-industry officials and others disputed the
report's claims and questioned the need for an oversight body
for testing.
   "Based on your characterizations of what's in it I'd say
{the report} is doing a gross disservice to test publishers,"
said David Deffley, president of the test-writing unit of
MacMillan/McGraw-Hill School Publishing Co., a joint venture
of McGraw-Hill Inc. and Maxwell Communication Corp.'s
MacMillan subsidiary. Mr. Deffley, who said he hadn't yet
seen the report, added that test publishers shouldn't be
blamed when a school uses their tests for things they weren't
designed for, such as promotion or graduation decisions.
   The report gave no estimate for the number of employment
tests being given, but concluded that they were growing
rapidly. Walter Haney, a professor at Boston College who
worked on the study, said that more than half of all
employers use some form of entry test to screen applicants,
and that more government authorities and professional groups
have mandated licensing and certification tests in recent
years.
   The commission said it was most concerned with
over-reliance on multiple-choice tests as "gatekeepers" that
"allocate initial opportunities in education, employment and
the military." In addition to less testing, it advocated more
use of alternative assessments such as reviews of work
samples, essays, and oral presentations.
   The study said that teachers and school officials are
being held more accountable for their students' test results,
even though the tests being used weren't designed for that
purpose. As a result, it said, schools are being driven to
exaggerate results, by couching scores that are disclosed in
the most favorable terms.
   Christopher Cross, the head of research at the U.S.
Department of Education, said there shouldn't be a federal
role in regulating school testing, since education is a state
and local responsibility. He also said he wasn't sure of the
reliability of the study's estimates, noting that 127 million
tests might take more time to administer than the half-day
per year that the group estimated was being spent by each
student taking tests. But Cinthia Schuman, executive director
of the National Center for Fair and Open Testing, a
Cambridge, Mass., anti-testing group, said "government
regulation is the only way we'll make the testing industry
accountable."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Omnicare Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OCR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   OMNICARE Inc. (Cincinnati) -- James A. Cunningham, a
director of First Boston Corp., and Cheryl D. Hodges, a vice
president and secretary of Omnicare, were elected directors
of this health-care supplier, filling two vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. Treasury Aide Assails Japan's Pace
   In Financial Reform, Warns of Sanctions
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The U.S. sharply criticized the pace of financial
reform in Japan, warning that unless Tokyo speeds up
liberalization it could face sanctions.
   Completing two days of bilateral talks on financial
issues, U.S. Treasury Undersecretary David C. Mulford
effectively issued an ultimatum to Japan's Finance Ministry
to agree soon to lift controls on all bank deposit rates
within a year or face a harsh review in a market-access study
that the Treasury Department must submit to Congress by
year's end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That study, required under the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act,
could give impetus to legislative measures enabling
retaliation against Japanese financial institutions operating
in the U.S. One bill, the proposed Fair Trade in Financial
Services Act, could emerge from the Senate Banking Committee
as early as this week, Mr. Mulford said.
   "Rapid action to complete the deregulation process in
Japan would avoid what otherwise will become an area of
serious political conflict," Mr. Mulford said.
   Senior Japanese officials sought to dodge the implications
of his message by saying that they have agreed in principle
to liberalize deposit rates at "an early stage." Vice Finance
Minister Makoto Utsumi said both sides agree that
deposit-rate controls should be abolished, but differences
remain over the timing.
   At a joint news conference, U.S. and Japanese officials
said cooperation between the two countries remains good, and
they noted several key points of agreement in their talks.
Most notably, Japan agreed to allow individuals and
corporations greater freedom to set up offshore deposit
accounts.
   On matters involving foreign access to Japan's market, the
Finance Ministry said it will grant specialized banking
licenses to foreign securities companies here to allow them
to handle foreign-exchange transactions. Japan also pledged
to approve by June the use by Japanese investors, including
banks, of Globex, a new automated futures and options trading
system that will be used on Chicago's main exchanges. Both
matters had been held up by Japanese regulators trying to
avoid breaching a post-war barrier between the banking and
securities industries.
   But the gaps between the two sides clearly dominated this
week's meeting in Tokyo, the eighth in a series begun in 1984
as the so-called Yen-Dollar Talks. "It is hard to understand
how the country that ranks as the second-largest economy and
financial market in the world can be so out of step with the
rest of the leading industrialized nations," Mr. Mulford
said. He noted that the Finance Ministry still hasn't
eliminated a tax on Treasury bills, or made them available to
individuals. And he said foreign investment trusts still have
a tough time cracking Japan's market.
   ---
   Masayoshi Kanabayashi contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Time Warner Shifts
   Magazine Officials
   And Forms a Unit
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc. shuffled top management of
its magazine unit and created a subsidiary to oversee the
company's regional and special-interest properties and
overseas media development.
   Reginald K. Brack, chairman of Time Inc. Magazines, said
the new subsidiary, Time Publishing Ventures Inc., also will
be used to study magazines offered for sale to Time Warner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There are more magazines up for sale today, I suspect,
than ever in history," Mr. Brack said. "We want to be
organized so we can study these offers. With all that's for
sale out there, all of it starts here."
   Time Inc. Magazines is the largest U.S. magazine
publisher. In the past five years, its number of magazines
has grown to 36 from eight, though some of the recently
acquired properties are jointly owned. Time last week said it
will close Southpoint, a regional magazine based in Atlanta,
but it continues to develop new magazines, such as Time For
Kids, European editions of Sports Illustrated, and Spanish
and German versions of Fortune magazine.
   Christopher Meigher, executive vice president of Time Inc.
Magazines, was named president and chief executive officer of
Time Publishing Ventures. The division consists of the
Birmingham, Ala.-based Southern Progress Corp., publisher of
Southern Living, Cooking Light, and Southern Accent, among
others; it also includes many of the special-interest
magazines the company has acquired or established in the past
two years, such as Parenting and In Health, and Sunset, a
magazine Time Warner has said it will purchase from Lane
Publishing Co. for $225 million.
   Mr. Brack said other shifts in the company's management
are being made to "revolve around customers' interests and
perceptions." Donald E. Elliman, an executive vice president,
will head a new "entertainment group," consisting of People
and Entertainment Weekly. Robert Miller, an executive vice
president, will be head of the "news, sports, and business
and money groups." The news group consists of Time and Life
magazines; the sports group, Sports Illustrated and Sports
Illustrated for Kids; and the business group, Fortune and
Money magazines.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Time Warner shares closed at $100.125, up 87.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equipment Making
   By the Baby Bells
   Clears Senate Unit
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   USW AIT BLS BEL NYN PAC SBC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Commerce Committee approved a
bill that allows the Baby Bells to manufacture
telecommunications equipment, a long-sought but limited
victory for the seven companies.
   The measure, passed on voice vote, would lift the ban on
manufacturing contained in the consent decree that broke up
the Bell system. Only Sen. Daniel Inouye (D., Hawaii) opposed
the bill in a brief discussion prior to the vote.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the legislation, introduced by Commerce Committee
Chairman Ernest F. Hollings (D., S.C.), doesn't touch consent
decree restrictions on the Bells entering computerized
information services and the long-distance industry. And in a
provision the Bells find onerous, the measure stipulates that
manufacturing is to take place within the U.S. from U.S.-made
parts. The bill leaves policing largely up to the Federal
Communications Commission, and gives the FCC authority to
waive the "domestic content" requirement if a phone company
can prove "extraordinary circumstances."
   In addition, the measure requires the Bells to obtain a
portion of the financing for their manufacturing ventures
from outside investors.
   The Bells' reaction was restrained. "It is an important
first step in the process," said Laird Walker, head of U S
West Inc.'s Washington office and the chairman of an informal
Bell committee that has been working to lift the antitrust
restrictions. "The domestic content language still needs
work," he said.
   Nevertheless, with a busy schedule and little time left to
consider complex telecommunications legislation, there is
only a slim chance that "free-the-Bells" legislation will
pass both the Senate and the House this year. For starters,
the Commerce Committee bill could be delayed by a possible
Judiciary Committee review or Finance Committee concerns over
its implications for international trade. Last week, Sen.
Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio), chairman of the Judiciary
Committee's antitrust panel expressed concern about the
Hollings measure.
   Meanwhile, key House members would like to see a more
comprehensive package that would allow the Bells to enter
information services. The Energy and Commerce Committee's
telecommunications panel has been circulating a staff draft
of legislation, trying to get consensus on a measure that
could move quickly.
   The vote comes after six years of intensive lobbying by
the regional phone companies to lift all restrictions in the
consent decree. This year alone, the Bells budgeted $21
million for a lobbying and advertising blitz aimed at
upsetting the decree.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Security Pacific Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Security Pacific Corp. said it definitively
agreed to acquire the 11-branch Santa Clarita National Bank,
Valencia, Calif., for a previously reported $52.5 million in
stock.
   Santa Clarita had assets of $258.8 million at March 31;
Security Pacific, one of the largest U.S. bank holding
companies, has assets of about $86 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RTZ Unit's Accord
   With Unions May
   Sway Other Talks
   ----
   By Keith Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR U.RTZ PD AR
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   A tentative labor contract covering 2,000 workers at
Kennecott Corp.'s Bingham Canyon mine in Utah could set a
precedent for future labor negotiations in the nation's
copper industry.
   Kennecott agreed to a new three-year labor accord,
effective July 1, that will boost pay about 20% for workers
at its mine in Salt Lake City.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts say the partial restoration of past lost wages
agreed to in the new contract is likely to set a pattern as
rivals Phelps Dodge Corp. and Asarco Inc. begin negotiating
contracts later this year. Labor pacts covering 3,550 workers
at Kennecott, a unit of London-based RTZ Corp., Phelps Dodge
and Asarco all expire June 30.
   The new contract reflects better times in the copper
industry, which was virtually at a standstill when the
current pact was negotiated in 1986. At that time,
Kennecott's Bingham Canyon site, the nation's largest
open-pit copper mine, was closed. The mine was reopened in
July 1986 when the union agreed to concessions.
   Kennecott has since undergone extensive restructuring,
mirroring similar actions by other U.S. copper producers. It
sold four mines, closed another and only has one copper site
left at Bingham Canyon, in addition to gold, silver and lead
properties elsewhere. Kennecott was acquired by RTZ last
year.
   The Kennecott contract covers members of the United
Steelworkers union, the bargaining agent, as well as 12 other
smaller unions. Members will vote tomorrow on the accord,
which has been in negotiation for about a month and a half.
   In the first year of the contract, beginning July 1, wages
will increase to about $12 an hour from roughly $10
currently. The present contract lowered average hourly wages
to about $10 from roughly $13.75 in 1986 when the
concessionary pact took effect.
   Union officials declined to provide further details on the
wage settlement pending the worker vote. However, wage
increases are expected to average about 50 cents annually
during the second and third years, according to published
reports.
   Wayne Holland, a USW sub-district director in Salt Lake
City, predicted employee ratification, though he said workers
had expected about 50 cents more an hour. "We were looking
for all that was given to us in 1986," Mr. Holland said,
referring to full restoration of the givebacks that Kennecott
won then.
   In addition to the basic-wage package, Kennecott agreed to
lower the health-insurance deductible to $100 for each
person, or $300 for each family. The agreement also provides
for an increase in pension benefit coverage, which wasn't
disclosed, as well as a $3,000 signing bonus for each worker
to be paid within 60 days after the contract is ratified.
   Don Babinchak, who represented Salt Lake City-based
Kennecott in the labor talks, called the contract an
"excellent settlement for our employees."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
   For Citicorp
   Cut by Moody's
   ---
   Downgrade Involves Debt
   Of $31 Billion; Reserves,
   Capital Levels Are Cited
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its
credit ratings on Citicorp, including its commercial paper,
citing comparatively low reserve and capital levels and a
rising number of problem loans.
   The move, which follows a similar downgrading by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp. last month, affects an estimated $31 billion
in long-term and short-term debt. S&amp;P had affirmed its rating
on Citicorp's commercial paper, a regular source of funding
for the nation's largest banking company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's dropped its ratings on senior debt to single-A-3
from single-A-1 and on commercial paper to Prime-2 from
Prime-1. Subordinated debt and preferred were reduced to
Baa-1 from single-A-2 and from single-A-3 to single-A-2,
respectively. Moody's said a two-notch reduction in a rating
is unusual.
   The Prime-1 rating on the short-term deposits and letters
of credit of its flagship, Citibank, were confirmed. However,
long-term deposits and long-term letters of credit were
reduced to single-A-1 from double-A-2.
   It is unclear whether investors have fully discounted the
downgrading. When the Moody's review was announced in April,
the pricing on Citicorp paper rose relative to other issuers.
Though Citicorp remains an investment-grade debtor, the lower
rating on its commercial paper will make the bank's paper
off-limits for some institutional investors.
   Since the review was announced, Citicorp has downplayed
the significance of a downgrading, noting that the company
satisfies only about 2% of its funding needs through the
commercial-paper market. In addition, the bank has no plans
to issue long-term debt.
   The company has defended its reserves and capital
positions, emphasizing its unique global character and its
rigorous underwriting standards in arguing why it shouldn't
be held to the standards of other banks.
   Nevertheless, the downgrading, which comes on the heels of
similar reviews for dozens of other banks, could crimp
Citicorp when it raises funds in the future.
   The announcement was made after the close of trading. In
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Citicorp
was down 12.5 cents at $23.75 a share.
   Kenneth J.H. Pinkes, a Moody's vice president, said,
"They're still a strong company, but they have a low level of
capital for a bank with their old rating. The company has
always operated with a thin margin of safety, while pursuing
multiple business opportunities. There isn't much of a
cushion."
   At the end of last year, Citicorp's nonperforming loans
and those loans 90 days or more past due amounted to 6.6% of
total loans. Meanwhile, its reserves totaled 44% of its
problem loans.
   By comparison, the averages for U.S. banks with more than
$30 billion in assets are a 4.5% level of problem loans and
reserves totaling 89% of such loans. BankAmerica Corp.'s loan
problems, for instance, were 5.8% of its loans, and its
reserves stood at 70% of problem portfolio.
   Nevertheless, Moody's said that while Citicorp's
real-estate portfolio is geographically diverse and while its
underwriting standards appear to be sound, it is vulnerable
to the deteriorating national real-estate market.
   In a statement, Citicorp said, "We're very disappointed
with Moody's action. We don't expect any significant increase
in overall funding costs. Increasing securitization of assets
has substantially decreased Citicorp's use of long-term debt,
while deposit growth has reduced commercial paper to 2% of
funding needs. Citibank retains the highest short-term
deposit rating."
   As previously indicated, Citicorp said it will rebuild
capital throughout 1990 from retained earnings and sale of
non-strategic assets as well as what it called "vigorous
asset management."
   Citicorp pointed out that the Aaa ratings on its most
recent offering of securities backed by credit-card
receivables aren't affected. Ratings on some mortgage-backed
pass-throughs were lowered one notch. Additionally, several
tranches of multiclass mortgage securities were reaffirmed.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE Inc. lowered the rating on
Citicorp's preferred stock to single-A-3 from single-A-2. In
yesterday's edition, the reduction was misstated.
   (WSJ May 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   VMS Funds Returned to Profitability
   In First Quarter but Cut Book Values
   ----
   By Andrew Patner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   VHT VMG VMLPZ VMTGZ VMORZ VST VSLF VLANS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The eight publicly traded funds originally
sponsored by VMS Realty Partners announced a return to
profitability but significantly cut their book values. Two of
the funds may resume distributions, according to a spokesman.
   VMS Mortgage Investment Fund, a real estate investment
trust, or REIT, traded on the New York Stock Exchange,
reported first-quarter net income fell 67% to $3 million, or
8 cents a share, from $9.1 million, or 23 cents a share, in
the year ago period. Although the fund's year-to-year profit
fell, the latest quarter's performance was a sharp
improvement over losses reported for the fourth quarter and
full year of 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fund's managers claimed a per-share book value as of
March 31 of $4.75. All of the funds were issued with book
values of $10 a share or unit.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, the VMS Mortgage Investment Fund's stock closed at
$1.875 a share, up 12.5 cents.
   The funds had been hit with losses since the empire built
by VMS Realty Partners, a syndicator of limited partnerships,
began crumbling last year. The funds were set up by VMS as
sources of mortgage cash and made loans exclusively to VMS
and its affiliates. VMS and its officers also reaped millions
of dollars in fees from the funds. Earlier this year, the
funds declared their independence from VMS and dumped the
firm as their advisers. They also suspended cash
distributions to share and unit holders.
   Leonard G. Levine, president of the funds, said they made
no additional allowances for loan loss reserves. But Mr.
Levine said a provision for $8.46 million to cover accrued
and unpaid interest owed the Mortgage Investment Fund by VMS
and its affiliates cut into the announced earnings. Mr.
Levine said the fund had successfully negotiated the full
repayment of a $6.6 million loan from a VMS affiliate plus
about $388,000 of bonus interest. He said those funds were
being held in "short-term investments."
   There are two VMS REITs traded on the American Stock
Exchange. VMS Hotel Investment Fund reported that net fell
53% to $968,478, or 10 cents a share, from $2.1 million, or
21 cents a share. VMS Short Term Income Trust reported net of
$595,752, or 9 cents a share, down 66% from $1.7 million, or
25 cents a share. The two funds had provisions for
uncollected interest of about $684,000 and $1.06 million
respectively. The funds now quote a per-share book value for
the hotel fund of $5.20 and $7.64 for the income trust.
   The two REITs traded over-the-counter, VMS Strategic Land
Trust and VMS Strategic Land Fund II, showed the best
performance of any VMS funds and are considering resuming
distributions, according to a spokesman for the funds. The
land trust reported first-quarter net of $3.1 million, or 26
cents a share, down 7.7% from $3.4 million, or 28 cents a
share a year ago. The land fund posted earnings of $3.1
million, or 16 cents a share, down 49% from $6.1 million, or
31 cents a share.
   Although the land trust and the land fund had to set aside
about $1 million and $3 million, respectively, to cover
potentially uncollectable interest, the land trust gained
full repayment of $67.3 million of VMS-related loans plus
$5.1 million in bonus interest and the Land Fund recovered
about $35 million in loans. These proceeds have yet to be
invested, Mr. Levine said.
   The land trust now claims a book value of $6.85 and the
land fund quotes its value at $6.32.
   The three master limited partnerships, or MLPs, originally
sponsored by VMS also reported profits. VMS Mortgage
Investors L.P. reported income of $733,224, or 10 cents a
unit, down 68% from $2.28 million, or 30 cents a unit. VMS
Mortgage Investors L.P. II earned $690,683, or 5 cents a
unit, down 78% from $3.2 million, or 25 cents a unit. VMS
Mortgage Investors L.P. III earned $2 million, or 18 cents a
unit, down 31% from $3 million, or 26 cents a unit, in the
year-ago period. All three funds said that they had made
provisions of about $1 to $2 million for potentially
uncollectable interest payments.
   The three funds claim per-unit book values of $4.10,
$5.51, and $6.36, respectively.
   Mr. Levine said that negotiations with VMS were continuing
and that auditors working for the fund had made a
"preliminary" report on the funds' interests in VMS
properties and the possibility of foreclosure and other
options for the properties. The funds also have retained Dean
Witter Reynolds, Cushman &amp; Wakefield, Draper &amp; Kramer, and
Grubb &amp; Ellis to provide real estate and financial advice.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE BOOK VALUES of the eight publicly traded funds
originally sponsored by VMS Realty Partners were largely
reduced in an announcement made last month. In yesterday's
edition it was incorrectly reported that the cuts were
announced Tuesday.
   (WSJ May 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodity Funds' Gains
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The average managed commodity fund gained 5.1%
in April, according to Norwood Securities, Chicago, which
tracks the performance of 132 publicly offered commodity
funds.
   Wide fluctuations in the prices of Treasury bond and
foreign currency futures, as well as grain futures during the
month enabled fund managers to profit on short-term price
swings in those markets, said Jay Klopfenstein, Norwood
president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first four months of the year the funds showed an
average gain of 10.6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, May 22, 1990
   PRIME RATE:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 5/16% offered. Reserves traded among
commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million
or more. Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.10% 15 to 179 days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.20%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.25% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.18% one month; 8.28% three months;
8.38% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.08% 30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 8.05%
90 days; 8.02% 120 days; 8.02% 150 days; 7.97% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/16% three months; 8
7/16% - 8 5/16% four months; 8 1/2% 8 3/8% five months; 8
9/16% - 8 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 7/16% three months; 8 9/16% six months; 8 13/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 21, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.74% 13 weeks; 7.79% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.33%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.26%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.90%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.90%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Energy Department
   Mulls Soviet Offer
   On Uranium Services
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Energy Secretary James Watkins confirmed
reports that the Energy Department is weighing an offer to
buy uranium-enrichment services from the Soviet government.
   Speaking to reporters after giving a speech to a
nuclear-industry group here, Adm. Watkins broke his agency's
official silence on the offer, saying it was being considered
"very informally" and with the approval of the State
Department. "They {the Soviets} have a cash-flow problem and
we're sympathetic," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nuclear-industry officials estimate that a deal between
Energy Department and the Soviet Ministry of Atomic Energy
and Industry could generate as much as $200 million a year
that, under one version of the proposal, would be spent by
the Soviet Union on goods and services in the U.S.
   In the past, the department has exercised a near-monopoly
on uranium-enrichment services, which consists of increasing
the percentage of the unstable U-235 isotope that is found in
natural uranium. But the Soviet Union, using more modern
equipment, is able to sharply undercut the U.S. price for
such services, in some cases charging about half of the
Energy Department price.
   One result is that the department has begun losing some of
its major customers among U.S. utilities to the spot market
for uranium-enrichment services, which is dominated by the
Soviet marketing agency V/O Techsnabexport, part of the
Soviet Ministry of Atomic Energy and Industry.
   Although some people in the industry said they expect the
announcement of a deal as early as next week's summit in
Washington, Adm. Watkins said he is still studying the
political and economic aspects of such a trade. He pointed
out that he wouldn't approve it if it turned out to be a
political obstacle to efforts to develop more modern,
privately run enrichment plants in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Suspicions Abound
   As Winnetka Seeks
   Solutions to Murder
   ---
   A Rich Suburb Is Caught Up
   In Its Own `Twin Peaks';
   Masking the Real Fear
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   WINNETKA, Ill. -- People here love a good mystery.
   The Winnetka Paper, a biweekly, recently featured a
long-running mystery serial, "Manuscript for Murder." "It
lost me," says publisher Susan Murges. But Winnetkans
relished it, she adds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then there is the conundrum involving a flock of flamingo
lawn ornaments, which appear, and disappear, in Melinda
Andrews's yard. That has been another good mystery for
Winnetkans to chew over.
   But a real murder is different. It shocks and silences. Or
does it?
   On the night of Saturday, April 7, this quiet, affluent
town along the shore of Lake Michigan became the scene of a
double homicide. The victims, Richard and Nancy Langert, had
gone to a birthday party in honor of her father, M. Lee
Bishop. The next day Mr. Bishop found their bodies in the
cellar of their rented townhouse, just 200 yards from
Winnetka police headquarters. Richard, 257 pounds and 30
years old, had been shot in the back of his neck. Nancy, 25,
was shot twice in the stomach.
   The killer, or killers, left about $500 untouched in her
purse. There was no sign of sexual aim and no hint of motive.
Mrs. Langert had scrawled an unfinished message in blood
before dying. Only two letters were legible, and police won't
say what they are. The only other clues are some fingerprints
and a garment (which police won't identify), apparently left
behind by the murderer.
   That's as much as anyone in town really knows. The rest is
speculation, theories as exotic as those in fiction, spun by
a troubled populace. Some conjecture that this seemingly
innocent couple, expecting a child and soon to move into a
new house, led a double life. Suspicions abound that the
Langerts were linked to an eerie substrata of intrigue and
violence. In a weird and sad way, it is almost as if
Winnetkans, accustomed to the prosaic and mundane, are
creating their own Midwestern version of "Twin Peaks," which
had its TV debut the day the Langerts' bodies were
discovered.
   "It's the strangest case I have seen," says Herbert Timm,
the police chief here and himself a victim of the town rumor
mill. "We're shaking our heads. The more you know, the more
bewildering it is. I have to live with that, and a lot of
sleepless nights."
   Mr. Timm has his own bizarre ideas of who killed the
Langerts. In one, he has them linked to a Colombian drug ring
through their employer, Gloria Jean's Coffee Bean Corp., a
gourmet coffee store franchiser headquartered nearby. Mr.
Timm wonders whether Gloria Jean's employees may have been
importing cocaine, hidden under coffee beans, and whether the
Langerts were either part of the scheme or about to blow the
whistle. A spokesman for the company says it doesn't import
coffee from Colombia, or anywhere else. It is also
cooperating fully with police.
   Some locals talk up the Mafia "juice loan" theory: "They
could have borrowed a few thousand dollars from a loan
shark," says Barrie Heath, president of an antique store,
then been unable to pay back the exorbitant interest. The
police haven't ruled this out, either.
   Winnetkans may be embracing these wild conjectures "as a
kind of denial," says Jeanne Bradner, president of the
village council. "People are relieved to have police say it
may be a professional hit man. At least we know we don't have
a homicidal maniac on our hands."
   But such assurances don't go far, particularly with no
suspects in sight. Suddenly, many Winnetkans are worrying
that their refuge isn't what it seemed. Some are locking
their doors for the first time. Says Mr. Timm, "This has been
Camelot for a lot of years to many people. America, the way
it ought to be. But maybe it's just America the way it really
is."
   Winnetka is usually far removed from the horrors of crime.
Its average household income of $100,000 is reputed to be the
highest of any town in the country. It has no industry. Many
among the 14,000 populace are lawyers, financiers or
securities brokers, who ride a double-decker train 20 miles
south to Chicago each day.
   Banks serve coffee and doughnuts on Saturday mornings. The
McDonald's is appointed in stained glass. Police headquarters
offers brochures on such concerns as: "Parties" (a parental
guide), "Dealing With Problem Wildlife" (chipmunks) and
"Vanity and Personalized License Plates." A new village
council circular tackles the local deer menace, asking if
antlers are a threat to shrubbery.
   Yet violence isn't a total stranger here. In 1988, a
30-year-old babysitter with a history of mental problems shot
six pupils, killing one, at the Hubbard Woods School, police
said. But that murder chase quickly ended when the babysitter
committed suicide. The Langert case, like the only other
unsolved murder the town ever had, in 1884, "leaves people
hanging," says Mr. Timm. "We must put it to rest."
   But no one can. Winnetkans are consumed by the murder and
all its related intrigues. One rumor around town involves the
police chief. Gossip has it that Mr. Timm, of all people, is
the secret love child of the late Rock Hudson. The Star, a
supermarket tabloid, recently published a speculative story
that has residents buzzing.
   Mr. Hudson, whose real name was Roy Fitzgerald, grew up in
Winnetka. Mr. Timm, whose new nickname is "Fitz," was born
about the time the movie star -- by some unnamed accounts --
fathered a child by a Winnetka woman he didn't marry. "It's
hilarious, but I look nothing like him. It would be more
believable if they said I was Jimmy Durante's secret son,"
says Mr. Timm.
   Residents may be getting a little fanciful. But the same
accusation could be lodged against Mr. Timm, a 47-year-old
ex-Chicago cop with the sartorial tastes of a banker. He
shows little interest in routine resolutions to his case.
Already, he has sent investigators as far as to New York to
check leads, and his imagination seems boundless. "We're
ruling nothing out. We have several avenues -- each more
interesting than the next. This case has a lot of meat to
it," he says.
   The chief won't comment specifically on all the trails he
is following, but one is known to involve some connection to
combatants in Northern Ireland. "It could be the Catholics or
the Protestants," says one of his aides.
   Some in town say Mr. Timm has been reading too much
fiction. He is among the residents who crowd Scotland Yard, a
bookstore dealing exclusively in mysteries and featuring a
manikin dressed like Sherlock Holmes. Judy Duhl, the owner,
says mysteries sell big "because, unlike in real life,
there's a resolution to problems. Too often in the real world
there aren't answers -- like in the Langert case."
   Mr. Timm buys mysteries for himself and his three
children. One of his recent purchases was "Fatal Command," a
potboiler about Mafia-connected crimes in a seemingly chaste
California burg. Joseph McNamara, the author and a police
chief himself, sympathizes with Mr. Timm's predicament. "Some
cases are so inexplicable they never get solved."
   A year ago, Mr. Timm drew fire from the village council
for proposing that his men be equipped with Uzi submachine
guns. He later triggered a blast of bad public relations by
accidently firing a pistol into his office wall.
   Now, though, locals must turn to him to solve this grim
crime.
   Privately, some relatives of the Langerts scoff at Mr.
Timm's titillating explanations for the deaths of the couple.
Says a friend, "They were so square; they didn't even drink."
Nancy Langert comes from one of Winnetka's most respected
families. Her father is a corporate attorney; her mother is
among the community's leading volunteer workers.
   So what happened? A legal source close to the case
theorizes that the solution may be the one Winnetkans dread
most: Burglars hopped the train up from Chicago and left at
the station a few feet from the darkened Langert townhouse.
They chose the secluded corner unit and broke the lock on the
rear patio door. Surprised by the returning Langerts, they
killed the couple in a panic.
   Mr. Timm isn't buying that resolution. For now, he keeps
breakfasting on French toast at the Pretty Good Cafe, where
the murder is avidly discussed and dissected. Says Gail
Forsberg, the owner, "Winnetka people have their ducks in a
row. A double-murder moves those ducks around, and people
don't like that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Lease Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ILFC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -- International Lease Finance Corp.
said it reached leasing agreements, valued at $170 million,
with four airlines.
   The owner and lessor of commercial jet aircraft said the
time period of the leases, which cover five planes, ranges
from two to seven years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Legislation Will Give Disabled People
   Greater Leverage to Gain Access to Jobs
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHESDA, Md. -- At a table in a packed banquet room, a
blind man adjusts his tie. At another, a female dwarf sits
with hands folded. Their attention is focused on a bearded
man in a wheelchair behind a dais covered in white linen.
   "What do we want?" he shouts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "A-D-A" roars back the audience, clamoring for
congressional approval of the Americans With Disabilities
Act.
   "When do we want it?"
   "NOW]"
   The scene, at a dinner held last week by the National
Council on Independent Living, demonstrates a new political
restlessness by an interest group not recently known for its
clout: the disabled. And now, with the disabilities bill all
but signed into law, the disabled community intends to carry
its fervor into the workplace, using new legal tools to win
access to jobs.
   Numbering 43 million and covering a variety of mental and
physical impairments, the disabled community is large and
diverse. Its interests often fragmented by a multitude of
state and federal programs serving each subgroup -- one
program here for the blind, another there for the deaf -- the
movement had little occasion in the past to unite. The new
law, though, is changing that, galvanizing this diverse
community into a more potent force.
   The law will give the disabled a weapon to step up the
fight for access to public places, a campaign that activists
have waged since the early 1970s. Increasingly, though,
activists are setting their sights on a more ambitious goal:
employment.
   "A tremendous percentage of people with disabilities
really want to work, and they have skills to work," says Paul
Marchand, chairman of the Consortium for Citizens With
Disabilities, a Washington-based coalition that represents
more than 70 organizations. Mr. Marchand cites McDonald's
Corp. and Du Pont Co. as two "islands of excellence" when it
comes to recruiting and hiring the disabled.
   Among those with poor hiring records: the U.S. Postal
Service, which, according to John Wodatch, deputy section
chief in the Justice Department's civil-rights division, has
been the target of repeated complaints under the less
sweeping laws that currently protect the disabled. A Postal
Service spokesman points out that 36,000 of the service's
750,000 employees are disabled and asserts, "When you're as
big as we are . . . you would probably be a leading target
for almost any kind of litigation."
   Disability-rights activists compare the progress of their
movement to American blacks' struggle for equality. First
came the push to integrate the schools, "mainstreaming," in
the jargon of the disabled movement. "If you can't get people
educated, you can't get them jobs," explains Pat Wright of
the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund.
   Next comes the desegregation of public facilities. "You've
got to be able to get into the buildings to work," says Ralph
Neas, executive director of the Leadership Conference on
Civil Rights.
   Then comes employment. Two-thirds of working-age disabled
people are unemployed, according to the President's Committee
for Employment of People With Disabilities. Most of them
depend on various forms of public assistance. "We're the
poorest single group" in the U.S., says Mary Lou Breslin, a
wheelchair user who is executive director of the San
Francisco-based Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund.
   Under the bill, employment discrimination against the
disabled is akin to discrimination on the basis of race or
sex -- and employers who systematically refuse to hire the
disabled can be taken to court. Disabled-rights activists,
downplaying prospects of an eruption of lawsuits, insist that
many such conflicts will be settled through negotiation. When
pressed, however, they concede that conflicts will often end
up in court. Says Ms. Breslin: "Litigation is inevitable."
Business groups that fought against passage of the
disabilities bill didn't produce any studies showing how much
litigation was generated by the bill's precursor, Sections
503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, which outlawed
discrimination against the disabled by government contractors
and other recipients of federal funds. An informal survey
conducted last fall by the Senate subcommittee on disability
policy found there were fewer than 400 such employee lawsuits
in the previous 16 years.
   "I'm not aware of a tremendous number of disabled cases
out there," acknowledges Edward Potter, president of the
National Foundation for the Study of Employment Policy, a
pro-business research group. But the previous law had "very
limited applicability to the private sector," he argues, and
didn't provide nearly as much access to the courts as the new
bill.
   Under the earlier law, disabled individuals who worked for
federal contractors could seek redress from the Labor
Department, which in turn could sue the company on the
person's behalf. The new bill not only expands liability to
virtually all private employers, but also permits individuals
seeking redress to sue on their own.
   Business groups fear the stakes in such litigation will be
considerable. The disability bill provides victims with
whatever remedies may be established in a civil-rights bill
that is now separately pending before Congress. Factoring
that in, Mr. Potter estimates the disability bill could
generate more than $3 billion annually in damages and court
costs.
   Meanwhile, the disabled are plotting several moves ahead
to a battle for health insurance. Because insurance is
regulated by the states, the disability bill leaves
unanswered the question of how newly employed workers with
disabilities, no longer eligible for Medicaid and other
federal assistance programs, would pay for the additional
health insurance that their disabilities require.
   Health insurance is "an area of great concern" to the
disabled, says Douglas Martin, a special assistant to the
chancellor for disabilities issues at the University of
California at Los Angeles. Mr. Martin, who uses a wheelchair
because of a childhood bout with polio, says that because of
health-insurance costs, he was unable to take a job as an
urban planner after receiving a Ph.D. in urban studies.
   "That's when I decided there must be a better way," says
Mr. Martin, who, perhaps emboldened by the high spirits in
the Bethesda banquet room, says the ultimate solution is
national health insurance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thai Cement Plant Order
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SUT J.UBE FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Sumitomo Corp., a major Japanese trading house,
and Ube Industries Ltd., a maker of chemicals, cement and
industrial machinery, said they received an order for a
cement-making plant from Thailand.
   They said the plant ordered by Siam Cement Co. of Bangkok
is capable of making three million tons of cement a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plant for Siam Cement, valued at 25 billion yen ($163
million), will be installed in Khao Wong north of Bangkok by
March 1993.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Senate Unit Backs
   Product-Liability
   Limits in Lawsuits
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Commerce Committee approved a
bill that would impose new federal limits on plaintiffs'
rights in lawsuits over injuries allegedly caused by
defective or dangerous products.
   The legislation would make it more difficult or, in some
cases, impossible for injured plaintiffs to recover monetary
punitive damages -- those assessed to punish a defendant
company, as opposed to damages that compensate a victim. The
committee voted 13-7 to approve the bill.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The legislation would bar, in the absence of fraud,
punitive damages against makers of pharmaceuticals, medical
devices or aircraft if the products had received prior
federal regulatory approval. Most rules governing injury
suits are set by states, and thus may vary.
   The Judiciary Committee is expected to consider the bill
before it goes to the Senate floor, where opponents promise a
fierce fight. A similar measure has been introduced in the
House, and the Bush administration supports such legislation.
   For years, big business has pushed unsuccessfully for
federal product liability limits, claiming that injury suits
drive up insurance rates, inflate prices for consumer goods
and inhibit product development. In an effort to win
approval, proponents of the bill shifted their strategy by
stressing that current state product liability laws put U.S.
companies at a disadvantage when competing against foreign
counterparts.
   Opponents of such legislation, supported by consumer
advocates and trial lawyer groups, have so far managed to
block enactment of federal product liability limits, arguing
that the restrictions would put injured individuals at an
unfair disadvantage when they sue companies. Public Citizen,
a liberal Washington advocacy organization, called the
legislation a "windfall for makers of unsafe products" and
"the most anti-consumer bill facing the U.S. Congress."
   Sen. Bob Kasten (R., Wis.), who has sponsored such
legislation in the past, left out of this year's version
certain stringent limits on plaintiffs' rights in order to
gain broader Democratic support. Tacitly acknowledging the
modifications, Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings
(D., S.C.), the leading Senate foe of federal product
liability restrictions, agreed to allow the panel to vote on
the measure and send it to the full Senate.
   But proponents of the legislation are expected to try to
add tougher provisions later. Perhaps the most controversial
of these is an amendment that would require a plaintiff to
prove that a corporate defendant had been negligent in making
or distributing a product. In many states, "strict liability"
laws require that a plaintiff prove only that a defendant's
product was defective or unreasonably dangerous, regardless
of whether a defendant had been negligent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Technologies Order
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   UTX
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST HARTFORD, Conn. -- Pratt &amp; Whitney said it received a
$290 million aircraft engine order from Japan Air System to
power Boeing 747-400 aircraft.
   Pratt &amp; Whitney, a unit of United Technologies Corp., said
it will supply 19 engines, including spares, for four
aircraft on firm order. If optioned aircraft are acquired,
another 19 engines would be ordered. Deliveries will begin in
1995.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan Air System is Japan's third largest airline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTI to Buy Valor Electronics
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GTI U.TMX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- GTI Corp. said it signed a letter of intent
to acquire about 90% of the stock outstanding of closely held
Valor Electronics Co. for about $18.3 million in cash, stock
and debt.
   GTI, which makes and distributes electronic circuit boards
for the auto and computer industries, is 52.9% owned by
Telemetrix PLC, a London electronics concern. Valor, based in
San Diego, makes electronic parts based on magnetics
technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Completion of the acquisition is subject to execution of a
definitive agreement, approval of the transaction by
directors and shareholders of both companies and regulatory
approvals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carbide Unit Buys Company
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   UK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DANBURY, Conn. -- Union Carbide Corp.'s Union Carbide
Chemicals &amp; Plastics Co. unit said it acquired Vitaphore
Corp., a closely held maker of biomedical products.
   The price wasn't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Union Carbide said that Vitaphore, based in Menlo Park,
Calif., will operate as a subsidiary of the chemical and
plastic unit, and will be headed by John Walker, Vitaphore's
president.
   Vitaphore's products are used to control infections in
ophthalmology and to control bleeding in surgery. It was
founded in 1985 and currently employs 60.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   UGI Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   UGI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   UGI Corp. shareholders approved a 2-for-1 split in the
company's common stock to be distributed July 1 to holders of
record May 31. The Valley Forge, Pa.-based company currently
has about 10 million shares outstanding. Shareholders also
authorized a doubling in UGI's authorized common shares to 40
million from 20 million. The company, which previously
announced a 4.9% dividend increase effective July 1, said the
new rate on the post-split shares is 29.5 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford's New Capri
   Must Play Catch-Up
   With Mazda Miata
   ---
   Hope Is That Young Buyers,
   Especially Women, Will
   Buy It as Their Only Car
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Has the runaway success of the Mazda
Miata left room for a similar car, Ford Motor Co.'s new
Mercury Capri? The likely answer: Yes, but perhaps not as
much room as Ford would like.
   The Capri debuts July 19, about two years after Ford first
unveiled it and 16 months after the launch was first
scheduled. In the meantime, Mazda Motor Corp.'s Miata -- the
Capri's most direct competitor -- hit the market with a bang.
It stole some of the attention, and likely a big chunk of the
sales, that Ford wanted for the Capri.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Ford executives, who invited reporters to Phoenix to
test drive the Capri, say there's room for both cars. "The
Miata is a performance sports car, a plaything for
middle-aged men," says Ross Roberts, the vice president who
heads Ford's Lincoln-Mercury division. He says the Capri is
aimed at young buyers between ages 25 and 37, some 60% of
whom will be women.
   That may prove a difficult challenge for Lincoln-Mercury,
which emphasizes big luxury cars and attracts buyers with an
average age of about 57. The division tried to broaden its
lineup, and its customer base, in the late 1980s with the
sporty Merkur line imported from its European operations. But
Merkur sales lagged, and Ford killed the line last year.
   The Capri also is an import; it's built by Ford's
Australian operations. Ford hopes that young consumers will
see the Capri as more versatile than a Miata, and thus will
be willing to buy it as their only car. The Capri, unlike
Miata, has a back seat, albeit a tiny one. And the Capri's
trunk is a bit bigger.
   Also important for younger buyers, Capri will be priced
below Miata. The Capri's base price is $12,588, with the
turbo-charged XR2 version starting at $15,522. The Miata's
base price is $13,800, although the car has proved so popular
that many Mazda dealers have charged buyers several thousand
dollars more than the sticker price. It's a situation that
Lincoln-Mercury officials say they hope to avoid.
   The Miata and the Capri have a lot in common. Unlike other
modestly priced competitors such as the Honda CRX and the
Toyota MR2, both Miata and Capri are convertibles. And while
the Capri's somewhat angular lines contrast with the curvy
shape of the Miata, both sport nostalgic styling designed to
evoke the British roadsters of the 1960s.
   "I'd be surprised if the Miata could soak up all the
demand that exists for this type of vehicle," says David
Whiteside of J.D. Power &amp; Associates. But analysts add that
being second instead of first may make Ford's plan to sell
30,000 Capris a year in the U.S. (in addition to Mazda's
40,000 Miatas) too optimistic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Child Safety Seats
   On Airliners Urged
   By National Board
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The National Transportation Safety Board
urged the government to require that small children be
strapped into safety seats during airline trips, effectively
ending their free rides.
   The board's action, by a 4-0 vote, steps up pressure on
the Federal Aviation Administration to order use of the
seats. The airlines, the Association of Flight Attendants
union, several members of Congress and several independent
safety experts have called on the FAA to require the
restraints.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If adopted by the FAA, the safety board's recommendation
would almost certainly increase the cost of flying for
families with young children. A parent flying at busy times
would have to buy an additional ticket to be sure of having
an airline seat to put a safety seat on. But airlines are
expected to continue to allow parents flying in non-peak
times to use empty seats for free for baby safety seats. And
some airlines might offer discounted fares for small children
as a marketing tactic, industry officials have said.
   Under current regulations, airline passengers must be
strapped in during critical flight times. The only exception
is for babies under two years old, who may be held on an
adult's lap. That exception should be eliminated, the board
said, and a rule adopted requiring that all children who
weigh less than 40 pounds and are less than 40 inches long be
restrained in safety seats that have been approved for use in
cars.
   The proposal didn't specify whether passengers or the
airlines would be responsible for providing the seats -- an
important economic issue that the FAA would have to resolve.
   "It seems time to protect those persons who haven't been
protected before," said NTSB Chairman James Kolstad, who
noted that everyone and everything else in the cabin --
including coffee pots and luggage -- must be secured before
takeoffs and landings and during turbulence.
   The board debated the exact wording of the recommendation.
Member Susan Coughlin argued that the FAA should require that
all children under two years of age be required to sit in
safety seats. But James Burnett, another board member,
prevailed with his recommendation based on the child's size
and weight.
   He argued that most car safety seats are designed for
children up to 40 pounds and 40 inches long. Most are
suitable for aircraft use and should be required whether the
children involved are "two, three or four," he said.
   The board also approved a related recommendation urging
accelerated research into whether standard airline seat belts
are adequate for small children who have outgrown safety
seats.
   The NTSB's twin actions reflect heightened concern over
the safety of small children in the wake of two accidents in
the past year. In January, one infant was killed in the crash
of Avianca Flight 52 on Long Island, New York. Last summer,
two small children were fatally injured in the crash of
United Airlines Flight 232 in Sioux City, Iowa. None of the
three was restrained. Several children who weren't restrained
survived in the two accidents.
   FAA officials yesterday said they are reviewing the child
safety-seat issue and will consider the NTSB recommendation.
A decision could come as early as this fall. In the past, the
agency has expressed concern about imposing an additional
financial burden on young families. Earlier this year, the
agency proposed barring airlines from prohibiting the use of
the seats -- a policy that airlines generally follow anyway.
But FAA Administrator James Busey has made clear that he
hasn't ruled out requiring safety seats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Varco International Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VRC CBE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ORANGE, Calif. -- Varco International Inc. said it
completed the acquisition of all of the assets of the
Martin-Decker unit of Cooper Industries Inc. for $30 million.
   Varco is a petroleum industry tools and equipment maker.
Martin-Decker makes instruments and equipment for oil-related
and other industrial applications. Houston-based Cooper
Industries is a maker of electrical, automotive, petroleum
and industrial products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Rainbow Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   RNBO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rainbow Technologies Inc., Irvine, Calif., said its board
approved a 2-for-1 stock split. Shareholders will vote on the
proposed split at the company's annual meeting June 28. If
they approve it, holders of record will receive one new share
for every share held, payable in mid-July. Rainbow, a maker
of computer-security devices, currently has about 1.8 million
shares outstanding. Its stock closed yesterday in national
over-the-counter trading at $20.00, up $1.50 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Delta Dental Wins Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   ML AVDL WX
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Delta Dental Plan of California won a $140.2
million defense contract for dental services.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Martin Marietta Corp. was given an $89.9 million Air Force
contract for a solar-power satellite.
                                                                                                       

   Avondale Industries Inc. got a $24.4 million Navy contract
for destroyer overhaul.
                                                                                                       

   Westinghouse Electric Corp. received a $14.3 million Navy
contract for nuclear propulsion parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Foreign Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's seasonally adjusted foreign trade
account showed a deficit of 4.31 billion francs ($769.5
million) in April after a revised March deficit of 1.06
billion francs, according to preliminary data published by
the National Customs Office.
   Prior to the revision, the adjusted March result had been
reported as a deficit of 858 million francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The deficit was significantly more than Paris economists
had been expecting as a result of inventory trends after a
significant drawing down of stock levels in the first
quarter.
   On an unadjusted basis, the April result was a deficit of
3.03 billion francs after a revised March deficit of 1.08
billion francs. The March result had been reported earlier as
a deficit of 877 million francs. France had an unadjusted
trade deficit of 2.35 billion francs for April 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Huffington Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Roy M. Huffington Inc. said it completed the
sale of its Huffington Corp. unit to Chinese Petroleum Corp.
of Taiwan. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Chinese Petroleum is the national oil company of Taiwan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Closely held Huffington has assets estimated at between
$700 million and $900 million, including a 20% interest in an
Indonesian joint venture responsible for supplying natural
gas to one of the world's largest liquefied natural gas
facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soviets to Repay Finnish Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HELSINKI -- Finland's Prime Minister Harri Holkeri said
the Soviet Union will repay its 300 million markka ($76.6
million) debt to Finland within a few days, press reports
said.
   Soviet Deputy Prime Minister Stepan Sitaryan told Mr.
Holkeri that the debt would be handled "in the first
instance," the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper reported.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Messrs. Sitaryan and Holkeri head the joint Soviet-Finnish
economic commission, which met in Leningrad to discuss joint
trade questions.
   Mr. Sitaryan told Mr. Holkeri that Finland retained its
special position in trade relations with its superpower
neighbor. He didn't mention Soviet repayment of debts to
other Western countries, Mr. Holkeri said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Export Ship Orders Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SHIPBUILDERS OF COMMERCIAL SHIPS (SHP)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japanese shipbuilders signed export contracts to
build 25 ships with a combined weight of 1.1 million metric
tons in April, up 78% from 589,725 metric tons a year
earlier, the Japan Ship Exporters' Association reported
Tuesday.
   In March, by comparison, the shipbuilding industry
contracted to export 16 vessels, weighing 827,800 metric
gross tons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The association spokesman traced the sharp year-on-year
rise to comparatively sluggish contracts last year when an
increase in export insurance fees imposed at the beginning of
April 1989 caused a large number of ship buyers to rush their
orders ahead of the deadline. In March 1989, ship export
contracts rose to a high of 1.5 million tons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Debt of Household
   International Unit
   Is Downgraded
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   HI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the debt of
Household International Inc.'s main finance unit, but left
unchanged ratings on the parent company's debt and also that
of the main unit's big commercial-paper program.
   The decision by Moody's followed more than a month of
review by the debt-rating agency, which encountered strong
arguments from Household's management against a broader or
more severe downgrading. Moody's had considered as much as a
two-notch downgrading of the senior debt of the main unit,
Household Finance Corp., but lowered it instead by a single
notch, to single-A-2 from single-A-1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move, which also included downgrades on some other HFC
securities, affected in all about $8.7 billion of debt.
   Donald C. Clark, Household's chairman and chief executive
officer, said he was "disappointed" by the HFC downgrade, but
"pleased" Moody's didn't go further. He pointed out that the
agency left alone the HFC commercial paper rating of Prime-1,
which covers about $4 billion and is perhaps most crucial to
the lending concern's funding.
   Moody's said that while Household's big
commercial-real-estate and leveraged-buy-out loan portfolios
"remain a concern, they appear manageable." Also, Mr. Clark
has said the company's growth between now and 1993 won't
likely be as rapid as it was the past two years. For the five
year period, ending in 1993, Mr. Clark expects to double the
company's assets, which stood at $27.75 billion at March 31.
   Despite the rapid growth, Moody's expects Household's
capital levels to improve.
   The HFC downgrade brings its rating within one level of
the parent company's single-A-3 senior debt rating,
reflecting Moody's concern that the relatively stronger HFC
unit could be called upon to support weaker operations. Mr.
Clark called that "a backhanded compliment. HFC is very
strong -- the strongest part of the whole company."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Household
closed at $45.75 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Colonialized Colonialists
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The poor Russians. They are playing the role of a "colony"
to their Comecon partners by letting them buy raw materials
cheaply, according to a Moscow weekly. For their generous
subsidization -- estimated at an annual $140 a person in the
case of Hungary -- the Soviets get less than nothing,
surmises the current issue of Novoje Vremja. In Eastern
Europe anti-Soviet sentiment is flourishing, and Moscow's
political and military influence is plummeting. Machinery and
equipment the Russians got from Comecon trade have been
obsolescent and overpriced, the paper complains. The Soviets
ignored their national interests by not insisting on
market-oriented relations in Comecon, Novoje Vremja suggests.
Where is it written that colonialists are immune to
colonialization by their own dogma?
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tool Maker Stanley,
   Others Are Charged
   With Price Fixing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   SWK
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW BRITAIN, Conn. -- Stanley Works and one current and
one former executive of the tool maker were among a number of
defendants charged with conspiring to fix prices on
architectural hinges.
   A federal grand jury in St. Louis indicted Stanley Works;
Richard G. Martin, president and general manager of the
Stanley Hardware division; and John F. Hollfelder, who was
vice president of sales for the division when he left the
company in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also charged were Hager Hinge Co. of St. Louis; McKinney
Products Co. of Scranton, Pa.; David B. Gibson, president of
McKinney; Robert A. Haversat, a former president of McKinney;
Lawrence Brothers Inc. of Sterling, Ill., and its chairman,
John A. Lawrence.
   The indictment charges the defendants with engaging in the
price-fixing conspiracy from at least April 1986 to April
1988.
   For a corporation, the maximum penalty is as much as a $1
million fine; twice the gain the company derived from the
conspiracy; or twice the loss suffered by victims. For an
individual, the maximum penalty is three years in prison plus
as much as a $250,000 fine or the other two factors.
   Stanley Works said it and Mr. Martin would vigorously
defend themselves against the charges.
   Mr. Hollfelder was unavailable for comment.
   Mr. Lawrence declined immediate comment. The other
defendants couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CAE Unit Gets Simulator Job
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CAE AWAL
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- CAE Industries Ltd. said its CAE Electronics
Ltd. unit was awarded a 23.5 million Canadian dollar (US$20
million) contract by America West Airlines, of Phoenix,
Ariz., to design and make flight simulators.
   The simulators will be for de Havilland Dash 8 and Boeing
737-300/400 aircraft. The project, which includes simulators,
visual systems and facilities, is scheduled for 1992. CAE is
a manufacturer of military and commercial flight simulators
and aviation equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP AXP DD G.HFA J.ASC MDEST A.BOM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARTY GETS THE BLAME
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Senior Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping blamed poor party
leadership as the root cause of last year's pro-democracy
demonstrations, West German sources said.
   The new Communist Party chief, Jiang Zemin, said he
couldn't rule out more such demonstrations this year, the
sources said. But a Chinese official said only police forces
would be used to quell any further unrest.
   The comments came in talks this week with former West
German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. The sources said the
Chinese leaders were generally conciliatory toward students
in the demonstrations, which soldiers crushed in June.
   The sources also said Mr. Schmidt exchanged letters with
former party chief Zhao Ziyang, who was purged in June for
being sympathetic to the students. It is the first time Mr.
Zhao, under house arrest in Beijing, is known to have
communicated with the outside world.
                                                                                                       

   SPAIN DEMANDS GOLD CARD LIST
                                                                                                       

   A Spanish appeals court ordered American Express Co. to
give the government a list of its gold card holders in Spain,
the latest twist in a drive against tax evaders. The court
rejected the company's appeal of a 1987 government request
for the list, saying the request didn't infringe on
constitutional rights to privacy. American Express officials
last night hadn't decided whether to appeal. American Express
doesn't say how many of its 270,000 members in Spain hold
gold cards, which provide extra services. There are about 35
million American Express cardholders world-wide.

   ROMANIA'S UNORTHODOX OFFER
                                                                                                       

   A revolutionary group that helped topple Romanian dictator
Nicolae Ceausescu has an unorthodox offer for Communist Party
members to cover their political past. For just one lei (less
than one cent), Communists can buy a certificate saying the
holder doesn't want to be a member of the party or its youth
branch any longer. The Romanian Communist Party never
formally dissolved, but nobody claims membership anymore.
Before the revolution, there were 3.7 million Communist Party
members.
                                                                                                       

   KOREAN FIRM VS. DU PONT
                                                                                                       

   Korea Engineering Plastics Co. filed an anti-dumping suit
against Du Pont Co., Hoechst AG's Hoechst Celanese Corp. unit
in the U.S. and Asahi Chemical Industry Co. of Japan, the
South Korean Ministry of Finance said. Korea Engineering
claimed the foreign firms have dumped their polyacetal resin
products in South Korea since 1988. The government has six
months to investigate. South Korea's polyacetal resin market
totaled $35 million last year. Korea Engineering supplied 47%
of the demand; imports supplied the rest.
                                                                                                       

   EAST GERMANS REDISCOVER FRUIT
                                                                                                       

   For years, East Germany's Communist rulers neglected the
growing of fruits and vegetables; only the party elite had
regular access to citrus fruit. But while stores are finally
stocking veggies, people aren't familiar with them. So Ulrike
Hohmuth is writing a vegetarian cookbook, to address such
issues as how to tell when fruit is ripe. Because traditional
German cooking caters to meat eaters, Ms. Hohmuth has had to
borrow recipes from elsewhere, or make them up.
                                                                                                       

   ISRAELI SUPERCOMPUTER
                                                                                                       

   Israeli scientists are doing research on a supercomputer
system they say is more powerful than anything the U.S. has,
according to Israeli university officials. Three Israeli
institutions had applied for licenses to buy Cray Research
Inc. and International Business Machines Corp.
supercomputers, but the U.S. delayed the permits because of
concern Israel might use them to develop nuclear weapons and
missiles. Technion University is seeking funds in the U.S. to
build its own computers, and has started theoretical
research.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIAN MEDIA CURBS
                                                                                                       

   Australia will limit aggregate foreign ownership of radio
and television companies to 20%, to prevent skirting of
existing rules. Individual foreign investors are limited to a
15% stake.
   The toughening of foreign-ownership limits undermines
efforts by the country's three television networks to raise
funds. The TV industry had its first loss in 30 years last
fiscal year.
   Foreign investors now have a large stake in one of the
three TV networks, but were expected to acquire stakes in the
others. Broadcasters have three years to comply with the
limits.
   One of the three major networks, Bond Media Ltd.'s Channel
9, was negotiating for capital injections from companies
including Paramount Communications Inc. and CBS Inc. in
return for a 30% share in the Australian network.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong Chinese executives attach more importance to
success in business than keeping their wives happy, according
to a survey of 1,000 men by Price Waterhouse Management
Consultants. The survey found a majority of businessmen
polled approved of having a mistress, and ranked impressing
their wives after impressing friends and business associates.
. . . One in six Japanese public junior high schools requires
male students to wear crew cuts, a lawyer's group survey
showed. Some respondents said crew cuts encourage good study
habits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   Courage, My Friend
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Within this world you never made
   It's important not to be afraid,
   For as sure as you are reading here,
   Prescisely the very thing you fear,
   Whatever the tune, will lead the parade.
   -- Ruth Boorstin.
   ---
   Counterpunch
                                                                                                       

   At this point in time
   I've run into some flak:
   Having hit middle age,
   It's begun to hit back.
   -- Joshua Adams.
   ---
   Paper Chase
                                                                                                       

   I love to read magazines,
   But I find it very hard
   To concentrate while I am
   Ripping out another card.
   -- Herm Albright.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Imco Recycling Gets Patent
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMRI
</CO>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   IRVING, Texas -- Imco Recycling Inc. said it received a
patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for a
process that treats spent aluminum reduction cell linings, a
smelter waste product.
   Imco, an aluminum-can recycler, said its process lowers
the raw material and energy costs associated with aluminum
recycling and reduces the unsafe elements in the linings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   EC Commission Lets
   Renault Keep Half
   Of Bailout Funds
   ----
   By Martin du Bois and E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   F.RNA EUROP VOLVY
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Renault S.A. won a long-running battle as the
European Community Commission allowed the state-owned auto
maker to keep half of a 12 billion franc ($2.13 billion)
government bailout.
   The commission said Renault would immediately have to pay
back only 3.5 billion francs to the French government, while
an additional 2.5 billion francs would be listed on its books
as long-term debt. That's a big scale-down from the 8.4
billion franc pay-back originally sought by EC Competition
Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, French government officials indicated that they
may compensate for Renault's loss by injecting more money
into the company next year in the form of a capital increase.
   Paris welcomed the compromise and said that France will
feel free to return as much money as it wishes to the
state-owned company. "We can do what we want in function of
what we think is in Renault's interest and in the interest of
its shareholders," French Industry Minister Roger Fauroux
said.
   As part of the accord with the commission, the French
government won't inject any more money into Renault before
next year, when the Swedish auto maker AB Volvo is to buy a
20% stake in the company. Volvo is expected to participate in
any capital boost -- a move which Sir Leon said would offer a
guarantee that the cash injection is a legitimate business
investment, and not an illegal state handout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Boesky Takes the Stand in Mulheren Trial
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Ivan F. Boesky, whose cooperation led to the government's
sweeping insider-trading investigation, finally made his
debut as a witness yesterday, testifying that he made illegal
arrangements to sell securities to John A. Mulheren Jr.
   Mr. Boesky avoided making eye contact with Mr. Mulheren
and seemed impatient and sometimes even angered by ques-
tions asked of him by assistant U.S. Attorney E. Scott
Gilbert and Mr. Mulheren's lawyer, Thomas Puccio. Mr. Boesky,
once Wall Street's best-known stock speculator, was
cooperating with the government as part of his 1986
insider-trading plea agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neatly dressed in a dark grey suit and white shirt, Mr.
Boesky appeared gaunt and older than his 53 years. Shortly
before his release from prison earlier this year, Mr. Boesky
was photographed with long grey hair and a beard. But
yesterday, his hair was cropped short and he was
clean-shaven.
   Under direct examination by Mr. Gilbert, Mr. Boesky told
of receiving inside information on various stock transactions
from investment bankers Dennis Levine and Martin Siegel, both
of whom have pleaded guilty to felonies relating to
securities fraud. Mr. Boesky, who spoke of agreeing to pay
for this information, said he often gave that information to
Mr. Mulheren in 1985, although he said Mr. Mulheren never had
"knowledge of my source." Nor did Mr. Boesky ever tell Mr.
Mulheren that his information was obtained illegally, Mr.
Boesky testified.
   Based on the inside information Mr. Boesky provided him,
Mr. Mulheren bought stocks in companies that were takeover
targets, Mr. Boesky said. Mr. Boesky said he also advised Mr.
Mulheren when to sell stock. Mr. Boesky said he illegally
sold stock in Unocal Corp. to Mr. Mulheren to evade taxes and
later illegally agreed to buy back the shares and cover Mr.
Mulheren for any losses his securities firm might suffer on
the stock.
   Mr. Mulheren is charged with 41 counts of conspiracy,
securities and mail fraud and keeping false records. He is
not charged with insider trading. The charges, brought
against Mr. Mulheren last year, were based largely on
information provided by Mr. Boesky.
   Mr. Boesky, who spoke in a firm voice, said he was once a
close friend of the 40-year-old Mr. Mulheren, whom he has
known for about a decade. Mr. Mulheren once served as
co-trustee of the trust Mr. Boesky established for his
children. But after Mr. Boesky agreed to plead guilty in 1986
to a single felony count and to pay $100 million in fines and
cooperate with the government, he implicated Mr. Mulheren.
Mr. Boesky was recently released from prison after serving
most of a three-year term.
   In response to questions from Mr. Gilbert, Mr. Boesky said
he is currently employed as a consultant to a company, which
he didn't identify. Mr. Boesky said he advises that company
on "different sorts of business planning that the company is
undertaking."
   At times, Mr. Boesky seemed to want to take charge of the
questioning. When a juror complained that she couldn't hear
Mr. Boesky, he instructed Mr. Gilbert to repeat the question,
a task usually undertaken by the judge.
   When asked by Mr. Puccio about certain records kept by his
brokerage firm, Seemala Corp., Mr. Boesky refused to answer
questions. "When were these records kept?" Mr. Puccio
inquired. "You'd have to ask the keeper," Mr. Boesky
responded. "Were these records retained by your company?" Mr.
Puccio asked. "You'd have to talk to the retainer about
that," Mr. Boesky said.
   In an interview, Mr. Mulheren described Mr. Boesky's
testimony yesterday as "pretty boring." He said: "When you
hear my testimony, you'll realize he wasn't much of a
friend." But Mr. Mulheren said that if Mr. Boesky's
performance as a government witness doesn't improve, Mr.
Mulheren may not have to testify at all.
   Mr. Boesky testified that his securities firm, Seemala,
violated the net capital requirements of the New York Stock
Exchange by having too little capital between June and
October of 1985. But Mr. Boesky said he never worried much
about the violations because he always believed that his
accountants were underestimating the firm's capital position,
a practice referred to by Boesky employees as the "fudge
factor."
   Mr. Boesky said that Stephen Conway, the president of his
holding company, warned in a June 1985 memo that Mr. Boesky
was "on a self-destruct course." Mr. Boesky said Mr. Conway
told him he was seriously below capital requirements and that
his business strategy was "reckless."
   The net capital violations are important because the
government has alleged that Mr. Mulheren manipulated the
price of Gulf &amp; Western Inc. shares and "parked" stock for
Mr. Boesky to help Mr. Boesky defeat net capital
requirements. Parking occurs when an investor sells
securities with the understanding that they will be
repurchased, usually at a prearranged time and price.
   Mr. Boesky's cooperation with the government has led to
guilty pleas by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., former Drexel
junk bond wizard Michael Milken, Mr. Siegel, a former
investment banker at Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. and Boyd Jefferies,
former chairman of Jefferies Group Inc., among others. Mr.
Mulheren is the only individual implicated by Mr. Boesky who
has chosen to fight the charges against him in court.
   ---
   VERMONT CAN'T FORCE appointed judges to retire at age 70,
court rules.
   The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals said appointed
judges, like most other employees, are protected under
federal age-discrimination law. The appeals court panel
rejected Vermont's arguments that the judges were "appointees
on the policy-making level" and thus exempted from the law.
The court also rejected Vermont's claims that the
age-discrimination law violated constitutional protection of
state sovereignty.
   The appeals court said, "We conclude that the language and
structure of the definition of `employee' {in the
age-discrimination law} suggest that Congress meant the
policy-maker category to comprise only policy makers working
closely with the elected official."
   The decision, however, is at odds with rulings in similar
cases by two other federal appeals courts, each of which
found that Congress intended for appointed judges not to be
covered by the law.
   William B. Gray, an attorney for the state of Vermont,
said a decision on whether to seek U.S. Supreme Court review
of the decision probably won't be made for several weeks.
   ---
   LITERARY AGENCY is formed by Boston law firm.
   The Palmer &amp; Dodge Agency will review manuscripts, provide
editorial help, and negotiate contracts for authors and
writers, says Ronald Kessel, managing partner of 150-lawyer
Palmer &amp; Dodge.
   Since the early 1980s, many law firms have opened
non-legal affiliates in such areas as consulting, public
relations and real estate. But this is believed to be the
first time that an established law firm has opened its own
literary agency.
   The agency's director is John Taylor Williams, a Palmer &amp;
Dodge partner who co-authored a book about publishing law.
Its managing director is Jill Kneerim, a former editor and
publisher who is not an attorney.
   The agency has signed up more than a dozen clients,
including former New England Patriots football player Brian
Holloway, who is writing a book about child rearing, and
adventurer Rory Nugent.
   ---
   CAREER MOVES: Charles A. Shanor, general counsel of the
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, will join the
Los Angeles law firm of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky and Walker,
which has more than 400 lawyers. Mr. Shanor will work in the
law firm's 36-lawyer Washington office in an "of counsel"
capacity, specializing in labor and employment issues. . . .
Noah H. Huffstetler III, a health-care attorney, joined the
Winston-Salem, N.C., law firm of Petree Stockton &amp; Robinson
as a partner in its Raleigh office. Mr. Huffstetler, 39 years
old, was formerly a partner at the firm of Moore &amp; Van Allen
in Raleigh, N.C. He is the primary outside counsel for the
North Carolina Hospital Association.
   ---
   LONDON-BOUND: Piper &amp; Marbury said it plans to open a
London office in June to serve clients with investments and
businesses in Europe. George P. Stamas, a partner in the
Baltimore firm's corporate and securities department, will
coordinate the office, which initially will have one
full-time resident lawyer.
   ---
   Amy Dockser Marcus contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Control of London
   United Transferred
   To 2 Administrators
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   U.LUI MMC U.SDW
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Embattled London United Investments PLC
transferred management control to two court-approved
administrators after the big insurance holding company failed
in a seven-week effort to find new funds to meet potential
U.S. liability-policy claims.
   In a step akin to filing for Chapter 11 protection from
creditors under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, London United
entered a safe harbor for as long as three months while it
tries to form a plan to pay debt. People familiar with the
company have said it may need as much as #100 million ($168.7
million) or more to increase reserves for expected claims of
#750 million on U.S. policies such as officers' and
directors' liability, asbestos and medical-malpractice
insurance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though an eleventh-hour savior for the major player in
London's substantial market for U.S. liability coverage can't
be ruled out, the administrators indicated they will focus
more on trying to assemble a rescue for some of the company's
insurance units to satisfy creditors, rather than try to keep
the holding company operating as a going concern. The
administrators, Colin Bird and Alan Barrett, partners at the
accounting firm Price Waterhouse, weren't available to
comment. London United officials declined to comment.
   David Rowland, chairman of the British insurance brokers
Sedgwick Group PLC, said it and Marsh &amp; McLennan Cos. of New
York, among others, have studied possible contributions to a
rescue effort.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foster Wheeler Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FWC J.ISH
</CO>
<LP>
   CLINTON, N.J. -- Foster Wheeler Corp. signed a cooperation
agreement to design pharmaceutical projects with a major
Japanese engineering and construction company.
   The U.S. design, engineering and construction company will
train and advise engineers at Tokyo-based Ishikawajima-Harima
Heavy Industries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies will design pharmaceutical projects for
Japanese companies world-wide and non-Japanese pharmaceutical
companies in Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Airlines
   Reduces Cargo Rates,
   Turns to Zone Pricing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- American Airlines said it reduced its
published airport-to-airport cargo rates 12% and simplified
its rate structure by going to zone pricing.
   The rate reduction, effective June 1, involves about a
third of the airline's cargo business. It doesn't apply to
its door-to-door rates, which remain unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The airline, a unit of AMR Corp., said it was able to
reduce its rates because it flies cargo in the holds of
passenger jets. American Airlines flies 2,400 flights per
day, and the American Eagle commuter division, also a unit of
AMR Corp., flies another 1,400. "Our operating efficiency
allows us to take advantage of a full schedule of flights
daily and an extensive route system," said William R. Boesch,
vice president, cargo. Typically, cargo services operate
their fleets for a few hours a day for cargo only.
   American said it reduced its published rate structure
format to two pages, from 383 pages, by going to zone
pricing. Zone pricing, which American currently uses for
door-to-door shipments, allows a customer to use a simple
grid to determine prices based on origin, destination, weight
and container, American said.
   Separately, American said it will begin daily nonstop
service between Nashville and San Diego and Las Vegas this
July, as it expands its Nashville hub. The expansion will add
20 new jet flights a day at the hub by the end of this year,
the airline said. American currently flies 85 flights per day
out of Nashville, and plans to increase jet operations there
to about 150 flights a day by mid-1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wyle Labs Says Net
   Increased Threefold
   In Fiscal First Period
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   WYL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Wyle Laboratories expects to report
fiscal first-quarter net income jumped threefold as its
five-year effort to refocus on semiconductor and computer
sales in its electronic business bears results, Charles M.
Clough, president and chief executive officer, said.
   Wyle stock rose sharply and traded heavily after a Smith
Barney Harris Upham &amp; Co. analyst upgraded her opinion of the
stock to buy from hold. She cited stronger-than-expected
first-quarter earnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Wyle closed at $14, up $2.
   Wyle markets semiconductors and computer systems and
supplies research, engineering, and testing services to the
aerospace, defense, and nuclear energy industries.
   Mr. Clough in an interview said that first-quarter net was
$2.9 million to $3 million, or 29 cents to 30 cents a share.
That compares with year-earlier net of $1.1 million, or 10
cents a share.
   Mr. Clough said sales rose 6% to $108 million to $109
million from $102.6 million a year earlier.
   "Surely," he said, "this is the best the company has been
operating in my eight years here," Mr. Clough said. He added,
however, that the company has no current plans to boost its
dividend payment.
   Sales and profit increases came mostly from Wyle's growing
electronic business, which accounts for 79% of sales,
compared with 70% to 75% five years ago. The segment is
expected to become 80% to 85% of Wyle's sales in another five
years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exxon and Du Pont's Conoco Settle Suit
   By Bermuda Firm Alleging Price-Fixing
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   XON DD
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Exxon Corp. and Du Pont Co.'s Conoco Inc. unit
said they settled out of court allegations by a Bermuda-based
oil-trading company that they and six other oil companies
rigged the price of crude oil.
   Terms of the agreement weren't disclosed. But Transnor
(Bermuda) Ltd. received far less than the $261 million for
which it had sued initially. A federal judge recently limited
Transnor's damage claims to less than $42 million, according
to an attorney for the trading company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the settlement does nothing to dissipate the cloud
that has been hanging over the crude oil market because of an
opinion issued last month by U.S. District Court Judge
William C. Conner. Judge Conner ruled that forward trading in
Brent, a widely traded North Sea crude that helps set the
price of other crudes, should be regulated in the same way as
a U.S. futures contract. A forward market is one in which two
parties agree to the purchase and sale of a commodity at some
future time under such conditions as the parties agree. In
this case, the commodity was oil.
   The two oil companies were the last defendants remaining
in a lawsuit brought by Transnor, a small oil trading firm
operated by former Amoco Corp. traders John Corp and Roy
Moor. The firm also was engaged in buying Iraqi crude and
supplying oil to the African country of Kenya, according to
the Transnor attorney.
   Transnor's suit alleged that the companies rigged prices
in the Brent 15-day forward market four years ago. Several
other oil companies, initially accused with Exxon and Conoco,
had already settled with Transnor. They were all affiliates
of either British Petroleum Co. or Royal Dutch/Shell Group.
   Under the settlement, neither Exxon nor Conoco accepted
any liability for the decline of oil prices in 1986, as
alleged in the suit. That year, prices crashed to less than
$9 a barrel for some crudes from more than $30 a barrel.
Exxon said that though it traded in accordance with all laws
and regulations, it sought an "out-of-court settlement
because it was the best way to resolve the issue with least
disruption to the Brent forward market."
   Judge Conner issued his opinion about Brent forward
trading in an order denying Exxon's and Conoco's motion that
the antitrust case be dropped. The judge's opinion stunned
non-U.S. participants in the Brent forward market to such an
extent many of them have quit or severely curtailed trading
with U.S. firms.
   And U.S. participants in the Brent market fear they could
be held in violation of the Commodity Exchange Act, which
requires all futures contracts entered into by U.S. players
be traded on regulated futures exchanges. Transactions on the
Brent market are carried out by telephone and telex.
   Exxon said its U.S. operations won't resume trading in the
Brent forward market until the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission issues a final ruling, possibly within a month, on
whether the Brent market should be considered a futures
market. Exxon said, however, that it may resume trading
through some of its foreign affiliates.
   Judge Conner's April 18 ruling dropped trading volume in
the Brent market by between 25% and 30%, according to one
market participant. Andrew Hall, president of Phibro Energy
Inc., a division of Salomon Inc., said: "Major European
players have stopped dealing with our U.S. division."
   The ensuing panic and calls for clarification from the
oil-trading industry prompted the CFTC to issue a statement
on May 16 saying that it believed Brent market transactions
to be exempt under an exclusion clause in the Commodity
Exchange Act.
   The letter released by the CFTC hints that the full
commission soon will issue a "statutory interpretation" of
the act as it applies to Brent contracts. Some observers
believe that in the absence of such an interpretation the
market would remain under a cloud.
   In his opinion, Judge Conner noted that Brent contracts
were highly standardized and that the volume of contracts
traded was many times the amount of oil available to satisfy
such contracts. He concluded that the Brent market ". . . .
has enabled participants to develop what is essentially a
`paper' market for speculative or hedging purposes."
   But Phibro Energy's Mr. Hall said: "The Brent market is
one that deals in physical oil and it should not be regulated
like those where doctors and dentists are speculating on the
future price of a commodity."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Water, Water Everywhere
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
WATER UTILITIES (WAT)
</IN>
<LP>
   One of the bedrock assumptions of life in America is that
when you turn on the faucet, water will come out. And that
you can pretty much use as much water as you desire because
there's so much of it and it's so cheap, almost free. Not
everyone believes that now in California, which is in the
fourth year of a severe drought.
   Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley recently announced a
water-rationing program. Some of it resembles the crisis
conservation program New York City and other Northeastern
towns tried a few years ago during a long drought. Maybe
there's a better way to manage "public" water, so that huge
populations of people don't suddenly wake up to discover that
they and their wasteful ways have caused a "crisis."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These problems recur in large part because public
authorities tend to think that water mixes with marketset
prices about as well as it does with oil. Water is handed out
like, well, as the saying goes, "like it was water." Hidden
subsidies to many of the nation's big users of water actually
distort the market for this commodity. John Boland, a Johns
Hopkins University professor recognized for work in water
economics, observes, "We persist in selling water for less
than it costs." No wonder we're so frequently left high and
dry.
   After years of bitter fights over water resources, the
political system is beginning to find its way toward a
rational solution. (There are still places, such as Santa
Monica, Calif., that create fines for people who fail to
insert flow restricters in their homes.) Most places are
discovering that the price mechanism does a better job of
discouraging profligate consumption.
   Even so, the pop environmental movement continues to
target the water villain who "wastes" water. People are made
to feel that they are committing a crime against society
because they "waste" resources, such as gasoline or
electricity or even landfill space.
   The local water authorities' first line of attack against
these "cheaters" is often a use surcharge, imposed above some
historical base. Of course, some public authority decides
what's wasting and what isn't. Ultimately, the wasters are
tracked down by inspectors and perhaps ticketed, as is now
done in Santa Barbara and elsewhere. But then because a
hard-and-fast cutoff would impose hardships on users with
changed circumstances, such as a growing business, the
authorities typically offer exemptions that are also
arbitrary.
   This is a silly routine, especially when used by a place
such as New York City, which hadn't even bothered to meter
for water previously. Why not try to balance supply and
demand for such a widely used resource by relying on
market-driven changes in its price? Consider gasoline. During
the energy "crisis" people idled in gas lines. Now gas
shortages are unheard of. That's because the decontrol of
energy prices made life normal again at the gasoline pump.
   Admittedly, this analogy isn't perfect. A tough barrier,
according to Johns Hopkins' Mr. Boland, is that even with
honest prices, people living through a drought may change
habits slowly. Unlike gasoline, water is billed well after
it's been used, so the eventual cost may not be associated
with outrageous excesses. Most adjustments take longer -- a
year or so to change landscaping practices, longer to replace
appliances. By then the drought condition may have ended or
eased, and the old wasteful system trickles back into place
(though there are indications that a permanent "life style
change" is coming to Southern California).
   Also, because water isn't close to being a competitive
industry, it's hard to arrive at the proper clearing price
for water. If drought brings higher prices, the extra revenue
may in the end only expand the bureaucracy, which tends to
find "other" things to do when given more money.
   Other utilities such as natural gas or electricity share
some of these problems, but many are shareholder-owned and
work fairly well if exposed to market forces. Maggie Thatcher
is moving in the proper direction by trying to privatize
water service.
   In the meantime, water sales between jurisdictions are one
important step. Sales from the Imperial Valley farm region of
California to urban users are a model.
   Perestroika has its place even in America. Resources, such
as water, are often an unpriced wilderness. Environmentalists
too often try to preserve these resources by simply
discouraging their use. A better way might be to recognize
that ownership and pricing serve to protect and conserve.
What better place for the U.S. to start tapping into
capitalism's proven success again than in the allocation of
water? Droughts may recur but there's little reason why a
mood of public panic and crisis policies must inevitably
follow.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. said it renegotiated
its principal revolving credit agreements totaling $1.4
billion with 28 U.S. and international banks led by New
York-based Chase Manhattan.
   New terms extend the agreements from 1993 to April 1995.
They also "give us additional flexibility to do other kinds
of medium- and long-term borrowing restricted by the previous
agreements," said a McDonnell Douglas spokesman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He added that the company has said it needs to borrow
about $1 billion before the end of this year, in addition to
$2.5 billion of debt that was outstanding as of March 31, to
"take care of inventory buildup of MD-11s in production and
flight testing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Species of Extremism
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERIOR DEPARTMENT (INR)
</GV>
<LP>
   Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan became Environmentalist
Enemy Number One this month when he suggested Congress
rethink the 1973 Endangered Species Act. He says the law
needlessly prohibits any development whenever it could damage
an endangered animal, even if it is found in other areas and
is only one of dozens of subspecies.
   Secretary Lujan quickly retreated under a firestorm of
criticism, and says he won't press for changes in the law.
However, he remains "very frustrated" by the species law's
byzantine requirements. This month he was told that the
Animas-La Plata water project in Colorado couldn't be built
because it would threaten endangered squawfish. The $582
million project would provide water for four Indian tribes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Lujan says the law allows no provision for the
hardships it imposes on the Indians. He also notes that
squawfish are found in many other areas. In Oregon, they are
predators that account for the loss of millions of migrating
steelhead and salmon smolts. To control the losses, state and
federal biologists there have just begun paying fishermen $1
for every squawfish they catch. Is the squawfish perhaps more
endangering than endangered?
   The straitjacket rules of the Endangered Species Act are
also at the center of a holy war on Arizona's Mount Graham.
The University of Arizona, the Smithsonian Institution and
the Vatican Observatory hope to build a world-class $200
million observatory on the summit. It would put the U.S. in
the forefront of astrophysics.
   But the area is also home to the last known examples of
the Mount Graham red squirrel. Until word of the telescope
project, environmentalists largely ignored the red squirrel;
it is only one of 25 subspecies of red squirrel, which is
common in the West.
   Moreover, no one has shown persuasively that the project
would harm the squirrel, which has survived heavy logging on
the mountain, along with the presence of campers and
fishermen. Telescope backers promise to reforest the logged
areas and create a 1,700-acre refuge that would be off-limits
to humans. The observatory would take up only 26 acres.
   None of this satisfies environmental extremists who are
masters at manipulating the Endangered Species Act -- not
merely to protect animals, but to block any and all
development. A dead squirrel has been sent to the project's
director, and the University of Arizona has been vandalized.
One pro-telescope biologist has received a death threat in
the mail.
   The Rev. George Coyne, director of the Vatican
Observatory, believes that if some of his environmentalist
foes had been "present at the creation of the world, they
would have said to God, `OK, stop now. You've got all the
birds. Don't create man, because he's going to mess it all
up.'"
   Rather than retreat, Mr. Lujan should ask that the
Endangered Species Law be amended so that factors such as job
losses and social costs are considered. The law shouldn't
make absolute protection a form of worship if the same
animals are found elsewhere, have many subspecies or can be
relocated. Speaking Monday in Portland, Oregon, on the
dispute over saving the spotted owl's habitat while putting
loggers out of work, President Bush said, "Common sense tells
us to find a needed balance." Mr. Bush's call for "balance"
is an important element that has been missing for too long
from the way this country thinks about the human species'
place in the environment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kollmorgen Corp. Agreement
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL J.HCH X.VER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SIMSBURY, Conn. -- Kollmorgen Corp. said it signed a
definitive agreement to sell certain assets of its
discrete-wiring business to the U.S. unit of Hitachi Chemical
Co., Tokyo, for about $12 million.
   The agreement includes patents, technology and certain
other operating assets of the business. The proposed
transaction doesn't include, however, a manufacturing plant
in Hicksville, N.Y., which remains for sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed sale is part of the company's restructuring
plan, adopted last September, after the collapse of a merger
agreement with Vernitron Corp., a Deer Park, N.Y., motors and
controls company.
   Kollmorgen, which has remaining interests in motors,
controls and an electro-optical business, currently is
resisting Vernitron's proposals to gain control of
Kollmorgen's board and to offer $15 a share for Kollmorgen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   California Vote on Tax Increase Could Bring
   Politicians in Washington Out of Hiding Holes
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A24
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Reed Royalty, president of the Taxpayers
Association in conservative Orange County, supports -- and
here the world almost trembles -- a tax increase.
   He's not alone. Leaders of both major political parties
and almost every established organization in the state, from
the Chamber of Commerce to the AFL-CIO, believe voters may be
prepared to take a first step -- raising taxes to repair the
state's crumbling transportation system.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   California, where the Great Tax Rebellion began 12 years
ago, may once again be a bellwether. Nervous politicians in
Washington, locked in budget negotiations, will be watching
to see what voters do here June 5. That's when Californians
go to the polls to decide if the state gasoline tax should be
doubled to 18 cents a gallon as part of an $18.5 billion
package to fix the highways and to introduce more
Californians to mass transit.
   Current revenue clearly can't support such projects. Gov.
George Deukmejian announced last week that the state faces a
$3.6 billion shortfall in revenues for the fiscal year that
begins July 1. California, unlike the federal government, is
required to balance its books; that means that without new
revenue, the state faces crippling cuts in the services it
provides.
   If it passes, and that's no sure bet, the ballot proposal,
called Proposition 111, won't solve California's budget woes,
but proponents tout it as a helpful start.
   "It accomplishes what it's supposed to accomplish," said
Mr. Royalty. "I'm for it." Mr. Royalty has the kind of high
personal expectations from Proposition 111 its supporters
hope thousands of others will share. He lives 20 miles from
his job, but some days it takes him 1 1/2 hours to get there.
   Proposition 111, one of 17 proposals on the June 5 ballot,
does more than just raise the gasoline tax nine cents (in
phases, starting with a nickel). It also lifts the spending
limits imposed in 1979 by the so-called Gann initiative, a
key victory in the state's tax revolt. That has broader
implications. It means that if Proposition 111 were applied
to the current fiscal year, state spending could be increased
at least $500 million. California's budget problem is that
revenues are growing about 6% a year but fixed program costs
are growing about 11% a year.
   Proposition 111 is joined on the ballot by other
propositions that would authorize the state to issue more
than $4 billion in general revenue bonds for new passenger
rail systems, low-income housing, new prisons, new school and
college construction, and earthquake protection for old
state-owned buildings. Most of these propositions were put on
the ballot by the Legislature.
   No one -- not Republican Pete Wilson or Democrats Dianne
Feinstein and John Van de Kamp, the gubernatorial candidates
-- proposes the elimination of the Gann spending limits. But
they all support Proposition 111 as one way to spend more,
especially in targeted areas the voters seem ready to
approve.
   It is, a small band of critics suggests, the camel's nose
under the tent.
   "Proposition 111 is the first necessary step for an agenda
of ever greater taxes in California," contended Arthur
Laffer, a La Jolla economic consultant and supply-side guru.
"It will virtually destroy the restraining power of the Gann
limit."
   What's happening here is a mini-drama running concurrently
with a larger showdown in Washington, where Democratic
congressional leaders are locked in budget negotiations with
President Bush, who has given hints that he may be willing to
back down on his promise that he wouldn't support new taxes.
   If Californians are ready to raise their taxes -- here in
the state where the anti-tax fever began -- maybe, it is
thought, nervous politicians elsewhere can emerge from their
hiding holes and vote for new spending.
   Maybe. This is a ballot proposal supported by all the
generals, and nobody really knows what the troops down in the
trenches think. It could be defeated, and legislators would
then lose heart. In any scenario, given the fact that program
costs are growing faster than revenues and a ceiling on
spending will continue to exist, legislators would be forced
to cut deeply into vulnerable state services.
   But if Proposition 111 goes down, panic is the likely
result among elected leaders. Alan Post, for many years the
state's leading budget analyst, fears things might get so bad
that schools and universities would be forced to close their
doors for part of the school year. "It's getting awfully
rough," he said.
   Californians, 30 million of them now, were once the golden
optimists in U.S. society. But now they feel buffeted by
change, and most of them don't like it. "It doesn't matter
who they vote for," said Mervin Field, the pollster, "because
they still see crime increasing, the war on drugs being lost,
educational standards going down, the environment more
fouled, housing becoming less affordable, health care more
costly, transportation in gridlock, homelessness increasing."
   It is a state that will have a non-white majority early in
the next century, but blacks, Hispanics and Asians aren't
very active participants in the political process. Those who
go to the polls tend to be older, more educated and to have
higher incomes, according to Mr. Field.
   And, he added, "the more that nonvoters become different
from voters in color, in class, and attitudes toward life, we
create and build threatening pressures which could easily
explode and alter for the worse the future course of our
precious democracy."
   "It is only the elites who are still voting," said former
Gov. Jerry Brown, now the Democratic state chairman.
   Because of that, Mr. Brown argued with echoes of his
campaign rhetoric, "both the Democrats and the Republicans
have fixated on anti-government and anti-taxation as their
political mantra. It's brought them success. It means that
anything that would expand the state's social welfare is
undervalued."
   Thus, unable to agree about very much among themselves,
the state's political leaders, individually and collectively,
go about their business by writing propositions instead of
legislation and permit what's left of the electorate to
decide the results.
   Mr. Laffer remains confident about this California
electorate. He believes the California tax rebellion is alive
and well and that voters will reject higher taxes and
increased spending. If they don't, he warned, property values
will collapse and the state's unemployment rate, currently
5.3%, will rise 1 1/2 percentage points. "The power to tax,"
he said, "is the power to destroy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Seat Is Sold
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold
for $410,000, unchanged from the previous sale April 20.
   Seats are currently quoted at $380,000 bid and $450,000
offered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Low-Budget Disputes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your April 13 Law column item "Arbitration Settles a Lot,
Unsettles a Few" doesn't reflect accurately the
cost-effectiveness of alternative dispute resolution.
   Arbitration does not favor the well-to-do. On the
contrary, it is a far less expensive means of settling a
dispute than going through the regular court system. A case
that goes to court can cost consumers an average of $500 a
day in legal fees, regardless of whether the case is heard
that day. This can add up to thousands of dollars before the
case is settled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, the largest dispute-resolution firms charge a
nominal fee of $100 an hour -- an average of $400 a case.
Consumers also receive fast results. Most cases are settled
within 51 days.
   Loretta L. Worters
   Insurance Information Institute
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West
   Rejects Offers
   For Purchases
   ---
   Proposals From PacifiCorp
   And Salt River Project
   Turned Down by Board
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   PNW PPW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pinnacle West Capital Corp.'s board turned thumbs down on
both PacifiCorp's $1.82 billion takeover bid and Salt River
Project's $500 million proposal to buy some of the assets of
Pinnacle West's Arizona Public Service Co. unit.
   The PacifiCorp offer is "financially inadequate and not in
the best interest of Pinnacle West shareholders," said
Richard Snell, chairman and chief executive officer of the
Phoenix, Ariz., utility holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a statement, PacifiCorp said it "hopes" Pinnacle's
board "will reconsider the rejection after hearing from
{Pinnacle} shareholders" at the annual meeting today.
"PacifiCorp is exploring its options which could include
approaching shareholders directly."
   Those options include a hostile tender offer for
Pinnacle's stock, said a spokesman for PacifiCorp, a
Portland, Ore., utility with operations in seven states.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Pinnacle
shares fell 25 cents, to $15.75 each, on turnover of more
than 1.4 million shares; PacifiCorp fell 25 cents, to $21.75
a share. Pinnacle's statement came late in the trading
session.
   Pinnacle said Salt River's $500 million proposal to buy
some of Arizona Public Service's transmission and
distribution facilities "is not acceptable financially or in
concept." In a brief interview, Mr. Snell said that "on the
surface, it makes absolutely no sense to us."
   But Salt River said its proposal is still on the table.
The quasi-municipality, which is Arizona's second-largest
electric utility, wants to rationalize its service territory
by acquiring Arizona Public Service assets in the central
sections of Phoenix and other nearby cities. Arizona Public
Service, the state's largest electric utility, serves the
downtown areas of those cities, while Salt River serves the
surrounding areas.
   Jack Pfister, Salt River general manager, said he wasn't
surprised by Pinnacle's rebuff in view of its rejection of
PacifiCorp's bid. "Our offer makes more sense in combination
with PacifiCorp's {offer} . . . because maybe their
objectives could be achieved without having all of {Arizona
Public Service's} service areas." Mr. Pfister said he hasn't
talked with PacifiCorp about whether their proposals could
work in tandem.
   Mr. Snell acknowledged that because the Salt River
proposal was submitted late Friday, Pinnacle's financial
advisers haven't studied it closely. By contrast, Pinnacle's
advisers had already dissected three previous PacifiCorp
offers dating back to November and had at least a couple of
days advance notice of the latest offer, which arrived
Thursday.
   Analysts thought the offer would be hard to resist because
it was all cash and it dropped conditions that made it easier
for Pinnacle to reject the earlier offers. After Pinnacle's
financial advisers reviewed the offer over the weekend,
however, the board's response was nearly the same as before;
this isn't a good time to sell the company. "We have a
direction for recovery and we will proceed in that direction
as an independent company," Mr. Snell said.
   The "real value" of PacifiCorp's bid is less than the
offered $21 a share because shareholders wouldn't receive
their money for more than two years, after all regulatory
approvals are received, Pinnacle said. During that time,
Pinnacle said its business strategies will have
"significantly increased both equity and the intrinsic value
of the company."
   Pinnacle said it can focus on paying down its $1.1 billion
debt now that it has put its MeraBank problems behind it and
found a buyer for its unprofitable uranium-mining operations.
In March, Pinnacle was released by regulators of all
financial obligations to its former MeraBank thrift unit
after making a $465 million infusion of capital into it.
   Pinnacle also is pinning its recovery hopes on the Palo
Verde Nuclear Generating Project, which Pinnacle operates and
in which it holds a 29.1% stake. Mr. Snell said, "I am
convinced, based in part on discussions with the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, that we are very close to getting the
{full} plant up and running."
   But PacifiCorp says it thinks its merger proposal is a
better deal for Pinnacle shareholders and customers and its
next moves could come as soon as today's annual meeting. Verl
Topham, president of PacifiCorp's Utah Power &amp; Light Co.
unit, will be at the meeting as an "observer," the PacifiCorp
spokesman said.
   Mr. Topham is in Phoenix lobbying support for PacifiCorp's
bid from regulators, city and other local officials. Mr.
Topham, who held top posts at Utah Power before it was
acquired by PacifiCorp last year, presumably is telling
anyone who will listen that PacifiCorp has been a good
parent.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Merck Opens a Lab in Italy
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MRK EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   RAHWAY, N.J. -- Merck &amp; Co., a health products company,
said it opened a research laboratory in Pomezia, Italy, near
Rome, to undertake research in human diseases such as cancer
and viral infections.
   The Instituto di Ricerche di Biologia Molecolare, a joint
venture for research in Italy, was formed by an Italian
subsidiary of Merck and Sigma Tau Industrie Farmaceutiche
Riunite S.p.A., an Italian pharmaceutical company. The $50
million facility will employ approximately 100 researchers
and nonscientific personnel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Tactic of Partial S&amp;L Sales Lists
   Short-Term Costs, Threatens Budget
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government's new tactic of selling
partial thrifts instead of whole ones has forced a sharp
increase in the short-term cost of the thrift bailout. And
the approach is threatening to swell the budget deficit and
hasten the demise of the thrift industry.
   The huge amount of up-front cash the new strategy requires
already has pushed President Bush to stop talking about his
no-new-tax promise. "The interesting question is whether the
S&amp;L bailout was the catalyst to induce the president to allow
for a budget summit that would include discussion of taxes,"
says Charles Lieberman, who follows the bond markets for
Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp. "I suspect that it
is."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Underscoring just how seriously the White House is taking
the situation, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady is expected
today to concede to the Senate Banking Committee that the
bailout is going to be far more expensive than the
administration previously said.
   "Clean Sweep," as regulators call it, was launched this
spring after it became clear that the thrift bailout was
bogged down. Instead of trying to sell "whole" thrifts --
that is deposits, loans, and charter -- the government is
trying to revive the thrift cleanup by selling whatever parts
people will buy. And all they really want to buy is deposits.
   Less than two months old, the new tack looks promising.
Bailout overseers expect during May to sell or liquidate
about 55 thrifts, more than they moved during the first seven
months of the bailout, which began last August.
   But the new approach has two serious side effects: It
unexpectedly and hugely increases federal spending, and so
complicates the current talks to cut the budget deficit. And
its belated recognition that no one wants to buy whole
thrifts moves the industry another step closer to extinction.
   The Resolution Trust Corp., the government's junkyard for
dying and dead thrifts, aims to move 141 S&amp;Ls out the door
during April, May and June. It may well pull that off. Yet
that success will carry a high price, costing the U.S.
government an astonishing $45 billion in up-front costs -- an
amount equal to one-third of the current budget deficit --
just for those 141 institutions.
   By requiring the government to put up enormous amounts of
cash to balance the deposits it sells, "Clean Sweep" has
thrown a monkey wrench into the budget negotiations. Its
spending kills any hope of meeting the Gramm-Rudman
deficit-reduction targets, both for the current fiscal year
and the next. By making it impossible to reach the
Gramm-Rudman limits, the new approach threatens to alter the
framework of the budget talks. That has paralyzed the
situation, because no one wants to take the blame for poking
a new hole in Gramm-Rudman.
   The extra spending is controversial because it isn't clear
how much of it eventually will be recovered. The true cost of
the bailout will be known only when the government manages to
sell all the assets, such as real estate and soured loans,
that are left behind when deposits are sold. For now, it is
clear only that the bailout is taking unexpected extra
billions of dollars.
   Thrift spending may also keep interest rates up, as the
Treasury issues more debt than previously anticipated to
provide the needed cash. Moreover, William Seidman, chairman
of the RTC, says his agency will be out of money by the end
of the year, forcing the administration to come up with
billions more for the several hundred thrifts still in cold
storage.
   The "Clean Sweep" strategy results from the meager
response that regulators received in their attempts to move
thrifts out the door since last August. The RTC's Mr. Seidman
argues that he had no choice but to start selling the
choicest parts of thrifts -- mostly to banks -- while holding
on to their bad assets. "It's what the market dictates," he
says.
   In the long run, the "Clean Sweep" strategy may prove the
wisest way to wind up the S&amp;L disaster. "I think it's great
that, for the first time in 10 years, the government is
putting enough money on the table to do something about this
problem," says Bert Ely, a Washington S&amp;L consultant who in
the past has been critical of the bailout. "Once they get
this done, they can concentrate on selling the assets."
   The major drawback to these deals is indicated by the fits
the strategy is giving budget negotiators: They leave the bad
assets in the hands of the government, which doesn't know how
much it will eventually recover on their sale. "The
underlying cost {of the thrift cleanup} will be known only
when all the assets we acquire are sold," notes Ed Dale,
counselor to Budget Director Richard Darman.
   Yet it is only by breaking up the thrifts that the
government appears able to resolve the situation. The buyers
of the deposits are mostly banks that want them as parts of
branches, says the RTC's Mr. Seidman. "Fundamentally, they
don't want a savings-and-loan charter," he says.
   The thrift industry's biggest trade group, the U.S. League
of Savings Institutions, now is contemplating pushing for a
changed charter. But many others just want the thrift mess to
go away. "I hope that all the savings and loans disappear and
become banks," says Robert Smith, who used to sit on the
board of a now-failed California thrift sold under "Clean
Sweep." "Their day has passed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark Reports
   $58.5 Million Loss
   For Its 3rd Period
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SM
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. said it had a narrowed net loss
of $58.5 million, or $1.22 a share, for its fiscal third
quarter ended March 31 as problems worsened at its San
Jacinto Savings Association subsidiary.
   In the third quarter last year, Southmark had a net loss
of $1.4 billion, or $23.30 a share, after more than $800
million in write-downs. Revenue for the quarter was $268.2
million, down 34% from $405.6 million last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The troubled real estate and thrift concern has proposed
reorganizing around San Jacinto, but the Houston-based
savings and loan's persisent troubles continue to raise
questions about whether such a reorganization will be
possible.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Southmark said that San Jacinto had a negative net worth of
$50.8 million at March 31, compared with an estimated
negative net worth of $12.1 million at Dec. 31 based on a
regulatory examination. In addition, the thrift failed to
meet new capital requirements and said it still hasn't
implemented its business plan, which calls for it to sell or
otherwise dispose of about $1 billion in assets.
   According to Southmark's SEC filing, the thrift had losses
of $38 million in the quarter, more than the $10 million a
month in losses it had estimated it would have, and $140
million for the nine months.
   Under an agreement between Southmark, San Jacinto and the
Office of Thrift Supervision, Southmark has agreed to
contribute $100 million more in assets to the troubled thrift
and to convert $112 million of subordinated debt into equity.
But even after that transaction, which must be completed by
mid-July, Southmark said that San Jacinto won't meet minimum
regulatory capital requirements, increasing the possibility
that federal regulators will choose to seize the thrift.
   However, Southmark said that San Jacinto has filed an
application asking the Office of Thrift Supervision to grant
it an exception to regulatory standards or hold off sanctions
while it tries to implement its business plan.
   For the nine months, Southmark had a net loss of $207
million, or $4.39 a share, compared with a net loss in the
year-ago period of $1.13 billion, or $25.76 a share. Revenue
was $791.5 million, down from $1.5 billion last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tuesday's Markets:
   Bonds Rally
   To Give
   Stocks Lift
   ---
   Rumors of Funds
   To Reduce Deficit
   Prompt Price Runup
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A powerful rally in bonds helped lift stock
prices that were sagging under profit-taking.
   The Dow Jones Industrial closed 7.55 points higher at a
record 2852.23 on heavy volume. Long-term U.S. Treasury bond
prices rose nearly three-quarters of a point, or $7.50 for
each $1,000 of face amount, also in active trading. The
dollar was mixed, rising against the West German mark as
traders reassessed the eventual cost of German reunification.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said bond prices rose sharply early in the day on
rumors that $50 billion in unspent congressional
appropriations might be available to trim the deficit. The
rally got another boost from buying by Mideastern and
Japanese investors who invested proceeds from maturing
Japanese government bonds in U.S. Treasurys.
   The buoyancy in bonds sent stock prices shooting up at the
opening bell, but profittaking on the runup killed most of
the gain and left stocks trading in a narrow range the rest
of the day. A last-minute rally pushed the blue chips to
gains.
   "The linkage between interest rates and stocks is
powerful," said Byron Wien, U.S. investment strategist at
Morgan Stanley. "When the long bond went through 9% {a few
weeks ago}, the bears got confident about their bearishness.
Then rates came back down. That, plus positive talk about the
{reducing the} budget {deficit}, started scaring the bears."
   Jon Groveman, president of investment bankers Ladenburg,
Thalmann &amp; Co., attributed the early stock surge to "a very
emotional, desperate opening on the part of investors who'd
been out of the market and were feeling left behind."
   Besides profit-taking, which many analysts termed healthy,
stocks were held in check by declines in the Dow Jones
transportation and utilities average. Also, Kenneth Spence,
director of Salomon Brothers' technical analysis group, said
there is resistance in Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index at
the 360 level; it closed yesterday at 358.43, up 0.43.
   "The market is on cruise control, and that's where it'll
stay until a bullet comes along," James D. Wright, chief
investment officer at Banc One Asset Management, Columbus,
Ohio. "When the bullet arrives, it'll knock it down hard."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in heavy trading. Volume surged to 203.4
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
advancing issues outnumbered decliners 816 to 689.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices jumped sharply. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond fell to 8.61%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6736 marks and 151.20 Japanese yen,
compared with 1.6626 marks and 153.72 yen Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Swapping Your Mutual Fund Manager for a Mainframe
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Move over humans, here come the computers.
   More investors are betting their chips on computer-driven
mutual funds, taking a bite of the "quantitative" investing
techniques that have long been popular with big institutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For anybody managing a portfolio of equities, ego and
emotion get in the way," said William Leugers, portfolio
manager of the Gradison Established Growth and Gradison
Opportunity Growth funds.
   Not so with computer-driven investing. "It's a more
dependable approach," said Jarrod Wilcox, chief investment
officer at Colonial Management, which four years ago switched
all of its stock funds to "quant" techniques.
   Quantitative investing runs the gamut from index funds,
which merely buy and hold the securities that make up an
index, to actively managed funds that use computers to pick
stocks.
   These techniques became popular with institutional
investors in the early 1970s, as evidence emerged that
traditional stockpicking wasn't producing market-beating
results. But until recently, the small investor was largely
left out.
   Not any more. In addition to a growing number of index
mutual funds, there are also more computer-run funds.
Advocates argue that these computer-driven funds get an edge
from more disciplined buying and selling and from better
portfolio diversification. The computer also provides a means
for rigorously double-checking and refining investment
methods.
   Score to date? Pretty good. Although computer-driven
mutual funds have had a tough time beating the market over
the past three years, they have generally done better than
the average growth-stock fund tracked by Lipper Analytical
Services, a New York mutual fund research firm.
   One reason for the recent good performance of quantitative
fund managers: They generally remain fully invested in stocks
at all times, believing that it is impossible to call turns
in the stock market. That gave them an edge over other fund
managers during the long bull market of the 1980s.
   In the most recent sign of quantitative investing's
growing availability, small investors can now invest with
Barr Rosenberg, who previously turned away clients with
anything less than $75 million. Mr. Rosenberg, a onetime
economics professor at the University of California,
Berkeley, was among the early proponents of modern portfolio
theory, which shuns individual stock research in favor of
constructing portfolios that produce the maximum return for a
given level of risk.
   Though Mr. Rosenberg turned his hand to money management
in 1985, until recently almost all his clients were big
institutions. But when Bell Atlantic Corp., one of Mr.
Rosenberg's clients, asked him to manage a mutual fund that
was primarily aimed at the firm's employees, Mr. Rosenberg
agreed. The fund, which was launched in February and has a
$1,000 minimum, is open to all investors.
   So how does a computer pick stocks? At Gradison &amp; Co., buy
and sell decisions are made after a monthly computer run. For
the $140 million Gradison Established Growth fund, for
instance, the computer identifies companies that meet minimum
criteria in terms of return on equity, return on assets and
ability to meet debt payments.
   Gradison's computer also excludes companies that haven't
made a profit in each of the last three years and don't have
rising earnings over the past 12 months. If earnings falter
at one of the companies the fund currently owns, the fund
buys a replacement stock that meets its criteria and is also
cheap in terms of price-to-book value.
   "It's simply a series of rules that helps you to buy
companies pretty close to asset value," explained Mr.
Leugers, the fund's portfolio manager. The fund's largest
positions include Ingersoll-Rand Co., Great Atlantic &amp;
Pacific Tea Co., Woolworth Corp., International Paper Co.,
United Technologies Corp. and Reynolds Metals Co.
   Unlike most quantitative managers, Mr. Leugers will boost
his funds' cash holdings if the computer tells him the market
is pricey, as measured by the price-to-book value of the
Standard &amp; Poor's 400-stock index. With the S&amp;P 400 currently
at 2.25 times book, Mr. Leugers has his funds 30% in cash,
the maximum allowed by the computer model.
   While the computer picks the stocks, Mr. Leugers spends
his time refining the computer's stock-picking criteria and
also checking that the computer doesn't stray because it gets
fed bad or misleading data.
   "If garbage goes in, garbage comes out," said John
Nagorniak, who runs Vanguard Quantitative Portfolios. "When
Texaco lost the big court case, that wasn't in any of the
numbers. That wasn't a factor that was quantitative in
nature. You don't want to buy something with a P/E of two
(price of two times earnings) unless you can be sure about
the E."
   Mr. Nagorniak, whose fund seeks to outperform the S&amp;P
500-stock index, has programmed his computer to use 30 value
criteria in picking among the 500 stocks that make up the S&amp;P
500 index. The fund currently owns 190 of them.
   "We don't want the fund to stray too far from the S&amp;P,"
said Mr. Nagorniak. "Anybody who is in the fund is going to
be exposed to general equity movements."
   To get around the problem of bad data, 20th Century
Investors doesn't use outside data bases. Instead, it employs
six researchers whose sole job is to punch in financial
information on 7,200 companies.
   Though its stock-picking is based on a computer system
that identifies companies with accelerating earnings and
revenue, 20th Century isn't purely quantitative. The firm's
five-person stock-picking team uses the computer's picks as a
starting point, but then selects from among those picks. Most
quants don't second-guess the computer.
   Though 20th Century's approach isn't as strictly
quantitative as some others, it has paid off big for
shareholders. The group's two oldest stock funds, 20th
Century Growth and 20th Century Select, rank just behind
Peter Lynch's Fidelity Magellan Fund in terms of 15-year
performance. But 20th Century has this one advantage over
Magellan: while Peter Lynch retires this month, 20th
Century's computer isn't going anywhere.
   ---
                  Strictly by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

   Recently, most computer-driven funds haven't kept up with
the market, but have done slightly better than their human
counterparts.
                                                                                                       

            INVESTMENT    ANNUAL      SALES       3-YEAR
              MINIMUM*   EXPENSES   COMMISSION    RETURN**
                                                                                                       

   Bell Atlantic Equity
              $1,000       1.35%       None        N.A.
                                                                                                       

   Colonial Fund
                 250       0.92        6.75        7.7%
                                                                                                       

   Colonial Growth Shares
                 250       1.16        6.75        9.9
                                                                                                       

   Gradison Established Growth
               1,000       1.45        None        7.1
                                                                                                       

   Gradison Opportunity Growth
               1,000       1.84        None        5.6
                                                                                                       

   20th Century Growth
                None       1.00        None        6.9
                                                                                                       

   20th Century Select
                None       1.00        None        6.9
                                                                                                       

   Vanguard Quantitative Portfolios
               3,000       0.53        None        8.3
                                                                                                       

   Lipper Growth Fund Average
                                                   6.8
                                                                                                       

   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index

                                                                                                       

   *Minimum for IRA accounts may be less
   **Annualized total return, which includes share price
change plus dividends, for three years ended April 30, 1990
   N.A.=Not available: fund launched in February 1990
   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Plan on Paying
   Overdue Bills
   Set by Soviets
   ---
   Currency Reserves Tapped,
   Collection Unit Forming
   To Cover Debts Abroad
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Soviet Union is drawing on hard currency reserves and
setting up a collection agency to help cover overdue bills
for Western goods, Soviet Deputy Prime Minister Stepan
Sitaryan said.
   Mr. Sitaryan, who is also the head of the State Foreign
Trade Committee, told the government daily Izvestia that slow
payments were starting to affect the country's credit rating.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He blamed the delays on Soviet economic woes, a fall in
exports and the inexperience of many Soviet companies, which
since late last year have been allowed to trade directly with
foreign companies.
   He said the state plans to boost exports in May by one
billion rubles -- $1.6 billion at the official exchange rate
-- to offset the delays, and is setting up a company to
recover debts it is owed. "In some cases we are using part of
the country's hard currency reserves," he said, without
giving further details. He said he expected Western companies
to be understanding.
   In Ames, Iowa, a high-ranking Soviet official acknowledged
his country has fallen behind in payments for imports, but
called the lag a "temporary" problem.
   "We do pay our bills, and we don't rob Peter to pay Paul,"
Ivan Skiba, a member of the Soviet Communist Party Central
Committee, told a symposium at Iowa State University.
   Until this year, the Soviet Union had a reputation for
paying for its massive food imports immediately. But in
recent months it has fallen behind in paying for imports on
everything from New Zealand wool and butter to Japanese steel
pipe to more than $1 billion worth of grain purchased from
the U.S. and other countries. Western analysts blamed the
problem on confusion caused by the reshuffling of Soviet
officals as part of President Mikhail Gorbachev's revamping
of the economy as well as other internal economic problems.
   Soviet grain importing officials are coming under internal
criticism for spending huge sums of scarce hard currency on
massive grain imports. The Soviet Union has been acquiring
U.S. crops, mostly corn and wheat, at a pace nearing the
record set in the 12 months ended last Sept. 30 of more than
21 million metric tons.
   A Reuters survey of medium to large Western concerns with
representatives in Moscow showed that most had been owed
money for the past six months and that some had frozen
further shipments until past debts were paid.
   Mr. Sitaryan said Western banks were toughening conditions
on loans and were even demanding the return of some
short-term obligations, which in the past had been renewed.
   Businessmen say Soviet companies and state trading
associations, now free to deal directly with foreign firms,
are ordering more than they can afford. Though the state now
allows concerns to deal directly abroad, it no longer
automatically guarantees payment to foreign suppliers.
   Mr. Sitaryan said Soviet companies had to realize that the
state was no longer going to protect them in times of
difficulty and that they had to balance their books.
   "Nowhere in the world does the state take responsibility
for the obligations of firms," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average Interest Rate Rises
   At Citicorp Weekly Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.1545% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.1478% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $415 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.15% to 8.159%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said that the average rate rose to 8.1801%
at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from
8.1466% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $386 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.15% to 8.19%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Private Market
   Attracts Issuers
   Of Junk Bonds
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   X.ETH CPE ECK X.CLD X.CAT
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Unable to sell debt in the battered public
junk-bond market, a growing number of corporations are
selling junk bonds in the private-placement market.
   Investment bankers say more than a dozen new junk-bond
issues are being negotiated in the $170 billion private
market, where insurance companies and other big investors buy
and sell securities free from public disclosure requirements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among the issues are high-risk, high-yield junk bonds of
Ethan Allen Inc., Colorado Prime, CaterAir, Jack Eckerd Corp.
and Multimedia Corp., according to Anthony Napolitano, a
McCarthy Crisanti &amp; Maffei Inc. analyst who tracks the
private-placement market. Also on the private calendar is
Caldor Corp., a discount retailer that is expected to
privately place $300 million in junk bonds tomorrow. If
completed, the Caldor issue would be the largest junk issue
privately placed so far this year.
   Most of these junk bonds were expected to be sold
publicly. But ever since the public junk-bond market hit hard
times last summer, the number of new issuess sold to the
public has quickly dwindled. So far this year, just four new
junk issues have been launched, raising a total of $382
million for corporate borrowers, according to Securities Data
Co. That is down sharply from the 46 issues totaling $11.35
billion that were sold publicly by this time a year ago.
   Away from the glare of the public and the media,
investment bankers are "quietly approaching the big investors
looking for lead buyers," said Mr. Napolitano of McCarthy
Crisanti. Rather than scouring the country for buyers for
publicly traded junk bonds, the bankers instead have limited
their search to "Newark, Hartford, Boston and New York,"
where the nation's biggest insurance companies are based, he
says.
   The big investors who buy debt in the private-placement
market get more control over how the deals are structured,
giving them more protection if the issuer gets into financial
trouble. In turn, the investors are accepting interest rates
on new private deals that are slightly lower than the rates
paid on comparable junk bonds sold in the public market.
   "In the past six months, we've {accepted} rates in the
private market that have been a bit lower than those we could
have obtained in the public market," said Charles Morss, an
executive vice president at Boylston Capital Advisors, a
money-management subsidiary of The New England insurance
company.
   However, Mr. Morss, added, "we get substantially stronger
covenants," particularly in guarding against early repayment
of bonds and takeovers and other "event risk" that could hurt
the value of a company's bonds. For example, he said that
insurance companies have become nearly as strict as
commercial banks these days in setting limits on the amount
of debt issuers can have without violating covenants.
   One drawback to the private market is that it can't absorb
the large billion-dollar offerings that once were easily sold
during the public junk-bond market's heyday. Most private
transactions are smaller than $200 million.
   The growing move by borrowers to the private market
represents a return to the historic roots of junk bonds.
Prior to the development of the public junk market, chiefly
by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and its former junk-bond chief
Michael Milken, most low-rated corporate bonds were sold
privately to insurance companies. "That's the old style; it's
creeping back," Mr. Morss said.
   The private market operates differently from the public
junk-bond sales. "In the private market, it is normal for
potential buyers to sit down with {investment bankers} and
negotiate" how the deal should look, said Garrett Moran,
manager of the high-yield department at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Co. "In that sense, it's more work," he
said. However, Mr. Moran said that the private market opens
the doors to a larger group of potential investors.
   To entice private investors, investment bankers at
Donaldson Lufkin restructured the Caldor deal significantly,
adding sweetners such as an equity stake, or so-called equity
kicker. Also, the size of the issue was cut to $300 million
from the $460 million originally planned.
   Donaldson Lufkin couldn't comment on Caldor because the
issue hasn't closed yet. However, according to talk in the
market, the Caldor transaction now consists of $100 million
of 15% senior subordinated notes that include warrants giving
bondholders the right to buy 12% of the company. The issue
also includes $200 million of senior secured notes, equally
divided among notes that float at a rate 2.75 percentage
points above the London interbank offered rate and fixed-rate
12 7/8% notes.
   For issuers like Caldor, the private market clearly offers
several advantages over the public market. To lure private
investors, investment bankers can customize terms. For
instance, floating-rate debt can be sold to one set of
buyers, and fixed-rate debt to another group.
   Also, an issuer's costs -- both in terms of time and money
-- are much lower in the private market.
   Each time a company seeks to change the terms of a pending
deal in the public market, it has to register the change with
the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the private
market, by contrast, deals can be restructured and overhauled
without re-registering with the SEC.
   Fred Sutherland, vice president of corporate finance and
development at ARA Group Inc., which tapped the private
market with a $125 million junk issue last month, agrees that
the private market can save on both time and money.
   "The reason we went the private route is because of the
uncertainty in the public market," said Mr. Sutherland. Also,
by "going the private route we could get the deal done much
more quickly -- it's a more streamlined process."
   Mr. Sutherland said he isn't prepared to give "last rites"
to the public junk market, but he believes "the private
market, going forward, will play a more important role than
it has."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   K mart Holders
   Seek Voting Power
   On `Poison Pill'
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   KM
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   K mart Corp. shareholders bucked directors' wishes and
approved a proposal that seeks to have the company submit a
1988 "poison pill" rights plan to a binding stockholder vote.
   The proposal had been introduced by the State of Wisconsin
Investment Board, and it marked the second victory for the
big institutional holder this month. Last week, Champion
International Corp. holders approved a similar proposal
introduced by the investment board, which manages about $423
billion on behalf of state teachers and other employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Such shareholder resolutions impose no legal obligation on
K mart's board. A spokeswoman for the Troy, Mich., retailer
said "the board will take up the matter for review in the
near future," and subsequently "make a recommendation as to
whether they will put it forward for a vote."
   The Wisconsin institutional holder, among the top 10
employee investment boards, controls 2.9 million of K mart's
199.7 million shares, and it also has a substantial Champion
holding. The investment panel offered similar measures at
Pfizer Inc. and United Technologies Corp. this spring, but
lost with votes of about 38% and 41% respectively, an
official said.
   The investment board has campaigned since 1986 against
what it sees as the improperly unilateral means by which
poison-pill anti-takeover measures are put in place, as
opposed to other measures that require shareholder approval.
   Poison-pill measures are designed to deter hostile
takeovers by making them prohibitively expensive, typically
by allowing current shareholders to buy more stock of their
corporation at a large discount if a hostile bidder acquires
more than a specified percentage of the company's stock.
Supporters of poison pills contend that their adoption forces
bidders to negotiate with a corporation's directors, allowing
the board to better pursue the company's longterm interests.
But critics contend that they can be used to entrench
management, at the expense of stockholders who might
otherwise have received top-dollar bids for their holdings.
   The Wisconsin investment board argued in its proxy
materials that poison-pill measures "so significantly affect
shareholder interests that shareholders should vote on such
plans."
   Jacqueline Doeler, the investment board's investment
services manager, said "We aren't saying shareholder-rights
plans are good or bad." Rather, she said, "our concern is the
process of how they are adopted," exclusive of shareholder
input. Ms. Doeler pointed out that other anti-takeover
measures, such as staggered terms for directors or provisions
addressing two-tier price offers, typically require advance
approval by shareholders.
   In its rebuttal to the resolution, K mart's board said it
considered the "proponent's view that plans such as the
company's rights plan deter legitimate acquisition proposals
and result in decreased stock values" before it adopted the
plan; the board concluded then, it said, that "such arguments
were speculative, at best, and did not outweigh the potential
benefits to stockholders" such plans afford.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE STATE OF WISCONSIN Investment Board manages about $23
billion on behalf of state teachers and other employees.
Because of a typographical error, the figure was misstated in
yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Wins Round in Bankruptcy Court
   In Case of First RepublicBank Corp.
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In a victory for banking regulators, a federal
bankruptcy judge preliminarily accepted arguments by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. that First RepublicBank Corp.
improperly diverted assets from its subsidiary banks before
they failed in 1988.
   The ruling, by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Felsenthal,
holds that First RepublicBank appeared to transfer
approximately $130.7 million in assets, through intra-company
dividends and other means, from certain subsidiary banks at a
time when their financial condition was deteriorating
rapidly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The immediate effect of the ruling was to increase
significantly the FDIC's voice in the pending vote on the
company's plan to emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. The
FDIC earlier won the right to vote $51 million in claims
against the debtor. That vote will be increased by the $130.7
million in claims allowed by Judge Felsenthal.
   The FDIC had asked that it be allowed to vote a total of
approximately $274 million in claims stemming from First
RepublicBank's alleged diversion of assets from the banks.
The judge allowed claims involving the payment of dividends
and the modification of certain contracts between the holding
company and the banks, but disallowed others, including the
claim that the holding company paid too little when it bought
the credit-card operations of its member banks.
   The decision was made only for the purposes of determining
the FDIC's voting power and isn't binding on future disputes
between the agency and other parties to the bankruptcy-law
case.
   Lawyers for the FDIC said the ruling plowed new legal
ground because the judge held that First RepublicBank had a
"heightened fiduciary duty" to preserve the value of the
banking units for the benefit of the banks' creditors and
depositors. First RepublicBank had argued that its fiduciary
duty was to shareholders and creditors of the holding
company.
   "His rulings on the law were brave," said Jeffrey W. Hurt,
a lawyer for the FDIC who said previous case law stems from
bank failures in the 1890s and 1930s. "It's the clearest
delineation of the fiduciary duty of an owner to a subsidiary
{bank} that I've found," he added.
   But attorneys for creditors and the company downplayed the
significance. "I think that's wishful thinking on the FDIC's
part," said Martin Bienenstock, a lawyer for certain
creditors. He said the company hasn't yet presented all the
facts in the case. "When the issue is fully litigated, I
think the FDIC will lose both factually and legally," he
added.
   Hugh Ray, an attorney for the senior unsecured creditors,
said the creditors can take comfort in the judge's language
because he disallowed more of the FDIC's claims than he
allowed. "Basically, he {the judge} said there's no duty to
run a holding company for the benefit of the FDIC, and also
that {a holding company} can't strip banks of assets," he
said.
   In a separate proceeding in U.S. district court here, the
FDIC is seeking to be allowed to vote an additional $1
billion in claims stemming from a loan the agency made to
First RepublicBank's Dallas and Houston banks before they
failed.
   Apart from the FDIC claims, First RepublicBank and a
subsidiary, IFRB Corp., list senior unsecured claims totaling
$673.3 million. Creditors' attorneys said they believe the
company's reorganization plan will pass despite FDIC
opposition because all creditors committees have now approved
it. The plan would allow the company to emerge from Chapter
11 protection before paying any of the claims made by the
FDIC by setting up a fund to pay the agency after various
lawsuits are settled. Eventually, the plan calls for the
company to liquidate itself.
   First RepublicBank -- which isn't related to First
Republic Bancorp. Inc. of San Francisco -- and IFRB list
assets, apart from claims that are contingent on the outcome
of litigation, totaling $384 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Prospects for Mandatory U.S. Inspection
   Of Seafood Improve After Vote in Senate
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The prospects for a mandatory
seafood-inspection program improved greatly as a Senate panel
voted to put the nation's $30 billion seafood industry under
a triad of regulatory agencies.
   The Senate Agriculture Committee approved a bipartisan
bill that would give the Agriculture Department the lead in
inspecting 1,900 seafood processors nationwide. Currently,
only a fraction of the four billion pounds of seafood
consumed each year in the U.S. undergoes some form of
product-grading or inspection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consumer advocates are optimistic that a mandatory
inspection bill will be passed this year. Yesterday's
unanimous vote marked the first time in more than 20 years
that they have succeeded in getting such a bill out of
committee.
   Nonetheless, it wasn't a complete victory for them. The
committee, in a 10-9 vote, deleted provisions designed to
protect from reprisals company whistleblowers who tip off
government inspectors about unsanitary conditions or
contaminated products. Ellen Haas, executive director of
Public Voice for Food and Health Policy, a consumer group,
assailed the lawmakers for weakening the legislation and
predicted a floor fight over the issue of whistleblower
protection.
   The measure, sponsored by Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell (D., Maine.) and co-sponsored by 29 other senators,
"has a lot of horsepower behind it," says Richard Gutting,
lobbyist for the National Fisheries Institute, the industry's
leading trade group. From his perspective, he adds, "it's a
good, solid bill" that can be improved upon.
   Yet to be reconciled are differences between Mr.
Mitchell's measure and a seafood-inspection bill now pending
in the Senate Commerce Committee, which would make the
Commerce Department's National Marine Fisheries Service the
lead regulatory agency.
   In the House, Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell
(D., Mich.) and Agriculture Committee Chairman Kika de la
Garza (D., Texas) are pushing rival bills. Their battle
essentially is a fight over turf. Mr. Dingell would give the
lead to the Food and Drug Administration, which his committee
oversees, while Mr. de la Garza would give the lead to the
Agriculture Department, which falls under the Agriculture
panel's jurisdiction.
   Mr. Dingell's bill easily cleared the Commerce Committee
in March and awaits floor action.
   The Agriculture Department already inspects meat and
poultry for bacterial and chemical contaminants, among other
things. The Mitchell bill would add fish and seafood to its
duties. It also would empower the FDA to set limits on
bacteria and other contaminants, and it would give the
Fisheries Service authority to close polluted waters to
fishing and to shellfish harvesting.
   Currently, Agriculture Department inspectors are posted at
beef, pork, lamb and poultry slaughterhouses whenever they
are in operation. Under the Mitchell bill, there wouldn't be
continuous inspection of seafood processing plants. Instead,
inspectors would make unannounced visits at seafood plants
and focus mostly on so-called critical control points. They
would look to plant workers for information on improper or
unsanitary practices when they aren't there.
   For this reason, consumer advocates regard whistleblower
protection as indispensible. "You either have to have
continuous inspection or you have to have protection of those
workers," asserted consumer advocate Carol Tucker Foreman.
   But Sen. Thad Cochran (R., Miss.) persuaded his colleagues
to strike whistleblower protection from the bill. He argued
that the provision would delegate too much power to workers,
including the right to refuse to work if they believe there
was a food-safety violation.
   Consumer advocates also criticized the committee for not
providing for inspection of fishing vessels, a task they
would entrust to the Fisheries Service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pacific Telesis Group:
   Phone Firm, Masada Units
   Get British Cable Franchises
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   PAC
</CO>
<LP>
   Units of Pacific Telesis Group, San Francisco, and Masada
Corp., Birmingham, Ala., said they were awarded British cable
television franchises for Manchester, Salford and Trafford.
   The boroughs contain 363,000 homes. The companies said
that the Manchester system is expected to be in operation in
about a year, and that service in parts of the other
franchise territories will begin by the end of 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pacific Telesis, a regional telephone company, is an
investor in 12 British cable franchises covering more than
1.5 million homes. Masada has joined Pacific Telesis on six
British franchises.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TCS Enterprises Inc.:
   Company Expects to Post
   Substantially Lower Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TCS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TCS Enterprises Inc. said it anticipates "substantially"
lower earnings for the near future.
   In a statement, Tom C. Stickel, TCS chairman and chief
executive officer, said the San Diego financial services
company will report earnings for its fiscal second quarter
that ended April 30 in a few weeks. Mr. Stickel couldn't
immediately be reached to comment on the reasons for the
expected earnings decline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989's second quarter, TCS had net income of $538,000,
or 17 cents a share, on $3.8 million of revenue.
   TCS also said it negotiated the purchase of 578,000 of its
shares held by the Resolution Trust Corp. for $867,000, or
$1.50 a share, and announced plans to buy more of its stock
in the open market.
   The RTC acquired the TCS shares when it took over Lincoln
Savings, the Irvine, Calif., thrift unit of Phoenix,
Ariz.-based American Continental Corp. TCS said it had about
three million shares outstanding prior to the repurchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   When `Freedom' Becomes Religious Censorship
   ----
   By Dallin H. Oaks
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   In this graduation season, many high-school administrators
will be deciding whether to include prayer in their
ceremonies. The issue is more and more a subject of debate.
The new discussion reflects a growing pattern of hostility to
religion in the U.S.
   In short, many understand the law today as being hostile
rather than neutral toward religion -- as forbidding all
public prayers rather than simply prohibiting state-authored
and state-required prayers in public schools.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the Supreme Court decided the original school prayer
case in 1962 (Engel v. Vitale), I interpreted the decision to
forbid only state-authored and state-required prayers. As
such, I thought the case was correctly decided. What I did
not foresee, but what was sensed by people whose vision was
far greater than my own, was that this decision would set in
motion a chain of legal and public and educational actions
that would bring us to the current circumstances in which we
must reaffirm and even contend for religious liberty.
   Such a situation exists in the U.S. today. In Utah, for
example, controversies have arisen over prayers offered in
high-school graduation exercises. A suit filed on behalf of
two students in one school district last year objected that
prayers being offered were "denominational," since they
mentioned the name of Jesus Christ. The suit asked that such
prayers be "non-denominational."
   Interpreting this as a plea for a court order requiring
that the name of Jesus Christ not be used in prayers offered
at a public high-school graduation exercise, I thought of the
first school prayer decision. In that case, the Supreme Court
said government had no power to write prayers. Before
Americans acquiesce to the use of judicial power to indicate
what words cannot be included in a prayer, they should
remember that if it is not part of the business of government
to write a prayer, then it is not part of the business of a
court to censor a prayer.
   The Supreme Court voiced that principle just six years ago
in rejecting an argument that the prayers in a state
legislative assembly were illegal because they were always
offered by a chaplain of one religious denomination. The
court said: "The content of the prayer is not of concern to
judges where, as here, there is no indication that the prayer
opportunity has been exploited to proselytize."
   Under this reasoning, the attempt in Utah to have a court
dictate what could not be included in a prayer would not
succeed. But even a winning case can be expensive to defend,
and in the graduation-exercise case, this economic pressure
persuaded the school board to do away with prayers as part of
their graduation exercises.
   Following the 1962 Supreme Court decision on prayer in
schools, eminent legal scholars ridiculed the idea that the
court's school prayer decisions would lead to a great gulf
between religion and public life. What the legal scholars did
not foresee is the extent to which the school-prayer and
Bible-reading decisions would shift the burden of proof with
respect to religious practices in public life. In the past,
religion had been an accepted part of public life in America.
It has become something that had to prove its right to remain
in the public square. By the 1970s earlier principles had
hardened into mechanical formulas that can be interpreted in
ways hostile to religion.
   Many citizens and some educators have come to consider it
bad taste or even illegal for public-school teachers to
mention religious influences or commitments. No wonder
Americans suffer appalling ignorance of their political and
cultural origins.
   Studies show that textbook authors have avoided references
to God or to religion. For example, one textbook in use today
defines "pilgrims," originally a religious term, as "people
who make long trips." In another text, no religious event is
included in a list of hundreds of important events over a
200-year period in American history, and the religious
origins of pre-Civil War abolitionism and the recent Civil
Rights movement are commonly skimmed over or totally omitted.
   Initially, the Supreme Court's school prayer decision
outlawed only state-authored and state-required prayers.
Later, the courts forbade any prayers in public -- school
classrooms -- even prayers that were privately composed or
optional. The courts were concerned with the possibility that
impressionable young students would be coerced by such
publicly sponsored religious exercises. Despite the absence
of coercion from prayers in adult settings, and despite the
fact that prayers are frequently offered in legislative and
other public meetings in every state in the union, some have
continued their efforts to force the abolition of prayers at
government or other public meetings. Immense resources have
been devoted to thrashing out the constitutional limits on
prayer.
   Appellate court opinions issued in the past several years
have split on the legality of prayers at high-school
graduation exercises. The U.S. Supreme Court has not yet
ruled on any such controversy. I hope the court will reaffirm
a 1952 opinion: "When the state encourages religious
instruction or cooperates with religious authorities by
adjusting the schedule of public events to sectarian needs,
it follows the best of our traditions. For it then respects
the religious nature of our people and accommodates the
public service to their spiritual needs."
   As the law stands today, school boards challenged on the
legality of prayers offered on public ceremonial occasions
must choose among continuing such prayers and risking
expensive litigation, abandoning prayer and being seen as
relinquishing treasured practices, or substituting a moment
of silence in which all are invited to offer private
devotions.
   The last option is likely to be unacceptable to most. In
my view, the one alternative that is entirely unacceptable is
for a school district to attempt to prescribe or censor
prayers to be offered at any function in the district.
   Religion should have a place in the public life of our
nation. To honor this principle with prayers in the
graduation exercises of high-school students is to honor the
religious plurality of our nation and the religious liberty
it was founded to protect.
   ---
   Mr. Oaks, former professor of law at the University of
Chicago and Utah State Supreme Court justice, is a member of
the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Air to Close Sales
   Of Latin American Routes
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX AMR LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Eastern Airlines said it will close the sale of
its Latin American routes to AMR Corp.'s American Airlines
unit in four stages between June 30 and Aug. 14.
   The first closing will be the routes to Brazil, Argentina,
Chile, Guatemala and Costa Rica. On July 20, Panama, Peru,
Bolivia and Paraguay route sales will close. Colombia and
Ecuador will close on July 31 and Belize, Honduras, El
Salvador and Venezuela on Aug. 14. American will begin
serving its new routes as the sales are completed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Eastern said it would receive the bulk of the $310 million
purchase price from American in July and August. Originally,
the sale price was $349 million, but Eastern and American are
still negotiating one aspect of the transaction involving
ground facilities in Puerto Rico valued at about $25 million.
Also, the initial purchase price was reduced by another $14
million after the U.S. Transportation Department declined to
approve American's purchase of the Miami-Toronto and
Tampa-Toronto routes from Eastern.
   Eastern, which has been operating under bankruptcy-court
protection since March 1989, was a unit of Texas Air Corp.
until a federal bankruptcy judge gave control of the carrier
to a court-appointed trustee last month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Advance to New High;
   Broader Averages Are Near Records
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed to
yet another all-time high.
   The 30-stock average closed 7.55 higher at 2852.23,
following a record close Monday. Advancing issues outnumbered
decliners, 816 to 689, on the New York Stock Exchange where
volume was a heavy 203,350,000 shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Broader averages are getting closer to record highs:
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.43 to 358.43, a
notch below the record close of 359.80 set on Oct. 9, 1989.
The Big Board's composite index, which yesterday rose 0.30 to
195.58, has a bit farther to go to reach its record of
199.34, also set Oct. 9.
   Are traders pleased with all this?
   "I assure you we are not happy," said Chung Lew, head
trader at Kleinwort Benson North America Inc. Mr. Lew said
that most trading desks have been selling positions to take
profits, only to watch stocks go higher the next day.
Speculators betting on a decline in stocks are having to buy
those positions back at a loss as the market moves up.
"Clients are being forced in because they can't justify their
cash positions with a market like this," said Mr. Lew. "They
are reluctant buyers."
   Such crosscurrents are certainly making the stock market
more volatile. A bond market rally yesterday morning helped
the industrial average soar more than 20 points in early
trading, with stock-index arbitrage buy programs adding fuel
to the rally. In stock-index arbitrage, traders buy or sell
stocks and offset the position in futures to lock in price
differences.
   But as market measures soared some favored stocks such as
Compaq tumbled on profit-taking. Eventually, the selling
washed over the whole market and took the Dow average into a
loss around noon and at several other points during the day.
   One catalyst for the profit-taking was Federal Express,
which plunged in a delayed opening in early trading. Federal
Express closed down 5 1/8 to 47 on more than two million
shares. Dow Jones Professional Investor Report said a number
of analysts cut their earnings estimates for the stock after
looking at the company's April volume figures.
   Federal Express, some analysts say, may be the first sign
of some of the bad earnings news that's in store for the
stock market in the weeks ahead. "When Federal Express has
earnings problems, everybody has earnings problems," said
Michael Murphy, senior analyst at the Overpriced Stock
Service, an advisory firm and money manager based in San
Francisco.
   Mr. Murphy said Federal Express's volume figures are
reflecting slow domestic economic growth. And on that score,
he is bearish on a number of companies whose profits are tied
to U.S. business activity, such as Nordstrom, Disney and
Circuit City Stores.
   "Companies who have a high overseas component {to their
earnings} will do all right," said Mr. Murphy, who includes
"classic deep cyclical" stocks in that category, such as
paper and chemical issues as well as some technology stocks.
But companies "exposed to domestic economic activity will not
have a good quarter," he added.
   Among other transportation issues, UAL fell 2 1/4 to 151
1/2. Declines in UAL and Federal Express helped sink the Dow
Jones Transportation average 11.20 points to 1169.63.
   Where are stocks going? Arthur Cashin, director of Big
Board floor operations for PaineWebber, said institutional
money managers still have the potential to push stocks higher
if the averages keep climbing and entice them to buy. "In
this kind of market a billion dollars or two could move
prices tremendously," he said, "and there's a lot more than
that sitting out there."
   Nova led the most active list, retracing some of its
1/2-point advance of Monday. The stock, which was also the
market's most active stock Monday, fell 3/8 to 7 on volume of
more than 3.9 million shares.
   Late Monday, Italian firm Enimont S.p.A. complained that
Nova "didn't respect the bidding rules established" in
agreeing to sell its rubber division to Bayer AG. The 1.25
billion Canadian dollar (US$1.06 billion) sale was announced
Monday. Enimont said it had been scheduled to make its bid
Monday, but was pre-empted by the proposed sale to Bayer.
   Computer Associates International was also high on the
active list, easing 3/8 to 15 1/2 on volume of more than 2.3
million shares. The company announced fiscal fourth-quarter
earnings of 36 cents a share, up from last year's 23 cents a
share, but at the low end of expectations. According to Zacks
Corporate Earnings Estimator, 13 analysts surveyed forecast
fourth-quarter earnings ranging from 36 cents to 44 cents a
share. The company has also declared an initial dividend of
five cents a share.
   Wyle Laboratories rose 2 to 14. The company said it
expects its first-quarter profit to be up threefold over the
10 cents a share earned a year ago. Meanwhile, Smith Barney
Harris Upham upgraded its opinion on the stock and raised
earnings estimates for the firm.
   Apparent profit-taking hit Compaq Computer, knocking it
down 2 to 119 3/8. The stock rallied 2 3/4 Monday.
   Procter &amp; Gamble rose 1 1/2 to 79 1/8. The stock added 1
1/8 Monday after the company's executives told analysts in
Cincinnati that its earnings will show strong growth in 1990.
   Pioneer Financial Services added 1 1/2 to 20 1/4, a new
52-week high for the stock. The company's executives were
making presentations to institutional investors in Boston
yesterday. Monday, the company met with investors in New
York.
   Vague takeover rumors circulated around Timken, which
gained 1 7/8 to 35 1/8. USA Today columnist Dan Dorfman said
Monday night on Cable News Network's "Moneyline" that
Britain's BTR might be interested in acquiring Timken. Timken
officials said it is company policy to decline to respond to
rumors. Some analysts who follow the company said Timken is
an unlikely takeover candidate because of the amount of stock
held by the Timken family and other shareholders friendly to
management. Dillon Read raised its rating on the stock
yesterday.
   Golden Valley Microwave Foods added 1 3/4 to 37 5/8. Smith
Barney Harris Upham and Piper Jaffray &amp; Hopwood both
reiterated "buy" recommendations on the stock following the
company's annual meeting Monday. At the meeting, the company
declared a 3-for-2 stock split and authorized the buy-back of
as many as one million shares on a pre-split basis.
   Archer-Daniels-Midland added 3/8 to 25 1/4. Key House
lawmakers have agreed on provisions that would require the
use of cleaner gasoline in the nation's smoggiest areas. The
clean-air legislation would mean a boon for Archer-Daniels
and others that make additives used to produce cleaner
gasoline.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.49
to 359.85. Volume totaled 15,820,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ABB Group:
   Asea Brown Unit to Sell
   C-E Minerals to Imetal S.A.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   F.IME S.ABB MDEST ASEAY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Asea Brown Boveri Inc. said in Stamford, Conn., that it
agreed to sell its C-E Minerals unit to Imetal S.A. for about
$150 million.
   Asea Brown Boveri, the U.S. unit of ABB Group, Zurich,
Switzerland, said it seeks to focus on its core businesses,
including products and services to the power, automation,
environmental control, transit and other markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   C-E Minerals, King of Prussia, Pa., is a supplier of
alumina silica calcines and fused silica used in the
refractory, investment casting and semiconductor industries.
Imetal, Paris, is a building materials, industrial minerals,
metal fabricating and international trading concern.
   Separately, Asea Brown Boveri won a $450 million contract
to build an electric power station at Bahrain's aluminum
smelter, officials of the state-controlled Aluminium Bahrain
(Alba) said.
   The power plant project station forms part of Alba's $1.4
billion plan to expand output at the island's aluminum
smelter to about 460,000 metric tons a year from around
210,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Cooperation
   By Mitsubishi,
   Daimler Grows
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MIB J.MOT G.DAI
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Industrial Group and Daimler-Benz AG
are quickly moving ahead with plans for global cooperation.
   Yesterday, Yoshio Taniguchi, vice president of Mitsubishi
Corp., the trading company at the center of Japan's largest
industrial groupings, said that the Mitsubishi Group has
received seven proposals for cooperation from the
Daimler-Benz side. In response, Mitsubishi Corp. said it will
establish a department within the trading concern to handle
project development with the West German conglomerate. Mr.
Taniguchi will head the new department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The speed {of the talks} is much faster than we
expected," said Masao Takemoto, a Mitsubishi Corp. spokesman.
   As a result, top leaders of the two international groups
may meet again as early as September to discuss further
plans. Originally, the two groups were slated to meet again
next March, one year after initial talks for the agreement
were announced. So far, all the proposals seem to have
originated with Daimler-Benz. Mitsubishi has been reluctant
to talk about its own ideas.
   Mitsubishi officials confirmed that the West German
business giant has asked Mitsubishi to supply construction
and factory equipment for an auto production plant in the
Soviet Union. Daimler-Benz is negotiating with the Soviet
government to produce between 240,000 and 300,000 automobiles
annually at a plant to be built in Gorky, on the outskirts of
Moscow. Mr. Takemoto said Mitsubishi has agreed in principle
to the project and will support it as a supplier of material
and equipment.
   In another request, Daimler-Benz has asked Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. to cooperate on technology transfer of small
truck production for a truck plant in East Germany.
   Daimler-Benz also wants Mitsubishi Motors to help it make
further inroads into the Japanese domestic market.
Daimler-Benz has asked the Japanese auto maker to help with
the production and sale in Japan of a new 2.5-ton to 3.5-ton
van that the West Germans are currently developing. Again,
Mitsubishi Motors said it is still considering the plan.
   Daimler-Benz has also asked Mitsubishi to supply auto
parts to its Asian subsidiaries. Mitsubishi officials said
the other proposals called for cooperation on semiconductor
factories, aerospace and aircraft leasing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Jacobs Engineering Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   JEC
</CO>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. said its
Irish subsidiary, Jacobs International Inc., was awarded a
$66 million contract to increase production at the Arab
Potash Co.'s fertilizer plant in Jordan.
   Jacobs Engineering, an international concern, said the
contract aims to increase production at the Dead Sea plant by
33%. Potash is extracted from Dead Sea brine, using a system
of solar evaporation pans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Data Switch:
   PC Networks Begin
   To Oust Mainframes
   In Some Companies
   ---
   Small Machines and Software
   That Operates Them Are
   Cheaper and Often Better
   ---
   Still Work for the Big Systems
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Consolidated Insurance Group recently pulled the plug on
the IBM 3090 mainframe at its Wilmington, Del., headquarters.
   Technicians drained the cooling fluid and wheeled the
minivan-length computer out on a dolly. Wayne Read,
data-processing chief, shut off the air conditioners that
kept the glass-walled computer room at a constant 67 degrees.
Now he's planning a party to celebrate the company's
conversion from the $3 million mainframe to a $300,000
network of personal computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sitting in a cramped room is the heart of the new system:
seven powerful PCs -- the "servers" that control the central
data bases -- and the disk drives that store much of its
data. But most of its muscle is in 150 desktop PCs. And the
PC users love it. Instead of queuing up and eventually
getting a lengthy report from the mainframe, they use their
own software to tap the corporate data base. They get the
information electronically, pick the parts they want and
print them out on a desk-side printer.
   Many users "are very excited" about getting information so
quickly, Mr. Read says. "With mainframes, you wait a day or
two. Then, you may not like it and have another two-day
turnaround."
   In switching to PCs, Consolidated Insurance appears to be
in the vanguard of a revolution. Personal computers have been
the fastest-growing sector of the computer industry for a
decade, of course, but most of them have taken on new tasks
or replaced typewriters and cash registers rather than doing
the heavy lifting performed by mainframes. Sending out bills,
tracking corporate accounts and managing payables and
receivables has been considered too important to entrust to
small computers. PC buffs talked about getting rid of
mainframes, but few companies did so.
   Even five years ago, any notion of replacing a mainframe
with PCs was heresy. And impossible: PCs weren't powerful
enough. But as PCs get ever faster and remain astonishingly
cheap, more and more companies are concluding that their
mainframes are dinosaurs. They cost too much; some run as
high as $20 million. And PCs, besides being far cheaper, can
do some jobs better than mainframes can.
   So, at long last, PCs are beginning to move into the core
mainframe markets, the corporate data-processing centers.
   The move is being resisted by most data-processing
managers, who were reared in a mainframe world and don't want
to slash their staffs. And it is viewed skeptically by many
chief executives. Moreover, some companies with huge data
bases would be hard-pressed to break them into smaller chunks
for PC networks. In other cases, the right PC software still
isn't available.
   However, the experiences of some leading-edge companies
demonstrate that switching to PC networks is often feasible
and highly cost-effective. "In almost every large mainframe
shop, you could cut costs at least 30%," contends David
Gajda, the president of RNG Associates, a Livonia, Mich.,
computer consultant.
   Dropping mainframes isn't painless. At Consolidated
Insurance, which expects to cut annual operating costs by $1
million, 30 people used to do mainframe work and write new
software when users asked for different information. Now,
just 10 staffers are left; the rest started job-hunting as
soon as they learned of the move to PCs. "You have people who
have been in mainframe data-processing for 15 or 20 years.
They elected to leave because that's where they want to
continue to make their living," Mr. Read says.
   In addition, the computer business itself seems headed for
an upheaval.
   "We're at the early stages of a radical change in the
economics of the industry," says William Zachmann, the
president of Canopus Research, a Duxbury, Mass., consulting
firm. "I'm convinced IBM's troubles haven't even started."
With the spread of PC networks, declares Thomas Willmott of
Aberdeen Group, a Boston consultant, "The 3090 is dead meat."
   More and more corporate executives, eager to control
rising computer costs, are getting the message. Ronald Peri,
president of Computer Support of North America Inc., a
Basking Ridge, N.J., consulting firm, says: "In the past
year, I've had three corporate presidents say to me, `We want
that mainframe out of here.'"
   At International Business Machines Corp., Martin Clague, a
marketing executive in the division that makes mainframes and
large systems, concedes that powerful PCs, such as IBM's PS/2
LAN server, can work as "a very small mainframe."
   But, he adds, "PS/2s don't have the reliability
characteristics" needed by any company that can't put up with
down time. When more than 150 users are hooked together in
more than four separate local-area networks, he says, a
corporate customer needs a mainframe to act as an "industrial
strength" network manager to supervise them all. The
mainframes and their operating systems manage data and
communications, detect and recover from errors without
crashing, and copy data regularly to prevent accidental loss.
   "All those things require fairly sophisticated machine
design," he says.
   At Digital Equipment Corp., John Rose, group manager for
PC and PC-integration businesses, says the choice of buying
its VAX midrange or mainframe computer or a PC as the server
for a network "depends on the {software} applications."
Digital says its more expensive VAXs "let you attach a
significantly larger number of PCs" and let many more people
simultaneously query the same data base. Nevertheless, even
at very large companies, PC networks have taken over some of
the work once done on mainframes. Among such companies are
American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., Baxter International Inc.
and Rockwell International Corp. Turner Construction Co., the
nation's largest general contractor, has widely adopted PC
networks and expects to move its payroll system to a network
and close down its IBM 4300 mainframe next year.
   George Colony, president of Forrester Research, says a
survey by the Cambridge, Mass., firm found that of 50 big
companies, 72% had replaced some minicomputers with networked
PCs, and 8% said they had replaced mainframes. Sierra Group,
of Tempe, Ariz., says that of big companies it surveys, more
plan to cut mainframe and minicomputer spending than are
increasing it. As for PCs and networks, two-thirds are
increasing spending on these, and almost none cutting.
   Most growth in mainframe sales is due to upgrades of
equipment by existing customers, analysts say. The growth is
dwindling. The Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers
Association predicts that U.S. unit sales of mainframes will
rise just 2.6% a year through 1998, down from its 3.3%
estimate two years ago. It sees PC sales surging 14.5%.
   PC networks' biggest advantage is cost. A $10,000,
state-of-the-art PC handles up to eight million instructions
a second, by some counts about the same as an $800,000,
bottom-of-the-line IBM 3090. Compaq Computer Corp. says its
new $20,000 SystemPro PC is six times faster than a Digital
Equipment VAX minicomputer costing $150,000.
   IBM disputes such speed comparisons as "simplistic." Like
Digital, it contends that processor speed ratings are only a
minor consideration in evaluating computer systems. They say
that their large systems, unlike basic PCs, have very fast
communication channels and that their well-developed software
systems facilitate automatic backup. In addition, mainframe
software developers long ago solved the problem of several
people simultaneously trying to get a record and alter it.
PC-network developers have devised solutions, but they
haven't been as thoroughly debugged over as many years.
   Nevertheless, NCR Corp. Chairman Charles Exley says that
microprocessor-based systems have a 100-to-1 cost advantage
over mainframes and that it will soon rise to 300-to-1.
Customers are beginning to notice such differentials.
   For years, Home Mutual Life Insurance Co., of Baltimore,
depended on a Honeywell mainframe that cost $400,000 used
when acquired 12 years ago and a Data General MV 10000 that
cost $300,000 five years ago. Howard F. Brenner, executive
vice president, has replaced both with a $160,000 PC network.
"We'll be saving that in hardware and software maintenance"
alone, he says.
   Even when keeping mainframes for some jobs, companies are
cutting costs by shifting work to networks. At Rank
Organisation PLC, the British leisure-time conglomerate,
Patrick Beet, director of microservices, says that by moving
monthly management reports and year-end accounting to PC
networks, the company saves #500,000 a year.
   Computer-hardware costs are only part of the story. PC
networks require much smaller data-processing staffs. CBS Fox
Video, a video-distribution company owned by CBS Inc. and Fox
Film Corp., once had an IBM 3090 and a 4381 managed by 50
workers. Today, it runs 10 PC networks around the country
with just eight dataprocessing professionals at its New York
headquarters. Costs have dropped to $1.3 million a year from
$5.2 million, says Dean Calabreese, director of management
information systems.
   In addition, PC software is much cheaper to buy than
mainframe software. At Consolidated Insurance, a $595
software program now keeps track of debits and credits
instead of a $200,000 general-ledger program for mainframes.
   Inductotherm Corp., a Rancocas, N.J., foundry-furnace
maker, is replacing a mainframe, and John Ulrich, the manager
of networks, says that "a full-blown
manufacturing-resource-planning package on a micro network is
$50,000. On a midrange computer it would be $100,000, and on
a mainframe $500,000." Moreover, Inductotherm's mainframe
software "became so convoluted and complex over the years
that only the author could do anything to it without it
exploding," Mr. Ulrich says. "It's a helluva investment to
throw away, but it's virtually useless."
   Mr. Peri, the consultant, says developing new programs
takes a few days on PC networks; on mainframes, changing the
appearance of a single screen may take a programmer a day of
painstaking work.
   PC networks still can't do everything, however. Theodore
Klein, a Boston consultant, says mainframes remain best for
jobs with very large data bases and constant communication,
such as airline reservations. "You're not going to put
Citibank's customer accounts on a micro," he says.
   Mr. Klein says one Midwestern company (which he won't
name) fired its senior data-processing executives and moved
its computer work to far-flung networks. "They lost synergy
and economies of scale," he says. Now, the firm has moved
many of the jobs back to the mainframe and centralized its
computing again.
   Switching to PCs also is slowed because PC software
developers are still struggling to match the capabilities
offered by mainframe data bases. For example, CBS Fox Video
has kept a Wang Laboratories Inc. minicomputer to run a
royalty accounting program that isn't available on PCs. Many
software developers that sell mainframe and midrange software
are reluctant to supply PC software because of the much lower
prices and profit margins.
   The big computer makers, which in the past generally urged
customers to buy mainframes and minicomputers as "servers"
for PC networks, are beginning to make PC-network products.
Earlier this year, both IBM and Digital Equipment introduced
PC-based servers. And Wang recently introduced software that
provides PC networks the same kinds of automatic backup and
security that users get with minicomputer software.
   In addition, a host of small firms are eager to provide
what customers need. Network companies such as Novell Inc.,
3Com Inc. and closely held Banyan Systems Inc. are growing
fast by selling PC-network servers and software. To manage
big data bases for PC networks, Sequent Computer Systems
Inc., Teradata Corp. and closely held NetFrame Systems Inc.
have designed powerful servers.
   Despite such pressures, major computer makers are dawdling
in the PC-network area because it's hard to earn enough to
support their vast sales, service and support organizations.
"The problem," says John Levinson of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.,
"is that the entire organizational structure built up around
the old products is as obsolete as the products are."
   The big companies, their customers say, would much rather
keep selling the more-profitable mainframes. Richard Hock,
director of management information systems at Echlin
Manufacturing Co., a Branford, Conn., auto-parts maker, cut
computing costs one-third by moving corporate-accounting and
human-resource programs to PCs. Now, he hopes to replace the
minicomputers and mainframes at Echlin's factories with PC
networks as well. But, he says, the data-processing managers
in the plants "are fearful of losing power, and the hardware
vendors are helping fan that fear."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Set to Raise
   $750 Million at Sale
   Of Short-Term Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $750 million in
new cash with the sale Tuesday of about $16.8 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.05 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing Aug. 30 and Nov. 29, 1990,
respectively. They will be available in minimum denominations
of $10,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders must be received by 1 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time
Tuesday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or
branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd.:
   Shareholder Plans to Form
   Group to Seek a Takeover
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AEAGF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A shareholder of Agnico Eagle Mines Ltd., Toronto, said he
plans to establish a group of holders to pursue a takeover
bid for the widely held gold mining company.
   The shareholder, Jacques Forget, who owns about 3% of
Agnico's shares, said he will seek the change in control as a
result of what he called "numerous errors in management." Mr.
Forget said he also will attempt to delay or prevent Agnico's
proposed offering of 40 million Canadian dollars (US$34
million) of shares and warrants. Agnico Eagle officials
weren't available to comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Agnico Eagle
shares gained 87.5 Canadian cents to close at C$9.625, giving
the company a current indicated market value of about C$264.1
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Abrupt Halt to Smoking
   Works Best, Study Finds
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Most people who successfully stop smoking
cigarettes do it without help from formal programs; they are
most likely to quit if they stop "cold turkey," according to
a new study.
   In analyzing the results of a 1986 telephone survey
conducted by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control,
researchers found that about 48% of those interviewed, who
quit smoking during the previous 10 years, had done so on
their own; while only 24% of those who quit were helped by a
smoking cessation program or by using nicotine gum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Researchers at the University of Wisconsin said their
findings, published in today's Journal of the American
Medical Association, were also important because the survey
found that 30% of people who had smoked during the previous
year had tried to kick the habit. If this were true for the
entire U.S. population, it would mean that 17 million people
each year try to quit smoking, but that only 1.3 million of
them are successful. The researchers said their report was
the first to determine which methods seemed to work for most
people.
   The researchers found that about 70% of people who tried
to quit had done so at the urging of their doctors, while
only 46% of all the smokers said their physicians advised
them to stop. The researchers said that while formal programs
were helpful for some people, advice designed to help people
quit on their own might be more useful for most people who
are thinking about quitting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Rhone-Poulenc S.A.:
   Quarterly Profit Fell 9.6%;
   Exchange Fluctuations Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rhone-Poulenc S.A. said foreign exchange fluctuations
contributed to a 9.6% drop in first-quarter net profit after
payments to minority interests, to 1.37 billion francs ($245
million) from 1.52 billion francs a year earlier.
   The French pharmaceutical and chemical company said the
decline of the dollar and yen against European currencies was
particularly debilitating for its overseas income when
translated into francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated revenue grew 7.4% to 19.93 billion francs,
but the state-controlled concern noted that first-quarter
revenue was down 2.9% when recent acquisitions were excluded
from the balance sheet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   World Petroleum Prices Generally Fall as OPEC
   Shows Scant Evidence of Curbing Overproduction
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   World petroleum prices were mostly lower on a continuing
lack of evidence that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries is cutting back on high oil output.
   In European spot and futures markets, prices of North Sea
crudes declined between 10 cents and 20 cents a barrel. In
the U.S., the price of crude oil for July delivery fell 12
cents a barrel to settle at $18.92 on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.The Merc's June crude contract plunged 58 cents a
barrel to $17.68. But volatility had been expected because
yesterday was the last day of trading for the June contract.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oil analysts attributed the general weakening of markets
to the glut of crude from the continued over-quota production
in OPEC.
   "There is concern about the crude overhang in the U.S.,
which has been a magnet for much of the crude," said Mari
Buglass, a London-based international oil analyst for
Shearson Lehman Hutton. "Prices cannot move up until the
surplus works off."
   As a result, traders yesterday anxiously awaited the
weekly report of U.S. oil inventories by the American
Petroleum Institute. According to a survey by the Dow Jones
International Petroleum Report, trading houses were
predicting a decline of some 900,000 barrels in U.S.
inventories.
   But the API report, released after futures trading had
closed, showed instead that crude inventories jumped 4.4
million barrels last week. The new total of 380.6 million
barrels is 40 million higher than the year-earlier level.
Minutes after release of the report, crude oil prices were
down 15 cents a barrel in the U.S. cash market.
   The API statistics added another layer of pessimism to
traders' general expectations on the near-term course of
prices. Eric Bolling of Edge Trading Corp., New York, is
among those who look for a "continuing slide." Probably, he
said, "we will see July crude testing the mid-$18 level over
the next couple of days."
   Meanwhile, those who monitor OPEC said there are few signs
that production has dropped much, if any, from the April
level. Although they said it's too early to draw any final
conclusions on May volumes, several agreed that the only
reductions of any size have been made by Saudi Arabia, the
OPEC kingpin, which was producing some 450,000 barrels a day
over quota.
   Saudi Arabia is now producing at its quota of 5.4 million
barrels a day, said Cristina Haus, a consultant to
Washingtonbased Energy Security Analysis, which monitors oil
supplies world-wide. But she suggested that May's total OPEC
production won't average much below 23.5 million barrels a
day, down only slightly from April's 23.7 million.
   In other commodity markets:
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rose as traders reacted more to
reports of strong demand for copper in London, rather than to
news that Kennecott Copper Corp. had come to agreement with
the United Steelworkers union on a new labor contract. The
soon-to-expire May contract rose 1.85 cents a pound to
$1.2175 while July jumped 2.70 cents to $1.1615 on the
Commodity Exchange in New York. The premium of May over July
narrowed yesterday, but in London the premium of the cash
price over the three-months delivery widened under strong
merchant demand for immediately available copper, according
to analysts. One analyst said that some of the strength in
London also may have been generated by traders who had sold
options contracts that expire in June and were buying them
back because of the sharp advance in prices. The June 30
expiration of union contracts with three U.S. producers and
the possibility of subsequent production disruptions has been
hanging over the copper market, analysts said. With the
Kennecott settlement, such prospects have been reduced, they
said.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rose sharply, as first
platinum and then silver led advances, with gold following
reluctantly. July delivery silver was particularly strong,
ending with a gain of 15 cents an ounce at $5.3350, which was
just one cent an ounce below its high of the day. July
platinum rose $3.80 an ounce to $504.90. June gold edged
higher by $2.30 an ounce to $376.40. Analysts attributed the
strong surge in silver to technical considerations, for the
most part. Lawrence H. Heim, editor of the Heim Investment
Letter in Portland, Oregon, observed that July silver
actually began its rally when it penetrated above $5.10 an
ounce on Friday. Peter Cardillo, trading adviser for
Josephthal &amp; Co., New York, noted that the July contract's
ability to close over $5.30 was a particularly constructive
feature and could help it advance further. The contract has
established a good technical base, and was influenced by a
rise in the bond market and the prospect of lower interest
rates, he said. Platinum was chiefly influenced by concern
over further violence in South Africa, such as took place
over the weekend, an analyst said. South Africa produces more
than 85% of the world's platinum.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Labor problems in the Ivory Coast continued to
boost futures prices. The July contract rose $45 a metric ton
to $1,491. During the session, the contract traded as high as
$1,502. The list of labor sectors demanding pay raises in the
Ivory Coast grew yesterday, according to Sandra Kaul, analyst
for Shearson Lehman Hutton, New York. Joining the labor
protests, which recently featured demonstrations by army
recruits and the police, were postal workers, electricians
and telecommunication employees, who threatened to walk off
their jobs on June 1 and 2 if their pay demands weren't met,
she said. In addition, dock workers still have a strike
scheduled for June 5, the police aren't completely back at
work after having their demands met last week, and customs
workers are expected to strike on Friday, Ms. Kaul said. The
Ivory Coast and Brazil are the only nations that harvest a
substantial summer crop, or mid-crop, of cocoa beans, and are
expected to supply most needs for the next several months,
Ms. Kaul said. Brazil also is suffering from some labor
unrest in response to the stringent economic policies that
were imposed by the new government, she said.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: The soonest-to-expire July contract continued
firmer, surging to a new high on strong demand and tight
supplies of cotton. The July contract ended with a gain of
1.64 cents a pound at 79.77 cents. During the session it
traded at a new life-of-contract high of 79.94 cents, topping
the old high of 78.70 cents. More deferred contract months,
which represent the 1990-91 season that will begin Aug. 1,
showed small changes and were mostly lower. Buying of July
contracts has been generated by the strongest demand in
recent years, both domestic and from overseas, said Thomas
Mueller, analyst for Merrill Lynch, New York. Also, supplies
of cotton in relation to the current rate of use are low, he
said. As an example, Mr. Mueller noted that certified stocks
of cotton in warehouses of the New York Cotton Exchange
amount to only about 60,000 bales. The July open interest, or
the number of futures contracts that remain to be either
nullified by an opposite trade or fulfilled by delivery of
the commodity, amounts to 1.6 million bales.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Wheat futures prices closed mostly
lower following an Agriculture Department wheat report. The
report indicated that the winter wheat crop remains
essentially unharmed by the floods that swept large portions
of the southern Great Plains over the past week. Recent
indications of export interest in wheat haven't fueled a
rally in the futures market, analysts said, because most
countries are expected to wait a month or two before buying,
in expectation of lower prices. Further pressure was put on
winter wheat futures prices by rains across the northern
Great Plains, where scanty rainfall had been supporting
futures prices for wheat planted each spring in that area.
Wheat futures for July delivery dipped 2.25 cents a bushel to
close at $3.3475 on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn and
soybean futures prices also closed lower, reflecting
continuing concern over the Soviet Union's ability to finance
grain exports. July corn slid 2.25 cents a bushel to close at
$2.7475, and July soybeans declined 1.5 cents a bushel to
close at $6.09.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CS First Boston Picks
   Toll for Post in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.CSU
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Maynard Toll, a managing director of CS First
Boston Inc. in New York, will become president and branch
manager of the investment bank's Japan operation, the company
said.
   Mr. Toll, head of divestitures and corporate sales in New
York, will succeed two senior executives who recently
resigned. The former chairman of the Japan operation, James
M. Walsh, and the former branch manager, Keisuke Inaba, both
resigned after the group appointed a new head of Pacific
operations, Allen D. Wheat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wheat, chairman of CS First Boston Pacific Inc., said
he is "thrilled" Mr. Toll will be working in Tokyo again. Mr.
Toll was First Boston's Tokyo representative from 1978 to
1981.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disabled-Rights Bill Inspires Hope, Fear
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS S SBC
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Congress is on the verge of passing
legislation to give the disabled sharply increased access to
services and jobs.
   Though hailed as a way to finally give equal rights to
people with disabilities, the legislation sends shivers
through many businesses that feel it will be burdensome to
comply. But some companies, mostly larger ones, have already
begun accommodating the disabled. They say it's less
expensive than feared and more rewarding than hoped.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House yesterday overwhelmingly passed the Americans
With Disabilities Act by a vote of 403 to 20. The Senate had
already handily approved a disabilities bill. After a
House-Senate conference to resolve differences, President
Bush is expected to sign the bill into law.
   The act, which makes up the most sweeping civil-rights
bill in more than 25 years, would bar employment
discrimination against people with physical or mental
disabilities. It also would require access to public
buildings, telephone service, mass transportation and
government services for the 43 million people in the U.S. who
have disabilities. Until the law goes into effect, disabled
people are protected by only a patchwork of state or local
laws and a 1973 law that sets requirements for federal
buildings, contractors and grant recipients.
   Some employers are worried about whom they may have to
hire, but much of the opposition boils down to money. Critics
of the bill object to the wording, saying phrases such as
"reasonable accommodation" are too vague and could lead to
expensive lawsuits, although most of those terms are already
used in the 1973 law. Outright costs for building and systems
alterations are the other big concern. The White House
estimates the annual cost of employment and
public-accommodations requirements will be between $1 billion
and $2 billion a year. Many businesses worry that the burden
will fall unevenly.
   Accommodating people with disabilities will be costly for
construction companies, injecting surprises into final bills
for clients, the Associated General Contractors says.
Contractors "can't build the cost into their price structure
because the cost is not foreseeable at the time when bids are
due," the trade group says.
   Companies that have begun to meet disabilities-access
rules say most cost concerns are overblown, as does a federal
study by Syracuse University, which found that access
features, when designed into new construction, on average add
less than 1% to the total cost.
   Marriott Corp. says the added expense of providing such
features as 40 wheelchair-accessible rooms and Braille panels
in the elevators at a multimillion-dollar hotel that it
opened in San Francisco last year was "insignificant." And
when Marriott hired James Burtnett, who uses a wheelchair, as
a telephone operator in its Bethesda, Md., headquarters last
year, the company needed only to widen a phone cubicle, at a
cost of less than $50.
   While it costs more to revamp an existing building, the
new law wouldn't require "retrofitting" if it means an "undue
burden" for the business.
   Many proponent companies say accommodation is worth it
because the customer base and labor pool are enlarged.
"Hiring and accommodating people with disabilities as well as
designing facilities accessible to all simply make good
business sense," says Richard E. Marriott, vice chairman of
Marriott.
   After booking a meeting of 3,000 Disabled American
Veterans in 1985, the Sheraton New Orleans spent $5,000 to
build ramps to its pool deck and to the street, widen
meeting-room aisles and furnish office space for a medical
clinic. The hotel serves at least two organizations of
disabled persons a year and several disabled individuals
nightly, says Robert Foster, general manager. The hotel,
named the top Sheraton in North America last year, will add
new services, including sign-language interpreters for the
deaf, for meetings this year of the National Deaf Bowlers
Association and the Veterans Administration/Paralyzed
Veterans.
   Transportation providers may have the most expensive job
ahead. The American Public Transit Association says that
lifts to raise people in wheelchairs onto buses add not only
$10,000 to $15,000 per bus to the purchase price, but also
tack on another $8,000 a year in operating and maintenance
expenses. To make commuter-rail and subway stations
accessible may run into billions of dollars, the association
believes.
   Greyhound Corp., a unit of GLI Holding Co., says the bill
will cost the company $78 million a year in added expenses
and lost revenue, counting wheelchair-lift equipment for new
buses and lost seats on lift-fitted buses. Greyhound gained a
compromise provision in the legislation that will hold off
the lift requirement until after a feasibility study, which
could lead to less-costly solutions. (Democratic Sen. Tom
Harkin of Iowa, chairman of the Senate disability policy
subcommittee, who helped negotiate the compromise, says lifts
are available at less than a third of the $35,000 price
quoted by Greyhound.)
   The Denver Rapid Transit District, giving in after a
protracted battle with activists, has been moving to equip
all new buses and some old ones with lifts, so that all
routes will have service for wheelchair users. Robert Bauman,
the general manager, says the Denver system made some design
and upkeep changes that have slashed the annual maintenance
cost to $980 a bus, from $5,000.
   Mass-transit buses and rail cars purchased more than 30
days after the law is enacted must be accessible to the
disabled; "key" subway, light rail and commuter rail stations
must be made accessible to disabled people between 20 and 30
years after enactment. Paratransit services, such as
door-to-door vans for the severely disabled, must be made
accessible within 18 months.
   Just providing access isn't enough, says Harold Jenkins,
general manager of the Cambria County Transit Authority in
Johnstown, Pa. After fitting its buses with lifts in 1983,
the system made the changes work for it by "selling" the
service. Because many people are "uncomfortable in dealing
with those who are different," disabled people often are
reluctant "to venture out into society," he explains. The
system now carries more than 3,000 passengers in wheelchairs
and 36,000 other disabled people each year.
   Advocates for the disabled also stress that planning ahead
saves money. Ronald Mace, president of Barrier Free
Environment Inc., a Raleigh, N.C., architectural firm, says
he often sees buildings built before designers look at
municipal accessibility requirements. "We have been called in
on some major corporation facilities" to play accessibility
catch-up, says Mr. Mace, who is in a wheelchair.
   Such advocates say reasonable access is vital to help
prevent discrimination against the disabled. Lisa Carl, 21
years old, was denied access to a movie theater in 1988
because she was in a wheelchair. When her mother called to
ask why, she was told, "She can't even open the door." The
Tacoma, Wash., human rights department ruled the theater
discriminated against Ms. Carl. The theater has gone to court
seeking to overturn the ruling and asking that, instead, an
aide be required to accompany Ms. Carl to the theater.
   Paul Roth, president of Roth Cos., a theater chain based
in Silver Spring, Md., and government relations chairman for
the National Association of Theater Owners, says, "The local
Bijou isn't the newest Marriott hotel in San Francisco. If
compliance with the act is not made clear and easier, many of
these theaters will close," he says. "They do not have the
time, staff or resources to determine or argue, perhaps
before a regulatory agency or in a courtroom, what is
reasonable, readily achievable or an undue hardship or
financial burden."
   It doesn't have to be that difficult, contends Patrisha
Wright, a lobbyist for the Disability Rights Education and
Defense Fund, in Berkeley, Calif. Businesses, she says, "can
either talk to the disability community and find practical
solutions, or they can . . . spend a bundle on things that
aren't necessary."
   Beyond access to services, activists say the new law will
help provide access to jobs. Corporate aversion to hiring
people with disabilities is unfounded, they say, both in
terms of cost and worker ability. An analysis of more than
10,000 disabled employees by Job Accommodation Network showed
31% of these hirings required no added cost for special
training or facilities, 50% were under $50 and 69% cost less
than $500. Only 1% cost over $5,000.
   "The biggest barrier to getting {disabled} people hired is
the attitude of managers, not the cost," says Kathleen
Alexander, Marriott's vice president for personnel services.
Because qualified workers are becoming harder to find or to
keep, employers must turn to such potential employees, she
says.
   Arlene Mayerson, an attorney for the Disability Rights
fund in California, agrees. Mostly, she says, employers
either have misconceptions that disabled people can't work
well or are nervous about having them around, fearing, for
example, that they'll offend fellow employees.
   Marriott knows of more than 6,000 disabled employees in
its 230,000 world-wide work force. Usually, they're
accommodated at no cost and 25% of the time the adjustment
costs an average of $100, the company says. They tend to stay
at Marriott longer than other employees; the reduced turnover
more than makes up for any added training expenses, it says.
   At a Marriott restaurant in Philadelphia a few years ago,
then-manager Laura Davis was so impressed with the work of
retarded and other disabled employees that she filled most of
the staff with handicapped workers. In 1988, the restaurant
was named Marriott's top store.
   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co. says that 5.8%, or 20,300, of its
350,000 workers have identified themselves as disabled. Sears
has long taken the attitude that someone with a disability
can do any job at the company until it's proven otherwise,
says Paul Scher, a personnel placement official, who himself
is blind. Most disabled employees are accommodated at no
cost; about 10% need some help, at a typical cost of $20 to
$350. Sears did pay $12,000 each for two machines that "look"
at written material and read it aloud, for Mr. Scher and
another blind employee.
   At Southwestern Bell Corp., Darrell Lauer, the
consumer-relations manager, who is also blind, was hired for
his expertise in consumer-protection matters. His secretary
or others read his mail and other papers to him, and he reads
and takes notes in Braille, all at little cost. "I was hired
for my abilities," he says. "That's what people want. Not to
be hired for their disabilities."
   ---
           For the Disabled, Jobs and Access
                                                                                                       

   People who are "disabled" under the law are those with
physical or mental impairments that substantially limit one
or more of the major activities of life, such as walking or
talking. The term also applies to people with a record of
such an impairment, such as someone who has recovered from
cancer, as well as people "regarded" as having a disability,
such as a person with a disfiguring injury.
   The bill, in addition to the provisions below, requires
public transit systems to provide access to the disabled and
compels phone companies to make non-voice telecommunication
devices available.
                                                                                                       

                       OPENING CAREERS
                                                                                                       

 Employers may not:
                                                                                                       

 -- Discriminate against disabled persons qualified for a
job, in hiring or firing.
 -- Inquire whether an applicant has a disability, but may
ask about ability to perform a job.
 -- Limit advancement opportunity or job classifications.
 -- Use tests or  job requirements that tend to screen out
the disabled.
 -- Participate in contractual arrangements that discriminate
against the disabled.
 -- Deny opportunity to anyone in a relationship with a
disabled person.
                                                                                                       

 Employers must provide "reasonable accomodations" to the
disabled, such as:
                                                                                                       

 -- Making existing facilities accessible.
 -- Providing special equipment and training.
 -- Arranging part-time or modified work schedules.
 -- Providing readers for the blind
                                                                                                       

 The exception:
                                                                                                       

 -- Employers need not provide accommodations that impose
"undue hardship" on business operations.
                                                                                                       

 Effective dates:
                                                                                                       

 -- In two years for employers of 25 or more people.
 -- In four years for employers of 15 or more people.
                                                                                                       

 OPENING DOORS
                                                                                                       

 What is regulated?
                                                                                                       

 Private establishments considered "public accomodations,"
such as:
                                                                                                       

 -- Restaurants
 -- Hotels
 -- Retail establishments
 -- Doctor's offices
 -- Theaters
                                                                                                       

 Establishments may not:
                                                                                                       

 -- Refuse to serve people with disabilities
 -- Deny the disabled the opportunity to participate in or
benefit equally from an opportunity.
                                                                                                       

 Establishments must:
                                                                                                       

 -- Remove barriers at existing facilities, if possible
without "undue burden."
 -- Otherwise make services available, such as meeting
customers at the door.
 -- Make any new or renovated facilities accessible to the
disabled.
                                                                                                       

 Expection:
                                                                                                       

 -- Taxicabs and cars used to provide services needn't be
accessible, although taxicab companies are liable if drivers
refuse to serve a disable person.
                                                                                                       

 Effective date:
                                                                                                       

 -- Eighteen to 30 months for most establishments. Intercity
buses must be accessible within six years for large
companies, seven years for smaller concerns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TWA Slashes
   Fares Up to 30%
   On U.S. Flights
   ---
   Action Comes in Response
   To Coupon Promotion
   From United Airlines
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trans World Airlines Inc., responding to a United Airlines
coupon promotion, slashed domestic round-trip fares, in some
cases by as much as 30%.
   The action, announced late yesterday, raises the ante in a
marketing war that has been brimming during the past several
days. It is also likely to put pressure on airline profits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   UAL Corp.'s United Airlines fired the first salvo Monday
when it ran newspaper ads that had coupons for $35 off the
price of round-trip fares of at least $175. The promo, a
popular industry tactic in recent years, wouldn't have
created a stir except that the ads were widespread and hit
big markets such as New York City. It essentially amounted to
a fare cut.
   TWA and NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines swiftly responded by
announcing later Monday that they would accept United's
coupons. Other carriers said they were "studying" the
promotion. One, Texas Air Corp.'s Continental Airlines, said
it was "baffled" as to why United would issue discount
coupons during an otherwise strong travel season.
   TWA contended that its fare cuts offered better, more
straightforward deals. "We would never have triggered this on
our own," said Robert B. Cozzi, senior vice president of
marketing at TWA. "United pulled out the gun, and they didn't
have any bullets in it. We shot out a bullet."
   TWA said it was dropping the cheapest fares for travel
Tuesday through Thursday, considered an off-peak travel
period. Those fares are falling to $198 for flights of up to
1,500 miles and $298 for longer flights.
   The least expensive fare between Chicago and New York is
falling to $198 from $275. The cheapest Boston-San Francisco
fare is decreasing to $298 from $428.50.
   TWA's target market is clearly vacationers, who can afford
to buy tickets at least seven days in advance, stay over
Saturday nights and travel during the off-peak period, as is
required. United also requires seven-day advance purchases
and Saturday night stays.
   Low fares, such as the ones TWA is offering, can cost the
airlines plenty. TWA appears to be trying to avoid potential
losses by offering the deals for a limited time only. Tickets
have to be booked by June 7. United's coupons are valid
longer, until Aug. 31. An airline spokeswoman wouldn't say,
however, how long ads containing coupons would run. The
carrier won't accept photocopies.
   TWA's discounted fares are good for travel until Dec. 13,
the same expiration date as United's promotion.
   The fare-cutting comes as airlines are indicating that
business is brisk. In April, United's load factor, the
percentage of seats filled, was among the highest in the
industry. Industry traffic in April grew a robust 11%.
   Yet, consumers are suffering from a little sticker shock.
Consequently, the morning after United hit Des Moines, Iowa,
with its ad campaign, Iowa Travel Ltd. booked about twice as
many United flights as it usually does, said owner Arlene
Field. "People who were hoping fares would go down used the
coupons as the next best thing," she said.
   Now United and other carriers are likely to match TWA's
fares. And the fare cuts could spread beyond TWA's routes.
Coupled with the coupons, that could mean more savings for
consumers -- and squeeze airline profit margins even further.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, UAL closed at $151.50, down $2.25.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FNM UN UL GWF
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great Western Bank -- $130 million of 10 1/2% subordinated
notes, due May 30, 2000, priced at 99.625 to yield 10.562%.
The notes are noncallable for 8 3/4 years and are then
callable at par for the last 15 months. Rated Baa-1 by
Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut -- $250 million special tax general obligation
transportation infrastructure bonds, due June 1, 1992-2004,
2007 and 2010, tentatively priced by a Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
group to yield from 6.10% in 1992 to 7.23% in 2007. Current
interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.10% in 1992
to 7.10% in 2004. There are $51.91 million of 7 7/8% term
bonds priced at 99 to yield 7.23% in 2007. There are $63.81
million of 7 1/8% term bonds priced at par in 2010. The bonds
are rated single-A-1 by Moody's and double-A-minus by S&amp;P.
   Louisiana Offshore Terminal Authority -- $102.2 million of
deep water port refunding revenue bonds, Loop Inc. Project,
due Sept. 1, 1993-2003, and 2010, tentatively priced by a
First Boston Corp. group to yield from 6.60% in 1993 to 7.63%
in 2010. Current interest serial bonds are priced at par to
yield from 6.60% in 1993 to 7.40% in 2003. There are $49.27
million of 7 5/8% term bonds priced at par in 2010. The bonds
are rated single-A-3 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P.
   Passaic Valley Sewerage Commissioners, New Jersey -- $86.5
million sewer system revenue bonds, Series C, due Dec. 1,
1991-2006, 2010 and 2020, apparently won by a First Boston
Corp. group. The bonds, AMBAC-insured and rated triple-A by
both Moody's and S&amp;P, priced to yield from 6% 1991 to 7.26%
in 2020. Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield
from 6% in 1991 to 7.15% in 2005 and 2006. There are $11.9
million of 7.10% term bonds priced at 98 5/8 to yield 7.23%
in 2010. There are $49.6 million of 7.10% term bonds priced
at 98 to yield 7.26% in 2020.
   Harris County Health Facility Authority, Texas -- $65
million special facility revenue bonds, Texas Medical Center
Project, due May 15, 1996-2000, 2005 and 2020, tentatively
priced by a First Boston Corp. group to yield from 6.6% in
1996 to 7.42% in 2020. Current interest serial bonds are
priced to yield from 6.6% in 1996 to 7% in 2000. There are $8
million of 7 1/4% term bonds priced at 99 1/2 to yield 7.31%
in 2005. There are $51 million of 7 3/8% term bonds priced at
99 1/2 to yield 7.42% in 2020. The bonds are MBIA-insured and
rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P.
   Suffolk County, N.Y. -- $56.42 million public improvement
revenue bonds, Series B, portion of a $80.07 million revenue
bond and 12-month capital notes issue was won by a Citibank
Securities Markets Inc. group. The bonds, due April 1 and May
1, 1991-2020, were priced for reoffering to yield from 6.10%
in 1991 to 7.25% in 2013-2020. There are no term bonds. A
Chemical Securities Inc. group won the balance of the $80.07
million which consists of $21.28 million public improvement
bonds, Series A, due April 1 and May 1, 19912015, and
12-month capital notes, 1990 Issue, due May 31, 1991. Series
A consists of current interest serial bonds priced to yield
from 6% in 1991 to 7.15% in 2011-2015. The capital notes are
priced as 6.6% securities to yield 6.4%. The issue is
MBIA-insured and rated triple-A by both Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million
issue of Remic mortgage securities, offered in 13 classes by
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The offering, Series 1990-71,
and backed by Fannie Mae 8 1/2% securities, with a weighted
average coupon rate of 9.25% and weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 26.33 years. The yields, where available,
range from 9.32% to 9.91%.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Standard Credit Card Trust 1990-5 (vehicle) -- $1.41
billion of global, registered, credit card-backed bonds due
June 10, 1995, via Salomon Brothers International. Portion A
consists of $1.25 billion of 9 3/8% bonds priced at 99.66 to
yield 9.46% semi-annually, a yield spread of 80 basis points
above the current five-year U.S. Treasury note. Portion B
consists of $155 million of 9 5/8% bonds priced at 99.47 to
yield 9.76% semi-annually , a yield spread of 110 basis
points above the same Treasury issue. Settlement through
Euroclear, Cedel, and Depository Trust Co.
   Unilever N.V. (Netherlands) -- 500 million Dutch guilders
of 9% bonds due July 2, 2000, priced at 100.30 to yield
8.95%, via AmRo Bank.
   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France) -- 150
million Swiss francs of 7 1/4% public bonds due June 22,
2005, priced at 101 3/4, via Union Bank of Switzerland.
Guarantee by the French Republic. Callable from June 22, 2000
at 101, declining by 1/2 point per year.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 200 million Swiss
francs of 7 1/4% public bonds due June 26, 2000, priced at
102, via Union Bank of Switzerland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   King's Legacy
   Is Absent in War
   Against Koreans
   ----
   By Diane Ravitch
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<LP>
   Church Avenue is a bustling commercial street in the
Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Last Saturday, it was crowded
with shoppers and sidewalk vendors, most of whom are
Caribbean immigrants. The street is cheerful, vibrant and
colorful. That is, until one reaches the block where police
barricades have cordoned off two Korean fruit markets that
have been the object of a boycott since mid-January.
Suddenly, the mood turns ominous.
   I went shopping on Church Avenue last weekend with a
friend. We wanted to see for ourselves the confrontation that
presented New York's Mayor David Dinkins with his first
crisis in office.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to press accounts, the dispute began when a
Haitian customer had an altercation with the owner of the Red
Apple market. The participants give different accounts of the
dispute's origin: either the customer refused to pay the full
amount for her purchases, and hostile words were exchanged;
or the shop's owner insulted and struck the customer. The
patron is suing for $6 million.
   Whatever happened should be and presumably will be
resolved by the legal system. Meanwhile, Robert "Sonny"
Carson, a well-known figure in racial disputes in Brooklyn,
has led a movement to close down both the Red Apple and
another Korean-owned fruit market across the street, the
Church Avenue Fruit Market. Mr. Carson, who once was
convicted of kidnapping and is notorious in the city for his
anti-Semitic and anti-white views, claims these merchants do
not respect blacks and has determined to put them out of
business.
   On the day that I visited the Red Apple, the block was
lined with police barricades, and the store was guarded by
dozens of New York City police officers in riot gear. About
50 demonstrators stood behind the barricades about eight feet
from the store, shouting at passers-by not to enter. The
lawyer for the fruit markets had obtained a restraining order
requiring the demonstrators to stay 50 feet from the stores,
but the demonstrators have ignored it and the police have
refused to enforce it.
   At the street corner, several yards from the Red Apple, a
large booth with a loudspeaker system bombards passers-by
with recorded invective against whites, "Uncle Tom
preachers," the power structure, and a variety of other
enemies. The booth is festooned with black nationalist
paraphernalia. The atmosphere is surreal, like a carnival
where people are enjoying themselves by being enraged.
   Thus, entering the store is like running a gantlet. Not
many people have been willing to do so. The Guardian Angels
have shopped there, and a black high-school teacher brought
his class one day. But the teacher has since asked for a
transfer from his school as a result of pressure by some
parents and fear for his safety.
   Once inside, we found half a dozen Korean men and women
sitting quietly and dejectedly. The displays were filled with
fresh fruits and vegetables, but we were the only customers.
There was an eerie silence and a mood of grim determination.
   Only one of the Koreans, a young man, spoke English. We
expressed our support, and he thanked us. My friend bought
some fruit. There was something terribly sad about the plight
of these people, sitting in their empty store, struggling to
make a living. It seemed to me that if they were prejudiced
against blacks, as Sonny Carson claims, they would be out of
business without his intervention, since almost all of the
avenue's shoppers are black, and there are many other fruit
markets on it.
   As we left, the demonstrators muttered hostile comments,
but nothing more. Two blocks away, however, we encountered a
march of about 150 blacks, on their way to the two stores. It
was Sonny Carson's Flatbush Frontline Collective, shouting
slogans like "Boycott]" "No respect, no peace]" "Shut it
down]" and "No more Red Apple] No more Church Fruit]" The
marchers carried red-green-and-black pan-African flags and
shook their fists. They were protected by about 100 police
officers.
   I thought about the Koreans. They no doubt feared not only
for their livelihood but their lives. Did they understand
what was happening, or the glib newspaper stories that
rationalized the conflict as "a clash of cultures"?
   Having come to maturity in the 1960s, I pondered which
side of the barricades Martin Luther King Jr. would have been
on. He won great moral stature because he always pitted the
powerless against the powerful. He asserted the claims of
justice against unjust laws and practices. His actions and
words had moral force because he appealed to moral law, what
the Founding Fathers called natural law.
   I could not see King railing against half a dozen
frightened Korean fruit vendors. He preached love and
forgiveness, not hatred and vengeance. I could not imagine
him leading the marchers on Church Avenue. They bore a
striking resemblance not to his followers, but to the white
bigots who screamed epithets at the frightened black children
who integrated schools in Little Rock 32 years ago.
   Last week, Mayor Dinkins delivered an eloquent statement
against racism and prejudice, but he has avoided any direct
involvement in the confrontation on Church Avenue. His
commissioner of human rights is conducting negotiations that
have dragged on for four months. When the commissioner was
asked on television why the mayor did not personally break
the boycott, he said that the mayor was mediating the dispute
and did not find it useful to take sides.
   Where are the champions of civil rights and civil
liberties? Where are our legislators, who are quick to vote
for civil-rights bills in Washington and Albany but absent
when civil rights are on trial in New York City? Why haven't
busloads of church groups and college students and labor
unions and others who care about human rights descended on
Church Avenue to support these powerless Korean fruit
merchants who seek nothing more than the right to earn an
honest living?
   ---
   Ms. Ravitch is a historian of American education at
Teachers College, Columbia University.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Small Firms Say
   Law Would Hit
   Them Hardest
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Daniel Coleman's Dubliner restaurant here
already caters to patrons with disabilities, including James
Brady, former President Reagan's press secretary who was
wounded in the 1981 assassination attempt. Mr. Coleman says
he supports the Americans With Disabilities Act but worries
about how it will be enforced.
   "We serve blind customers and lawyers in wheelchairs; we
do everything we can to accommodate them," says Mr. Coleman,
who six years ago during a total renovation added features to
make his hotel and two restaurants accessible to the
disabled. "But this {new law} could cost businesses tens of
thousands or hundreds of thousands of dollars. You have to be
reasonable about it; that's the whole thing."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many small-business owners are confused and fearful about
the legislation. The House bill, approved yesterday and
expected to become law, would require all businesses -- large
and small -- to be, in some form, accessible to people with
disabilities by the end of next year. Businesses with 25 or
more workers also would have to make accommodations for
workers with disabilities within two years, and those with at
least 15 workers, within four years. Discrimination against
the disabled in hiring or firing would be illegal.
   Many small-business owners aren't aware of what the bill
will require, says the National Federation of Independent
Business, the largest membership group for small firms. The
federation predicts the law could cause a "nightmare on Main
Street," though backers of the measure say such fears are
unfounded.
   "Contrary to what proponents would like us to believe, not
all the costs are small," especially in comparison with the
financial means of smaller companies, says John Motley, chief
lobbyist for the group. He says concrete ramps cost from
$1,000 to $10,000, widening an exterior door, another $3,000,
and hiring a certified sign-language interpreter, about $23
an hour.
   Richard Aronow, owner of Money's Worth Auto Rental in
Hartsdale, N.Y., says it would cost him about $5,000 a year
to maintain one car with hand controls for disabled patrons.
"But if I have the equipment, would I have greater liability
under my insurance policy? I don't know if there's anyone who
can tell you exactly what you have to do to comply."
   The National Association of Convenience Stores estimates
it could cost $50,000 for an average store to widen its
aisles to accommodate wheelchairs, lower display shelves and
make freezer cases usable by disabled patrons.
   Stewart Hartman Jr., president of Rutter Farm Stores, a
chain of Pennsylvania convenience stores, believes about a
quarter of his 51 stores would meet the bill's requirements.
Among other things, the height of shelves was lowered in
stores built in recent years, though the change had nothing
to do with the disabled; it was aimed at watching for
shoplifters, he says. But he worries that there aren't
specific requirements in the bill and says remodeling his
older buildings would mean losing substantial sales space.
   Albert Foer, chairman of Melart Jewelers, a 22-store chain
in the Mid-Atlantic states, says it's unclear whether jewelry
stores would have to alter display cases and lighting to
comply. "If all you have to do is have a doorway large enough
for a wheelchair to come through and you can assist the
customer without having to retrofit the interior, the cost
will be negligible," he says. But he estimates a major
interior renovation would cost $75,000.
   Many such concerns reflect a misunderstanding of what the
law will require, says Ellen Daly, a spokeswoman for the
President's Commission on the Employment of People With
Disabilities. If a business is doing a total renovation, it
would be expected to do as much as possible to provide
accessibility, Ms. Daly says. But if there was a recent
remodeling, "I can't imagine that the regulations would tell
a small convenience store you have to do all that over," she
says. "They'll have to be more conscious of who's coming into
their store and offer assistance, but they're probably doing
that now. And they may have to readjust the pull on the
door."
   In the case of the small car-rental agency, she notes that
hand controls don't interfere with the operation of a car's
foot pedals, so the auto could be used for regular rentals.
   But while the legislation requires only reasonable
adjustments, "it's difficult to know how the reasonable
standard provision will be enforced. It's very vague. That's
why everyone's so nervous," says Mark Gorman, head of
government relations for the National Restaurant Association.
"People could make a point of challenging you in court."
   Small business won a few changes in the bill passed by the
House. For example, Congress approved a provision giving
small firms extra time to comply after federal regulations
are issued. And, after an emotional debate about workers with
AIDS, the restaurant industry won an amendment that would
permit restaurants to transfer an employee with a contagious
disease to a job that doesn't involve food handling.
   Although disabled people must be considered for employment
if they can perform the essential elements of a job, an
amendment says courts should consider a business owner's
definition of the job when deciding what's necessary to
perform it. Small businesses also won a provision that says
structural changes required to provide access for the
disabled are the responsibility of landlords, not store
owners who lease space.
   The enforcement section of the bill, originally linked to
the 1964 Civil Rights Act, will also be tied to the proposed
1990 civil-rights bill. The new civil-rights bill would
permit a jury trial and punitive and compensatory damages
after a finding of intentional discrimination. The Bush
administration had pressed to require only the reinstatement
and back-pay remedies that exist under the current
civil-rights law for workers who prove discrimination.
   Small business also wanted an amendment saying that
disabled people must describe in advance their special needs
to a business owner and suggest how those needs could be met.
   A proposal for a $5,000 small-business tax credit was
rejected, but the idea is expected to be considered as part
of budget legislation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Computer Associates:
   Earnings Climbed by 58%
   In Fiscal Fourth Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   CA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Computer Associates International Inc. said net income in
the fourth quarter ended March 31 rose 58%, as the Garden
City, N.Y., company began to recover from problems in merging
with Cullinet Software Inc., acquired in September.
   Net rose to $66.9 million, or 36 cents a share, from $42.4
million, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose
1.6% to $363.7 million from $357.8 million. The 1989 figures
have been restated to reflect the Cullinet acquisition on a
pooling-of-interests basis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anthony W. Wang, president, said the latest results "show
that most of the issues surrounding the acquisition of
Cullinet are now behind us."
   Computer Associates, the nation's largest independent
software company, reported fiscal 1990 earnings rose 21% to
$157.8 million, or 85 cents a share, from $130.3 million, or
74 cents a share, in fiscal 1989. Revenue increased 5.2% to
$1.3 billion from $1.23 billion.
   Computer Associates stock fell 37.5 cents yesterday to
close at $15.50 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Great Western Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GWF
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREAT WESTERN FINANCIAL Corp. -- The Great Western Bank
unit said it completed an offering of $130 million of 10-year
fixed-rate subordinated debt through an underwriting group
led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. The unit, based in
Beverly Hills, Calif., said the offering increases further
its risk-adjusted capital above the regulatory minimum.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Editor of Journal
   Charges Dow Jones
   With Libel in Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Jonathan Kandell, a former assistant foreign
editor at The Wall Street Journal, sued Dow Jones &amp; Co., the
newspaper's publisher, for allegedly libeling him.
   Mr. Kandell, who worked at the Journal for about two
years, says he was fired May 2 after a dispute over a Page
One article he wrote about Eastern European entrepreneurs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Journal, in its "Corrections &amp; Amplifications" column
May 2, said that "Communist Entrepreneurs," a book by John W.
Kiser III, served in part as the basis for Mr. Kandell's
March 30 article. The correction said, "The article also
reflected substantial direct interviewing of the three
innovators by a Wall Street Journal reporter. The article
should have mentioned the book and its author."
   In his legal complaint, filed in federal court in
Manhattan, Mr. Kandell alleged that Dow Jones libeled him in
a letter of apology it sent to Mr. Kiser.
   Mr. Kandell alleged that Dow Jones damaged his
professional reputation and caused him to suffer future loss
of income. The lawsuit seeks compensatory damages of at least
$2.6 million and punitive damages of $10 million.
   A spokesman for Dow Jones said, "We believe the suit is
utterly without merit, and the company intends to defend
itself vigorously."
   Mr. Kandell's attorney, Martin Garbus, didn't return
telephone calls.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   Accord Tied to Rate Boost
   Approved by a State Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   SDO
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. said the California Public
Utilities Commission approved an agreement the company
reached with several customer groups in January that will
lead to a 4% overall rate increase.
   The increase, the first by San Diego Gas in five years,
will give the company $50.8 million in additional annual
revenue. It reflects a rise in inflation, increased capital
spending and fuel costs and a projected rise in the cost of
buying power from other Southwestern utilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, San Diego Gas said its residential
rates will go up 2%, boosting a typical customer's monthly
bill for gas and electricity to $61.14 from $59.79.
Commercial and industrial rates will rise 6%, agricultural
rates 8% and street lighting 4%.
   San Diego Gas stock rose 25 cents yesterday to close at
$43 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Playboy Enterprises' Plan to Have Dual Stock
   Reflects Hefners' Aims, Peeves Some Holders
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   PLA
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Democracy may be spreading in Eastern Europe,
but not on Wall Street.
   Playboy Enterprises is the latest company to find its way
around the corporate tradition of one share, one vote. The
Chicago publisher plans to issue three shares of nonvoting,
or B stock, for each voting A share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With a supportive nod from Shearson Lehman Hutton, Playboy
has touted its plan as a benign recapitalization that will
enable it to issue nonvoting shares without diluting Hugh
Hefner's 71% control.
   Securities analysts accept the company line. "As a
business tool it makes sense. It doesn't matter whether the
shares vote or not," says PaineWebber's J. Kendrick Noble.
   Others aren't so sure. Rex Sinquefield, chief investment
officer for Dimensional Fund Advisers, a big Playboy
stockholder, is rankled that Playboy's plan will be imposed
June 7 in a majority vote of all shares, including Mr.
Hefner's. "The most honorable thing to do would have been to
let the public holders decide" in a separate vote, he says.
   As of now, the 64-year-old founder has to hang on to a
majority of the stock to keep control. But with two classes
outstanding, he or his estate could sell the nonvoting stock
-- cashing out 75% of his investment -- without changing his
71% voting control of the company. If Playboy stumbled later,
shareholders with the biggest economic stake in the company
wouldn't have the means to affect its future.
   Some investors oppose all nonvoting stock. "You end up
with nonresponsive management," says Richard Koppes, general
counsel of the California Public Employees Retirement System.
   In 1988, the Securities and Exchange Commission created a
barrier to issuing dual classes of stock; it prohibited stock
exchanges from listing shares of companies that "restrict or
reduce the per-share voting rights of {current} holders."
(Previously existing dual stock classes, including those of
Dow Jones, publisher of this newspaper, were allowed to
remain listed.)
   Until recently, the 1988 rule seemed to protect the
one-share, one-vote principle. But nonvoting shares now are
on the rise.
   Reader's Digest Association sold nonvoting shares in a
recent initial public offering and Viacom International has
an issue in the works.
   Holders of voting stock at times have been offered
takeover premiums that weren't offered to nonvoting holders
-- as happened when Donald Trump went after Resorts
International. Playboy's plan has a feature to prevent such
tactics. Anyone buying 10% or more of its A stock would be
required to offer to buy an equal stake in the B stock, and
to pay at least as much per share.
   Because of this clause, Shearson says, Playboy's A and B
shares should trade at about equal prices. However, the
clause isn't bullet-proof. If a raider first bought nonvoting
stock at the market price, he then could pay a premium for an
equal stake in the voting stock. Result: Holders of Playboy A
stock might receive a higher price.
   Christie Hefner, the 37-year-old chairman and daughter of
the founder, says that, while creating dual stock "gives the
estate a vehicle for dealing with estate taxes," that wasn't
the purpose of the plan and she doesn't think her father is
likely to sell. "The notion that he would cash out and then
allow the value of the asset to decline isn't a real issue.
Hefner "doesn't have those intentions."
   Creating nonvoting shares, she notes, won't increase her
father's control or give him additional rights. Playboy's
intent, she adds, was to give management "the most
flexibility."
   Playboy hasn't issued stock in the past because Mr. Hefner
has been unwilling to dilute his control. Ms. Hefner wants
the freedom to do so -- first, for use in management options,
and later, perhaps, for use in acquisitions. As it stands
now, Ms. Hefner says she has the burden of managing a public
company without having its chief benefit -- access to public
markets to sell additional shares.
   Few doubt that Ms. Hefner's intentions are honorable.
Since taking the helm in 1988, she has refocused Playboy
Enterprises on publishing, licensing and video; profit this
year is up.
   "Reading between the lines, there is a tension" between
Ms. Hefner's needs as a manager and her father's desire to
retain control, Mr. Sinquefield says.
   Ms. Hefner says that she doesn't expect the issue to be
controversial. Then why not let minority holders vote on it
-- separately? The founder's vote should count, too, she
says. "I'm sort of a believer in one share, one vote."
   ---
   Playboy
   (NYSE; Symbol: PLA)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Magazines, cable television
                                                                                                       

   Year ended June 30, 1989:
   Revenue: $166.2 million
   Net loss: $3.8 million
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, March 31, 1990:
   Per-share earnings: 5 cents vs. 2 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   1,448 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 9.4 million
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   TREASURY CHIEF BRADY will ask Congress today for massive
new borrowing authority to finance the S&amp;L bailout, officials
said. The secretary is expected to acknowledge that his
department badly underestimated the cost of the thrift rescue
and to seek authority to borrow $80 billion to $140 billion.
The new estimates could put the bailout's total cost to
taxpayers at $300 billion over 10 years.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thrift regulators' new tactic of selling S&amp;Ls in pieces
has sharply increased the short-term cost of the bailout. The
approach is threatening to swell the budget deficit and
hasten the thrift industry's demise.
   ---
   TWA slashed round-trip fares on domestic flights by up to
30%, fueling an unexpected fare skirmish among airlines.
United Air initiated the battle Monday when it ran ads
offering $35 off certain round-trip fares.
                                                                                                       

   Safety seats should be required for small children on all
airline flights, a federal board urged, which would
effectively end their free rides.
   ---
   Pinnacle West rejected PacifiCorp's $1.82 billion takeover
offer as well as Salt River Project's $500 million bid for
certain assets. PacifiCorp said it is reviewing options,
which could include directly approaching Pinnacle
shareholders.
   ---
   Citicorp's credit ratings were lowered by Moody's,
including the rating on commercial paper. S&amp;P made a similar
move last month but affirmed Citicorp's commercial-paper
rating.
   ---
   The U.S. criticized Japan for the slow pace of financial
deregulation. Tokyo also was warned it may face trade
sanctions unless it agrees soon to decontrol bank deposit
rates.
   ---
   Federal Express stock slid nearly 10%, to $47, after the
firm disclosed that shipment growth slowed sharply in April.
Recent company statements had prompted analysts to predict a
turnaround in the current quarter.
   ---
   A plan to give the SEC more clout, including oversight of
stock-index futures, will soon be unveiled by Bush officials.
But support for the proposal appears to be waning in
Congress.
   ---
   Exxon and Du Pont's Conoco unit settled allegations by a
Bermuda oil trading firm that they and six other oil
companies rigged crude prices.
   ---
   Bond prices rallied on heavy foreign buying, which helped
lift stocks hurt by profit-taking. The Dow Jones industrials
closed up 7.55 points, at a record 2852.23. The dollar was
mixed.
   ---
   Chrysler has stopped seeking a buyer for its
defense-related operations, apparently because it didn't get
a satisfactory offer. The auto maker said it will revamp and
boost research and development funding at the unit.
   ---
   Greyhound's striking workers made an unconditional offer
to return to work. But the move is intended to set the stage
for a potentially huge back-pay claim against the company.
   ---
   Eight publicly traded funds originally sponsored by VMS
Realty Partners announced a return to profitability, but
sharply cut their book values.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 203,350,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2852.23, up 7.55; transportation 1169.63, off 11.20;
utilities 213.09, off 1.13.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3355.19, up
24.05.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.52, up 0.43; spot
index 135.67, up 0.02.
   Dollar: 151.20 yen, off 2.52; 1.6736 marks, up 0.0110.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel to Give Court a Plan
   For Continued Operation
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It's not over, it seems, 'til it's over.
   Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc., the collapsed brokerage
firm, says it plans to soon propose to the federal bankruptcy
court that it remain in business, of an undisclosed nature.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One reason: To prop the near-worthless stock that Drexel's
1,000 shareholders currently hold. Another: To provide a
vehicle for big tax-loss carry-forwards, which Drexel amassed
before it collapsed, and which could be used to lower the tax
bite on future profits. Unable to finance its deteriorating
pile of junk bonds, Drexel filed for bankruptcy-law
protection in February.
   Currently, the firm has a staff of about 600, out of the
5,300 it employed before it filed for bankruptcy-law
protection. The firm still has more than $1 billion in assets
and about $300 million in equity, a spokesman said.
   Since its collapse, Drexel has been liquidating its
portfolio and getting out of securities businesses. It has
also sold its junk-bond client data base and customer lists.
And in three weeks, the firm plans to auction its office
furniture, personal computers and other items, including five
corporate cafeterias, kitchen fixtures and appliances.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Alan Bond Agrees on Sales of Assets
   And Other Moves to Satisfy His Lenders
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON A.LIO A.BEL U.STA F.SGF J.MBT H.HKS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY, Australia -- Entrepreneur Alan Bond, struggling to
save his deeply indebted brewing, media, property and
natural-resources empire, reached an out-of-court settlement
with bank lenders.
   His Bond Corp. Holdings still faces legal battles with a
group of U.S. debenture holders, a threat Mr. Bond is trying
to head off by offering to buy the debt back at a deep
discount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And despite massive asset sales to reduce debt, a senior
Bond Corp. official said the group still owes 5.3 billion
Australian dollars (US$4.05 billion), including bonds
convertible into shares of Bond Corp. or its units, Bell
Group Ltd. and Bell Resources Ltd. That compares with A$7.35
billion in debt it said it had at the end of 1989.
   Under the accord, a group of international banks led by
National Australia Bank Ltd. agreed to drop a lawsuit it
launched against Bond Corp.'s unit, Bond Brewing Holdings
Ltd., for early repayment of loans. The bank group had agreed
to provide Bond Brewing, which is Bond Corp.'s main
Australian brewing company, with A$880 million in credit
lines.
   Besides National Australia Bank, the bank syndicate
includes Standard Chartered PLC of Britain; First National
Bank of Boston and Pittsburgh National Bank of the U.S.;
Societe Generale of France; Mitsubishi Trust &amp; Banking Corp.
of Japan; and Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp.
   In December, the banks persuaded a court to appoint
receivers to Bond Brewing, claiming that the brewing unit had
breached covenants of the loan accord. Bond Corp. disputed
the banks' claims, and the receivership order was overturned
on appeal in February. Meanwhile, the banks pursued a
separate court action to force Bond Brewing to immediately
repay the loan; that action has been dropped.
   In return, Bond Corp. Tuesday dropped a suit against the
banks for damages. Bond Corp. also acquiesced to a number of
conditions imposed by the bank group. Among them is a
stipulation that Bond Brewing appoint two partners of
international accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick Hungerfords
to oversee the unit's activities and report back to the bank
syndicate.
   Under Tuesday's accord, the banks also agreed to approve a
proposed sale of Bond Corp.'s Australian breweries to its
58%-controlled unit Bell Resources for A$1.85 billion. If the
sale is concluded by July 31, the banks will give Bond
Brewing until July 31, 1991, to repay the A$880 million
credit facility. In return, Bond Corp. agreed to immediately
restrict its voting rights in Bell Resources to the
equivalent of 25% of the shares on issue and promised to
reduce its actual stake to 25% from the current 58% by March
31, 1991.
   Peter Lucas, a Bond Corp. director and chief spokesman,
said the company hasn't yet lined up a buyer for the 33% of
Bell Resources it has agreed to sell. New Zealand brewer Lion
Nathan Ltd., which at one time was negotiating to buy part of
Bond Corp.'s Australian breweries, signaled Tuesday that it
is interested in buying a stake in the breweries as a
joint-venture partner. The Australian breweries held through
the Bond Brewing unit together constitute the second-biggest
beer-maker in Australia.
   But if Bond Corp.'s brewery sale to Bell Resources isn't
completed in two months, terms of Tuesday's settlement call
for Bond Brewing to repay the banks in full by Sept. 30.
   As part of the bank settlement, Bell Resources and
National Australia Bank agreed to provide Bond Brewing with
unspecified loans to finance an offer to buy back US$510
million in debentures issued in the U.S. by Bond Brewing.
U.S. Trust Co., trustee for the U.S. investors, has demanded
immediate repayment in full plus interest, which a lawyer for
the U.S. investor group estimates will total US$100 million
by June.
   The U.S. group is suing to liquidate Bond Brewing in court
action scheduled to begin next Wednesday in Melbourne. To
head that off, Bond Corp. said its Bond Brewing unit plans to
offer to buy back the debentures "at prices approximating the
current prevailing market prices," which Mr. Lucas said total
about 40 U.S. cents for every US$1 in face value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rockwell Gets Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   ROK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   ANAHEIM, Calif. -- Rockwell International Corp. said it
received two additional contracts totaling $100 million from
the Air Force for work on the Peacekeeper missile program.
   The aerospace concern said $81 million for guidance and
control systems includes $4.9 million in funding already
received. The remaining $24 million is for engineering
services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   SUMMER AND SMOKES? That season or any will do for raising
a cigarette tax.
   As revenue needs rise, more legislators and officials say
this sin tax makes sense. Budget summiteers savor last week's
estimate that doubling the federal tax to 32 cents a pack
could raise $13.8 billion over five years. That's a yield
that states are cultivating. On Jan. 1, 1989, California's
tax shot up to 35 cents from 10; the rise is dedicated to
health care and education related to tobacco use. Cigarette
sales in 1989 fell 14% there to 2.18 billion packs -- but tax
revenue tripled to $764.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989, 13 states enacted increases ranging from one cent
in Oregon to 13 in Alaska, Maine and North Dakota; 14 in
Connecticut, and 15 in Nevada, the Tobacco Institute says.
This year: New Hampshire added another four-cent increase on
top of last year's, lifting its tax to 25 cents. Hawaii's
Legislature passed a 40-cent tax -- effective next Jan. 1, if
the governor approves it -- that would match Connecticut's as
the U.S.'s largest. On June 1, New York is to raise its tax
to 39 cents a pack from 33.
   After 1990 defeats for increases in 17 states, 14 still
have proposals pending.
                                                                                                       

   EMBEZZLEMENT IT WAS, but cheating on taxes it wasn't,
appeals judges say.
   In 1984, a federal grand jury charged Louis Salerno and
Frederick Pandolfo, casino bosses at Las Vegas's Stardust
Hotel, and its parent with siphoning off millions of dollars
in a scheme to falsify company returns. But the embezzlement
charges didn't belong in federal court. The charges against
the company and most of those against the men were dropped in
1986. The two were tried and convicted only of aiding the
preparation of false company returns.
   But now a ninth-circuit appeals panel has overturned those
convictions. The government proved an embezzlement and tied
Salerno and Pandolfo to it, wrote Judge Schroeder, yet never
showed they or the scheme had anything to do with the
preparation of company returns or that the men "willfully"
intended to have the company file false returns. "The filing
of the corporate return appears irrelevant to the defendants'
conduct," the judge declared.
                                                                                                       

   STATES PRESS out-of-state retailers for sales taxes,
despite legal setbacks.
   States say they lose $3 billion a year because many
out-of-state retailers won't collect sales taxes for them.
But two of three recent state-court decisions have rebuffed
new state laws meant to get around a 1967 U.S. Supreme Court
holding on which merchants rely to avoid collecting taxes.
Last week, North Dakota lost a decision to Quill Corp. of
Lincolnshire, Ill.; the state will appeal to its Supreme
Court. A month ago, Connecticut lost a test case brought by
SFA Folio Collections Inc. of New York.
   Connecticut is appealing that decision and an earlier loss
to Calley Curtis Co. of California. Also last month,
Tennessee overcame a challenge by L.L. Bean of Maine. These
and other cases may well reach the U.S. high court as states
try to reverse or narrow its 1967 ruling. California and
Minnesota also are among the most aggressive tax collectors;
but 31 of the 45 states with sales taxes have enacted laws
aimed at out-of-state retailers, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures.
   New York's reciprocal enforcement efforts with Connecticut
and New Jersey have netted $107 million for them.
                                                                                                       

   DEFLATED is Winooski, Vt.'s attempt to tax neighboring
Burlington for encroaching on the air space over Winooski.
Vermont's Supreme Court rejected a claim that aircraft using
Burlington International Airport ride on "imaginary surfaces"
that are taxable as Winooski real estate.
                                                                                                       

   VIETNAM VETS who were exposed to Agent Orange, and their
survivors, aren't taxable on personal-injury payments from
the court-administered Agent Orange Settlement Fund, IRS
release IR-90-79 says. About 60,000 veterans are eligible for
payments.
                                                                                                       

   CONNECTICUT IS LEVYING its capital-gains tax on
nonresident individuals who sell Connecticut real estate.
Sellers must pay estimated taxes by June 15 if 1990 gains
reach $2,000 by May 31. Before, only residents were taxed on
real-estate gains.
                                                                                                       

   A MEDICAL SOCIETY doctors a rental deal to fatten its own
finances.
   The unidentified exempt society occupies a building
registered as historic for its architecture. In 1980, when
the building needed renovation, the society formed an exempt
preservation charity and conveyed the building to it in
return for a rent-free, 50-year lease on the first floor. The
charity, controlled by the society's officers, renovated the
rest of the building and rents secondfloor meeting rooms and
facilities to charitable and non-charitable groups. The
society may use those rooms free.
   But the IRS took a closer look at the deal when an auditor
challenged the preservation charity's exemption. Now private
ruling 9017003 says the terms are far more favorable to the
society than to the charity. Indeed, it says, the charity has
been operated for the private benefit of the society and its
members. So the IRS has revoked the preservation charity's
exemption, effective as of the ruling.
   In addition, the charity is subject to tax on most of the
income it received before the revocation date.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Interest on overdue taxes will stay at 11% in the
third quarter, IRS Revenue Ruling 90-47 says. The rate on
overdue refunds will remain 10%. . . . Connecticut plans to
waive penalties and prosecutions for delinquents who pay up
during a three-month tax amnesty starting Sept. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Two U.S. Firms, Soviets
   Forming Biotech Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- A Silicon Valley venture capital
firm said it is forming an unusual alliance with a Soviet
partner aimed at developing an alternative approach toward
genetic engineering.
   The alliance will include Sierra Ventures, the venture
capital firm, the Institute of Protein Research, a Soviet
biotechnology research institute near Moscow, and closely
held RiboGene Inc., a California biotech company. Sierra
Ventures called the arrangement "the first Soviet-American
biotech start-up."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The aim is to develop a technique for producing proteins
without using living cells. Current techniques involve
inserting genes into bacterial or mammalian cells.
Identifying single proteins from hundreds or thousands of
other proteins in such cells can be tedious and
time-consuming.
   Sierra Ventures said the Soviet institute is swapping
technology for a 15% stake in RiboGene and is also obtaining
a 49% stake in a related joint venture. Sierra Ventures said
it plans to invest as much as $2 million in RiboGene and the
joint firm.
   The venture arises out of separate research by scientists
at RiboGene and at the Soviet institute. The Soviet research
was somewhat more advanced than that of the U.S. firm. "They
had also been skillful in patenting their discoveries
world-wide," said Petri Vainio, a Sierra Ventures principal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harken Energy Clears
   Stock-Rights Offering
   To Raise New Capital
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   HEC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Harken Energy Corp. said its directors approved
a rights offering to raise more than $40 million to repay
debt, pay for capital expenditures and provide working
capital to two of the company's subsidiaries.
   Harken, an energy concern, apparently wants to raise the
funds in part to recapitalize its Harken Marketing Co. unit,
which at March 31 was in violation of certain bank covenants.
However, Harken said that Harken Marketing's bank group has
agreed to waive those covenants until July 31 if Harken and
Harken Marketing agree to make a $15 million principal
payment on its $76.3 million in bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under an agreement reached earlier this week, undisclosed
Harken stockholders have agreed to loan Harken Marketing $26
million, of which $15 million will be used to pay the bank
principal and the remaining amount will be used for working
capital. As part of that agreement, the stockholders will be
able to use their loan to buy shares under the rights
offerings.
   The energy concern said that under the rights offering, it
would allow its shareholders to buy stock in Harken
Marketing, a gasoline wholesaler and retailer that had gross
profit of $9.1 million on revenue of $247 million for the
first quarter, and Tejas Power Corp., a natural gas gathering
and marketing concern that had first-quarter operating profit
of $2.5 million on revenue of about $27 million.
   Separately, Harken Energy said it had a net loss for the
first quarter of $2.2 million, or 10 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $1.2 million, or six cents a share, last year.
Revenue increased almost 10%, to $279.7 million from $254.4
million last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Polly Peck International PLC:
   U.K. Concern to Lift Stake
   In Sansui to 70% From 51%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J)
</SO>
<CO>
   U.POL J.SNE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Polly Peck International PLC announced plans to raise its
stake in Sansui Electric Co. to 70% from 51%.
   The British company, whose biggest interests include
electronics and fruit, said it plans to make the Japanese
company a more international business by merging it with
Polly Peck electronics businesses in Italy, Taiwan and
elsewhere. Polly Peck's 51% investment in ailing Sansui last
January was a rare instance of a foreigner buying control of
a Japanese electronics company, and sparked controversy in
Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But London analysts said that the problems at Sansui, once
one of Japan's premier hi-fi makers, run deep. Rebuilding
Sansui "is going to take time and a lot of money," said
analyst Paul Beaufrere of London stockbrokers James Capel &amp;
Co.
   In London trading yesterday in a generally rising market,
Polly Peck's stock ended two pence lower at 431 pence ($7.27)
a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWSPAPERS: Hearst Corp. is joining with Izvestia, a
Soviet newspaper, to publish an "uncensored" weekly paper. A
prototype issue, to be published July 4, will be edited by
Soviet and U.S. journalists. Hearst said 25,000 copies will
be distributed to "key" government, business and education
leaders in Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev, Washington, D.C., and
other U.S. cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank Insurance Fund
   At FDIC Had Deficit
   Of $851 Million in '89
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said its
bank insurance fund had a loss of $851 million in 1989,
bringing the fund's total to $13.2 billion at year end.
   The loss, which was in line with recent FDIC estimates,
put the fund's total at 0.7% of insured deposits at the
nation's banks. At the end of 1988, the fund totaled $14.1
billion, or 0.8% of insured deposits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William Seidman, chairman of the FDIC, said the new level
was the lowest in the recent history of the FDIC, which was
started during the Depression. Government policy is to try to
maintain the fund at about 1.25% of insured deposits. Under
the savings-and-loan bailout law, the premiums paid by banks
will rise this year with the goal of increasing the fund.
   Mr. Seidman reiterated that the bank fund could increase
this year because bank failures have slowed. However, he
warned that the failure of a big bank could cause a loss.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE HOUSE APPROVED sweeping rights legislation for the
disabled.
   Voting 403-20, the chamber passed the Americans With
Disabilities Act, which gives equal access to employment,
transportation and buildings to about 43 million people in
the U.S. with physical or mental disabilities. The act is
viewed as the most sweeping civil-rights measure in over 25
years. The Senate has cleared similar legislation. After a
House-Senate conference to resolve differences, Bush is
expected to sign the bill into law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The disabled currently are protected by a patchwork of
state or local laws and a 1973 law covering federal
buildings, contractors and grant recipients.
   ---
   GORBACHEV WON approval for a transition to a regulated
market economy.
   Soviet citizens faced the prospect of the doubling of some
food prices as early as July 1 as the president's advisory
council adopted a plan for a restructuring of the economy.
The program, which favors a massive overhaul of prices, is
expected to be presented to the legislature tomorrow. A
deputy minister, meanwhile, said Moscow is drawing on hard
currency reserves to help cover the Soviet Union's overdue
bills for Western goods.
   Gorbachev met with the presidents of Estonia and Latvia,
but stuck to his demand that the republics either suspend or
revoke their independence bids.
   ---
   NATO defense ministers met in Brussels and supported the
use of multinational military units in alliance nations, a
plan that could result in an overhaul of NATO's military
structure. The two-day session is aimed at reviewing the
alliance's defense strategy amid political changes in Eastern
Europe.
   ---
   House-Senate conferees cleared a $4 billion fiscal 1990
spending bill that includes $720 million in assistance to
Panama and Nicaragua. The action came as the House signaled
its support for withholding half of U.S. military aid to El
Salvador, but Republicans succeeded in scuttling the
underlying legislation.
   ---
   Congressional lawmakers expressed objections to Bush's
expected call for a renewal of China's most-favored-nation
trade status, citing Beijing's human-rights record. The
president reportedly will propose a one-year extension of the
benefits this week.
   ---
   A U.S. appeals court ruled that any employer with more
than 15 workers must provide a man with unpaid child-rearing
leave if the benefit is offered to female colleagues. The
Pittsburgh court's decision is binding in Pennsylvania,
Delaware, New Jersey and the Virgin Islands, and could be
influential nationwide.
   ---
   Thousands of Palestinians demonstrated in the
Israel-occupied territories and in Jordanian cities and
refugee camps in escalating protests against Sunday's
slayings of seven Arab laborer's near Tel Aviv. Four people
were reported killed in the latest unrest, which included a
rally at the U.S. consulate in mostly Arab eastern Jerusalem.
   ---
   About 300,000 mourners buried Kashmir's senior Islamic
cleric, whose assassination Monday prompted secessionist
violence that left 58 people dead in the disputed territory.
India's security forces reportedly kept their distance during
the funeral in Srinagar, where Moslem militants exploded
bombs and fired rifles to honor the clergyman.
   ---
   Romania's Iliescu offered to form a coalition with parties
defeated in Sunday's national elections. But as hundreds of
anti-government protesters rallied in Bucharest, one
opposition leader ruled out the proposal by the victorious
presidential candidate, and another vowed to challenge the
results.
   ---
   North and South Yemen merged to form a single nation, the
Republic of Yemen. The new Arabian Peninsula country,
unifying the pro-Western north with the socialist south,
recently has located oil reserves and occupies a strategic
entrance to the Red Sea.
   ---
   A Philippine military court charged two generals and 19
other officers with murder and rebellion related to their
alleged roles in December's coup attempt against President
Aquino's government. They are the first defendants to stand
trial in the uprising.
   ---
   Dissidents in South Korea fought with riot police and
burned a U.S. flag in the southern city of Kwangju. Students
in Seoul declared a week of protests against the U.S.
presence in South Korea, as police tightened security at
American installations.
   ---
   The Senate Agriculture panel voted for a
seafood-inspection program that would put the nation's $30
billion seafood industry under a triad of regulatory
agencies. Currently, only a fraction of the seafood consumed
each year undergoes product-grading or inspection.
   ---
   South Africa threatened to use the full force of law
against armed white extremists who have vowed a race war in
Orange Free State. Mandela, meanwhile, called Sunday's police
killing of seven blacks in the region a "massacre," and
warned that efforts to end apartheid would fail unless the
Pretoria government ends violence by security forces.
   ---
   Died: Rocky Graziano, 71, former middleweight boxing
champion, in New York, following hospitalization for a
stroke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Siemens AG:
   Printer Operations to Merge
   With Those of Mannesmann
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE G.MMW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Siemens AG and Mannesmann AG said yesterday that they plan
to merge their respective office printing-machine businesses
effective October 1.
   The two big, diversified West German electronics groups
said the printer operations will be merged into Mannesmann's
current wholly owned Mannesmann Tally G.m.b.H. subsidiary, in
which Munich-based Siemens will take a 49% stake.
Dusseldorf-based Mannesmann will control the remaining 51% of
the new entity, the companies said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The merger, which is subject to antitrust review by West
Germany's Federal Cartel Office, will strengthen Mannesmann
Tally's position as Europe's largest manufacturer of office
printers. The concern also operates in the U.S.
   The post-merger company will start out with around 770
million Deutsche marks ($463.2 million) of annual sales. Of
that total, the present Mannesmann Tally businesses will
account for around 520 million marks, while the Siemens
printer operations represent about 250 million marks of
sales.
   The companies declined to discuss financial details of the
agreement for the merger. But a Mannesmann spokesman said
cash payments aren't involved in the transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Oracle Creates
   U.S. Subsidiary,
   Names Chairman
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   REDWOOD SHORES, Calif. -- Oracle Systems Corp. said it
created a separate U.S. operating subsidiary in an attempt to
address management problems that figured in its poorly
received fiscal-third-quarter earnings report.
   In addition, the developer of data base software said
Lawrence J. Ellison, president and chief executive officer,
would be assuming the additional post of chairman, succeeding
Donald L. Lucas, who continues as the company's executive
committee chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oracle also named Gary D. Kennedy, senior vice president
and general manager of its U.S. operations, to the post of
president of the new subsidiary, Oracle USA.
   "The fact that we are reorganizing the U.S. operation into
a subsidiary is borne out of our determination to move the
financial-control organization closer to the distribution
organization. The way to do that is to give them everything
they need to operate as an independent subsidiary," said
Peter Tierney, senior vice president. "That is a significant
move on our part to again improve the control aspects in the
U.S. operation, which was an area where we had an issue
regarding third-quarter results."
   Oracle hit a flat spot in its five-year growth spurt
during its quarter ended Feb. 28, reporting nearly flat net
income of $24.3 million, or 18 cents a share, on a 54% rise
in revenue to $236.4 million. The lower-than-expected net
largely reflected roughly 5% less revenue than analysts
expected; the company itself conceded a glitch in completing
certain orders, which were picked up in the fourth quarter.
   The results nonetheless spooked investors, prompting
Oracle stock to drop about 30% in a day as well as a number
of shareholder suits claiming securities fraud. Yesterday's
reorganization was announced after markets closed.
   Mr. Tierney said naming Mr. Ellison to the chairmanship
reflects "just a maturation of the organization. Now, Larry
has a management team reporting to him that is in place and
he is confident that he can broaden his role in the company."
   Oracle also said Geoffrey W. Squire, formerly senior vice
president and Oracle Europe chief executive officer, was
named president of world-wide distribution operations as well
as a corporate executive vice president. Oracle said John R.
Luongo, formerly international-division senior vice
president, is resigning. Mr. Tierney said the company's
international operations have remained "very strong," and
said that Mr. Luongo's departure was "really a classic case
of an executive wanting to pursue another interest."
   Finally, Oracle said Joseph Costello, president and chief
executive officer of Cadence Design Systems Inc., was named a
director, filling a vacancy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Microsoft Corp.:
   New Software Will Make
   Computers Easier to Use
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT T ASTA TAN J.TOS NCR
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Microsoft Corp. introduced a new version of its Windows
software, which makes personal computers easier to use by
giving the MS-DOS standard a major facelift.
   The product, which sells for a list price of $150, is
expected to cement the company's position as the dominant
supplier of the software for personal computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Microsoft will begin shipping Windows 3.0 immediately. It
said that about 24 manufacturers of personal computers will
include a copy of Windows with some of the machines they
sell. The companies include AT&amp;T, AST Research, Tandy,
Toshiba and NCR.
   Analysts expect Microsoft to sell five million copies of
Windows in its fiscal year beginning July 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Affiliate Joins
   Dutch Bank in Loan Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN N.ABN FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Finance Corp., a World
Bank affiliate, and Algemene Bank Nederland signed an
agreement creating a $50 million co-financing facility for
projects in a number of Third World nations.
   Initially, the IFC and the Dutch commercial bank each will
commit $25 million for the facility, which will help finance
private business ventures in such nations as Indonesia,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Morocco and Turkey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The World Bank affiliate said it will act as the lender of
record for the full amount of each loan, with ABN serving as
a 50% participant in such credits. The Dutch bank, through
its local branches and subsidiaries in developing countries,
will identify prospective borrowers, assess the feasibility
of projects and supervise them once loans are approved. Loans
will range from $3 million to $6 million.
   "This new form of joint lending will provide much-needed
foreign currency financing for smaller projects in developing
countries where our partner ABN has a strong local presence,"
said Sir William Ryrie, the IFC's executive vice president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Average CD Yields
   Were Little Changed
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit at major
banks and brokerage companies were largely unchanged in the
week ended yesterday.
   Average yields on small-denomination CDs were down
slightly, though they remained above 8% for longer-term
maturities, according to an 18-bank survey by Banxquote Money
Markets, a New York information service. The average yield on
one-year consumer CDs eased to 8.02% from 8.04%, while the
average five-year yield declined to 8.23% from 8.25%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Investors who bought small-denomination CDs through
leading brokerage firms did a bit better, as yields rose
slightly. Average yields on six-month broker-sold CDs went to
8.32% from 8.22%, while average yields on two-year CDs went
to 8.63% from 8.60%, according to figures compiled by
Banxquote.
   Meanwhile, average yields for large-denomination CDs,
which typically require deposits of $90,000 or more, were
largely unchanged. Average yields on six-month jumbo CDs fell
to 7.91% from 7.93%, while one-year maturities rose to 8.11%
from 8.10%.
   The only bank in the survey that offered a CD with a yield
of at least 9% was Continental Bank in Chicago, which offered
a five-year jumbo CD at 9%.
   "It was a very uneventful week," said Banxquote Chairman
Norberto Mehl. "There wasn't any clear pattern in the
direction of interest rates, so CD yields stayed within a
narrow range."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bangkok Adopts IMF Rules
   On Currency Convertibility
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund said
Thailand accepted IMF rules relating to currency
convertibility.
   Bangkok agreed to refrain from imposing restrictions on
the use of its currency, the baht, for international
payments. It also agreed to refrain from engaging in
discriminatory currency arrangements or from using multiple
exchange rates for its currency without IMF approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By accepting obligations under Article VIII of the IMF
charter, "Thailand gives confidence to the international
community that it will pursue sound economic policies that
will obviate the need to use exchange and payments
restrictions on current transactions, and thereby enhances
its contribution to a multilateral payments system free of
restrictions," the IMF said.
   The IMF currently has 152 member countries, including 68
industrial nations and developing countries that have
accepted the commitment to maintain convertibility of their
currencies in current-account international payment
transactions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philips N.V. Is Sued
   For Allegedly Issuing
   Misleading Statements
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Philips N.V. shareholders filed two lawsuits
accusing the company of disclosing misleading information to
artificially boost its stock price before the company
reported a plunge in earnings May 3.
   The two class-action lawsuits were filed in federal court
in Manhattan. The suits allege that Philips, the Dutch
electronics giant, issued a series of false public statements
that made it appear that the company's business prospects
were promising. The suits claim that at the time of the
favorable statements, the company knew that the projections
were misleading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One of the suits claims that the allegedly misleading
statements were made as early as October 1989. The other suit
claims the company began misrepresenting its business
prospects in January 1990. The lawsuits seek unspecified
damages for the decline in the stock's value for investors
who bought Philips in recent months.
   The suits claim that Philips led investors to believe that
sales and earnings would increase for 1990. According to the
lawsuits, the company was presenting a rosy but misleading
picture of its expected earnings as late as mid-April 1990.
   The lawsuits say the company made no mention of problems
that might hurt its profitability until May 3, when it
reported that first-quarter operating profit fell to six
million guilders ($3.2 million), down from 223 million
guilders a year earlier. On news of the drop in earnings,
Philips common declined $2.875 to close at $17.125 in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange on May 3.
   In composite trading on the Big Board yesterday, the stock
closed at $17.625, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Galactic Offers to Buy
   Cornucopia With Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   GLC CNPGF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Galactic Resources Ltd.
proposed to acquire Cornucopia Resources Ltd. through a stock
swap, with an indicated value of about 33 million Canadian
dollars (US$28 million).
   Galactic, a gold producer with mines in South Carolina and
Colorado, said it proposed to issue half of one Galactic
common share for each share currently outstanding of
Cornucopia, an exploration concern with large land holdings
in Nevada's Carlin gold district.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Galactic currently has about 36.1 million common shares
outstanding; Cornucopia has about 19.4 million shares issued.
On the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Galactic last traded
at C$3.40 a share, before trading was halted for the
announcement. Cornucopia's shares last traded at C$1.70 each.
   Galactic said the final share ratio would be subject to
negotiation, receipt of a fairness opinion from Galactic's
financial advisers, and regulatory approval.
   Galactic and Cornucopia are currently joint owners of the
Ivanhoe gold project in Nevada, which is expected to produce
about 60,000-70,000 ounces of gold next year, after a US$10
million development plan is completed.
   Cornucopia officials weren't immediately available for
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British Airways PLC:
   Carrier Reports 29% Rise
   In Annual Pretax Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   BAB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Airways PLC reported a 29% rise in pretax profit
for the year ended March 31, though sales rose a more modest
14% and the company warned of increasing pressure from
competition and slower growth in some of its major markets.
   The London-based carrier, which is Britain's biggest
airline, produced a pretax profit of #345 million in the
latest year, compared with #268 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net attributable to shareholders, or profit after taxes
and minority interests, increased 41% to #246 million from
#175 million. There were no extraordinary items in either
period.
   Despite the buoyant earnings, British Airways Chairman
Lord King sounded a note of caution for the year ahead,
during which the airline intends to expand its fleet by 10%
and is committed to raising staff wages by 9.5%.
   "We are aware that our costs require constant scrutiny,
particularly in view of the increasingly competitive nature
of the market we serve, and the softening of Western
economies," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Administration Set
   To Unveil Proposal
   For Index Futures
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C18
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration is set to unveil its
long-awaited proposal to expand the Securities and Exchange
Commission's clout, amid signs that the idea is in trouble in
Congress.
   The measure, which the Treasury Department had promised to
introduce two weeks ago, would shift oversight of stock-index
futures to the SEC from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission. Those futures, which are used mostly by large
institutional investors, enable market players to bet on the
direction of a basket of stocks without buying those
securities. They are frequently used in program-trading
strategies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, the plan offers the first details of how the
administration would allow the SEC to regulate margins on
some futures products. It also would change commodity law to
allow easier introduction of new products on exchanges.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, a veteran of old-line
Wall Street, has been an outspoken critic of the CFTC's
oversight of stock-index futures. He contends that if the SEC
were granted expanded authority, it could better resolve
problems between the markets -- problems like those that led
to the October drops of 1987 and 1989.
   But momentum appears to have drastically slowed in recent
weeks on Capitol Hill for the proposal, which is expected to
be introduced as an amendment to the Futures Trading
Practices Act. That act, which would beef up the CFTC, was
passed last year by the Senate Agriculture Committee but has
been held up by a provision that would have shifted
index-futures jurisdiction.
   The problem, suggested one Capitol Hill aide who backs the
switch, is that "the easiest thing in the world for someone
up here to do is to avoid making a tough decision on
something as contentious as this." Vehement opposition by the
Chicago commodity exchanges and the Agriculture committees
appears to be having a ripple effect on other members who
haven't yet decided on the issue, individuals on Capitol Hill
added.
   "The only ones who really want {the switch} is Treasury,"
contended William Mattea, an aide to Sen. Alan Dixon (D.,
Ill.), who staunchly opposes any shift. "There is no
coalition supporting it."
   Even some who advocate the transfer now wonder where the
support might come from. "This measure is still lacking in
grass-roots support," said one aide. "Some folks in industry
are going to have to get motivated and start contacting
members."
   Mr. Brady has begun knocking on Senate doors to lobby for
the measure, arguing that if senators won't support the
switch, they risk being blamed for the next sharp
futures-aided drop in the stock market. But that argument
hasn't been particularly persuasive, several Senate aides
contend.
   To win on Capitol Hill, Mr. Brady will have to lean
heavily on both Republicans and Democrats to act. That won't
be an easy task, considering many natural allies are
skeptical. Says Republican Banking Committee aide Bradley
Belt, "It's one question I haven't resolved in my own mind."
   According to the Treasury proposal, the SEC would regulate
stock-index futures under the Commodity Exchange Act.
   Two other parts of the administration proposal should get
broader backing, however. One would amend the so-called
exclusivity provision of the Commodity Exchange Act. That
provision drew the SEC's ire after a federal appeals court
ruled that products with elements of futures and stocks must
be classified as futures and can be traded only on commodity
exchanges and regulated only by the CFTC.
   Under the Treasury proposal, any exchange could trade a
product with both futures and securities characteristics
provided a regulator approved it. It could be regulated under
either commodities or securities law, the plan says. "The
intent of the new exception from the Commodity Exchange Act
is to overrule the decision" of the court because that ruling
impedes "the development of innovative financial
instruments," according to a draft version of the plan
acquired by this newspaper.
   Moreover, the administration plan would grant the SEC the
right to "review and approve" margin levels of stock-index
futures. Margins, or the good-faith money needed to trade,
have been controversial because they are set by the commodity
exchanges with almost no federal oversight. When margins slip
too low, the SEC and Treasury have argued, they help
exacerbate market slides.
   The new rule would allow the SEC to require unilaterally
that the exchanges change margin levels if "necessary or
appropriate for the protection of specified persons or to
insure fair dealing."
   Another provision in the proposed legislation would
expand, for enforcement reasons, the definition of "security"
to include options and stock-index futures.
   In an effort to minimize disruption during the transfer of
jurisdiction, the SEC would be required to consult with the
CFTC. That provision "is to promote the greatest degree of
cooperation between the two commissions," the draft said.
   The administration's proposal is likely to be substituted
for the amendment proposed by Sen. Slade Gorton (R., Wash.).
So far, Mr. Gorton has emerged as the Senate's most avid
backer of the jurisdictional switch.
   Although he is likely to be joined by members of the
Senate Banking Committee, that support doesn't appear to have
the firepower to overcome an increasingly well-organized
defense by supporters of the CFTC and the Chicago commodity
exchanges. In addition to other members of the Agriculture
Committee, who aren't eager to weaken the CFTC and in turn
their own clout, Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R.,
Kan.) has said he would oppose a switch.
   Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), who heads the Senate Agriculture
Committee, asked in a recent letter to Majority Leader George
Mitchell that the administration proposal be moved to the
Senate floor for debate as quickly as possible. "The
arguments against the administration's proposal are
compelling," Sens. Leahy and Richard Lugar (R., Ind.) wrote.
"We are confident they will stand the scrutiny of fair and
open debate on the Senate floor."
   That vote isn't expected to take place before mid-June,
Senate sources said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Xerox Corp.:
   Office Machines Unveiled
   With Copier, Fax Features
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp. introduced, as expected, four new
multifunction office machines that can act as both digital
copiers and facsimile machines.
   The new devices, which will range in price from $4,295 to
$8,995, have been sold since last year in Japan by Xerox's
Japanese subsidiary. The most expensive machine -- a
free-standing, 11-page-per-minute digital copier with fax
capability -- also offers some cut-and-paste-type document
editing features. A similar machine is being gradually
introduced to the U.S. market by Japan's Ricoh Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Executives of the Stamford, Conn., company said add-in
cards, available later this year, will enable all the new
machines to be hooked up to computers so they can function as
scanners and laser printers.
   But the executives added that these souped-up versions of
the devices introduced yesterday won't comprise the
mysterious "new family" of multifunction machines, also due
later this year, to which Xerox President Paul Allaire
alluded at last week's annual meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Merc Reaches Pact
   With Japanese on Globex
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN RTRSY
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, with a strong
assist from U.S. trade negotiators, agreed in principle to
install automated futures-contract trading terminals in Japan
by the end of June.
   But an exchange spokesman said plans for a June launch of
the system, called Globex, have been pushed back by at least
a few months to allow for further testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move is a major victory for the Chicago Merc, which
had been counting on access to Japan to help make Globex a
world-wide trading system, complementing initial plans for
automated trading terminals in Chicago, New York and London.
Terminals will be added in Paris about six months after
Globex starts trading, the spokesman said.
   Japanese regulators earlier hinted they might delay
clearance for the system. The foot-dragging by the Ministry
of Finance was due in part, critics asserted, to fears that
Globex might siphon activity from Japan's fledgling
financial-futures industry.
   The automated trading system is being developed by a
partnership formed by the Chicago Merc and Reuters Holdings
PLC, which is providing the communications-systems expertise.
The system, in which orders will be entered into a central
computer and then matched automatically with offsetting
orders, will function before and after the Chicago Merc's
regular trading hours.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Glut of Stars May Trip Up Sneaker Firms
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LA RBK H.NWD
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Celebrity endorsements are spiraling out of control. Coke
and Pepsi have lined up so many famous faces that confusion
is rife over who is shilling for whom. So what have
advertisers learned from the celebrity overload?
   Not much, if the athletic-shoe business is any indication.
This week, L.A. Gear is planning to announce that it has
signed up former Reebok pitchwoman Paula Abdul to its stable
of stars, which already includes Michael Jackson. Reebok
itself is in negotiations with pop star Madonna, and its ad
agency is already preparing Madonna commercials, an executive
close to the company says. Both sneaker brands also have a
full complement of big-name athletes on their endorsement
roster, competing with Nike, whose ads just this year have
included more than a dozen sports figures, most prominently
Bo Jackson.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The escalating celebrity war is boosting the price of
competing in the athletic-shoe business. Michael Jackson's
multiyear deal with L.A. Gear alone is valued at more than
$10 million in cash, stock and royalties, according to
industry executives. Other big names can command in the $5
million-to-$10 million range. The sneaker companies generally
guarantee the stars a multimillion-dollar fee plus a
percentage of sales.
   As the celebrity sparring proliferates, though, it
threatens to turn athletic shoes into a commodity, making
different brands seem interchangeable, critics charge. "It
gets very confusing, says Ron Berger, whose ad agency Messner
Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer handles New Balance sneakers,
which don't use celebrities. "Where does the confusion end
when you can't remember who wears what? And is it important?
The more celebrities that get involved, the more it's going
to get out of hand."
   Celebrity sneaker ads are so common that "now, I think
it's cluttered," agrees Gary M. Jacobson, an analyst with
Kidder Peabody. "When Nike first did it with Michael Jordan
and Air Jordan, it was a huge success. But now there are so
many . . . I don't think it makes a lot of difference any
more. The sneaker companies need to take a riskier approach."
   The athletic-shoe companies defend their celebrity fixes,
saying the matchups make sense. Nike, the market leader with
26% of the sneaker market compared with Reebok's 24%, notes
that it only uses athletes, who stress its shoes'
performance. "Our mission is to link the athlete with the
sport with our shoe. If you can do that, it isn't overkill at
all," says a Nike spokeswoman. Nike avoids entertainers, she
adds, "because any time I've seen Paula Abdul, she's wearing
spike heels. That doesn't convince me she prefers one
{sneaker} brand over another."
   L.A. Gear and Reebok executives couldn't be reached to
comment on their celebrities, but clearly they are trying to
stand out in the harshly competitive business of $5.5 billion
a year in wholesale terms. Reebok, which had led the pack in
1988, lost the lead to Nike in 1989 but has been gaining.
L.A. Gear is expanding aggressively, now accounting for 15%
of the market. Kidder's Mr. Jacobson believes the top three
will continue to dominate, growing to 68% of the market next
year from 65% this year and 59% in 1989.
   Yet as the major sneaker companies rely more heavily on
celebrities, they're coming to resemble nothing so much as
the soft drink industry. That's a troubling role model, some
industry executives contend: While the soft drinks are so
similar that they have to rely on image to differentiate
them, the athletic shoes do have real differences -- and
those differences may be obscured by the celebrity onslaught.
   With athletic shoes, "there is more to sell than imagery.
Certain running shoes perform better than others," Mr. Berger
notes. Yet with the overflow of celebrities these days, he
says, "marketing is driving the sales much more than the
quality of the product."
   So exaggerated has the sneaker business's reliance on
celebrities become that New Balance is even poking fun of the
fixation in its own new ads. "Endorsed by no one," is the
headline over a picture of a new basketball shoe in ads
breaking this week. The shoe is "the lightest performance
basketball shoe in the world," the ad claims. "Maybe that's
why 38 NBA players are now wearing them. It certainly isn't
because we're paying them a ton of money to appear in our
ads."
   ---
   No Excuses Gets Maples
                                                                                                       

   No Excuses jeans, which has a tiny ad budget but gets
loads of publicity from its celebrity spokesmen, is expected
to announce today that model Marla Maples has signed to
become its newest spokeswoman. Ms. Maples, the alleged
girlfriend of Donald Trump, is expected to announce at a news
conference that she agreed to appear in ads for the jeans
maker after the company said it would match her contribution
to the Better World Society, an environmental group.
   No Excuses' ad campaigns have spotlighted a number of
celebrities whose personal lives have become the subject of
tabloid headlines. Stars featured in past ads include Donna
Rice and Joan Rivers.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Ramada International Hotels &amp; Resorts, whose
U.S. headquarters is in Phoenix, Ariz., named Ketchum
Advertising, Los Angeles, to create ads for its Ramada
Renaissance Hotels in the U.S. and Canada. Ketchum will also
handle the account for Ramada Hotels &amp; Inns in Canada.
Billings haven't been determined.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   John O'Donnell Quits
   Two Top Positions
   At American Republic
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   ARBC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- American Republic Bancorp said its
president and chief executive officer, John B. O'Donnell, who
also held those titles at its Republic Bank unit, resigned.
   In a brief statement, American Republic said Mr. O'Donnell
also resigned as a director of both American Republic and
Republic Bank. The company quoted Mr. O'Donnell as saying in
a letter to the two boards that he was resigning because he
"may have inadvertently engaged in activities which appear
inconsistent with company policy."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Republic didn't specify the policy, but the
statement said the bank didn't suffer any losses as a result
of such activities. It added, however, that both boards still
felt it to be in the best interests of the company and the
bank to accept Mr. O'Donnell's resignation, effective
immediately.
   Neither Mr. O'Donnell nor his attorney could be reached
for comment.
   Thomas E. Malloy, chairman of the bank and the holding
company, will also serve as acting president and chief
executive of American Republic and Republic Bank while the
boards conduct a search to fill those posts, the company
said. Mr. Malloy didn't return several phone calls seeking
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southmark Urged to Try
   To Recover $2.2 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   SM ICH
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Southmark Corp. should try to recover $2.2
million paid to two former thrift executives in 1988,
apparently to settle disputes between the executives and
Southmark and its top officials, a court-appointed examiner
has concluded.
   In documents unsealed yesterday, examiner Neal Batson
concluded that Southmark made the payment in August and
September 1988 to entities controlled by former Sunbelt
Savings Association Chairman Edwin T. McBirney III and former
Independent American Savings Association Chairman Thomas M.
Gaubert, ostensibly to settle an unfiled suit over a soured
real-estate investment
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Batson also noted that terms of the settlement
were kept confidential, even from Southmark's board, and
questioned whether the payment also was meant to settle
"substantial other unspoken matters" between Messrs. McBirney
and Gaubert and Southmark's top executives, Gene E. Phillips
and William S. Friedman.
   Mr. McBirney said he wasn't familiar with the examiner's
inquiry and couldn't comment. Neither Mr. Greenberg nor Mr.
Gaubert could be reached for comment.
   Separately, Mr. Batson concluded that Southmark should
challenge I.C.H. Corp.'s claim as a senior creditor holding
$50 million in 17.4% senior notes. Under previous management,
Southmark gave I.C.H. the notes in March 1988 in exchange for
$50 million in Southmark preferred stock, at a time when
Southmark was insolvent, Mr. Batson said. He concluded that
the transaction was unfair to other Southmark creditors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Caesars World Inc.:
   Fiscal 3rd-Period Earnings
   Fell 40% to $10.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CAW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Caesars World Inc., Los Angeles, reported that earnings
for its third quarter ended April 30 declined 40% to $10.5
million, or 44 cents a share, from $17.4 million, or 70 cents
a share, a year earlier.
   Most of the decline came from Caesars' Nevada casinos,
particularly from low table-game win percentages at the Lake
Tahoe property and construction disruptions elsewhere.
Caesars' results, somewhat better than analysts had expected,
prompted a 75 cent rise, to $21.125, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday. Caesars faces major new
competitors in Atlantic City, N.J., and Las Vegas, Nev.,
which have been affecting its business in the past few
quarters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue fell 1.7% to $217.9 million from $221.8 million.
   For the fiscal first nine months, Caesars' net income fell
42% to $29.4 million, or $1.20 a share, from $50.5 million,
or $2.05 a share, a year earlier. Revenue declined 2.9% to
$646.6 million from $666.4 million.
   Caesars also said it has bought back slightly more than
one million shares this year under a three million-share
buy-back authorization. It has about 24 million common shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Millicom Inc.:
   Nationwide Private Network
   For Dispatchers Approved
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MILL
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Millicom Inc. received permission from the Federal
Communications Commission to construct a nationwide private
voice and data radio network for dispatchers.
   The network will use the 900 megahertz frequency now used
for private or Specialized Mobile Radio (SMR) voice
communications. New York-based Millicom wants to combine
voice and data communications traffic on the same network.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Millicom Chairman J. Shelby Bryan said the company has no
system for actually combining voice and data communications
onto one SMR network, but is negotiating with three major
suppliers to design and build such systems. He declined to
identify the manufacturers.
   FCC rules normally require SMR operators to construct
their networks within 12 months. Millicom received a 24-month
extension, to three years, because its network will involve
numerous major cities and will be linked to the public phone
network to carry traffic nationwide, said Richard J. Shiben,
chief of the Land, Mobile and Microwave Division of the FCC's
Private Radio Bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dayton Hudson Corp.:
   FTC Requests More Data
   On Marshall Field Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   DH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Dayton Hudson Corp. said its planned purchase of Marshall
Field &amp; Co. for $1.04 billion will be delayed because of a
request for more information from the Federal Trade
Commission, which examines such proposed combinations to see
if they violate antitrust laws.
   The Minneapolis-based retailer said that interest expense
and depreciation tied to the planned purchase of Marshall
Field would reduce earnings for the current fiscal second
quarter by an unspecified amount. But it said that "strong
profit improvement" from its core businesses would offset the
reduction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dayton Hudson said it was confident the purchase of
Chicago-based Marshall Field would be completed, despite the
delay.
   For the first quarter ended May 5, the company said that
brisk sales at its three retail store operating companies
boosted earnings before accounting changes to $58 million, or
70 cents a fully diluted share, from $40 million, or 51 cents
a fully diluted share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Mobile Guide:
   Nags and Punters Stay the Course in Saigon
   ----
   By John Hoskin
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam -- A saddle with legs. That's
what it looks like as the jockey steps up to the scales.
Weighing in after the race, the little fellow is barely
visible behind his gear. This and other curious scenes make a
day at the races here more like the Marx Brothers film than
Ascot.
   When it was known as Saigon, Vietnam's largest city must
have offered an elegant diversion at its Phu Tho racetrack.
That came to a halt after the communist takeover. Now, 15
years later, hooves once again are kicking up the turf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Racing was resumed in April 1989 with meets every Sunday.
It is unlikely, however, that French bettors would recognize
the track they built back in colonial days. The whitewashed
bamboo rails could be familiar and turf in the tropics
probably never was expected to be green, but the concrete
grandstand, doubtless once grand in its quasi-Chinese
imperial architecture, is a shambles, a shabby survivor of
war and communist neglect.
   For the past few years it has been used as a training
school by the government's sports department, as is obvious
from the basketball court in front of the VIP stand and the
soccer field in the infield.
   Most visitors to Ho Chi Minh City today quickly come to
accept the city's rundown look. So it is not the drabness
that startles the punter at Phu Tho; it's the races
themselves. The horses stand just 3.9 to 4.9 feet tall. To
match their diminutive mounts the jockeys are between nine
and 14 years old.
   Absurd though the scene may appear to American, European
and even Hong Kong and Thai race-goers, the re-opening of Phu
Tho is an event for communist Vietnam. It is a sporting
manifestation of the country's tentative moves toward
liberalization. The races may lack finesse, but their very
existence is a surprise win in the long-odds prosperity
stakes.
   The man heralding a new era of horse racing is 47-year-old
Vietnamese-Chinese businessman Philip Chow. Showing
remarkable entrepreneurial spirit, he approached the
Vietnamese authorities offering to restart horse racing with
an investment of $70,000 in cash and another $30,000 in
equipment. The government would receive a guaranteed income
from taxes, he said, while the people would benefit from the
entertainment value.
   "The sports department was a bit hesitant at first," Mr.
Chow said, "but they are happy now that they are seeing a
good revenue." That comes in the form of a 3% government tax
and an additional 8% to the sports department from each
meeting's average $50,000 take. In Hong Kong, the average
turnover is about $76.9 million per day.
   Mr. Chow, who owns a string of 13 horses, said about 300
horses, divided among some 500 owners, are kept for racing.
He admitted the animals are third and fourth class compared
to those of Hong Kong, and cost on average $300 to $500. All
are trained by their owners.
   The youthful jockeys, of whom there are nearly 50
professionals, are mostly farm boys who first learn to ride
on water buffalo. They receive 10% of the $13 to $18 prize
money for first place. In Hong Kong, first place in a class I
race earns a jockey nearly $5,000.
   For the punter, the sport is simple. There are no odds,
and betting is limited to forecasting both first and second
place -- an exacta. There are 30 betting windows, each with
50 tickets to sell. The minimum bet is 1,000 dong, about 25
cents. In addition, high-rollers can wager upward of $25 by
special receipts. Winners share 65% of the total take.
   So what do you fancy? Ten horses are paraded in the ring
before the race, all are minute but well-groomed. One or two
jerk the reins, but most are as docile as a five-year-old's
pony at the local gymkhana. A few of the spectators match the
animals with their race-card numbers; most just look on
curiously.
   Out come the jockeys, their silks -- pink with white bar,
blue with red star, purple and white chevron -- lending a
splash of color to the drab surroundings. Then it's a slow
canter down to the blue starting gate, where handlers in
yellow T-shirts make short work of packing in the animals.
   They're off] The video van accelerates and kicks up a
cloud of dust before settling to the more leisurely pace of
the race. The eventual winner soon breaks free of the pack
and in only one race is there anything like a tussle for
second place.
   Little excitement at the finish doesn't explain the
crowd's almost total lack of response. There is no frantic
cheering from the several thousand spectators, who seem a
pretty dour lot. Even the winning jockey is glum. As the
pretty girl in a dainty canary yellow "ao dai" presents the
trophy -- a shirt -- the winner looks like a bashful
schoolboy. The only people obviously having fun are the
infants frolicking in a long-jump sand pit near the stands.
   Should you have forgotten your Ascot hat, don't worry; Ho
Chi Minh punters favor shirt-tails and baseball caps. The
slogan on the headgear of one jaunty fellow reads, "American
Life We Like It." Clearly, even money for Groucho and long
odds for Karl.
   ---
   Mr. Hoskin is a free-lance writer based in Bangkok.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Stock Prices Gain in London and Tokyo, Rally
   In Hong Kong on News of China's Trade Status
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Strong buying interest propelled shares to close higher in
healthy London trading Tuesday, though several factors
dragged the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index
off its intraday high.
   In Tokyo, stocks closed a quiet session higher, with
renewed interest in issues with environmental links and a
small-scale rally in high-priced, high-technology issues
adding to the gains on the key indicator. Hong Kong stocks
rallied 1.3% in active trading, on reports that President
George Bush will extend China's most favored nation trade
status for a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, the 100-share index closed up 29.2 points at
2311.3, well below its 2332.7 midday peak but markedly above
its 2293.3 early low.
   The Financial Times 30-share index closed with an
18.7-point gain at 1829.5. Volume was a hearty 629.7 million
shares, compared with the modest 316.2 million issues that
changed hands a day earlier.
   Markups pushed equity prices upward early in the session,
but failed to lure fresh buyers until the FT-SE 100 dipped
below 2300.0, triggering an influx of institutional
investors, a trader at a major British brokerage firm said.
Another dealer said bears were still at large in the market,
scrambling to cover their short positions.
   Dealers were split as to what caused the market to retreat
from its 50-point advance, with one suggesting a combination
of profit-taking and sentiment that the market was
overbought, while another reckoned the FT-SE 100 mimicked a
steady downward trend on Wall Street late in the London
session.
   Dealers said investors would be looking with caution to
British trade figures for April, scheduled for release
Wednesday. A Dow Jones survey shows Britain's trade deficit
is estimated to have narrowed in April to #1.5 billion ($2.53
billion) from a #2.18 billion gap a month earlier and from a
#1.39 billion shortfall in February.
   Individual corporate stories Tuesday were few, with
British Airways slipping 3 pence to 210 pence ($3.54),
despite a 20% increase in pretax profit for the year ended
March 31. The airline sounded a note of caution about
increased competition and the need to cut costs in fiscal
1991, and the market responded warily, a dealer said.
   Polly Peck, a conglomerate, slid 2 to 431, after
announcing it will increase its stake in Sansui Electric Co.
to 70% from 51% after merging two of its electronics units
into the Japanese concern. The company also said it arranged
for a listing of its Vestel Electronik Sanayaii ve Ticaret AS
on the Istanbul Stock Exchange and will sell 15% of the
company's shares to the public.
   Among companies that are to report earnings Wednesday are
Britain's largest brewer, Bass, which rose 25 to #10.49
($17.70); Courtaulds, a textile company, advanced 4 to 338
pence; B.A.T Industries, a tobacco and financial services
conglomerate, closed unchanged at 692; and Ranks Hovis
McDougall, a food company, gained 3 to 398.
   One of the biggest movers was the lubricants maker Burmah,
which jumped 23 to 617.
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues closed 173.25
points higher at 31938.30 on Tuesday. On Monday, the index
fell 248.67.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index
surged 241.56 points to 32179.86.
   Tuesday's first section volume was estimated at 500
million shares, up from 370 million shares a day earlier.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all first
section issues, which fell 17.44 points Monday, gained 19.77,
or 0.83%, to 2390.59.
   Traders said the yen's gentle rebound Monday in Tokyo
added some encouragement to buy domestic demand-related
issues, particularly steel, shipbuilding and
plant-construction stocks. But most participants said the
yen's firming wasn't enough to break through any technical
barriers, and suggested the currency's movements were more of
an excuse to buy stocks that recently have been underplayed.
The firmer yen and a subsequently firmer bond market helped
plant contractors and stocks linked to spending on the
environment, traders said. But many large institutional
investors haven't done any significant buying.
   Trading was moderately active in high-technology shares,
such as precision machinery stocks, traders said.
   Buyers showed particular interest in stocks such as Chubu
Electric, up 70 yen at 3,700 yen ($24.10), Kokusai Electric,
up 170 at 5,090, Kansai Electric, up 90 at 3,920, and Tokyo
Electric Power, up 190 at 4,850.
   Financial issues, including the so-called Big Four
Japanese securities houses, were higher. Yamaichi Securities
rose 50 to 1,400, Nomura Securities added 90 to 2,390, Nikko
Securities gained 40 to 1,370 and Daiwa Securities added 60
to 1,640.
   Several steel shares ended much stronger, including Daido,
up 35 at 1,020, and NKK, up 13 at 641. Most pharmaceutical,
ship-building and nonferrous metal shares also rose.
   In Hong Kong, the blue-chip Hang Seng Index surged 40.04
points to close at 2970.87, while the broader Hong Kong Index
gained 25.17 to 1949.79. Turnover jumped to 1.19 billion Hong
Kong dollars (US$153.4 million) from Monday's lackluster
HK$731 million.
   Participants said the China trade news, attributed to Bush
administration officials, lifted one of the major worries
that had been restraining Hong Kong trading interest lately.
Commercial and industrial issues chalked up the sharpest
gains, followed by properties shares. Utilities advanced
moderately, while banking stocks were little changed.
   In Taipei, equities dropped further as buyers continued to
withdraw, with the key index falling to a new 15-month low.
The weighted index, which fell 5.72% Monday, shed another
272.57 points, or 3.9%, finishing at 6720.32. Trading volume
totaled about 900.7 million shares valued at 57.37 billion
New Taiwan dollars (US$2.11 billion), down from Monday's
962.5 million shares valued at NT$71.36 billion.
   Elsewhere in Asia, share prices closed higher in Sydney,
Singapore and Seoul, and lower in Manila and Wellington.
   In Europe, stock prices closed higher in Paris, Frankfurt,
Zurich, Amsterdam, Stockholm and Milan, and were mixed in
Brussels. In Frankfurt, after tumbling 1.4% at the start of
trading, share prices rallied to close just above day-earlier
levels. South African gold stocks closed narrowly mixed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                               % This
                       May 21       May 18       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ...............   329.7        326.4      + 1.4
 Britain ............   676.9        672.6      - 6.1
 Canada .............   387.6        387.5      -10.4
 Japan ..............  1332.4       1342.2      -19.5
 France .............   584.9        586.9      + 3.2
 Germany ............   292.8        298.4      + 2.6
 Hong Kong ..........  2186.8       2184.2      + 4.3
 Switzerland ........   214.1        215.3      - 3.0
 Australia ..........   295.1        298.4      -10.9
 World index ........   514.4        515.3      - 9.3
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Westvaco Corp.:
   Paper Concern Reports Net
   For 2nd Quarter Fell 21%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   W
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Westvaco Corp. reported fiscal second-quarter earnings
declined 21%, reflecting a slowdown in the paper industry
plus modernization work that took one of its paper machines
out of service.
   Net for the quarter ended April 30 fell to $46 million, or
71 cents a share, from $58.2 million, or 90 cents a share, in
the year-earlier period. Sales rose 3.8% to a record $583
million from $561.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Growth in the U.S. economy remains at only moderate
levels," said John A. Luke, president and chief executive
officer. He added that Westvaco, based in New York, took one
of its largest coated-paper machines out of operation for
most of April to modify it to make more-advanced products.
Without the effect of the modernization project, which
temporarily reduced plant capacity, second-quarter earnings
would have declined 10%.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Westvaco shares fell 50 cents to close at $26.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater: `One Step' for Peace
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Nawal Assus didn't accompany the theater group Tsaad/Hutwa
("One Step" in Hebrew and Arabic) on its North American debut
this spring. The Israeli Arab teacher bowed out a month after
rehearsals for the five-city tour began. An Armenian-American
actress was recruited to replace her.
   Ms. Assus's action wasn't due to illness or prior
commitments. Instead, she declined to participate out of a
belief that the theater, which addresses the daily
confrontations between Arabs and Jews in Israel, trivialized
the conflict. And she said she didn't feel comfortable
touring with one of the Israeli actors, who performs his
mandatory annual reserve duty in the Israeli Army in the Gaza
Strip.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Her decision highlights the conflicts and contradictions
that accompany even genuine efforts to listen to one's enemy.
The cast members' anxieties are a microcosm of the broader
fears that have prevented Palestinians and Israelis from
sitting down with each other.
   Ironically, the group's message about the importance of
communication between Arabs and Israeli Jews has so far been
heard primarily by American Jewish audiences. The group has
given two performances in Israel, both times in English and
in preparation for the tour.
   The crowd that filled the majestic Congregation Rodeph
Sholom on Manhattan's Upper West Side clearly was moved by
the performance. And the camaraderie demonstrated by the cast
members as they bantered before the show is evidence of the
viability of the very idea they are promoting. "We are the
living proof of what this theater is all about," says Sa'ed
Nashef, the 21-year-old co-founder of Tsaad/Hutwa.
   Nonetheless, as the case of Ms. Assus demonstrates,
politics keeps getting in the way. The group grew out of a
meeting of an unlikely pair: Mr. Nashef, an Israeli Arab from
East Jerusalem, and Joyce Klein, a 40-year-old American
Jewish educator living in Israel at the time. They were
convinced that theater could be a bridge between the two
sides.
   It was an inauspicious moment for such an idea. They
scheduled the first meeting for January 1988. A few weeks
before, the intifada, or uprising, erupted. Israeli soldiers
and Arab protesters clashed daily. One Israeli Jew who showed
up for the meeting questioned why a Palestinian Arab would
even bother joining a theater group while the intifada was
raging. People willing to take one step were considered
completely out of step.
   Despite this, the group held together, eventually giving a
performance at an educational conference in Jerusalem that
summer. A director from the New Israel Fund, a non-profit
organization that supports Israeli groups promoting social
change, saw the show and offered to sponsor a North American
tour.
   It took another year to get the project off the ground. By
then, most of the original members had quit. They were
replaced by professional actors. Ms. Klein wrote a script but
threw it out once rehearsals began: "Nothing I could write
came near the intensity of their own stories."
   The decision to perform a play based on the actors'
personal experiences gave the group a special intensity.
Theater became a kind of therapy. Eran Bohem, an Israeli
actor living in Tel Aviv, shared a recurring nightmare that
terrorists attack his family. Nabil Izhiman, a Palestinian
Arab student, confessed he wasn't sure he would ever be able
to trust a Jew.
   These feelings found their way into the play, called
"Another Face." But the group was careful not to offer
political solutions, fearing that would destroy its fragile
coalition. "When we talk about our feelings politics hangs
over us," concedes Moti Levi, one of the Israeli Jewish
actors. "But we don't let it interfere because it cuts
communication between us."
   But one of the skits illustrates the limits of the group's
delicate balancing act. In it, a soldier doing reserve duty
in the Gaza Strip sees a Palestinian friend in the crowd of
protesters he has been ordered to disperse. The idea behind
the skit was to strip away politically charged symbols like a
soldier or a demonstrator and reveal the humanity of both
people. "We all have set reactions to soldiers shooting guns
and people throwing rocks," Ms. Klein says. "But we wanted to
show what happens to those people who come together. How do
they talk to each other?"
   Awkwardly it seems, if this skit is any indication. The
soldier inquires after his Palestinian friend's family while
frisking him, in order to protect him from being viewed as a
collaborator. Even friendship can't divorce itself entirely
from the realities of the political situation.
   That remains true offstage as well. Mr. Nashef's brother
was concerned that his participation might lead to reprisals
against the family in Jerusalem and asked him not to put the
family name in the program. Some of Israeli actress Dafna
Karta-Schwartz's friends called her a traitor for joining the
group.
   For many of the cast, however, Tsaad/Hutwa has become a
sort of refuge from politics. "I'm tired of demonstrations
and petitions. They haven't changed the antagonism," says Mr.
Bohem. For Mr. Izhiman, who studies law at Hebrew University,
the decision has a pragmatic dimension as well. "It's hard to
stay clear of politics because the issues affect me. But I
don't want to jeopardize my chances of finding a job in the
future," he says.
   Despite these external pressures, the members say their
attention to the personal has shown results impossible to be
achieved at political rallies. "Once at rehearsal, Nabil said
he hadn't realized Eran is scared of terrorists," Mr. Levi
says. "For me, this is why we're working, so Nabil can
understand we're afraid of him too, that we're human."
   The group plans to perform the play in Hebrew and in
Arabic at high schools in Israel, "so the audience is young
enough that we can really make a difference," Ms. Klein says.
And despite their misgivings, they may even end up
contributing to changes in the political landscape as well.
"In a way, the group has prepared me to talk politics," says
Mr. Nashef. "Now that I can get through to someone, I can
take the next step. I'm ready to reach out to someone on the
other side."
   ---
   Ms. Dockser Marcus covers law in the Journal's New York
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Seen Clearing Lasmo Unit's
   Developing Oil Fields Off East Coast
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA U.LAS
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian regulators are expected to authorize
this summer a Canadian unit of London &amp; Scottish Marine Oil
PLC of Britain to develop the first oil fields off North
America's East Coast.
   The two fields, known as Cohasset and Panuke, are about 30
miles west of Nova Scotia's Sable Island.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This is a very important first step for offshore Nova
Scotia and probably for offshore Canada," said Carey Ryan,
assistant deputy minister of the Nova Scotia Ministry of
Mines and Resources. "We're quite optimistic that it is going
to go ahead as planned."
   Public hearings are to start next month on the proposed
project, a joint venture of London &amp; Scottish, which is
called Lasmo, and Nova Scotia Resources Ltd., a provincial
government agency. Lasmo is a major independent oil and gas
producer.
   A final decision on whether to approve the Lasmo proposal
is expected to be made jointly by the federal and Nova Scotia
energy ministers by August.
   The fields are expected to produce about 35 million
barrels of oil over six years starting in 1992. They contain
a high-value condensate that can be used to make jet fuel and
can be blended with heavier crudes.
   Development of the two fields is expected to cost 156
million Canadian dollars (US$132.5 million), less than 5% of
the estimated development costs for the big Hibernia oil
field off Newfoundland. Hibernia isn't expected to be brought
into production until 1996.
   Lasmo, which has developed similar small fields in the
North Sea and elsewhere, will use a leased jack-up rig to
drill production wells in each field. The rig also will serve
as a production platform. The condensate will be piped to the
rig, pumped into a moored storage tanker and brought ashore
by a shuttle tanker.
   Lasmo said several companies in Canada, the U.S. and
Europe already have expressed interest in buying the
condensate.
   The proposed Lasmo development so far has encountered
little opposition. The fields aren't in prime fishing
grounds, and Lasmo said it won't operate its rig during the
rough winter months, to reduce the risk of an oil spill.
   The company has met with fishermen to assure them of the
project's low risks. Condensate isn't "that tarry, sticky
substance that will cling to shorelines," a Lasmo spokeswoman
said. In the event of a spill, condensate, unlike heavy
crude, would evaporate quickly, she said. Nova Scotia
fishermen have blocked exploratory drilling in Georges Bank,
a fishing ground off the province.
   Exploration has been conducted off the East Coast for 25
years, but no oil from the region has ever been brought to
market. The Lasmo development will be a "kick start" for
other offshore exploration and development ventures,
predicted Laurie Taylor, manager of the Canadian Petroleum
Association's Eastern region.
   Cohasset was discovered in 1973 by Mobil Oil Canada Ltd.,
a unit of Mobil Corp. Shell Canada Ltd., a subsidiary of
Royal Dutch/Shell Group, drilled the first well in the Panuke
field in 1986.
   The C$5.1 billion Hibernia project, which is several
hundred miles northeast of Cohasset and Panuke, has been
stalled because of low oil prices and protracted negotiations
with the federal and Newfoundland governments on government
financial support and guarantees. The governments and a
consortium of companies led by Mobil Oil Canada are expected
to sign by the end of June an agreement that would allow
construction of the project to begin. Hibernia is expected to
produce 110,000 barrels a day of crude oil.
   Terra Nova, another big oil field off Newfoundland, also
is expected to begin production in the mid-1990s.
Petro-Canada, a government agency and leader of the
consortium developing the field, recently revised its reserve
estimate for Terra Nova to 300 million barrels from 132
million. The project is expected to cost C$2 billion.
   Aside from some seismic work under way in Cohasset and
Panuke, one well is being drilled off the East Coast. The
well, near the Terra Nova field, is the first to be drilled
in the region in almost a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Canadian Dollar Moves Lower
   As Political Impasse Intensifies
   ----
   By John Urquhart and Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian dollar and Canadian bonds fell as
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney's chief Quebec political
lieutenant, Lucien Bouchard, resigned over Canada's
constitutional impasse.
   Currency and bond traders said Mr. Bouchard's resignation
heightened fears about the government's ability to settle the
constitutional dispute and keep Quebec within Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Canadian dollar closed in Toronto yesterday at 84.15
U.S. cents, down from 84.96 cents Monday. The Canadian unit
fell as low as 83.79 U.S. cents yesterday, but rallied in
later trading after buying support came from the Bank of
Canada.
   Canadian bond prices were down as much as 2 3/8 points, or
C$23.75 for a bond with a C$1000 face amount, but cut part of
their loss in late trading. A 20-year bellwether government
bond closed off C$20 to yield 10.82%.
   Michael Manford, chief economist at ScotiaMcLeod Inc.,
predicted that Canadian financial markets will remain
volatile until the constitutional uncertainties are settled.
   Meanwhile, a written comment by Treasury Under Secretary
David Mulford that the U.S. would welcome a stronger yen
under certain conditions cut short the U.S. dollar's rally
against the Japanese currency and sent the U.S. unit nearly 2
1/2 yen lower on the day.
   The U.S. dollar, however, continued its gains against the
mark amid deepening market nervousness about the eventual
cost of the Germanys' unification.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the U.S. dollar was
quoted at 1.6736 marks, up from 1.6626 marks late Monday, and
at 151.20 yen, down from 153.72 yen late Monday. Sterling was
quoted at $1.6928, up from $1.6875 late Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was quoted
at 151.65 yen, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 152.40 yen.
   Canada's impasse developed over proposed constitutional
amendments that would recognize Quebec as a "distinct
society" within Canada and would extend additional powers to
the country's 10 provinces in such areas as immigration. The
amendments are opposed by three provinces, Newfoundland, New
Brunswick and Manitoba.
   Mr. Bouchard told a news conference that he resigned
because he objected to current initiatives aimed at
overcoming the impasse by weakening the provisions of the the
proposed constitutional plan, known as the Meech Lake accord.
He said the distinct society designation was an important
"symbol" for the largely French-speaking Quebec and should be
left intact.
   Mr. Bouchard, who was environment minister in Mr.
Mulroney's cabinet, said he didn't intend to back down from
his position. "Read our lips because we mean business," he
said.
   Prime Minister Mulroney told the House of Commons that
Quebec's constitutional demands were "reasonable." He said
Quebec "said yes" to Canada in a referendum in 1980. "Now is
the time for the rest of Canada to say yes to Quebec."
   Mr. Mulroney, looking somber, said that current
discussions to settle the dispute haven't made much progress.
He said he wouldn't call a meeting of provincial government
leaders unless there were prospects for success. The proposed
amendments will die if they aren't ratified by all provincial
legislatures by June 23, a legal deadline.
   Mr. Bouchard said he will remain in the House of Commons
as an independent member and will "use my newly found freedom
of speech in the best interests of Quebec and Canada." Two
other Conservative members of Parliament also announced they
will quit the party and sit as independents to promote
Quebec's interests.
   Mr. Bouchard, a close friend of Mr. Mulroney, was
responsible for overseeing the Conservatives' political
interests in Quebec, the party's main power base. He agreed
to join Mr. Mulroney's cabinet in 1988 even though he had
campaigned in the 1980 Quebec referendum for the separation
of Quebec from Canada.
   Bond prices and the Canadian dollar were further depressed
by a new public opinion poll that showed that a majority of
Quebecers support eventual separation of their province from
Canada.
   Dan Gosselin, chief bond trader at Wood Gundy Inc., said
the bond price decline was the sharpest "in recent memory."
He said the selling pressure was broad and the price decline
was accentuated by an absence of buyers.
   "Nobody is sure what would happen if Quebec decided to
separate," said George Hamilton, a senior trader of Hong Kong
Bank of Canada. "There are so many unknowns out there.
Foreign investors are just running for the hills."
   Patrick Paridiso, a vice president of Deutsche Bank in New
York, said Canadian financial markets are in a state of
uncertainty because it is "very hard to quantify what would
happen if the constitutional accord isn't passed."
   Despite the uncertainty, Canadian share prices rose,
taking their signal from Wall Street's advance Monday.
Canadian stock exchanges were closed Monday because of a
national holiday. The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300-share
composite index rose 19.29 yesterday to close at 3540.54.
   Stephanie Tramdack, a portfolio analyst at Levesque
Beaubien Geoffrion Inc., said the Canadian dollar's decline
also helped share prices because many Canadian companies
benefit from a lower Canadian dollar.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery rose $2.30 to $375.60 an ounce. Estimated volume was
a heavy five million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted at $375.45 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Schering, Sandoz Cancel
   Agrochemical Lines Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.SAN G.SCH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Schering AG, the West German
chemicals and pharmaceutical group, said the expected merger
of its big agrochemicals business with that of Switzerland's
Sandoz AG has been called off.
   In an unexpected announcement, Schering cited last-minute
complications in talks over the joint venture. Both companies
recently had indicated the agrochemical merger was imminent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Schering spokeswoman said the talks collapsed after
Sandoz sought to expand the planned joint venture into
business cooperation across the board. Officials of the West
German company hinted that when agreement couldn't be reached
on a full-scale linkup, Sandoz shied away from going through
with a merger of just agrochemicals.
   Sandoz officials declined to specify what the last-minute
objections were that led to calling off the agreement. But a
spokeswoman said Schering's claim that the deal was killed
because Sandoz demanded a broader agreement wasn't a view
shared by Sandoz.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mercom Inc.:
   C-TEC Increases Its Stake
   To 19.9% of Common Stock
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CTEX MERO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   C-TEC Corp. said it raised its stake in Mercom Inc. to
19.9% from 11.68% of the common stock outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
C-TEC said it holds 475,665 shares, including 152,920 shares
bought from May 3 to May 8 for $10.46 to $11.29 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for C-TEC, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., declined to
comment on whether discussions have begun with Bloomfield
Hills, Mich.-based Mercom management and whether C-TEC plans
to increase its stake. Mercom declined to comment.
   In its previous filing, C-TEC said it planned to seek
discussions with Mercom's management regarding its business
and policies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amoco Gas Discovery
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AN XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Amoco Corp. said it made a "significant" natural
gas discovery in the Ouachita Thrust area of the Arkoma Basin
in southeastern Oklahoma.
   The well, the Amoco Retherford No. 1A, tested at a natural
flow rate of 49.3 million cubic feet of natural gas a day,
Amoco said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said perforations in the Pennsylvanian Spiro
sandstone were between 12,142 and 12,170 feet. Amoco is the
operator, with about a 42% working interest, and Exxon Corp.
holds the remaining 58% working interest.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Verdict: Frantic Antitrust Ideas Are Gone With the Wind
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A23
</SO>
<LP>
   His judicial chambers are just over the hills from
Hollywood in Pasadena, but whatever the inspiration, Judge
Alex Kozinski found a way to grab the attention of antitrust
paranoids. He managed to weave the names of more than 200
movies into his court opinion declaring the innocence of a
movie-theater operator accused of being a dirty rotten
monopolist.
   Judge Kozinski deserves a special-category Oscar for the
style and substance of U.S. v. Syufy Enterprises. His 25-page
opinion, issued May 9, is a witty reminder that even the
free-market antitrust revolutionaries of the Reagan Justice
Department committed abusive prosecutions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To be fair, if we're going to have government review of
mergers it's not surprising that the business strategy of
Raymond Syufy sounded alarm bells. Mr. Syufy, who owns
several hundred movie theaters in the West, decided to enter
the Las Vegas market in 1981. He was a fierce competitor,
driving up bids to distributors for the rights to show top
films. By 1984, three competitors, including national chains
Mann and Plitt, sold out to Mr. Syufy, leaving only a small
competitor.
   In a complaint signed by then-antitrust chief Douglas
Ginsburg, now a federal appeals-court judge, Justice accused
Mr. Syufy of monopoly by gobbling up competitors. But a funny
thing had happened by the time the case reached the courts.
   Syufy may well have intended to become a monopolist, but
only results count. Syufy itself provided the best evidence
that there was no barrier preventing competitors from
entering the market. When Syufy cornered the first-run
market, it apparently tested its new market power by reneging
on a deal with Orion distributors. Orion responded by suing,
cutting off all Syufy theaters nationwide and giving
first-run films to the remaining Las Vegas competitor.
Quickly, Syufy's "utopia proved to be only a mirage," Judge
Kozinski wrote.
   (Lawyers will probably read this case as much for movie
spotting as for its holding. A footnote hints there are 204
film titles secreted in the text, but I could find only 31.
Journal movie reviewer Julie Salamon, armed with her law
degree, managed to find 70 movies including the obscure
Static, The Gate and Avalanche. Try your luck with the
excerpts nearby, with the consolation that Judge Kozinski
says he's been a buff since he learned about America through
movies while growing up in Romania.)
   Syufy went from locking up rights to more than 90% of the
first-run movies in 1985 to less than 40% by 1988. Judge
Kozinski wrote that the competing theater owner "evolved from
absolute beginners, barely staying alive, into a big
business." Within two years, the competitor had more screens
than Syufy. "Syufy's acquisitions did not short circuit the
operation of the natural market forces."
   Judge Kozinski rejected the idea that Syufy somehow broke
any law by knocking the other theater operators out of
business by tough competition. He cited a classic judicial
opinion of this big-is-bad school, Judge Learned Hand's
opinion demanding the breakup of Alcoa in 1945 because it had
become too efficient. Alcoa's success may be "evidence of the
skill, energy and initiative with which it has always
conducted its business," Judge Hand wrote, "but we can think
of no more effective exclusion than progressively to embrace
each new opportunity as it opened. . . ."
   Competing too well has now been decriminalized by several
Supreme Court cases interpreting the vague antitrust laws. As
Judge Kozinski noted, "While the successful competitor should
not be raised above the law, neither should he be held down
by law." Indeed, if Justice had followed its own merger
guidelines there probably would have been no case. Its test
is whether a new competitor is likely to enter the market
within two years. Even if a firm has a huge market share,
there is no violation of the Sherman Act if there's no power
to exclude competitors; there's no Clayton Act problem where
there are no barriers to entry for competitors.
   This case earned the ultimate insult a court can give
government lawyers -- it was a waste of time. Judge Kozinski,
appointed by President Reagan in 1985, wrote that "It is a
tribute to the state of competition in America that the
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice has found no
worthier target than this paper tiger on which to expend
taxpayer resources."
   Indeed, if there is any barrier to competition it may be
this kind of government-instigated litigation. "Regulation
often helps entrench existing businesses by placing new
entrants at a competitive disadvantage," Judge Kozinski
wrote. "It is perhaps less well appreciated that litigation
itself can be a form of regulation; lawsuits brought by the
government impose significant costs." He said that "for
competitors in a free market to fear buying each other lest
they be hit with the expense and misery of an antitrust
enforcement action amounts to a burden only slightly less
palpable than a direct governmental prohibition against such
a purchase."
   This prosecution means it's still what Judge Kozinski
might call high noon for the free-market revolution in
antitrust law. Monopoly seems impossible without some barrier
to entry created by the government, such as limiting landing
slots at airports or granting utility monopolies. Indeed, the
lesson of the Syufy case is that overenforcement may be the
greater sin.
   How about a new approach? Why not require Justice first to
find some evidence that there is a government barrier to
competitors entering a market. Only if some government
interference is found should regulators or prosecutors even
begin to consider bringing an antitrust case.
   There is no reason to go back to the days of bureaucrats
mandating the "correct" size of firms. Give the last word to
Judge Kozinski, with supporting roles by Ayn Rand and Gary
Cooper: "Personal initiative, not government control, is the
fountainhead of progress in a capitalist economy."
   ---
   Federal judge Alex Kozinski inserted the names of 204
films into his opinion in favor of a movie theater operator.
Treat yourself to popcorn if you can find 10 or more titles
in these excerpts:
                                                                                                       

   "unlike centrally planned economies, where decisions about
production and allocation are made by government bureaucrats
who ostensibly see the big picture and know to do the right
thing, capitalism relies on decentralized planning."
   "The antitrust laws do not require that rivals compete in
a dead heat, only that neither is unfairly kept from doing
his personal best."
   "Syufy always treated moviegoers fairly: The movie
tickets, popcorn, nuts and the seven-ups cost about the same
in Las Vegas as in other, comparable markets."
   "Support is missing in the record for the Justice
Department's theory of a shakedown by a ruthless predator."
                                                                                                       

   Movie titles: The Big Picture, Big, Do The Right Thing,
Dead Heat, Personal Best, Always, Popcorn, Nuts, The
Seven-Ups, Missing, Shakedown, Ruthless and Predator.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Men Get Same Parental-Leave Benefits
   As Women Under Appeals Court Ruling
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- A federal appeals court here ruled that any
employer with more than 15 workers must provide a man with
unpaid child-rearing leave if that benefit is offered to
female co-workers.
   The decision by the Third U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals is
only binding in Pennsylvania, Delaware, New Jersey and the
Virgin Islands, but is likely to be influential on federal
trial courts nationally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling could have far-reaching implications, affecting
thousands of U.S. employers who offer parental leave benefits
but traditionally provide such options to women only. Though
an estimated 37% of employers with 100 workers or more offer
parental leave, Congress is currently considering a family-
and medical-leave bill that would provide broader coverage.
   The appeals court found that the Pittsburgh Board of
Education discriminated against teacher Gerald Schafer by
denying him a one-year unpaid leave to take care of his son.
The unpaid-leave benefit was included in a union contract but
had only been used by women and was specifically denied to
Mr. Schafer in 1981. The court ruled that the board violated
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, which prohibits sex or
race discrimination by employers with more than 15 workers.
   "This says an employer can't give benefits like
child-rearing leave to one sex and not another," said Edward
Feinstein of the Pittsburgh law firm Begler, Kowall &amp; Ombres,
who represented Mr. Schafer.
   The appeals court's finding doesn't mean that fathers are
entitled to sick leave or disability benefits. Rather, the
three-judge panel said in its opinion, "If mothers can have
child-rearing obligations immediately upon the birth of their
child, then fathers also are entitled to exercise the option
of using child-rearing leave immediately upon the birth of
their child."
   Michele Lord, senior research associate of the Family and
Work Institute, said: "This sends a clear message that
fathers ought to try to enforce their rights under Title
VII." Few courts, she pointed out, have enforced the rights
of fathers regarding child care.
   Barbara Berish Brown, an employment-law specialist for the
Washington firm Paul, Hastings, Janofsky &amp; Walker, said the
finding may surprise employers. She suspects many employers
allow women to take leave beyond the period of physical
disability, but men, asking for a similar leave, would run
into opposition.
   Yet while the ruling is significant legally, she said, "in
real life I wonder how many men will ask to take advantage of
child-rearing leave."
   Donna Lenhoff, legal director of the Women's Legal Defense
Fund, said the ruling also underscores the need for states
and the federal government to adopt gender-neutral leave
policies when considering parental leaves, as well as family
and medical leaves.
   In the Schafer case, the school board unsuccessfully
argued that the leave was a maternity benefit and that Mr.
Schafer, not having been disabled by the birth process,
wasn't entitled to the leave.
   Mr. Schafer resigned his position as a special-education
teacher when alternative child-care arrangements fell
through. He filed a complaint with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission in 1982.
   In 1987, a concent decree was signed in which the school
agreed to grant leaves to men in the collective-bargaining
agreement. However, the school didn't admit that it had
violated Title VII, and didn't offer any back pay.
   Mr. Schafer is seeking back pay, an issue the appeals
court remanded back to the district court to determine
whether he had any other alternative short of resignation. If
not, he could receive back pay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Read His Lips: Keep Cutting Taxes
   ----
   By Peter Truell
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Just as the Bush administration looks likely to negotiate
new taxes with Congress, Lawrence B. Lindsey has published an
authoritative argument for the tax cuts of the Reagan years.
   But "The Growth Experiment: How the New Tax Policy Is
Transforming the U.S. Economy" (Basic Books, 260 pages,
$21.95) isn't just about recent history, it also advances the
tax-cutting thesis, making a persuasive case for a further
overhaul of the tax system, and even proposing a standard
flat tax rate of 19% coupled with an end to most deductions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arguing for "a tax system that puts people before
political pandering," the author reminds us that the proper
purpose of the income tax is to raise revenue in the most
painless way to the people, economy and nation.
   Mr. Lindsey, a Harvard economics professor who worked in
the Reagan White House as a senior tax-policy economist, is
understandably partial to the achievements of that
administration. But he also is one of the most cogent and
knowledgeable of the supply-side advocates and, in this book,
he provides us with what is likely to stand as the most
credible and coherent supply-side account of the revolution
in U.S. tax policy that triumphed in the 1980s.
   During that decade, tax-cutting became widely accepted and
practiced. Britain, Norway, Australia, Canada, Austria,
Belgium, South Korea, West Germany and even Japan, cut back
tax rates. With hindsight it is easy to forget the outrage
that the supply siders caused. As Mr. Lindsey says, they
posed one of the greatest challenges to reigning economic
dogma since Keynes's overthrow of classical economics in the
1930s.
   Primarily microeconomists, the supply siders concentrated
on the neglected area of income tax and how it affects
incentives for individuals to work, save and invest. Income
tax, which "The Growth Experiment" terms "the political
Achilles' heel of Keynesian orthodoxy," already was buckling
under the strain of overuse and abuse. In their preoccupation
with macroeconomics and demand management policies, the
Keynesians had all but forgotten about tax policy and its
effects on the individual. Redressing this balance was the
supply siders' greatest victory.
   The Keynesians were ripe for the picking. They were
bewildered by stagflation, that uncomfortable combination of
rising unemployment and inflation that characterized the late
1970s. They also were too willing to see tax cuts just as a
way to expand demand.
   A former pupil of Martin Feldstein, president of the
National Bureau of Economic Research, Mr. Lindsey doesn't try
to give the whole show to the supply siders. He concedes that
some of their more extreme hypotheses have proved false, such
as that all of the Reagan tax cuts were self-financing.
   Mr. Lindsey carefully estimates that as much as two-thirds
of the cuts were self-financing. But he sometimes seems too
eager to credit the supply-side revolution. When more married
women went out to work in the mid-1980s, he credits the
supply-side effects of the tax cuts. To be sure, they played
an important part. But social and demographic trends show
increasing numbers of married women began going out to work
in the 1970s, and as Mr. Lindsey acknowledges, married
working women still face the most punitive tax rates.
   The book also skates over some of the bolder claims of the
supply-siders, many of whom maintained that the tax cuts
would be entirely self-financing. That
have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too approach encouraged fiscal
irresponsibility and deepened the federal deficit problem.
   Mr. Lindsey also is quick to blame profligate politicians
for the deficits that at least in some part resulted from tax
cuts. The politicians were indeed profligate, both on Capitol
Hill and in the White House. Defense spending increased
substantially, helping the federal deficit to balloon;
middle-class transfers grew too, and political stalemate and
inertia mean that the country has yet to find solutions to
large federal deficits.
   "The Growth Experiment's" concentration on federal income
tax also is somewhat one-sided. State and local taxes are
scarcely mentioned. They have generally risen in recent years
-- particularly in poorly run big cities where so many
Americans live -- offsetting some of the effect of the
federal cuts.
   But Mr. Lindsey makes an almost unassailable case for
keeping top income tax rates below 50%, and also provides
compelling evidence that the Reagan tax cuts helped boost
economic growth. The supply siders clearly recognize that if
you tax people too much, they'll just take their money
elsewhere.
   Politicians henceforth will ignore tax policy at their
peril. Bracket creep and high inflation raise tax rates
brutally. In response, citizens will pursue an increasingly
feverish search for shelters, fringe benefits -- anything to
cut the tax take. Revenues for government fall.
   The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, the basis of "The
Growth Experiment," also wasn't the gift to the rich that
some would have us believe. By eliminating bracket creep, it
delivered substantial benefits to ordinary working people.
   While he is an advocate of that act, Mr. Lindsey also is
prepared to be the intelligent critic, too. The nation's
savings performance was poor during these years and the act
was lopsided, in that it boosted investment much more
powerfully than it encouraged savings. To raise savings, Mr.
Lindsey proposes Individual Savings Accounts that would offer
similar advantages to IRAs with the additional enticement of
a more liberal withdrawal policy.
   The debt bias of the tax system also must be changed. The
tax system punishes savings, is overly harsh in its treatment
of capital gains and rewards borrowing. Subsidized borrowing
also severely distorts the housing market.
   Doing away with such distortions would allow much lower
tax rates, and a flat rate of as low as 11% would provide
enough money to finance today's federal government. Mr.
Lindsey compromises here and proposes a flat rate of 19% to
pay for the few allowances he would retain.
   Politicians, though, hate flat rates, which blunt their
ability to direct people's behavior. But a lower flat rate is
likely to appeal to most citizens who now pay a federal tax
rate of 28%, social security at 7.5%, and state taxes of
about 5%. As Mr. Lindsey says, "for most of history a 40% tax
rate on the middle class would have seemed an unconscionable
tyranny."
   ---
   Mr. Truell is a staff reporter in the Journal's Washington
bureau.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FBI Agents Raid
   2 Northrop Corp.
   Airplane Plants
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Federal Bureau of Investigation agents
raided two Northrop Corp. plants that perform work on the
F/A-18 strike fighter for the Navy, Marine Corps and several
foreign governments.
   Neither the FBI nor the U.S. attorney's office would
comment on the searches at the Hawthorne and El Segundo,
Calif., plants of the defense contractor's aircraft division.
A company spokesman, who said Northrop was "working with the
government to understand the issues" behind the raids, said
they began before 8 a.m. PDT and continued into the
afternoon. He declined to elaborate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much of Northrop's activity at the two plants is as the
main subcontractor on St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas
Corp.'s F/A-18 Hornet, for which Northrop does 40% of the
work. Earlier this year, the Justice Department indicated it
would help litigate a whistle-blower's civil suit, alleging
overbilling by Northrop on the Hornet.
   But an attorney who has filed numerous cases against
Northrop on behalf of employee whistle-blowers said he
believes the searches were part of an investigation into "a
minimum of three weapons systems" that grew out of litigation
still under federal-court seal. The attorney, Herbert Hafif,
declined to identify the weapons systems, to identify his
client, or to detail the allegations in the suit, but he
claimed that the investigations have been under way for six
months and that "corroboration of substantial frauds is being
obtained."
   Among the other major work being done at the two Northrop
plants is development of a YF-23 prototype under the big Air
Force program to select an advanced tactical fighter.
   A person who is familiar with the raids disputed that
programs beyond the F/A-18 were involved, saying the raids
were concentrated in the areas of the two plants that
assemble center and aft fuselage sections of the Hornet for
shipment to McDonnell Douglas in St. Louis. He suggested that
the investigations could relate to a criminal case that
hasn't been reported by the government.
   McDonnell produces seven Hornets a month, and has produced
nearly 1,000 of the planes so far for the U.S., Canada,
Australia and Spain. Other customers for the plane, a total
of 1,636 of which have been ordered world-wide, are Kuwait,
Switzerland and South Korea.
   Northrop's problems with federal investigators in recent
years have extended into a large number of its major programs
beyond the F/A-18. Earlier this year, it settled a fraud case
involving company work on the Navy's AV-8B Harrier jet
fighter and the Air Force's air-launched cruise missile,
pleading guilty to making false statements and agreeing to
pay $17 million in fines. At that time, the government closed
criminal investigations into alleged improprieties relating
to Northrop work on MX missile guidance systems and its
largest program, the B-2 Stealth bomber.
   The FBI just last February had taken the unusual step of
raiding Northrop's B-2 plant in Pico Rivera, Calif., and
seizing documents, though that search apparently was part of
yet another investigation the government is conducting into
company B2 activities.
   Last year, Northrop also confirmed that federal agents had
subpoenaed documents from the Illinois-based division that
makes airborne radar-jamming equipment. Northrop was
investigated, too, as part of Operation Ill Wind, a major
inquiry into influence-peddling at the Pentagon. And a House
subcommittee and a federal grand jury are looking at $7.8
million in allegedly questionable payments made by Northrop
in connection with efforts to sell F-20 fighters, part of a
now-defunct program to South Korea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   NIKKEI PUT WARRANTS' potential gains in the event of a 30%
drop in the Nikkei index of 225 Tokyo stocks were understated
by 100 percentage points in a story and an accompanying table
in yesterday's edition because of a miscalculation. For
example, in the case of the Denmark put, the gain from the
May 18 level would be 148% (instead of 48%); in the case of
the newer PaineWebber put, the gain would be 242% (not 142%).
   (See: "Putting Latest Nikkei-Index Play to Test" -- WSJ
May 22, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   GREYHOUND LINES INC., a unit of Dallas-based GLI Holding
Co., offered to redeem about $191 million in face amount of
debt for about $86 million in cash. The figures were
incorrectly stated in yesterday's edition.
   (See: "Greyhound Lines Hopes to Redeem Portion of Debt" --
WSJ May 22, 1990)
   ---
   CARLTON COMMUNICATIONS shares declined 25 pence to 515
pence Monday in trading on London's stock exchange. The
decline was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (See: "World Markets: Taiwan Index Drops 4th Time in a Row
to Low For 15-Months; Equities Off in Frankfurt, Tokyo" --
WSJ May 22, 1990)
   ---
   CLARENCE GONSALVES is a former manager of the now-defunct
Western Services Department, Pomona, Calif., of Northrop
Corp.'s Precision Products division, and Howard Hyde is a
former senior engineer of the department. Recent editions
mistakenly said that the Precision Products division,
Norwood, Mass., was the unit that closed.
   (See: ""Ex-Northrop Official Gets Prison Sentence Of One
Year, One Day" -- WSJ May 21, 1990 and "Ex-Northrop Aide
Sentenced to Prison in Falsifying Tests" -- WSJ May 18, 1990)
   ---
   COMMERZBANK OVERSEAS FINANCE N.V. offered 150 billion lira
of 12 5/8% Eurobonds priced at 101.4 to yield 12.70% less
fees. In yesterday's edition the denomination of the
Eurobonds was omitted.
   (See: "New Securities Issues" -- WSJ May 22, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freddie Mac Plans to Buy
   Five-Year Balloon Loans
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE CCI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. plans to start
swapping, in negotiated transactions, five-year balloon loans
with monthly payments based on a 30-year repayment
reschedule.
   The loans are attractive to starter-home buyers, military
families and others who plan to stay in a house for fewer
than five years. Freddie Mac expects investors to find
mortgage participation certificates backed by the loans
attractive because of their shorter duration and more
predictable maturity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The interest rate on the loans is lower than rates for
regular 30-year loans. After five years, a borrower can repay
the loan, extend it, or refinance at a new fixed rate for 25
years. New rates under the extension or refinancing options
will be set at half a percentage point over the current
Freddie Mac 60-day required net yield. The rate increase is
capped at five percentage points over the original loan.
   Freddie Mac, based in Reston, Va., is a
government-sponsored, publicly traded company that operates a
secondary market for mortgages, buying loans from lenders,
packaging them into securities and selling them to investors.
   Separately, Freddie Mac said it bought $131 million in
loans on multifamily properties from Citicorp Mortgage Inc.,
which exchanged the loans for the same amount in Freddie Mac
multifamily mortgage participation certificates. Freddie Mac
said the 630 loans are secured by apartment buildings, mostly
small buildings with five to 12 units, in the Chicago area.
   The company said it bought a $37 million multifamily loan
-- the largest it ever purchased -- from Globe Mortgage Co.
of Hackensack, N.J. The loan is for rental housing in
suburban Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Martech Expects Net
   For Fiscal 1990 to Lag
   Anticipated Levels
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   MUSA
</CO>
<LP>
   ANCHORAGE, Alaska -- Martech USA Inc. said it expects
lower-than-anticipated fiscal 1990 revenue and profit because
of reduced work associated with the continuing cleanup of
last year's Exxon Valdez oil spill.
   Martech, an oil field-cleanup and marine-services firm,
said it expects to report revenue for the fiscal year ending
August 31 in the range of $52 million to $55 million, and net
income for the year approximating $1 a share, or about $9.4
million. The figure is higher than year-earlier results, but
less than the $65 million in annual revenue that Martech had
anticipated earlier this year and below earnings of $1.10 to
$1.17 a share anticipated by some analysts. The outlook
basically assumes roughly flat earnings and revenues for the
second half compared with year-earlier levels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Martech said the revised outlook assumed no further
revenue contribution from Exxon Corp. from work on the oil
spill, which accounted for more than 80% of the company's
second-half revenue last year. Martech said Exxon plans to
increasingly rely on bio-remediation techniques in completing
the cleanup, which is much less labor-intensive than the
process used last year.
   Martech emphasized that it is still bidding for certain
Exxon contracts on the spill and still may realize additional
revenue from it. A spokesman said the latest estimate was
"almost a worst-case scenario."
   Martech became publicly held in December. While the
company recently changed its fiscal year, for the 12 months
ended August 31, 1989, it had profit of $7.7 million, or 64
cents a share, on revenue of $41.1 million.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Martech
closed at $11.50, down 50 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Cetus Wins Round
   In Patent Dispute
   With Erbamont Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CTUS BMY GENI
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   EMERYVILLE, Calif. -- Cetus Corp. said it won a round in a
patent dispute with Erbamont Inc. over a widely prescribed
anti-tumor drug that it imports.
   The biotechnology concern said a U.S. International Trade
Commission hearing officer rejected a claim by the Stamford,
Conn., affiliate of Erbamont N.V. of Italy, that Cetus is
violating Erbamont patent rights by importing the drug, known
as doxorubicin. Cetus, which has been selling a generic form
of the drug in the U.S. since last May, said the decision
"clears the way for us to continue providing a competitively
priced alternative to Erbamont's product," which is sold
under the brand name Adriamycin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cetus said Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. has been importing and
marketing a generic version of doxorubicin, and was also
named in the trade dispute. The total U.S. market for the
drug is approximately $160 million.
   Cetus noted that federal court litigation over possible
infringement of Erbamont's patents is still pending.
   In Stamford, Erbamont said it "intends to continue to
fight to protect its patents from unauthorized use by others.
We are confident that the commission will support our belief
that our patent is valid and enforceable and that our
competitors' actions infringe our patent."
   Separately, Cetus said it reached a cross-licensing
agreement with Genetics Institute Inc., of Cambridge, Mass.,
relating to a protein that is expected to be useful in
treating cancer and other diseases. Last year, the two
companies received separate patents covering aspects of what
is called macrophage-colony stimulating factor. The
royalty-free licensing accord allows the companies to
independently develop the protein.
   In national over-the-counter trading, Cetus closed at
$16.50 a share, up 75 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monsanto and Exxon
   Plastic-Material Units
   To Join in Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MTC XON
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- The chemical units of Monsanto Co. and Exxon
Corp. agreed in principle to combine their thermoplastic
elastomers businesses, creating an independent company with
initial sales of about $100 million a year.
   The joint venture would merge St. Louis-based Monsanto's
strengths in manufacturing and marketing the rubber-like
materials with Exxon's knowledge of olefin-based raw
materials and fundamental polymer science.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We think this effort will show that one plus one is going
to equal three," said a Monsanto spokesman. "It's a chance to
grow faster than either of us could grow alone."
   The new company, to be based in St. Louis, would have
comparable numbers of managers from New York-based Exxon and
Monsanto, but respective ownership stakes and other details
remain to be determined. Start-up is expected by year-end,
contingent upon the conclusion of negotiations and various
regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe and Latin America.
   Thermoplastic elastomers are used widely in engineered
industrial rubber and soft plastics for automobiles,
appliances, and construction materials as well as in food
packaging and medical products. World-wide consumption of
such elastomers exceeds 600,000 metric tons a year,
representing sales of about $1.6 billion. Consumption has
been growing recently at an annual rate of about 10%,
according to industry studies.
   Late this year, the new company is expected to introduce
two products that Monsanto has been developing. One has
high-temperature tolerance that makes it suited for
"under-the-hood" automotive uses; the other, a material with
low permeability, is intended for specialty medical
applications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900523-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900523-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brady to Seek New Borrowing Authority
   For S&amp;L Bailout, Possibly Tripling Total
   ---
   Top of Range Is $140 Billion;
   Taxpayer Bill Could Be
   $300 Billion or Higher
   ----
   By Alan Murray and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady will ask
Congress today for massive new borrowing authority to finance
the savings-and-loan bailout, according to government
officials.
   The Treasury secretary is expected to acknowledge tacitly
that his department badly underestimated the cost of the S&amp;L
debacle last year, when it said the problem largely could be
solved with $50 billion in long-term borrowing. Officials
said that today he will give the Senate Banking Committee a
broad range of estimates for the long-term borrowing needs.
While they wouldn't reveal the precise range the secretary
will use, they said it is in the neighborhood of $80 billion
to $140 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The higher numbers, in part, reflect the fact that the
government may take over more thrifts than previously
estimated. In its original plan, the Treasury acknowledged
there might be additional costs, but not until after 1992.
The new borrowing authority Mr. Brady will seek may be needed
much sooner. If interest payments are included, the new
figures could put the total taxpayer cost of the bailout
during the next 10 years at $300 billion or more.
   At closed-door budget negotiations yesterday between the
White House and congressional officials, Mr. Brady emphasized
the substantial uncertainty surrounding thrift-bailout
estimates, and he is expected to do the same in his testimony
today. He is likely to point out that he has always said the
estimates will vary depending on economic conditions.
   During yesterday's session of the talks, White House
Budget Director Richard Darman said eliminating the budget
deficit could require spending cuts and tax increases of as
much as $500 billion over five years, according to Senate
Budget Committee Chairman James Sasser (D., Tenn.).
Congressional and administration negotiators say they hope to
reach a consensus on how much to try to cut the deficit this
year and over the following four years. But there wasn't any
agreement on whether Mr. Darman's figure would be a wise or
politically possible target.
   The Treasury's earlier failure to estimate the cost of the
S&amp;L problem has been the subject of considerable grumbling in
the White House lately. Administration officials have urged
Mr. Brady to make sure his estimate is large enough this time
to guarantee that the administration won't have to seek
additional funds before the 1992 presidential election.
   Officials say Mr. Bush has largely escaped political blame
for the S&amp;L disaster by claiming he inherited the problem.
But they fear he could be politically harmed if he has to go
back for more money shortly before the next election.
   In addition, administration officials want to devise a
permanent solution to the S&amp;L mess before completing budget
talks with Congress. Otherwise, the ever-burgeoning S&amp;L
fiasco could undermine any budget agreement in the future.
   The top of the Treasury's new range of estimates
represents the costs if the government has to close down
another 600 S&amp;Ls, in addition to the roughly 400 already
closed. Those figures suggest about one-third of the thrift
industry ultimately would be taken over by the government.
   Mr. Brady's testimony is expected to leave unresolved the
difficult question of how to finance the increased costs. The
administration and Congress previously agreed to raise the
first $50 billion through off-budget borrowing by a new
organization called the Resolution Funding Corp. But there
currently is talk in the administration of disbanding that
organization and raising the rest of the funds through
ordinary long-term Treasury bonds.
   How to finance the S&amp;L bailout is certain to be a critical
issue in the current budget talks. Officials believe a likely
solution will involve having the remainder of the S&amp;L
borrowing done by the Treasury and counted in the budget, but
declared exempt from the deficit targets set by the
Gramm-Rudman law.
   The budget negotiators also will have to deal with the
separate issue of "working capital" to finance the sale of
thrift assets. In addition to the $50 billion in long-term
borrowing, Congress has approved short-term borrowing of as
much as $45 billion to pay carrying costs for assets such as
real estate that will later be sold, presumably recouping
much of the $45 billion.
   The Treasury's new estimates are in line with those made
by other analysts, including the Congressional Budget Office
and the General Accounting Office. Auburn University
Economist James Barth, who has studied the savings-and-loan
situation, says he and a colleague recently estimated the
borrowing need at $100 billion to $134 billion.
   At yesterday's 2 1/2-hour session of budget negotiations,
several participants said, administration and congressional
negotiators inched closer to a common definition of the
deficit problem. "We're beginning to see some daylight," said
Sen. Pete Domenici (R., N.M.). "We're moving toward a common
set of ground rules."
   Mr. Darman outlined 11 different ways to measure the
deficit, and projected the gap six years into the future
under each definition. The summit negotiators reached no
agreement on how to measure the deficit.
   Mr. Darman labeled all figures on the thrift bailout
"guesstimates." He estimated that thrift-bailout costs of all
sorts -- not just the added borrowing authority Mr. Brady is
seeking -- will amount to about $39 billion this year, $61
billion in 1991 and $51 billion in 1992. The annual costs are
projected to fall sharply in subsequent years as the
government sells off assets acquired from failed thrifts and
pays off some of the debt incurred to finance the bailout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
