<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Soviet Artists in America: Toiling for Dollars
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Ludmila Skripkina and Oleg Petrenko, a.k.a.
the Peppers, sat smoking and sipping tea in their borrowed
artist's studio in Lower Manhattan. Reaching toward the small
television set, Mr. Petrenko switched channels from "The
People's Court" to "Bonanza," and considered the couple's
first visit to the Big Apple.
   "Each day, we usually work, go out and walk around," he
said haltingly. "We live here like we do in Soviet Union."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although they are still in their 20s, the Peppers have
joined an elite group of Soviet artists who make their art on
the go, globe-trotting from London to Berlin to Manhattan.
   "Most of the really good artists travel constantly," said
Margarita Tupitsyn, a Soviet art historian. "They're invited
by some European gallery, or a gallery here, or a museum
show. It's almost impossible to find anyone in Moscow among
people who have a choice."
   In the bad old days when getting a bad review meant having
your work mowed down by a state-run bulldozer, these once
"unofficial" artists worked in obscurity, supporting
themselves as book illustrators and factory workers. They
have perestroika to thank for their new mobility, but their
plane tickets are being paid by European and American art
dealers eager to market their once-forbidden art.
   Although the jury is still out on the commercial fate of
current Soviet art, the market may have hit high tide in
1988, when Sotheby's netted $3.6 million at a Moscow auction
of paintings, many by artists then unknown abroad. But last
month, when the house of Hapsburg, Feldman tried to make the
Soviet goose lay more golden eggs at a New York sale, the
nest was half empty. Only 65 of the 121 works -- including
many by the same artists who were bought up at the Sotheby's
sale -- sold, most at prices well below the estimates.
   This dismal showing has not yet deterred a handful of
committed New York dealers from sponsoring lengthy working
visits here for promising Soviet artists. The Peppers owe
their six weeks in New York (wedged between stays in Italy
and Amsterdam) to Ronald Feldman Fine Arts Inc., which
arranged their visas, bought their plane tickets, paid for
their studio and living space and their daily expenses. In
return, the gallery will show and sell the four works the
Peppers produced here, pocketing 50% of the profits after
their expenses in an arrangement similar to those it holds
with American artists.
   For dealers such as Mr. Feldman, who is now scouring
Eastern Europe for still-fresher talent, inviting Soviet
artists to work in New York is more a matter of financial
horse sense than a goodwill gesture. By setting the artists
up so they can work outside the U.S.S.R., dealers circumvent
costly and Byzantine regulations that the Soviets place on
art exports. If dealers want to market Soviet art that is
still in the U.S.S.R., they must buy it on consignment from
the Soviet government at high sums further inflated by the
official rate of exchange. Furthermore, dealers tell horror
stories of shelling out big rubles for one painting in
Moscow, then receiving another in the mail. Artists fare even
worse, sometimes not even receiving the small percentage of
profits they'd been promised by the authorities who insist on
acting as their agents to the West.
   "Paintings were bought officially through proper
government agencies in the U.S.S.R., and to this day the
artists whose work was purchased that way were not paid by
the government," said Mr. Feldman, recalling shows of Soviet
art that he held during the 1980s.
   Igor and Svetlana Kopystiansky, who are here at the
invitation of the Phyllis Kind Gallery, say the Soviet
government promised them 60% of the profits from the
Sotheby's sale, but came through with only 15% -- which then
was promptly taxed. But some artists say they fared no better
at the hands of Western collectors who began touring their
Moscow studios in recent years. Promising gallery and museum
exhibitions of their work, collectors such as Frenchman Jose
Alvarez, whose purchases made up the bulk of works auctioned
at Hapsburg, Feldman, paid only a couple of hundred dollars
for paintings that they promptly resold for thousands.
   Now, most Soviet artists of note tend to work and sell
almost exclusively outside the Soviet Union. But while
artists stand to gain financially from this new setup, they
may not be able to take their newly earned dollars back home
with them. By cutting out the Soviet middleman, artists have
put themselves outside the system for dealing with foreign
profits, and many doubt if they will be able to deposit the
money in Soviet foreign-currency banks. Faced with the
prospect of converting their dollars into rubles on the black
market, some artists prefer to blow their earnings here.
   "They don't really need dollars in the Soviet Union, so
they're going to spend all of it here," said a friend,
translating for the Peppers. "Dollars have very strong legs
-- they run quickly."
   Of course, there's more to these working visits than
shopping for video cameras and CD players. For artists such
as the Peppers, who learned about modern art through the
pages of "a big book with pictures, but also captions --
`this is conceptual, this is very bad art, this is
imperialist art'" -- these stays can serve as a crash course
in art history. For Simon Faibisovich, now on his second
visit to New York, encountering Western art firsthand was
alarming.
   "When I came here, it became clear I didn't have any idea
about the . . . art situation as a whole. I was in shock,"
said Mr. Faibisovich in his airy studio, where large canvases
of people queuing in front of a state vodka shop leaned
against the walls. "I think art here is pretty different than
in Russia. In Russia . . . artist's life is more or less
responding to real everyday life . . . But here . . . art and
artists' life is independent."
   Apart from the odd foray to a SoHo gallery and the nearby
Museum of Holography, the Peppers had limited their
encounters with Western art in New York to the stack of art
magazines they found in the borrowed apartment.
   "The real thing? No," said Mr. Petrenko. "We are afraid to
go in museums. Many, many art in one place is difficult for
head. Maybe next week."
   But if some artists are hesitant to immerse themselves in
Western art, they are not shy when it comes to using American
art supplies. In a switch from their days in the Soviet
Union, where only a limited variety of paints and supplies is
available, these artists are creating new work from a wealth
of materials. For example, small plastic fruits have been
added to one of the Peppers' recent canvases, adding a
humorous fillip to an austere chart copied from a Soviet
gynecological textbook.
   And while paintings bristling with hammers, sickles and
other post-Stalinist kitsch still abound, some artists have
begun to make New York the subject of their new work: For his
next series of paintings, Mr. Faibisovich is tackling the
subway.
   But will New York collectors buy up Soviet art when it no
longer bears the seal "Made in the U.S.S.R."? Although
dealers tend to be cagey on the subject of sales, most say
that the sponsored work-visits have paid off.
   "Of course, I could lose my shirt," said Phyllis Kind. "It
worked out well with some artists, with others it didn't work
out so well. I'm confident I'll sell the works later and make
up my costs."
   Unfortunately, as some Soviet artists are now discovering,
the New York art world is not always a friendly place,
especially when the dream of celebrity and fortune goes bust.
   "America is like one great machine who eats and -- ,"
Vladimir Yankilevsky spat contemptuously. As the artist spoke
in his loft, workmen carried in large plaster figures encased
in wooden boxes, two works which failed to sell at the
Hapsburg, Feldman auction. Mr. Yankilevsky says he is now
considering cancelling an exhibition scheduled for Edouard
Nakhamkin Fine Art, rather than create the commercial work he
feels the gallery expects.
   "It's terrible, the most cynical market in the world," Mr.
Yankilevsky said.
   Caught between Soviet politics and the Western market, he
may not have too many alternatives.
   "The struggle for power in the Soviet Union is creating a
lot of pressure. There, struggle for power. Here, struggle
for market," Mr. Yankilevsky sighed. "The best place to work
{is} in sky -- in plane."
   ---
   (See related story: "...And Looking Like Provincials" --
WSJ June 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Qume Extends Deadline
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QUME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- Qume Corp. said it extended the
deadline for arranging financing for the proposed acquisition
of Qume by a management-led investor group for $7.25 a share,
or $86 million.
   The group is headed by David Lee, chairman and chief
executive officer of the computer-products maker. Mr. Lee
said he expects to have the financing in hand by June 25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Qume
closed at $6.625, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AirTran's Mesaba Unit Traffic
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   ATCC
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Mesaba Aviation Inc., a unit of AirTran
Corp., said its May traffic rose 19% to 15.4 million revenue
passenger miles from 12.9 million a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier, which operates as Northwest Airlink, said its
load factor, or percentage of available seats filled, fell to
48% from 52.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   John Hancock Unit Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- John Hancock Financial Services said it acquired
Cost Care Inc., a closely held Huntington Beach, Calif.,
concern. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Cost Care, which had revenue of about $23 million last
year, provides health cost and treatment monitoring services
for corporations. Hancock, a financial services unit of John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., said Cost Care will be
combined with its own cost-containment operations in a group
that it said will have $40 million in combined revenue this
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Roadway Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ROAD
</CO>
<LP>
   ROADWAY SERVICES Inc. (Akron, Ohio) -- Daniel J. Sullivan,
44 years old, formerly president of this freight carrier's
Roadway Package System unit, was named vice president and
group executive. He was succeeded by John P. Chandler, 47,
previously senior vice president, finance.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Jewish Groups in U.S. Express Concern
   About New Hardline Coalition in Israel
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   JERUSALEM -- U.S. Jewish organizations see a lot at stake
in the first few weeks of Yitzhak Shamir's hardline
coalition.
   The new government takes power at a time of great strain
in U.S.-Israel relations. "If this were America, we'd give
him 100 days before making any judgments, but this being the
Middle East, we can't afford that much time," says Harry
Wall, Israel director for the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai
B'rith.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Shamir's government has pledged to pursue peace talks
with Palestinians, but it also vows to crush Arab opposition
in the West Bank and Gaza, bolster Jewish settlements there
and isolate the Palestine Liberation Organization.
   Mr. Shamir says his first priority is speeding up the flow
of Soviet Jewish immigrants and their absorption into Israeli
life. Arab states say the massive influx of Soviets threatens
to push Palestinians off their lands.
   "American Jews are worried that within this government are
voices of extreme positions," says Naphtali Lavi,
director-general of the United Jewish Appeal's Israel
operation. Ariel Sharon, the new housing minister with
special responsibility for Soviet immigration, has called for
massive force to put down the uprising. Others in the new
government favor mass deportations of Palestinians from
Israeli-occupied lands.
   The Israeli Labor Party, now in opposition, has branded
Mr. Shamir's government as "anti-Israel" and a "national
disaster." But U.S. Jewish groups are treading more
cautiously.
   "The Cassandras are saying this is going to lead to war,"
says Ronald Kronish, director of the American Jewish
Committee, "but personally I don't think hysteria is very
useful." In a memorandum to members, Mr. Kronish included a
reminder that many people greeted the election of Menachem
Begin in the early 1970s with hysteria but that Mr. Begin
went on to achieve peace with Egypt.
   Mr. Wall says Mr. Shamir's task will be "to galvanize and
reassure the center. He doesn't want to head the government
that wrecked relations with the U.S. or stopped the flow of
Soviet immigrants." Both those things could happen, says Mr.
Wall, if Mr. Shamir allows the drive to populate the "whole
land of Israel" to run rampant.
   If, on the contrary, he manages the immigration well, his
Likud Bloc could be rewarded by an additional five or six
Knesset seats when the Soviet immigrants first go to the
polls at the next election. And that could be soon. While the
government theoretically has until 1992 before the next
election, the current coalition may prove too fragile to
survive that long. Mr. Shamir has managed to knit together
only 62 of 120 Knesset seats, many of them from small groups
with differing agendas.
   Meanwhile, the U.S. administration will be dealing with
David Levy, a foreign minister without previous experience in
diplomacy or foreign affairs, who recently riled U.S.
officials when, as housing minister, he secretly channeled
government funds to Jewish extremists for the purchase of a
building in the Christian quarter of Jerusalem.
   However, Mr. Levy also has some dovish credentials, having
voted for withdrawal of Israeli troops from Lebanon. On
Israel's equivalent of Memorial Day, the Moroccan-born Mr.
Levy sometimes attends services in Arab villages for Druze
and Bedouin soldiers who died fighting for Israel. Until
recently, he had a reputation as being somewhat inaccessible
to U.S. Jewish groups. But after the Jerusalem controversy,
he met with some representatives for an hour and a half, and
stressed his appreciation of, and concern for, U.S. support.
   Some Israelis say Mr. Levy is the Likud's best orator,
with a style resembling that of the charismatic Mr. Begin.
But few Americans will be able to judge for themselves
because his English is poor. To the UJA's Mr. Lavi,
appointing such a representative is "somehow tragic" given
the delicate state of relations. "You need somebody there who
can straighten things out with the Americans, and neither he
nor Shamir can do it. If they go on TV they won't come across
well," he says.
   But the ADL's Mr. Wall believes that who the government is
will prove far less important in the long run than what it
does. "American Jewry's support for this country isn't tied
to one government," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Jobless Rate Declines
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's unemployment rate slipped to 15.5% in
May from 15.9% the previous month, the Spanish Labor Ministry
said.
   The number of jobless people fell to 2,340,000 in May from
2,380,000 in April, the Ministry said. The latest total was
down by nearly 300,000 from the year-earlier level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Agriculture saw the biggest drop in unemployment, which
the ministry said was due to seasonal factors.
   Analysts said that although May's figures were affected by
seasonal influences, they still indicated an underlying trend
toward a lower unemployment rate. In March, unemployment
stood at 16.1%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Advanced Telecommunications Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ATEL
</CO>
<LP>
   ADVANCED TELECOMMUNICATIONS Corp. (Atlanta) -- Dale M.
Gregory resigned as president and chief operating officer of
this long-distance telephone carrier to pursue personal
business interests. Stephen E. Raville, chairman and chief
executive, will assume the duties of president. A new
operating chief was not named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, June 11, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/4% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 22 to 44 days; 8.10% 45 to 59 days;
8.075% 60 to 89 days; 8.05% 90 to 119 days; 8% 120 to 149
days; 7.95% 150 to 179 days; 7.875% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.13%
30 days; 8.13% 60 days; 8.12% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.75% one month; 7.78% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.97% six months; 8.30% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.15% one month; 8.20% three months;
8.22% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.08% 30 days; 8.02% 60 days; 7.98%
90 days; 7.97% 120 days; 7.95% 150 days; 7.88% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
5/16% - 8 3/16% two months; 8 5/16% - 8 3/ 16% three months;
8 3/8% - 8 1/4% four months; 8 3/8% - 8 1/4% five months; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/4% one month;
8 5/16% three months; 8 3/8% six months; 8 9/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, June 11, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.73%, 13 weeks; 7.64%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.09%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.01%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.75%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.84%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Entertainment Weekly's Editor Resigns
   Over Direction of Time Warner Venture
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In an unexpected move, Jeff Jarvis quit as
editor of Time Warner Inc.'s Entertainment Weekly just 18
weeks after the magazine's launch, citing "creative
differences over the direction of the magazine."
   The resignation of the 35-year-old editor, who conceived
Entertainment Weekly, reflects internal disageement over its
style, content and direction. It also follows a decision by
Time to begin a redesign of the publication after advertising
agency executives and readers criticized it as overly
cluttered and as hard to read.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to magazine staffers, Mr. Jarvis clashed with
top Time Warner magazine executives over the editorial
direction of the magazine, even though the executives
originally approved and eagerly promoted Mr. Jarvis's concept
of a consumer guide to entertainment products ranging from
movies to books. Mr. Jarvis originally proposed the idea in
January 1984, when he was the television critic of People
magazine.
   But the staffers said Time Warner reacted to early
negative reader and advertiser reaction, pressuring Mr.
Jarvis to create a magazine with a broader appeal,
emphasizing show business celebrities. "This guy had a good
idea, but the readership really didn't buy it early on," said
Dennis McAlpine, an analyst at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. "They are
playing with it now. It's tough when you have a baby boy and
they try to make it into a baby girl."
   Time said in a statement that it's "quite confident about
the magazine's future," despite industry speculation that the
magazine's birth pangs might lead to an early and costly
demise. But at the very least, publishing industry observers
said, Mr. Jarvis's resignation is a big public-relations blow
to Time, which has bet heavily on Entertainment Weekly's
success domestically and has contemplated international
editions.
   Time is putting Entertainment Weekly into the hands of a
veteran editor of its most successful mass-market magazine,
People. Mr. Jarvis's successor will be People's executive
editor, James W. Seymore Jr. At People, Mr. Seymore had
edited the magazine's show business sections, among other
things, before being named executive editor last year.
   Bob Zach, media director at ad agency Chiat/Day/Mojo Inc.,
said Mr. Jarvis's resignation represented Time's "vote of no
confidence for the original product. Jarvis is saying what
Time Warner now wants isn't his vision." Mr. Jarvis, for his
part, said in a telephone interview that Time backed off too
soon. "The concept is still a strong one, but it's a big
venture and takes hard work," Mr. Jarvis said. "I don't think
it's been given a chance."
   Mr. Zach noted that changes have already become apparent
in the magazine: "It's already more mainstream, more
celebrity-focused." Mr. Zach added that while celebrity
coverage may help sell the magazine to a broader audience, it
might not appeal to more sophisticated and upscale readers in
major markets such as New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
   Entertainment Weekly is the Time magazine group's first
major launch since the ill-fated TV-Cable Week flopped six
years ago. Time has said it's spending less than $50 million
in the first year to launch the magazine. Mr. McAlpine of
Oppenheimer said the magazine is expected to produce losses
of more than $30 million this year. Time declined to comment
on Mr. McAlpine's estimate.
   Time said circulation for the fledgling magazine has
reached about 600,000, the rate base it promised to
advertisers. It also said ad pages have reached projections
of at least 20 pages an issue.
   The editor in chief of the Time magazine group, Jason
McManus, and the unit's chief executive officer, Reginald K.
Brack, weren't available for comment. In a prepared
statement, Mr. McManus lavished praise on Mr. Jarvis, saying
the company is "enormously grateful" to him for "bringing
Entertainment Weekly to life." The magazine "would never have
been created without Jeff," added Michael J. Klingensmith,
the magazine's publisher. "His energy, imagination and
enthusiasm were key to launching it and putting it on a
steady course."
   Mr. Jarvis said he isn't sure if he will remain at Time in
some other post. Mr. Klingensmith said, "We hope he stays."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Closing Door:
   South Korea Regresses
   On Opening Markets,
   Trade Partners Say
   ---
   It Clamps Down on `Luxuries,'
   Which It Defines Broadly;
   U.S. Avoids Pushing Hard
   ---
   To Buy a Car, You Buy Bonds
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   F FREST EUROP CCI
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Ford Motor Co. was selling about 250
American-made Mercury Sables a month in Korea through its
10%-owned Korean affiliate, Kia Motor Co. It wasn't many
cars, but Ford was pleased to be outselling all the West
German makers combined while laying a foundation for future
sales.
   Kia, a compact-car company, also seemed pleased to have
the popular large car in its lineup. But recently, Kia cut
its advertising for the Sables and then its orders from Ford.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Why? Because, Kia says, the Korean government told it to.
Government leaders thought Korea was importing too many
foreign cars -- even though Korea, which exported about
350,000 cars last year, agreed three years ago to open its
domestic automobile market to imports. "We tell the companies
that they have to understand the sensitivities of the people
and for the good of the country restrain their sales of
luxury goods," says an official at the Ministry of Trade and
Industry.
   Late last month, the government announced that anyone
buying a new car must purchase an increased amount of subway
bonds. But the increase for buyers of imports is much larger.
For instance, a Mercedes buyer now must purchase bonds worth
about 14 million won ($20,000), up from three million, while
the requirement for a domestic luxury car rose only about 50%
to 5.9 million won.
   With regard to many other products as well, Korea has
promised repeatedly to open its markets to imports and to
protect the intellectual-property rights of foreign
companies. And the U.S. has taken the Korean government's
word. But lately, foreign executives and trade officials see
mounting evidence that the government, despite its denials,
is backtracking on moves to open markets -- to the dismay of
West Europeans as well as Americans.
   "There is liberalization," says Gilles Anouil, the
ambassador to Korea for the Commission of the European
Communities. "But when they open a door, sometimes they close
another." European ambassadors and U.S. officials have been
complaining to Seoul. "We are concerned because of the
pattern of activity," says Peter G. Frederick, counselor for
commercial affairs at the U.S. Embassy.
   The Ford case is but one example of bureaucratic
obstruction and the new campaign against foreign goods:
   -- The Korea Trade Commission, loosely modeled on the U.S.
International Trade Commission, announced it will investigate
whether 200 imported products, such as pens, cookies, steel
plates and various consumer products, are damaging the
domestic market -- even though the domestic industries aren't
complaining. The U.S. protested to the Korean government, but
Kim Won Soon, the commission chairman, says he is "proud of
what we are doing."
   -- Kukje Corp., a major Korean sporting-goods producer,
started making tennis shoes carrying the Batman logo created
by D.C. Comics, a division of Time Warner Inc. When U.S.
lawyers asked the Korean patent office to help protect the
trademark, the officials sided with the Korean company even
though a 1986 U.S.-Korea trade agreement specifically says
world-famous trademarks are to be protected. "I never heard
of Batman," the Korean official allegedly said. Tough legal
action eventually forced Kukje to back off.
   -- Cargill Corp., the giant American commodities trader,
wants to build a $30 million soybean-crushing mill in Korea
to service the local feed and soybean-oil markets. Despite
the government's statements that it now encourages foreign
investment, Cargill can't get approval for the plant -- not a
"yes," not a "no," just silence.
   The list goes on and on: Cracker Jack-type candy is
banned; high taxes and tariffs make Scotch in Korea the most
expensive in the industrialized world ($47 for a fifth of
Johnny Walker Red Label); U.S. cigarette marketers are
harassed and unable to sell their products; Citibank can't
open branches in Korea as promised.
   "It's guerrilla warfare," says Mr. Frederick at the U.S.
Embassy. "It's a constant house-to-house battle." Concludes
an American Chamber of Commerce report: "It has become
increasingly clear that, at times, liberalization in Korea
can mean absolutely nothing."
   So, why did the U.S. recently bypass Korea when it
prepared its list of unfair traders? According to State and
Commerce department officials involved in the issues, U.S.
officials knew about some of the problems. But the consensus
in the U.S. government was that it might be counterproductive
to push Korea too hard. "We are still trying to get them to
implement prior agreements, and taking on any more changes
might overload the {Korean} system," says a State Department
official in Washington.
   Similarly, many foreign executives believe that publicly
complaining about Korean tactics damages any chance of
getting cooperation. So, Ford won't talk about its problem.
Neither will Citibank nor the American tobacco companies.
   "It is not in our interest to foment problems between the
U.S. and Korean governments," says Robert J. Gregory of the
American Chamber, one of the few U.S. executives willing to
talk on the record, and then only as the organization's
president rather than as a CalTex executive.
   In addition, some observers play down the problem. "There
have been a few bumps in the road," says U.S. Ambassador
Donald Gregg, but he says otherwise he is "very pleased" with
the trade picture. "The message I give Koreans is we are
doing fine, but we need to do more."
   Korean officials note the nation's trade surplus with the
U.S. is shrinking rapidly, from $8 billion in 1988 to $4.5
billion in 1989. They add that this year Korea could have a
small trade deficit with the U.S. and a $2 billion to $3
billion deficit overall. But its surplus in U.S. trade is
dropping not because its markets are open but because its
exports have slumped. Less than 2.4% of Korea's imports from
the U.S. are consumer goods, according to a U.S. government
report.
   Park Pil Soo, Korea's trade and industry minister,
pooh-poohs the notion that the government is reverting to
protectionism. "Once you open your market, you cannot close
it," he says. For Korea to export, it must import, he says.
"Except luxury goods," he adds.
   The catch, for the U.S. and Europe, is that Korea
considers almost every imported finished product a luxury
good. Many products that the Western economies make are aimed
at the upscale market -- golf clubs, whiskey, big cars --
because that is where Western countries have the comparative
advantage. And that is what they export.
   The Korean government is discouraging the consumption of
luxury goods because it considers that unhealthy for the
Korean economy. So, it is ordering tax investigations of
people who buy imported cars or sell imported clothes. The
government is encouraging department stores to close
boutiques offering foreign clothes and accessories. It is
tightening the exhaust tests for the 325 or so foreign cars
that trickle in each month. It even bans foreigners from
acting in commercials for fear that they will whip up the
desire for foreign goods.
   Tupperware plastic kitchenware is listed among the luxury
goods, Ambassador Anouil notes. "If you call it luxurious,
you can call anything luxurious, even a General Motors car,"
he says. "This campaign is taking proportions that is
worrisome." The American Chamber of Commerce agrees:
"Criticisms of excessive consumption of imported products
serves no purpose other than to increase the anti-foreign
bias of the Korean market."
   The recent anti-foreign-goods crusade is especially
disturbing because it contradicts the open-markets policy
message supposedly coming from the top of the Korean
government. Faced with delays and obstructions, foreign
executives, lawyers and trade officials had always assumed
that the Western-educated technocrats high up in powerful
bureaucracies sincerely believe in open markets and blamed
any problems on low-level people prone to do things the old
way. "It is very hard to undo 30 years of training," says Mr.
Gregory of the American Chamber.
   Now, the low-level officials look up and see that the
traditional obstructionist methods are in favor -- and in
abundance.
   Many of the government's trade agreements haven't been
implemented. Foreign banks, for instance, would like to open
branches in Korea and, like Korean banks, tie into
automatic-teller-machine networks. But foreigners'
applications are languishing. Although a new Korean bank,
Donghwa Bank, applied last summer for permission to join the
ATM network and received approval within two weeks,
Citibank's application was, by then, already moldering for a
year, and the American bank is still waiting.
   "Do we see a more positive attitude toward U.S. banks?
Absolutely not," says Richard Mounce, a Chase Manhattan
executive who heads the Foreign Bankers Association. "We've
seen numerous instances that policy directions are agreed on
a senior level and there is a great deal of difficulty
getting it through."
   Another irritant is the Korean government's reluctance to
enforce the protection of trademarks, copyrights and patents
-- intellectual property rights. Korea signed an agreement
with the U.S. in 1986, but process patents, particularly with
pharmaceuticals, are violated regularly, U.S. drug companies
say. Trade secrets aren't protected, under Korean law, if the
government thinks they are unfair. There is no semiconductor
chip design-protection law. The market for computer software
and videos is awash in pirated copies because of the lack of
enforcement, according to officials of Microsoft Corp. and
several American movie companies.
   Although the Korean government cracked down a bit last
year in its successful effort to get the U.S. to take it off
the list of unfair traders, counterfeit goods still pour out
of Korean factories. Some examples, such as the Batman case,
are blatant. The government says it supported the U.S.
company's plea, but it still allows Korean makers to use
famous characters, such as Snoopy, Mickey Mouse, RoboCop and
Woody Woodpecker without authorization of the trademark
owner.
   The government makes occasional raids on the stalls in the
Itaewon tourist shopping district, where fake Rolex watches,
Gucci bags and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle T-shirts are sold
openly. But counterfeits flow unabated out of the country.
   In August and September of 1989, investigators in the U.S.
and Mexico seized several shipments of counterfeit Reebok,
Vans and Converse sports shoes -- several hundred thousand
pairs. Federal authorities filed criminal charges at El Paso,
Texas, and Tucson, Ariz., against several importers. Reebok
also filed civil suits against the importers in federal court
in San Diego. With that end of the pipeline closing, Reebok's
attorneys set out to dam up the source: Korea.
   They sent almost a thousand pages of evidence to Korean
authorities, much of it translated into Korean. The evidence
included shipping documents, invoices, copies of checks and
money orders, specification sheets, even letters and
facsimiles sent between the exporter in Korea and the
importers in the U.S.
   One document, an attachment to an affidavit filed by
Harley I. Lewin, a New York attorney representing Reebok,
showed that a U.S. importer paid more than $1 million to the
Korean supplier. Another document, a photocopy of a letter
allegedly from a Korean company to U.S. importers, says the
importers should send payments in amounts of $50,000 to evade
Korea's export-licensing rules -- "otherwise we have big
problem for export of your order." The attorneys also sent
along names, addresses, bank-account numbers, even phone
numbers. Many of the offices are still taking phone calls at
the listed numbers.
   "If there ever was a case that we made it easy for the
Koreans, this is it," Mr. Lewin says. "We gave it to them
giftwrapped."
   But nothing happened. The U.S. government complained in
private talks with the Korean trade minister, his staff and
other officials. Still nothing is happening. Kim Chul Su, who
heads the Korean Industrial Property Office that enforces
intellectual property rights, says, "The information provided
by the Reebok case was so scanty that prosecutors were unable
to apprehend the persons in question."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Fairfield Communities Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS FCI
</CO>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD COMMUNITIES Inc. (Little Rock, Ark.) -- Leo C.
McKenna, a self-employed financial consultant, was elected to
the board, succeeding Malcolm R. Myers, who resigned.
Additionally, J. Steven Wilson, chairman and president of
Wilson Financial Corp., was elected to the board, succeeding
Augustus Adams III, who also resigned. Fairfield develops and
builds retirement and recreational communities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Dolphin-Safe Tuna:
   No Real Net Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Contrary to the claims made by Christopher Croft of
Defenders of Wildlife (letter to the editor, May 17), the
decision by Starkist, Bumblebee and Chicken of the Sea to
purchase only "dolphin safe" tuna will indeed hurt America's
tuna fishermen. Ironically, it will also result in more
dolphins being killed -- a point that Mr. Croft chooses to
ignore.
   Mr. Croft's letter also fails to acknowledge that U.S.
fishermen have pioneered dolphin-safety techniques and
technology. America's tuna fleet has a 99.4% dolphin-safety
record -- three to four times better than foreign fishermen.
Every day, American tuna fishermen jump into the water to
rescue dolphins. Indeed, the U.S. fleet's annual dolphin kill
represents only one-half of what is permitted under federal
law. Federal observers are on board for every trip taken by
an American tuna boat. Few foreign boats are equipped with
the special safety netting that American fishermen invented;
fewer still have observers on board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Croft uses a very misleading statistic: dolphin killed
per U.S. vessel. The number has gone up on a per-vessel
basis, but only because there are fewer vessels with
significantly higher capacity. The key is that the number of
dolphin lost per ton of tuna has dropped dramatically, to
just 0.186 per ton from 0.400 a decade ago.
   The canners' decision will put the U.S. tuna fleet at a
competitive disadvantage. By forcing us out of the tuna-rich
Eastern Tropical Pacific (where tuna traditionally swim with
dolphins), the "dolphin safe" labeling movement invites
irresponsible foreign fishermen in -- a scenario that,
according to the congressional testimony of the National
Marine Fisheries Service, will result in greater dolphin
mortality. The environmental movement has set its sights on
the wrong target. American tuna fishermen are part of the
solution to dolphin safety -- not part of the problem.
   We invite all environmental organizations to join with the
American Tunaboat Association in asking our government to
negotiate new fishing treaties that require all fleets in the
Eastern Tropical Pacific to operate under the same exacting
standards as the U.S. fleet.
   August Felando
   President
   American Tunaboat Association
   San Diego
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                           Week Ended:
                                        June 8,    June 1,
                                         1990       1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a .... 8.12       8.17
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) .. 8.22       8.25
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ......... 8.26       8.19
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b .............. 8.23       8.24
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ......... 8.08       8.18
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ....... 8.38       8.50
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ........ 8.41       8.52
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ......... 8.46       8.58
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c .......... 8.44       8.56
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, June 6, 1990
and Wednesday May 30, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metro Airlines Traffic Rises 37%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MAIR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Metro Airlines Inc. said May traffic climbed 37%
to 55.1 million revenue passenger miles from 40.3 million
miles in the year-earlier period.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Load factor, or the percentage of seats filled, rose to
56.2% from 52.8%.
   For the year-to-date, Metro said it flew 243.4 million
revenue passenger miles, a 44% increase from 168.7 million
miles a year ago. Load factor advanced to 52.5% from 49%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Tight Fit
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   That square pegs won't go into round holes,
   At most firms is standard stuff.
   But our boss lives by the philosophy
   That they will if he pounds hard enough.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   A Thinning Experience
                                                                                                       

   For exercise I do no aerobic dancing,
   Swimming of laps or isometric stancing,
   No skipping rope, running, jogging or hopping.
   I just take the kids when I go shopping.
   -- Gail Cooke.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Wrinkle: a cost-of-listing crease.
   -- Ivern Ball.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CPT Settles Two Lawsuits
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   CPTC
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -- CPT Corp. said it reached
settlements of two lawsuits pending against the company in
federal court. The office-automation-equipment concern had
been sued by participants in its employee stock ownership
plan seeking to diversify their stock portfolio. CPT also
faced a contract claim from the Justice Department.
   The combined settlements are within CPT's reserves
established in prior quarters, the company said. The ESOP
settlement of $2 million, which awaits court approval, will
be paid from insurance proceeds. In the contract case,
insurance will cover $200,000, and CPT itself will pay
$200,000 in annual installments of $50,000 each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dutch Trade Volume
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMSTERDAM -- The volume of Dutch trade set records in the
first quarter, when exports rose to 60 billion guilders
($31.4 million) from 56.6 billion guilders a year earlier,
and imports increased to 57.8 billion guilders from 53.6
billion guilders, the Dutch Central Bureau of Statistics
said.
   The Dutch trade surplus fell in the 1990 first quarter to
2.2 billion from 3.1 billion guilders a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   March exports reached a monthly record, with volume
growing to 21.8 billion guilders and imports standing at 20.3
billion guilders, leaving a positive balance of 1.5 billion
guilders. These figures compare with year-earlier levels of
20.8 billion guilders in exports and 19.4 billion in imports,
resulting in a surplus of 1.4 billion guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hong Kong Exports Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The value of Hong Kong's exports of locally
made goods fell 3% in the first quarter and 1% in March from
a year earlier, government figures show.
   Hong Kong import values rose 2% in the quarter and 6% in
March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among re-exported items, the British colony's shipments of
raw materials and semi-manufactured goods were down 5% in the
quarter and 2% in the month, while re-exports of foodstuffs
dropped 11% in the quarter and 13% in March. Re-exports of
fuels, however, soared 175% during the month and 89% in the
quarter, while those of consumer goods jumped 28% in the
quarter and 36% in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   EC to Dismantle Several Tax Barriers
   Faced by Multinationals in Community
   ----
   By Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LUXEMBOURG -- European Community finance ministers agreed
to remove several tax barriers facing companies operating on
a multinational basis in the EC.
   Three measures are aimed at removing the risk of double
taxation for groups of affiliated companies operating in
several EC states and for companies acquiring a firm in
another EC member state.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At a time when the EC is striving for greater economic
convergence, yesterday's compromise signals that the
community is finally starting to tackle the delicate task of
achieving more coherence in corporate taxation. Christiane
Scrivener, the EC Commissioner in charge of fiscal affairs,
described the accord as "a milestone" in the EC's program to
remove all internal barriers by the end of 1992.
   In recent months, European and U.S. companies operating in
the EC had been lobbying hard for adoption of the three
measures, which have been under consideration by the EC for
almost 20 years.
   The three measures, which will take effect Jan. 1, 1992,
are:
   -- A first directive will eliminate capital-gains taxes
when assets are transferred between companies based in
different EC member states in the event of a merger,
corporate split-up, or share swap. Taxation will be deferred
until the assets are realized, that is, sold or transferred
to a non-EC company. The aim is to "eliminate the fiscal cost
of cross-border operations," Mrs. Scrivener said.
   -- A second directive will abolish the withholding taxes
on dividends paid by a subsidiary to its parent company based
in another EC country. West Germany had strongly opposed this
measure. With high taxes on retained profits, Bonn worried
that this would give too big a tax break to subsidiaries of
foreign companies transferring their profits back home. As a
compensatory gesture, Bonn may, until mid-1996, levy a 5%
withholding tax on those dividends.
   -- A third measure sets up an "arbitration procedure" to
resolve conflicts between tax authorities in different member
states, which often result in a company being taxed in two
countries on the same operation. When such difficulties
arise, the companies will be able to ask for the arbitration
by a "panel of wise men," which is still to be set up. The
panel's decision will be binding for the member states. "This
strengthens the hand of taxpayers" in the face of tax
authorities, said a British official.
   Meanwhile, the finance ministers narrowed their
differences over a proposed "investment-services directive"
aimed at establishing a single license for brokerage and
other non-bank financial services firms in the EC. Sir Leon
Brittan, the EC commissioner for financial services, said the
12 member states vowed to reach an accord on the directive by
Dec. 31.
   Among other things, the investment services directive
provides that banks will have direct access to trade on stock
markets.
   Belgium, Spain and Denmark indicated that they were ready
to drop their opposition to that measure, Sir Leon said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Manufacturers' Profits
   Decline to 4.2% of Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. manufacturers' after-tax profits fell
to an average 4.2% of sales in the first quarter from 4.4% in
the fourth quarter, the Commerce Department reported.
   The slip marks further deterioration in profits, which a
year earlier were at 5.7% of sales, according to the
department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the softness, profits picked up in the durable
goods industries, which have shown widespread weakness in
recent quarters. Profits on durable goods -- products such as
machinery, metals and home appliances expected to last more
than three years -- totaled $11.67 billion in the first
quarter. That was higher than the $8.82 billion in the fourth
quarter but still significantly below the $15.94 billion
posted for the first quarter of 1989.
   Profits on nondurable goods fell to $16.24 billion in the
first quarter from $19.82 billion in the fourth quarter and
$21.91 billion a year earlier. Nondurable goods are items
such as petroleum products, chemicals and food that have a
usefulness of less than three years.
   The annual rate of return on shareholders' equity fell to
10.9% in the first quarter from 11.3% the preceding quarter
and 15.3% a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   We Aren't Marketing
   Cigarettes to Minors
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   MO
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your May 3 article "Tobacco Critics See a Subtle Sell to
Kids" recounted the anti-smoking-movement charges that we are
marketing our cigarettes to minors. We are not. Philip Morris
USA is the largest cigarette company in the U.S. Last year we
sold 220 billion cigarettes. A small number of these
cigarettes are unfortunately obtained by minors.
   We at Philip Morris do not want minors to smoke. Smoking
is an adult custom. Maturity of judgment is necessary to
making a responsible, informed decision about smoking. As a
matter of policy, we do not market cigarettes to minors. We
employ only adult models in our advertising who not only are
but look over 25. We don't have celebrities or athletes
endorse cigarettes in our advertising.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Every serious study of why minors smoke points toward
family and friends, not cigarette-company marketing
practices. Indeed, there are no significant differences in
smoking incidence among minors between otherwise comparable
countries that allow tobacco advertising and those that
prohibit it. According to the Federal Trade Commission,
tobacco-marketing expenditures in the U.S. have tripled since
1977. During that same period, the University of Michigan
reports smoking among high-school seniors has dropped by more
than one third -- from 29% to 18%. This decline is rooted not
in marketing restrictions but in education including a
program, "Helping Youth Decide," sponsored by the tobacco
industry.
   As your article notes, Philip Morris has taken legal
action against companies that use our cigarette trademarks in
products that appeal to youth, and we caused a manufacturer
to remove the Marlboro logo from its computer video games.
   The most effective ways to stop minors from smoking are to
educate youth and make it clear to retailers that it is
illegal for them to sell cigarettes to minors. This approach
has reduced the number of minors who smoke by more than
one-third over the past 15 years and we at Philip Morris hope
and believe it will continue to do so in the future.
   John R. Nelson
   Vice President
   Corporate Affairs
   Philip Morris USA
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bidwell, Chairman of Chrysler Unit,
   Confirms He'll Depart by End of Year
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   C WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- In an effort to cool rampant
speculation about his future with Chrysler Corp., Bennett E.
Bidwell, chairman of the Chrysler Motors unit, confirmed he
plans to leave the No. 3 auto maker effective Jan. 1, 1991.
   Mr. Bidwell, who turns 63 next week, has hinted broadly
since January that he would leave before age 65. He had
indicated his departure could come early next year, but a
statement issued yesterday after a story about his plans
appeared in Automotive News was the first official
confirmation of his intentions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those intentions could change, however; Mr. Bidwell said
that if he's "really needed" at Chrysler, he's "prepared to
alter" his plan.
   Mr. Bidwell has already had to alter at least one plan
regarding his role at Chrysler, where he is currently
responsible for consumer affairs, service and parts, the
Chrysler Canada unit and sales and marketing. Largely because
of health reasons, Mr. Bidwell last year negotiated a roughly
40% reduction in his corporate responsibilities in exchange
for an equal cut in pay. The new arrangement was supposed to
take effect Jan. 1, 1990, but soon after it was negotiated
Mr. Bidwell was given additional duties. The reduced workload
never materialized, even though the pay cut remains in
effect. In 1989, Mr. Bidwell received $579,279 in salary.
   Mr. Bidwell is the fourth top Chrysler executive in as
many weeks to announce a departure, but Wall Street didn't
appear overly concerned with the news. In New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday, Chrysler closed at
$16.25, up 50 cents.
   Gerald Greenwald, Chrysler's vice chairman and Mr.
Iacocca's heir apparent, resigned abruptly late last month to
lead a proposed employee buy-out of UAL Corp.'s United
Airlines. Chrysler's treasurer has also said he will leave
and its vice president of international operations resigned
in mid-May to take a top job with Black &amp; Decker Corp.
   Last week, Lee A. Iacocca, Chrysler chairman and chief
executive officer, said he will remain with Chrysler beyond
the December 1991 expiration date of his current contract. He
didn't specify further, but said one of the tasks he wants to
complete before he leaves is to create a clear line of
management succession.
   Mr. Bidwell joined Chrysler in 1983 as executive vice
president in charge of sales, marketing and public relations.
He had been president and chief operating officer of Hertz
Corp., a rental car concern, since 1981. Prior to that, he
worked at Ford Motor Co. with Mr. Iacocca, ultimately rising
to head of all sales operations for North America.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonnell Douglas Gets Job
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MD
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- McDonnell Douglas Corp. received an $89.2
million Navy contract for production of F/A-18C and F/A-18D
aircraft.
   McDonnell Douglas also announced it received a $65.7
million contract to develop upgraded hardware and software
for the F/A-18's radar.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bath Iron Works Corp. won a $23.4 million Navy contract
for the DDG-51 destroyer program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Merc Trial
   Hears Agent Describe
   Getting Death Threat
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A federal agent who worked undercover as a
futures trader on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange testified
that a former Merc member once threatened that he and another
undercover agent would be shot if the trader discovered they
were government agents.
   That disclosure, made in U.S. District court here during
the trial of three Merc members accused of fraudulent trading
in the Merc's Swiss franc futures pit, prompted defense
attorneys for the traders to ask for a mistrial. The
attorneys said the threat wasn't in any way related to the
activities of their clients. They also said prosecutors
should have told them of the agent's meeting with the former
trader before it was referred to in court testimony.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge Ann Williams said she would delay ruling on the
mistrial motion until the attorneys for the accused traders
-- Robert Mosky, Danny Scheck and David Zatz -- elaborated on
their motion in writing. Other defense attorneys said it
would be highly unlikely for the judge to grant a mistrial
based on the agent's testimony.
   Randall Jannett, who posed as a corrupt Swiss franc
futures trader at the Merc in 1988, said Alan Fleishman, a
former Merc trader, threatened him and another Federal Bureau
of Investigation agent with "bullets in our brains" if he
discovered they worked for the FBI, Mr. Jannett said.
   Mr. Fleishman searched the agents for hidden tape
recorders, which they both wore into the trading pits each
day, but apparently didn't discover the hidden devices, Mr.
Jannett testified. The agent didn't say what aroused Mr.
Fleishman's suspicions.
   Mr. Fleishman couldn't be reached for comment.
   The apparent death threat, made on March 16, 1988, was
relevant to the government's case in that it demonstrated the
importance of maintaining false identities for the agents,
prosecutors said. Defense attorneys had earlier in the trial
tried to portray Mr. Jannett as a deceptive person for living
and working under an assumed identify for more than a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Edisto Plans to Buy Tulsa Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Edisto Resources Corp. said it signed a letter
of intent to acquire Tulsa-based Esco Energy Inc. for about
$9.2 million in cash and about 1,324,000 shares of Edisto
common stock.
   Esco is a closely held energy company that operates three
subsidiaries, Vesta Energy Co., Omega Pipeline Co. and Esco
Exploration Inc. James R. McNab Jr., chairman of Edisto, said
the acquisition opens major Midwest markets for Edisto.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Edisto closed at $17, up 50 cents, in American Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Air May Traffic Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAB
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- British Airways said it flew 3.49 billion
revenue passenger miles in May, a 13.4% increase from 3.08
billion in May 1989.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier said its passenger load factor, or percentage
of available seats filled, was 70.1%, compared with 68.5%.
   In the two months ended May 31, the airline flew 6.87
billion revenue passenger miles, up 12.7% from 6.09 billion a
year earlier. Load factor for the two months rose to 70.2%
from 69%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bankers Trust Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BANKERS TRUST Co. (New York) -- Paul Worthen Higgins
becomes head of international private banking and senior vice
president at the Private Bank, succeeding Barbara Thomas, who
left the subsidiary of the banking company for health
reasons. Mr. Higgins returns to Bankers Trust after 2 1/2
years as senior managing director for the investment and
securities services division at Marine Midland Bank, in New
York, and chairman of Marinvest, its institutional
asset-management subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Public Service Co. of New Mexico
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PNM
</CO>
<LP>
   PUBLIC SERVICE CO. OF NEW MEXICO (Albuquerque, N.M.) --
Ashton B. Collins, president of Reddy Communications Inc. and
a director of this utility, is expected to be elected P.S.
New Mexico's chairman at its annual meeting, scheduled for
next Tuesday, to succeed Jerry D. Geist, who is to retire
that day as chairman, president and chief executive officer.
John T. Ackerman, president and chief operating officer of
P.S. New Mexico's Gas Co. of New Mexico unit, is expected to
be named to succeed Mr. Geist as president and chief
executive.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Australia to Block
   Offer by Maxwell
   For Newspapers
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST A.BLL A.BON U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYDNEY -- The Australian government again threw cold water
on Robert Maxwell's hopes of gaining a foothold in the
country's newspaper business.
   Treasurer Paul Keating, who has the last word on foreign
investment bids, said Canberra will block the British media
magnate's proposal to take a 49% stake in the daily West
Australian in Perth and other newspaper interests now
controlled by Alan Bond's Bell Group Ltd.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Speaking at a news conference in London, Mr. Keating said,
"We always have a restrictive view of newspaper ownership,
particularly capital-city newspapers. A 49% interest from a
shareholder that strong is a controlling interest, and we
would not agree to it."
   Mr. Keating defined a controlling interest as anything
above 25%, but he wouldn't say how much of a holding by Mr.
Maxwell would be tolerated. Australia now limits total
foreign ownership in television and radio stations to 20%,
though it has no firm guidelines for newspapers.
   The treasurer added that the needs of the debt-burdened
Mr. Bond, who is jettisoning assets in an effort to rescue
his Australian-based empire from collapse, are "a side issue"
to the country's larger interests.
   In London, Mr. Maxwell said it was "injudicious" of Mr.
Keating to comment before receiving an official application.
   Mr. Maxwell's Mirror Group PLC and Bell Group announced
that the British publisher had agreed to buy 49% of Bell
Group's publishing interests for 175 million Australian
dollars (US$135.1 million) in cash and assumption of A$75
million of debt.
   The price Mirror Group agreed to pay for just less than
half of the publishing interests effectively values the total
assets at about A$500 million -- much more than some analysts
think they're worth. "It seems to be a very high price," said
Robin Forbes, of Perth stock-brokerage firm Hartley Poynton
Ltd. Mr. Aspinall, however, called the price "very fair."
   Mirror Group's move follows Mr. Maxwell's purchase in
April, on his own behalf, of 14.9% of Bell Group. Australian
regulators have petitioned the courts to unwind that
transaction. The seller of the shares, David Aspinall, Bell
Group's managing director, has been accused of violating
corporate-takeover rules in the deal.
   As part of yesterday's offer, Mr. Maxwell agreed to help
fund a proposed buy-back -- most likely at a deep discount to
face value -- of some A$550 million of bonds convertible into
shares of Bell Group that are issued in Europe.
   Bell Group also owes bank lenders about A$260 million, Mr.
Aspinall said. If the proposed sale were completed, some of
the proceeds would likely be used to reduce Bell Group's bank
debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Analysis &amp; Technology Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   AATI
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   NORTH STONINGTON, Conn. -- Analysis &amp; Technology Inc. said
it received $11.2 million in Navy contracts in May, bringing
its backlog to $302 million, up 13% from the year-earlier
level. The company specializes in submarine warfare services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Germany's Job Straitjacket
   ----
   By Marie-Josee Drouin
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   While attention has focused on the potentially
inflationary effects of currency conversion between East and
West Germany, the greatest challenge will be the creation of
jobs to assuage the large-scale dislocation and unemployment
a united Germany will face.
   Forecasts of unemployment triggered by German
reunification, plant modernizations and the abandonment of
nonproductive, noncompetitive activities, irrespective of
cyclical conditions, range from 500,000 to two million
workers. Yet West Germany's dismal job-creation record during
the past two decades has been generally overlooked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Blinded by West Germany's export performance, inflation
control and overall growth, observers seem impervious to the
fact that during the 1970s, overall employment grew a paltry
1.6%. Over the 1980-88 period, overall employment rose a mere
1.8%. During this time the annual rate of employment growth
in the U.S. exceeded West Germany's 10-year growth rate, with
the U.S. creating, on average, more than two million net jobs
per year.
   During the past few years, it has become widely recognized
that West Germany's inability to create jobs was attributable
to the numerous legislative and regulatory constraints that
limit hiring and firing flexibility and sharply increase the
cost of labor relative to other factors. High levels of job
protection and benefits favor those who are already employed
and restrict dismissals. As labor has come to be seen more as
a fixed cost than a variable cost, employers tend to
substitute capital for labor.
   Clearly, if you can't fire, you hire more cautiously. If
you can't shift workers around relatively freely, you do not
take the risk of increasing employment. In a similar vein,
workers who are confident of not losing their jobs have no
incentive to adjust their wage demands.
   There have been recent attempts to make West German labor
markets more flexible. Employers now have more latitude on
dismissals and can also make increased use of fixed-term
contracts. Despite these ameliorations, the question remains
as to how such a rigid apparatus of labor and social
legislation and regulation is likely to affect job creation
in East Germany.
   Unification will vastly expand the supply of labor and of
the unemployed. Whether the demand for labor will be vigorous
enough to mitigate the immense absorption problem this
suggests is another matter. Unlike the Turkish guest workers,
these unemployed cannot be sent home.
   Much rests on Germany's ability to introduce flexibility
in work rules, dismissals and wages. One would expect
unification to cause West German wages to ratchet downward,
but why should that be when workers enjoy full job protection
and security?
   Likewise, West German union pressures as well as job and
social benefits will put a floor on East German wages, which,
in any event, will ratchet upward. Imposing on an economy in
such dire need of adjustment as East Germany's a labor-market
structure that has even discouraged job creation in a country
as dynamic as West Germany is indeed a very hazardous
proposition.
   The problem is all the more compelling given that recent
trends suggest that those West German firms that are most
eager to expand into the East German market are small and
medium-sized firms. Many such firms had found access to West
German capital markets difficult and international expansion
too daunting. East Germany, however, is an appealing market
for them. But without flexible rules, their expansion plans
could be in serious jeopardy.
   In the U.S. it was small and medium-sized enterprises that
accounted for more than 75% of the jobs created during the
past two decades. Such firms provide another crucial
contribution to an economy such as East Germany's. There is
no better model for emulation and stimulation of
entrepreneurial initiative than successful small and
medium-sized concerns. While attention is turned to the
privatization of large-scale enterprise, the contribution of
small and medium-sized firms to competition and economic
dynamism tends to be overlooked.
   It is often argued that co-determination and pension
benefits were essential in shaping the social contract that
was a basis of West Germany's success after World War II. But
it is also widely acknowledged that the legislation and
regulations gradually grafted on the West German economy as
the country became more prosperous would have been
stultifying had they been imposed lock, stock and barrel four
decades ago. And even in a country as rich as West Germany,
they became excessively constraining, at least as far as job
creation is concerned.
   To now strap an economy in need of tremendous structural
adjustment and employment growth in such a straitjacket of
regulation would be a disastrous mistake. Some mechanism must
be found to ease the rules and regulations governing the
German labor market at least for a fairly lengthy transition
period.
   There have been signs that the availability of low-paid
East German workers already may have damped some of the
demands of West German unions. Last month, for example, West
Germany's most powerful union, I.G. Metall, backed down from
demands for an 8.5% wage increase and a 35-hour week, settled
for a 6% wage hike and stuck with the 38 1/2-hour week.
   This seemingly more conciliatory attitude is not solely a
by-product of unification. For the past few years, as in most
industrialized countries, membership as well as political
support for unions in West Germany has been waning. Moreover,
the combination of German unification and the movement toward
a more unified European market in 1992 have raised the issue
of German international competitiveness and adaptability.
   In searching for ways to ease the transition for East
Germany, Germany as a whole might seize the opportunity to
push for more flexible and less costly work rules. The timing
and mood couldn't be better, as cracks are beginning to
appear in the once comfy relationship among West German
government, industry and labor.
   ---
   Ms. Drouin is executive director of the Hudson Institute
of Canada, in Montreal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   VHI NL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   VALHI Inc. (Dallas) -- Moody's Investor Service Inc. said
it assigned a single-B-3 credit rating to the proposed
convertible subordinated debentures, due 2015, of this
holding company. It also confirmed its single-B-2 rating for
Valhi's 12.5% senior subordinated notes, due 1998. In a
related action, it raised the rating on NL Industries Inc.'s
sinking fund debentures to single-B-1 from single-B-2. Valhi
owns 66% of NL Industries. About $467 million of long-term
debt is affected. The rating concern said its assessment of
Valhi's proposed debentures included the issue's junior
subordinated position and the superior position of hefty debt
at the operating subsidiary level. In upgrading NL
Industries' sinking fund debentures, it cited the company's
good operating performance and strong market position,
especially in its production of titanium oxide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Nationalization Is Sought
   For French Nuclear Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.FRM F.CGE F.DUM F.CLC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French President Francois Mitterrand has approved
a plan under which French government-owned concerns will try
to take majority control of Framatome S.A., effectively
nationalizing France's nuclear power-plant builder,
presidential aides said.
   The decision reflects the continued willingness of
France's Socialist-led government to get involved in
industrial disputes when it believes the national interest is
at stake. In this case, France is more than 70%-dependent on
nuclear power for its electricity, the highest dependence
rate in the world. The government wants to ensure it controls
the main decisions at Framatome.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the nationalization plan works, it would foil a plan by
France's large private-sector maker of electrical machinery,
telephone equipment and trains, Cie. Generale d'Electricite,
which holds 40% of Framatome, to gain majority control. CGE
said in March it intended to buy the 12% held by the
construction company Dumez S.A., on which CGE has first
refusal rights. The president seeks to block that. Until now,
the government considered Framatome's holdings balanced. The
state holds 45%, personnel the remaining 3%. Officials fear
that CGE's purchase plan would disrupt that balance.
   The president's plan calls for government-owned concerns,
possibly including the bank Credit Lyonnais and the nuclear
fuel-processing concern Cogema S.A., to wind up with about
51%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Canada Unions Set
   Telecommunications Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The two unions representing Canadian and U.S.
telecommunications industry workers said they concluded an
alliance that will allow them to support each other's
organizing, collective bargaining and research activities.
   Morton Bahr, president of the Communications Workers of
America, and Fred Pomeroy, president of the Communications
and Electrical Workers of Canada, said the agreement -- the
first of its kind -- is essential in negotiating with the
multinational corporations that dominate the industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We've got to deliver the message that a company cannot
practice good labor relations in one place and be anti-union
in another," Mr. Bahr said.
   He said the new alliance would allow the 700,000-member
CWA and the CWC, which represents 40,000 employees, to work
together in organizing employees of one company in both
countries.
   The union leaders said they expect the alliance to
strengthen their bargaining clout with multinational
corporations.
   A spokesman for Mississauga, Ontario-based Northern
Telecom Ltd., one of the large telecommunications companies
with operations in both the U.S. and Canada, said the
formation of the alliance "isn't surprising" given the degree
of globalization of the industry. But he declined further
comment until the company has had an opportunity to discuss
the move with union representatives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   How America's Cup Hit Legal Shoals
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   L. Gordon Crovitz's lucid recapitulation of the America's
Cup legal fiasco (Rule of Law, May 16), was on the mark, but
didn't go quite far enough. There are two additional aspects
of the imbroglio that warrant attention before we move from
the legal shoals of New York to the waters off San Diego in
1992.
   First, the so-called "loophole" in the America's Cup Deed
has always been there, but nobody entertained serious
thoughts of a maverick challenge (as did New Zealander
Michael Fay) because chances of victory in the New York
courts were zero as long as the New York Yacht Club held the
Cup. When the trophy went from New York to Australia in 1983,
it should be noted that there were no attempts by Mr. Fay to
skirt the rules and prevailing methods of challenge because
such renegade action on his part would have made him a pariah
in that part of the world. It wasn't until the San Diego
Yacht Club had the effrontery to win the Cup in 1987 that Mr.
Fay started scheming.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Second, the peculiar maneuvering of New York Supreme Court
Justice Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick in the whole affair was
indeed strange. This justice was asked to rule on the
legality of a catamaran prior to the race that led to the
forfeiture, but she declined to do so. Instead, on July 25,
1988 -- more than a month before the controversial race --
she advised the participants to proceed with the contest,
telling them that a ruling would be forthcoming after the
race. Then, seven months after the race won by the San Diego
Yacht Club's catamaran, she ruled that use of a catamaran
"violated the spirit" of the Deed of Gift, and accordingly
awarded the Cup to New Zealand] Had she so ruled before the
race (as requested) there would have been no catamaran
defense and consequently no forfeiture. Had this been a
criminal proceeding, the appellate courts may well have
labeled this judicial misconduct and/or reversible error. In
football parlance, a trap play.
   Paul R. Maracin
   San Diego
   ---
   Mr. Crovitz's column was entirely correct except for one
egregious error. That was the description of Judge Tyler as
"Landlubber Harold Tyler argued for San Diego."
   To keep the record straight, you may wish to know that
Harold Tyler comes from Waterville in Oneida County, N.Y.
Waterville is at the site of Nine Mile Swamp, a very
impressive body of water with which Judge Tyler has long been
familiar. During the l9th century, Nine Mile Swamp, as well
as many other bodies of water in beautiful Oneida County have
been used in war and peace as important waterways and
refuges. The well-known horse thieves known as the Loomis
gang had a secret headquarters in Nine Mile Swamp. They made
so much trouble, and so intimidated juries, that at one point
the vigilantes of Waterville rousted them out and lynched
most of them.
   One of these fellows was named Plum Loomis, a very young
boy at the time. The vigilantes overlooked some of the gang
who burst out of the swamp in the Lafitte tradition of the
Battle of New Orleans, and rescued Plum, who was then
vigorously kicking at the end of the rope.
   When Judge Tyler was very young, and Plum Loomis was very
old, they used to converse in the Waterville town square. It
was said that Plum would then exhibit the rope scars on his
neck, as partial explanation of why he never wore a necktie.
Neither Plum nor the judge could be properly described as
landlubbers. I hope that an appropriate correction will be
recorded.
   John P. Campbell
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Steel Production Dropped in Week
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                Net tons     Capability
                                produced     utilization
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

 Week to June 2 ..........     1,937,000        86.2%
 Year to date ............    43,809,000        85.4%
 Year earlier to date ....    45,490,000        89.5%
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   NWA Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NWA
</CO>
<LP>
   NWA Inc. (St. Paul, Minn.) -- Barry A. Kotar, 44 years
old, previously president and chief executive officer of
Covia, a computerized reservations concern owned by several
airlines, was named executive vice president and chief
information officer of this airline holding company's
Northwest Airlines unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ford Motor Credit
   To Offer Rates Based
   On Credit History
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Ford Motor Credit Co., the financing arm of
Ford Motor Co., says it will go nationwide this fall with a
program that bases the interest rate charged for a car loan
on a consumer's credit history.
   General Motors Corp.'s financing arm, General Motors
Acceptance Corp., made a similar program available to its
dealers in March 1989. Chrysler Corp.'s auto finance arm,
meanwhile, is developing a similar financing system that
could be offered to dealers within the next 12 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ford Credit's program ranks customers on a scale from
level one, the best credit risk, to level four, the worst
risk. New-car buyers who are assigned a level-one rank can
get financing at interest rates 1.25 percentage points below
Ford Credit's base rate. That's the rate charged to consumers
with "average" credit and assigned a level-two rank.
   Conversely, customers deemed poor credit risks could pay a
rate of interest three to four percentage points higher than
the base rate. Ford Credit said its base interest rates for
car loans vary from state to state, but currently range
between 11.5% and 12.25%.
   Ford Credit said it will assign the rankings, but dealers
will continue to negotiate the actual interest charges with
customers on a deal-by-deal basis.
   Ford Credit officials say their aim is to attract buyers
whose solid credit ratings allow them to get lower finance
rates at banks. Also, by raising rates for high-risk
customers, the finance unit can partly offset the costs of
higher loan losses.
   "It's our hope and long-term plan that {this} will be our
standard program" for financing auto loans, says Leo Larkin,
Ford Credit's vice president of marketing. Ford Credit
started assigning credit rankings to customers in 1988 as a
test program in a few dealerships. The financing rating
system currently is offered through about 35% of Ford and
Lincoln-Mercury dealers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Justices Strike Down Flag-Burning Law,
   Reviving a Push to Amend Constitution
   ---
   Republicans Hope to Paint
   Democrats as Out of Step
   In Election-Year Issue
   ----
   By David Shribman and Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court struck down a federal law
against desecrating the U.S. flag, igniting a political
battle over an issue the Democrats had hoped to avoid.
   The law, declared unconstitutional on the same grounds the
court used to invalidate a Texas statute a year ago, sets up
a constitutional debate less than five months before the fall
elections. Bucking the polls, the president and the
Republican Party, Democratic leaders in the House and Senate
oppose any constitutional amendment on flag desecration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even if they prevail legislatively, some Democrats may
lose in November because of how they vote on the issue.
Republicans hope the flag controversy will revive the party's
effort to paint the Democrats as out of step with mainstream
social and cultural views, an argument that has been badly
battered by public opposition to the Supreme Court's abortion
decision last July.
   "This is as clear a cultural-value issue as there can be,"
says Marc Nuttle, executive director of the National
Republican Congressional Committee, the House GOP's campaign
arm. "This is one of the value conflicts that allows us to
make a true comparison between parties and candidates. This
is a real opportunity."
   Those pushing the flag amendment currently have a slight
political edge in the battle to obtain the necessary
two-thirds of each house and then to submit it for approval
by three-quarters of the states.
   The two sides have already cast the issue as a struggle
over whether to protect the flag or to protect the Bill of
Rights. Democrats find themseves on the defensive, with the
Republicans even holding an advantage in stating the issue.
House GOP leader Robert Michel of Illinois strode onto the
floor yesterday and declared that "the essential question is:
Does the Congress really want to protect the flag from
desecration?"
   The Democratic leadership's position is more complicated.
It is preparing to argue that the flag proposal would for the
first time amend the 200-year-old protections of the Bill of
Rights.
   Democrats who watched Gov. Michael Dukakis of
Massachusetts struggle with a similar position in the 1988
presidential election know how difficult the fight will be.
"Opposition to the amendment may be noble, but it may take a
miracle to stop it," says Harvard Law School professor
Christopher Edley, who was the issues director for the
Dukakis campaign. "I know the power of this issue -- and the
dangers of a position that takes a long explanation to the
public."
   Opponents of a constitutional amendment have already tried
a quick-fix solution. After the Supreme Court voided the
Texas law, Congress quickly passed the law struck down
yesterday. The law was passed in part to head off any
amendment.
   In its 5-4 vote, the court found that the federal law,
like the Texas statute, violated the First Amendment's
guarantee of freedom of speech.
   A 20-word proposed constitutional amendment, already
introduced in the House and Senate, says Congress and the
states have the power to pass laws to "prohibit the physical
desecration of the flag." The effect would be that the First
Amendment would no longer protect actions involving the flag
from state or federal prosecution.
   Republican strategists say they are geared up to exploit
what Wendy DeMocker, spokeswoman for the Republican
Senatorial Campaign Committee, calls a "very powerful, very
potent, very emotional issue." The five Democratic senators
the Republicans consider most vulnerable this fall -- Max
Baucus of Montana, Tom Harkin of Iowa, Carl Levin of
Michigan, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island and Paul Simon of
Illinois -- all voted against an effort for an amendment
after the decision in the Texas case.
   One Republican mulling use of the issue is Mr. Simon's
opponent, Rep. Lynn Martin. "On a system of values that
matter, here is one of the places we differ," she says. "I
won't call him names, but I think he is out of touch."
   Celinda Lake, a Democratic political consultant, says the
best response Democratic candidates can make to such charges
is "to say they love the country and the flag. People know no
politician is for burning the flag."
   Democratic Sen. Robert Kerrey of Nebraska, who won the
Congressional Medal of Honor in Vietnam, cast the issue in
terms of the changes sweeping the former Communist bloc: "I
don't see how we can make repeated trips to Eastern Europe,
talking about freedom and the right to dissent . . . and not
once saying that when you put together your constitution,
make sure you protect your flag."
   Some Republicans argue against embracing the flag
campaign. "This is truly the vilest of cheap issues," says
John Buckley, a GOP political consultant. "Democrats who get
on the wrong side of this may face political oblivion, but
Republicans who exploit it ought to face intellectual hell."
   Adds conservative Republican Sen. Gordon Humphrey of New
Hampshire: "The Bill of Rights is a list of things that the
government may not do, and one of those is to limit speech. I
don't want it diluted for any purpose."
   President Bush indicated his determination to "continue to
press for what I strongly believe is in the public interest"
-- a constitutional amendment.
   Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole even urged a floor vote
Thursday, Flag Day. In political terms, Mr. Dole said, the
issue would "make a good 30-second spot." Asked whether a
lawmaker could easily defend opposition to the amendment, he
said: "I think he could at a bar association meeting, but not
before real people."
   Democratic Rep. Robert Kastenmeier of Wisconsin, a member
of the House Judiciary Committee and an opponent of the
amendment, says, "I don't think at the moment that there is
one-third-plus-one members of the House to defeat the
amendment."
   In striking down the federal law, the Supreme Court
divided as it did in the Texas case. Justice William Brennan
wrote the majority opinion, joined by Justices Thurgood
Marshall, Harry Blackmun, Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy.
Justice John Stevens dissented, joined by Chief Justice
William Rehnquist and Justices Byron White and Sandra
O'Connor.
   Many constitutional-law experts had expected the outcome.
"Congress had made clear that the law was not designed to
protect the (physical) integrity of the flag, but rather to
suppress unpatriotic treatment of the flag," said Harvard Law
School Prof. Laurence Tribe. The eight-page decision --
issued less than a month after the case was argued -- and the
six-page dissent contained none of the emotional rhetoric
that marked the Texas-case ruling.
   The House Judiciary Committee will consider the amendment
next Tuesday, with a vote on the floor coming as soon as a
week later. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Joseph Biden
(D., Del.), who has said he plans to draft his own
constitutional amendment, is embarking on a slower schedule
that will include hearings "to determine how to best fashion
an amendment that doesn't do violence" to the Bill of Rights.
Senate leaders haven't agreed on a timetable for floor
action.
   The Democratic leaders are committed to allowing a vote on
an amendment despite their own opposition; they believe it
would be even more damaging to avoid the issue.
   Some strategists argue that the political risk of the
issue is overstated. "I can't imagine that it will make a
critical difference in elections," says Harrison Hickman, a
Democratic pollster and consultant. "The public has chewed
this around pretty good. It might stimulate some voter
turnout, but I don't think you'll see people charging out to
oust an incumbent just because of this."
   Lawmakers already had a chance to show their support for
the flag by voting on a resolution to condemn the Supreme
Court's original flag-burning decision and by voting for the
statute that the court struck down yesterday. The two earlier
votes may provide some Democrats with enough political cover
to support the leadership on the amendment.
   Democratic Rep. Don Edwards of California, one of the most
ardent opponents of the amendment, says political risk
remains. "If that risk weren't there," he says, "the
membership would overwhelmingly vote to preserve the
Constitution."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Northwest Politicians Ply Environmental Protection-ism
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Possibly this week, the nation is to have a new threatened
species in the spotted owl of the Pacific Northwest. Whenever
the announcement comes from federal officials, it likely will
overshadow another significant side issue in the logging wars
raging on the West Coast: the always precarious state of
international trade.
   How is the tiny, obscure bird tied into Japanese-U.S.
relations? Because the attempt to shield it from the
predations of a harvested habitat cues another kind of
protectionism: a legislative shuffle to save a domestic
industry. This time that familiar game has an unusual twist
-- the barring not of imports but of raw-log exports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The "old-growth" region of the Northwest is one of the
richest timber lodes on Earth -- the "El Dorado of
silvaculture," in environmental economist John Baden's words.
Unlike some surrounding U.S. Forest Service areas, he says,
these stands don't require implicit subsidies from the U.S.
government to make cutting viable. A single tree might yield
enough wood for four homes.
   The spotted-owl ruling will stop much of the cutting of
firs, hemlocks and spruce from federal lands, which account
for about a fifth of the Washington State's harvest, and most
of Oregon's. (Private parcels, a big part of Washington's
yield and greater still of Northern California's redwoods,
are indirectly hit because they're subject to lawsuits under
the statute.)
   Timber mills in the region stand to be big losers from
this. Since 1973, when exports of logs from federal lands in
the West were banned, the domestic mills have had the pick of
that wood, which could no longer command the world price. The
mills and their 56,000 workers rely on this indirect subsidy
to keep their costs competitive. Now that wood is to belong
instead to the owls.
   So the mill operators have turned to the logging on state
lands, which is most significantly a factor in Washington.
Efforts to restrict the export of this timber have been
resisted for years not only by growers but also by port
interests and by school districts, which rely on the sales
for funding.
   The logjam is breaking -- but in Washington, D.C. There, a
provision of legislation by Sen. Robert Packwood, an Oregon
Republican and normally a free trader, would seem to override
Washington's Constitution to empower its governor to bar
export of timber from state lands within two years. And Gov.
Booth Gardner appears ready to do that.
   Mr. Packwood has tied this measure to a priority Caribbean
Basin trade bill. He's got going for him not only the mills
but the environmental lobby, which figures that eliminating
much of the market for the wood can only save more trees. It
also helps that he's targeting Japan, where the preference
for wood prepared in one of its own 18,000 sawmills is
thought to reflect another of those non-tariff barriers that
hamper American finished goods.
   Further aiding the bill, the big-timber lobby has signed
on to a Packwood compromise with Washington congressmen in
the hope of preventing an export-ban encroachment into
privately owned forests. Such a step might seem a remarkable
leap over property rights -- perhaps a "taking" under the
U.S. Constitution -- but no one can be sure of any asset in
the volatile logging politics of the West. Scary new
projections of old-growth forest decline are fueling
environmental activism, as well as a rush by loggers to cut
while the law still permits it. Summer strife looms in the
California redwoods, where protesters may try physically to
halt operations, and voters in the state may use the
initiative ballot to saw the industry off at the knees in
November.
   So in Washington State, at least, Big Timber is content to
carve out some limits it can live with. Contract loggers who
work the public lands may not be so lucky. Also to be
affected are thousands of small timber growers who don't sell
export-quality logs; the price for their cuttings at the
domestic mills stands to be driven down again by an onrush of
formally exportable supply. And the schools and other public
agencies that face a drop-off in revenues will have to look
for alternatives. (At least that's a case of protectionist
costs being borne publicly, as they should be.)
   It's hard to anticipate all of the derivative effects of
any intervention in the economy, but Nick Kirkmire, a onetime
commercial forester who serves as a reluctant lobbyist for
Big Timber in this matter, offers another. He thinks that,
just as Japanese companies moved their car assembly to the
U.S. in order to get around import limits, so they will set
up their own mills in the Northwest to produce lumber to the
particular standards of the home market and thus beat a log
export ban. Nothing wrong with that, but it's probably not
what the promoters of this latest sop to a domestic industry
have in mind.
   For the junior senator from Oregon, who faces a
potentially tough re-election battle in 1992, this is a
chance to stake out both the "jobs" and "trees" vote. For
Rep. John Miller, a conservative Republican, and other House
members from Washington who've been delicately negotiating a
deal, the incentive is similar, with the added impetus of
heading off the more absolutist Oregon opposition to
exporting.
   Quiet in all of this is the U.S. Trade Representative's
office. The bill's sponsors are confident that the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade would allow restrictions in
this special case.
   GATT shouldn't. Packwood's Putsch is destined to give the
term "environmental protection" a new meaning. The
spotted-owl episode is a good example of how green politics,
now flowering in much of the world, can be a cover for the
sophisticated maneuvers by various interest groups that
barely give a hoot about ecology. Elsewhere on Capitol Hill,
the notorious Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., with its
self-interested championing of grain-based fuels, is a
pioneer at this.
   The soundest way to obtain the environmental safeguards
that the people want, free of third-party spoils, is to work
to assign market values to natural resources. Where property
rights can be established, pricing will take care of itself;
a rougher estimation might suffice in less tangible or
demarcated situations. Then society can make straightforward
decisions about whether to preserve resources by incurring
the costs directly, as the economist Mr. Baden happens to
favor doing in the old-growth timber case. (He considers the
northern spotted owl a goner anyhow, but believes the host
ecosystem to be precious.) Private interests that may have
their contractural rights infringed on should be duly
compensated, just as they themselves would no longer be able
to take freely from a "commons" of clean air, water and the
like.
   That would be honest environmentalism instead of political
gamesmanship. It would be good news for the planet and our
progeny, if not for congressmen and certain cozy
constituents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dayton Hudson Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DH
</CO>
<LP>
   DAYTON HUDSON Corp. (Minneapolis) -- Gary Witkin,
41-year-old executive vice president, stores, at Marshall
Field &amp; Co., will be named Field president when this retailer
closes its pending $1.04 billion purchase of the retailing
chain from B.A.T Industries PLC of Britain. Field's two top
executives, Philip B. Miller, chairman and chief executive
officer, and Burnett W. Donoho, president and chief operating
officer, both said earlier they will resign when Dayton
Hudson completes the acquisition. Under the management
structure Dayton Hudson plans, Mr. Witkin will be the top
official at Marshall Field.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Gallery:
   ...And Looking Like Provincials
   ----
   By Jack Flam
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Washington, D.C. -- The emergence of the Soviet Union from
nearly three-quarters of a century of historical amnesia will
probably produce cultural changes on a scale comparable with
the economic ones that are under way. In the visual arts, for
example, a vigorous avant-garde recently surfaced with active
official sanction.
   Actually, this avant-garde is resurfacing, since it had
already ventured into the light once before, briefly, in the
early '60s, taking courage and inspiration from the 1959
exhibition of advanced American painting and sculpture
organized in Moscow by the Archives of American Art. But
Nikita Khrushchev soon froze this thaw when he visited the
1962 dissident exhibition "Thirty Years of Moscow Art."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Jackasses," he shouted at the new artists, in a display
of righteous indignation worthy of Jesse Helms, "we are
declaring war on you]"
   In subsequent years, the Soviet government's struggle
against dissident art sometimes did look like a war. At the
"First Open Air Exhibition" in Moscow in 1974, the
authorities sent in bulldozers and water trucks to break
things up. A lot of art was damaged, but so was the
government's credibility as an arbiter of culture. To save
face, the authorities sanctioned "official unofficial"
exhibitions in a number of cities and, at the same time,
foreign influence continued to make itself felt.
   The American influence on current Soviet art is still very
strong, as can be seen in the exhibition "10+10: Contemporary
Soviet and American Painters," on view at the Corcoran
Gallery of Art here until June 24. This exhibition, which was
organized by the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, Texas, is
one of a growing list of joint ventures by American arts
institutions and the Soviet authorities. Art, the Soviets
have discovered, is a kind of cultural hard currency, and
they are learning to spend this unexpected nest egg to buy
approval and as seed money for earning real hard currency in
the free world's art market.
   For this exhibition, a bilateral panel headed by Fort
Worth curator Marla Price has selected 10 artists from each
country, all under 40 years of age. (Only nine of the
Americans are being shown in Washington; Annette Lemieux has
withdrawn her works here, in protest against the Corcoran's
cancellation of the Robert Mapplethorpe show last year.)
Although the merits of any such selection can be argued at
length, this one seems quite reasonable. The American artists
represent a broad spectrum of styles, ranging from the moody
landscapes of April Gornik to the bright, brash geometrical
abstractions of Peter Halley. Also included are David Bates,
Ross Bleckner, Christopher Brown, Rebecca Purdum, David
Salley, Donald Sultan and Mark Tansey.
   Tansey's "Triumph of the New York School," a painting that
looks like a giant sepia photograph, adds an especially wry
note to the exhibition. This parody of a military scene in a
devastated no-man's land, features portraits of the abstract
expressionist painters Jackson Pollock and Robert Motherwell
costumed as casually dressed American soldiers accepting the
surrender of Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso, who wear French
uniforms. Is Tansey sending the Soviets a sly political
lesson along with the artistic one?
   The Soviet artists chosen for this show seem symmetrical
to their American counterparts in several ways. The styles in
which they work frequently resemble those of the better known
Americans, and the installation of their paintings sometimes
underlines these connections. Andrei Roiter and Vadim
Zakharov, both of whom mix boldly simplified figurative and
abstract imagery, are shown alongside American artist Donald
Sultan, who works in a comparable mode and mood. Sergei
Shutov shares a room with David Salle, whose work his
resembles so much that you might say he has "appropriated"
the master of "appropriation."
   Yurii Albert confronts the issue of influence in an even
more blatant way. One of his paintings, which consists of
richly brushed letters, in the manner of Jasper Johns, is
titled "I'm Not Jasper Johns." Another, a cartoon-like
rendering of an artist with brushes and palette is turned
upside down in imitation of the German artist Georg Baselitz.
Albert calls it "I'm Not Baselitz]" Judging, moreover, from
his personal statement in the catalog, Albert also has
learned to do a perfect and unabashed imitation of the
portentous newspeak so inexplicably popular among Western
artists called upon to explain themselves in words.
   In terms of overall quality, this exhibition evokes mixed
feelings. The Soviet paintings are impressively international
and up-to-the-minute in style. There is a refreshing absence
of socialist realism, and it is apparent that even before
Mikhail Gorbachev gave them the nod, Soviet artists were
looking carefully at Western art and working in a boldly
internationalist manner.
   Yet at the same time, there is something amateurish about
many of the Soviet paintings, especially when they are seen
in close proximity to their American counterparts. Despite
their awareness of international modernist (and
postmodernist) pictorial vocabularies, most of the Soviet
pictures look oddly provincial. Not stylistically provincial,
but provincial in their derivativeness and in their general
failure to generate a strong sense of artistic authenticity.
They are like the paintings produced for the better sort of
M.F.A. thesis shows in the U.S. The vision behind the Soviet
paintings is an educated vision. Their technical skill is
real. But they lack the professional seasoning that marks the
best contemporary art.
   In his catalog statement, Vladimir Mironenko exemplifies
both the optimism and the problems of Soviet artists today.
"I would like to know," he writes, "how our enormous country,
existing, as it were, in a different dimension, fits in with
what is happening in the rest of the world." Soviet art, he
asserts, bears only a superficial resemblance to Western art,
because "its content is by now completely different." But at
the same time, as he points out, "it is not easy to find the
essential meaning, as the image is based on an altered
language, a distorted history, and a falling out of time."
   When the Soviet experience is set forth convincingly in a
fresh way, it will be easier to speak of Soviet art's having
finally come of age. But if contemporary Soviet painting is
still not quite mature, on the evidence of this show it seems
nonetheless to be experiencing an adventurous and promising
youth.
   After Washington, the exhibition will travel to Moscow,
Tbilisi and Leningrad.
   ---
   (See related story: "Leisure &amp; Arts: Soviet Artists in
America: Toiling for Dollars" -- WSJ June 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BICC PLC
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.BIC
</CO>
<LP>
   BICC PLC (London) -- The cable and construction company
named two vice presidents to new posts at its North American
subsidiary based in New York. John Hollinghurst becomes vice
president of research and development, retaining his
responsibilities as vice president of technology for Phillips
Cables Ltd., BICC's Ontario subsidiary. Laurence Cardiff
becomes vice president of procurement, retaining his
responsibilities as director of purchasing at both Phillips
Cables and Cablec Corp. BICC's New City, N.Y., subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Freer Capital Flow Is Said
   To Aid World Economy
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASEL, Switzerland -- The Bank for International
Settlements, conducting its annual meeting here, said freer
capital flows are helping avoid havoc from big trade
imbalances in the world financial system.
   The BIS, which functions as a central bank for the world's
major central banks, said the freer capital flow makes it
easier for funds to flow to economies with large trade
deficits, like the U.S., which posted a $104 billion
current-account gap last year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The BIS found that overall, capital flows increased in
1989, with the biggest investments pouring toward the 12
European Community countries. Total investment into the EC
came to $63 billion in 1989, up from $47 billion a year
earlier. Increased acquisitions by U.S. companies, along with
greater investment by pension funds, insurance companies and
unit trusts, accounted for much of the increase. Britain,
perhaps the most open to foreign investors, won $26 billion
of the investment last year, compared with $6 billion for
West Germany.
   The BIS said the most important developments of the decade
were unexpected ones: the collapse of communism in Eastern
Europe, and the durability of the economic expansion in the
big industrial countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Fall Back in Thin Trading;
   London Stocks Fail to Recover Ground at the Close
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stocks retreated sharply in Tokyo in thin dealings as a
weaker yen and lower bond prices dried up buying interest.
   Meanwhile, stocks in London failed to recover ground at
the close, despite a surge in the value of Wall Street
shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues fell 453.11 points to
32540.18, the lowest daily close since May 24. The index lost
199.21 points Friday.
   In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the Nikkei index had
dropped 193.49 points to 32346.69.
   While there wasn't any big-lot selling Monday, traders
said, lack of buying and slight volume permitted small sales
to pull down the Nikkei Index widely.
   Index-linked selling by arbitragers and investment trust
funds pushed down the index more than 300 points in the
morning. The index declined further in the afternoon as the
dollar rose above 154 yen.
   The stronger dollar helped push up yields of the benchmark
10-year government bond, and the increase in long-term
interest rates prompted sales of interest-rate sensitive
stocks of companies such as steel makers, shipbuilders and
real estate developers, observers said.
   Only 350 million shares were estimated to have changed
hands on the first section, down sharply from 675.5 million
shares Friday. Losers outpaced winners 706 to 248, while 171
issues were unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 18.77 points, or 0.78%, to 2393.01.
   The second section index fell for the first time in 10
trading days. The index lost 12.12 points, or 0.30%, to
4056.95. Volume was estimated at 18 million shares, down from
28.5 million shares Friday.
   Monday's sharp setback reflects investors' disappointment
with the upturn of the dollar and domestic interest rates,
said Hiroyuki Murai, general manager of stock trading at
Nikko Securities.
   While stock prices advanced in the past weeks because of
expectations for lower interest rates, Mr. Murai said,
participants learned such expectations were unfounded.
Movements of interest rates need to be watched carefully, he
added.
   Economic reports scheduled to be disclosed later this week
in Japan and the U.S. are expected to shed light on the
direction of interest rates in each nation. The reports
include the Bank of Japan's latest quarterly report and
Japan's wholesale price index for May, as well as U.S.
consumer and producer price data for May and trade figures
for April.
   Investors took a wait-and-see attitude ahead of these
reports, traders said. But there is little expectation that
the economic reports will encourage central banks of either
nation to ease credit, the traders added.
   Mr. Murai said he saw few investors trying to sell at
Monday's low prices and predicted the Nikkei will hover
around the day's closing level for a while.
   But some observers said stock prices may fall further,
with the Nikkei dropping below 32000.
   Yoshiaki Mitsuoka, director of investment information at
Daiwa Investment Trust &amp; Management, said the advance of the
dollar against the yen may be a short-term move, but it might
have triggered the start of a major setback, often seen a few
months after a plunge.
   Since the Nikkei has continued to move higher for 10 weeks
after posting a low of 28002 points April 2, "it's quite
natural" to expect some setback in the next three to five
weeks, the Daiwa official said. "In the long run, such a
correction is welcome."
   Some traders said another discouraging factor is that
there are few attractively priced shares left because of the
advances made recently.
   Investors' enthusiasm to take wide and short-term profits
had led to a rise of small-capital shares on the second
section, over-the-counter trading, as well as the Osaka and
Nagoya stock exchanges, in the past weeks. But stock prices
in these categories also fell back.
   Losers included shipbuilding companies, which had led the
recent market advance. Hitachi Zosen fell 15 yen to 856 yen
(10 cents to $5.58), while Mitsubishi Heavy Industries fell
20 yen to 1040 yen.
   Steel shares were sold on higher interest rates, with
Nippon Steel declining 11 yen to 597 yen.
   London traders said that market opened weaker and
continued to fall on disappointing retail sales figures.
These reports showed that the volume of retail sales rose
1.2% in May largely because of increases in food and clothing
sectors. The rise was unchanged from April's monthly increase
and well above market expectations of a 0.4% rise.
   The data suggest that current high interest rates aren't
having the desired damping effect on consumer demand.
   A lack of buy interest in quiet afternoon trading failed
to bolster the market to match Wall Street's early climb. The
London market "wasn't quite sure where New York" would close.
Investors "didn't want to mark London higher," said one
trader.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell
17.8 points to 2348.8. The index was off 28.1 points at the
intraday low.
   The Financial Times 30 Share Index dropped 14.8 points to
1877.9. Volume was 375.6 million shares, compared with 444.2
million issues Friday.
   Traders said the recent euphoria appears to have
evaporated, with the market now taking greater heed of
negative economic data. There was still considerable buy
interest, but investors are waiting for the remaining
indicators to be disclosed as the week progresses, in the
hope of securing better prices.
   Overall, "people are getting cautious, they want to see
some positive news," said one trader.
   The insurance sector continued to benefit from bid
speculation, with Commercial Union, up 6 pence to 517 pence
(10 cents to $8.70), and Legal &amp; General, up 5 pence at 418
pence, the favored takeover stocks.
   ICI rose 6 pence to #12.22, on strong overseas demand,
while Guinness gained 9 pence to 788 pence on LVMH's
announcement that its tender for Guinness shares was
oversubscribed.
   British Steel eased 2 pence to 146 1/2 pence, despite
full-year pretax profits up 24% at #733 million. This gain
was broadly in line with market expectations, but one trader
noted that the recent trend has been to sell on company
results.
   Meanwhile, shares closed higher in Madrid and lower in
Stockholm, Paris, Brussels, Amsterdam, Milan, Frankfurt and
Zurich. South African gold stocks rose.
   Prices were lower in Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul,
Wellington and Taipei, and higher in Manila. Sydney was
closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                               Jun 8     Jun 7     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  331.3     335.4    +  1.9
   Britain ..................  704.4     708.0    -  2.3
   Canada ...................  393.9     397.7    -  8.9
   Japan .................... 1355.1    1366.5    - 18.1
   France ...................  567.7     574.8    +  0.1
   Germany ..................  293.0     296.1    +  2.7
   Hong Kong ................ 2360.2    2339.6    + 12.6
   Switzerland ..............  223.9     224.0    +  1.4
   Australia ................  307.7     308.3    -  7.1
   World index ..............  519.7     525.6    -  8.4
   ---

                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                            CLOSE   %CHG
                                                                                                       

                      WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Bell Group (Australia) .................    0.08  + 33.3
   Northern Star Holdings (Australia)......    0.14  + 27.3
   Osaka Titanium (Japan) ................. 2780.0   + 25.8
   Lane Crawford B (Hong Kong).............    1.43  + 24.3
   Lane Crawford A (Hong Kong) ............   14.9   + 24.2
   Memtec (Australia) .....................    3.65  + 21.7
   Bond Media (Australia) .................    0.17  + 21.4
   Carter Hawley Hale Store (U.S.) ........    6.625 + 20.5
   Broad Common (U.S.) ....................   10.375 + 18.6
   De La Rue (Britain) ....................    2.96  + 18.4
                                                                                                       

                      LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   United Plantations (Australia) .........    2.103 - 23.3
   Acm Gold (Australia) ...................    0.73  - 23.2
   Australian Cons'd Min. (Australia) .....    1.2   - 20.0
   Central Norseman Gold (Australia) ......    0.35  - 18.5
   Dylex A (Canada) .......................    5.0   - 16.7
   Ashley (Laura) Holdings (Britain) ......    0.57  - 16.2
   Bhp Gold Mines (Australia) .............    0.37  - 15.9
   Corona A (Canada) ......................    7.5   - 15.5
   Homestake Gold  (Australia) ............    1.2   - 15.5
   Gap (U.S.) .............................   56.125 - 15.3
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pegasus Gold Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PGU
</CO>
<LP>
   PEGASUS GOLD Inc. (Spokane, Wash.) -- Michael L. Clark, 44
years old, formerly a vice president of this mining concern,
was named to the newly created posts of executive vice
president and chief operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dynascan Buy-Back Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   DYNA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Dynascan Corp. said it is offering to buy the
stock of shareholders who own less than 100 shares of its
common stock as of June 5.
   The maker of consumer electronic products said
shareholders accepting the offer will receive $6 a share.
Dynascan said the offer allows shareholders to sell their
shares without paying brokerage commissions or other selling
fees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dynascan, which has more than six million shares
outstanding, said about 18,000 shares are odd-lot holdings.
The offer is scheduled to expire on July 6.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Rights Issue Shows SEC
   Ready to Ease Way for Foreigners
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ATTWY U.WSG FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Securities and Exchange Commission is close to taking
yet another step to make it easier for foreign companies to
sell securities in the U.S.
   The SEC's willingness to relax strict U.S. registration
guidelines for foreign issuers was signaled in an
announcement Friday by Attwoods PLC. The British
waste-management company said that it planned an #82 million
($138 million) rights offering that will be registered with
the SEC. The offering gives shareholders the right to
purchase one new share at 390 pence for each four ordinary
shares they hold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S.G. Warburg &amp; Co., the lead underwriter, says it believes
this will be the first underwritten rights issue for a
British company to be registered with the SEC.
   In the past, foreign companies often steered clear of
registering securities offerings in the U.S., either because
they had too few U.S. shareholders to make the expense
worthwhile or because the detailed filings were considered a
hassle. The result was that U.S. investors were forced to
sell their unexercised rights and denied the opportunity to
participate fully in the transaction.
   But because the SEC is likely to bend U.S. rules,
Attwoods' U.S. shareholders are expected to be able to take
full advantage of the company's rights offering.
   The SEC hasn't formally approved the Attwoods application,
but is expected to shortly.
   The expected Attwoods offering would be the latest in a
string of measures taken recently by the SEC to accommodate
foreign corporations that wish to raise money in the U.S.
stock and bond markets.
   Part of the impetus behind the SEC's new stance is the
planned 1992 abolition of trade and investment barriers in
the 12 countries that comprise the European Community,
something that will enhance Europe's position as a financial
power.
   The SEC, led by Chairman Richard Breeden, is acutely aware
that international capital markets have grown far more
interdependent in the past decade. To keep the U.S. as the
world's premier capital market, the agency feels it must
adjust to investor and issuer needs.
   The SEC's most wide-reaching step came earlier this
spring, when it created an easy way for foreign companies to
sell debt and stock to large U.S. institutions like pension
funds and insurance companies. That provision, called Rule
144a, is designed to help encourage European and Asian
companies to raise funds in the U.S. private placement
market. At the same time, it allows large U.S. investors
expanded investment opportunities.
   "If there are good opportunities for American investors
abroad, Americans should be allowed to take advantage of
those," said Marianne Smythe, executive assistant to the SEC
chairman. At the same time, "For American businesses to raise
capital, it is useful for them to have access to investors
other than those in the U.S. That reduces the cost of
capital."
   With about 20% of its stock outstanding held in the U.S.
and roughly 70% of its business there, "Attwoods was eager to
insure that its U.S. shareholders were able to participate in
the issue on the same terms as their non-U.S. shareholders,"
says Lucas J. Wilson, a vice president at Warburg's U.S. unit
in New York.
   Specifically, the SEC has signaled that it is willing to
speed up Attwoods's registration to save the company from
what can be higher costs, says Warburg. The agency is also
expected to exempt partially the securities firm from Rule
10b6, which effectively bans an underwriter from making a
market in an issue during the offering period. (A
market-maker commits to buy and sell shares and smooth market
imbalances.) To comply, Warburg would have to cease making a
market for Attwoods shares in London.
   Instead, the British brokerage house says that the SEC
will allow the firm to actively trade Attwoods stock in
Britain until five days before the offer's termination date,
July 24. The SEC will also mandate that if the share price is
trading at less than 110% of the rights exercise price, or
390 pence, Warburg can only make a market on a passive basis,
in which it can't actively solicit business. The firm won't
be allowed to make a market in the U.S. during the offering
period.
   The SEC said it had only received the Attwoods filing last
Friday and was still reviewing it.
   Making a market in London is important to both Attwoods
and Warburg. The broker claims it is the largest of the three
or four major firms that make a market in Attwoods shares,
and that to exclude it from Attwoods transactions could
hinder trading in Attwoods shares and the success of the
rights issue. In addition, the International Stock Exchange
in London could penalize the firm for failing to back its
commitment to maintain a market in the stock.
   "The message from the SEC is that it's easier than it was
before for foreign companies to operate in the U.S. capital
markets," says Warburg's Mr. Wilson. "The SEC's attitude here
is that it isn't that complicated, it can be done, and that
if Attwoods can do it, so can other companies.
   Linda Quinn, the SEC's director of corporation finance,
said the agency is acutely concerned that the SEC's timing
schedule not deter foreign companies from making rights
offerings available to U.S. investors. "We've tried to
accommodate timing practices by putting in a lot of extra
effort," she said. "If we have to review documents around the
clock, that's what we'll do."
   The Attwoods offering price represents an 18% discount to
what Attwoods stock was selling for at the time. Yesterday,
Attwoods closed unchanged at 476 pence. The company's
American depositary receipts, each of which represents five
Attwoods shares, rose 37.5 cents to close at $41.125.
   Still, the agency remains concerned about moving too
quickly and pulling back on some of the customer protections
that have been the cornerstone of SEC policy since the 1930s.
"We're doing what's appropriate to assist in the process of
furthering international flows of capital," the SEC's Ms.
Smythe said. But, "none of us want that to be done at the
expense of regulations necessary to assure reasonable
safety."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Advertising:
   Decline of Tobacco Sales
   In Canada Fuels Ad Debate
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA TAXES EUROP FREST HNZ OMCM WNEWS SAA U.LIG
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Do tobacco ad bans work? Tobacco companies have always
insisted they don't, that tobacco ads don't make anyone start
smoking in the first place. But Canada's 18-month-old tobacco
ad ban suggests otherwise, and could help tobacco opponents
in their fight to block the ads in the U.S.
   Since Canada instituted the ban in January 1989, tobacco
consumption, which had been declining, has slipped at an even
steeper rate. Since 1982, tobacco sales have fallen off 25%,
with the steepest annual decline, nearly 7%, coming last year
along with the ban. And the drop seems to be getting faster,
with sales in the first four months of this year plunging by
10%, according to tobacco executives and government
officials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To the ban's proponents, those figures are clear evidence
that the ad ban is making its mark. "Smoking is a tough nut
to crack, and we didn't think this was going to make it go
away overnight, but certainly all the signs are in the right
direction," says Byron Rogers, an analyst with the tobacco
products section of Canada's Department of National Health
and Welfare in Ottawa.
   Tobacco companies insist that advertising has nothing to
do with the consumption decline. They blame big tax increases
on cigarettes put in place at the same time as the ban. A
pack of smokes in Canada now costs as much as C$5 (US$4.25),
more than a dollar more than before the ban, and double the
price just south of the border in the U.S. "Obviously, it has
to do with taxes," says a spokesman for Imperial Tobacco
Ltd., Canada's largest tobacco company.
   Adds a spokeswoman for RJR Macdonald, a Canadian unit of
RJR Nabisco, "The minute the taxes increase, you can see the
decline in sales. It's such an instantaneous reaction, and
advertising doesn't work that way. Advertising is slow,
methodical and cumulative."
   The debate over tobacco advertising is being touched off
anew as other countries move to restrict the ads. France's
cabinet last week voted to ban all tobacco advertising
effective Jan. 1, 1993. Australia and New Zealand both have
proposed severe restrictions. Italy, Portugal and most of the
Scandinavian countries already bar tobacco ads from both
television and print media. In Canada, the ban is being
fought in the Quebec Superior Court in Montreal, where two of
the country's major tobacco companies have challenged its
constitutionality.
   The problem on both sides of the debate is that it is
virtually impossible to isolate tobacco advertising's impact.
Other factors are bound to get in the way, from taxes to
health education. In Canada, the problem is compounded
because the ban is being phased in gradually; there hasn't
been a clean break from tobacco ads. Billboards have been
reduced but won't be banned until year end. In-store
advertising won't be eliminated until 1993. Sports
sponsorships won't be affected at all.
   "I wouldn't expect a big impact of the advertising ban in
the short run," says Richard W. Pollay, professor of
marketing at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver.
"In the long run, it affects starting rates and quitting
rates, but that takes a new generation before you start to
see that."
   Mr. Pollay and other academics, though, believe that
tobacco ad bans are effective -- at least to some extent.
Jeffrey Harris, an economics professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, contends the tobacco companies'
argument that stiff taxes are to blame for declines just
doesn't wash. Mr. Harris, who studied ad bans in other
countries, says cigarette consumption typically declined
following ad bans and that "the declines were bigger than you
would expect from taxes alone. Tax increases alone couldn't
explain it in any country."
   The cigarette companies' other major argument is that they
use ads only to persuade current smokers to switch brands,
not to entice nonsmokers into a bad habit. "Advertising is
basically to attract those who already smoke from one brand
to another. It doesn't affect consumption," says a spokesman
for Rothmans Benson &amp; Hedges in Toronto.
   But Mr. Pollay, who studied cigarette company strategies
before testifying in favor of the ban, dismisses that
argument. "The corporate documents are point blank that
they're targeting youth and would-be quitters, what they call
prequitters," he says. "Most of the attention is to provide
reassurances to people who are anxious about their health,
and to induce starters -- because in the long run, that's the
name of the game."
   In Canada, if the ad ban survives the constitutional
challenge, the ultimate test of its effectiveness won't come
for another few years, when the country will be able to
measure whether fewer people start smoking. So far, the
results are inconclusive. About 20% of 15- to 19-year-old
Canadians are regular smokers, about the same percentage as
has been true since the mid-1980s, says the Department of
National Health's Mr. Rogers. "Ultimately, we would like to
see more success in affecting starting smokers," he says. "We
still have a problem."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   WEIGHT WATCHERS: H.J. Heinz, Jericho, N.Y., awarded DDB
Needham, New York, an additional $10 million in billings for
Weight Watchers' weight-loss training programs. DDB Needham
is an Omnicom Group agency.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Thomas James was named executive vice
president and group account director at Avrett, Free &amp;
Ginsberg, New York. . . . Thomas E. Burke was appointed
executive vice president and general manager of Saatchi &amp;
Saatchi Marketing Services Group, a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
Co.
                                                                                                       

   SOSA: D'Arcy Masius Benton &amp; Bowles, New York, completed
its previously announced 49% acquisition of Sosa &amp;
Associates, a San Antonio, Texas, agency that creates ads for
the Hispanic market. Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   CONDOM ADS: Schmid Laboratories later this month will
begin an outdoor ad campaign for its Ramses condoms in San
Francisco. The company says this is the first time branded
condoms have been advertised outdoors. Schmid, a unit of
London International Group, said its campaign will appear on
taxis, cable cars and bus shelters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Chase Manhattan
   Senior Debt Rating
   Is Cut by Moody's
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   CMB
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it reduced
Chase Manhattan Corp.'s senior debt rating to Baa-2 from
Baa-1 as a result of deterioration in the bank holding
company's large commercial real estate portfolio.
   The rating agency said that although Chase's commercial
real estate portfolio is diversified, it remains vulnerable
to further deterioration in national markets. Moody's noted,
however, that Chase has offset to some extent the
deterioration of the real estate portfolio by "considerable
capital building and business rationalization efforts."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's commercial paper rating of Prime-2 wasn't
changed. But some debt issues of the bank subsidiary were
also lowered, including the rating of long-term deposits,
which was reduced to A-3 from A-2.
   Moody's downgrading of Chase is the latest in a series of
ratings reviews that have resulted in downgrades of several
bank holding companies, including Citicorp. The reviews come
on the heels of intensified regulatory scrutiny of real
estate loans, especially in the Northeast, where the
deteriorating real estate market has forced banks to add
substantially to provisions for loan losses.
   A Chase spokesman said "we are disappointed by the Moody's
announcement, particularly since Moody's acknowledged our
capital-building activities, which, over the last two years
have added $1.3 billion to our common equity base, our
diversified portfolios and revenue streams as well as
significant undervalued assets and increased core funding."
   Earlier, Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. affirmed its A rating of
Chase Manhattan's senior debt and its A plus rating for
deposits.
   Moody's announcement came after financial markets closed
yesterday. Chase shares closed yesterday at $26.50, off 50
cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California Fund
   Fumbles in Seeking
   Women, Minorities
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   If everything had gone as planned, the $58 billion
California Public Employees Retirement System would soon hire
its first outside minority and women-owned investment firms
to manage money for the nation's largest public pension fund.
   But instead of providing a boost for women and minority
groups in the investment business, the most extensive hunt of
its kind ever conducted by a pension fund turned into a
bureaucratic embarrassment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reason: Among the 85 "emerging" money managers found
qualified in the California fund's search, all the
black-owned firms were eliminated in the selection of the 29
finalists.
   Following an uproar, the 13-member board of trustees of
the fund, known as Calpers, voted unanimously yesterday to
reverse its choice of the 29 finalists, according to Richard
Koppes, Calpers general counsel. Instead, the trustees will
interview all 85 money managers previously found qualified by
Calpers consultants. That includes four black-owned firms.
   "We stumbled badly," Charles P. Valdez, a trustee of
Calpers and chairman of its powerful investment committee,
said, referring to the initial lack of black-owned firms
among the finalists. "I don't know what else to do, {except}
to hold my head in shame."
   Speaking at a conference in Chicago last week of minority
and women money managers, sponsored by the National
Association of Securities Professionals, Mr. Valdez
criticized members of the Calpers staff for "skewing" the
manager search so that black candidates were eliminated.
   The episode comes as public and corporate pension funds --
the nation's biggest pool of investment capital with $2.6
trillion -- seek to reach beyond the traditional white,
male-dominated investment establishment to obtain
money-management services.
   Pension funds nationwide, especially those with a large
number of women and minority-group participants, are paying
greater attention today to the makeup of money-management
firms they hire. The trend is particularly strong in
California, where public utilities, for example, are required
to buy 15% of their products and services, including
investment services, from minority-owned firms.
   Some pension funds have avoided the pitfalls that tripped
up Calpers. Calpers' sister fund, the $30 billion California
State Teachers Retirement System, didn't have any trouble
finding three black-owned money-management firms among 12
finalists in a similar hunt it is conducting.
   The lack of black finalists caused an uproar among Calpers
trustees and minority-group managers, because, while the
number of black-owned investment firms is small, a few have
gained excellent reputations and have been hired by other
public and corporate pension funds.
   Calpers trustees haven't said how much money they plan to
allot to women and minority-group managers, but as much as $1
billion could be at stake.
   "The fact we're not a finalist doesn't necessarily mean it
was a bad search, but the fact that no black firm made the
finals is distressing," said Maceo K. Sloan, president of
Durham, N.C.-based NCM Capital Management Group Inc., one of
the biggest black-owned investment firms.
   Calpers began its search last year by hiring two
consultants -- one women-owned firm, the other black-owned --
to solicit candidates. While the intent was to hire an
unspecified number of minority-group and women money
managers, Calpers lawyers became concerned that such a
limited search would run afoul of the U.S. Supreme Court's
Richmond decision, which limits the use of racial quotas in
hiring. As a result, the Calpers search was opened to
"emerging" money managers, those with assets under management
of between $20 million and $500 million.
   The consultants, following guidelines from the Calpers
staff, ranked the 85 qualified firms to obtain 29 finalists.
Of those, five firms are owned by women, four by Hispanics,
and one by a disabled manager; the remainder of the finalist
firms are owned by white men who qualify as "emerging,"
because their money-management firms are still small.
   But Mr. Valdez complained that the search was flawed. For
example, he said some minority-group firms were penalized in
the rankings because they were growing too fast. Pension
funds sometimes shy away from hiring fast-growing money
managers because investment performance can decline as firms
get bigger. But Mr. Valdez said Calpers' staff was too rigid
in applying such rules when the intent of the search was to
find black money managers.
   "It's an attitude and an engrained rule problem," Mr.
Valdez said of the Calpers staff. He said that in future
efforts to hire minority-group and women managers, "I think
we have to be {more} direct in our efforts, because an
indirect effort . . . did not work."
   Mr. Koppes, the Calpers general counsel, said the decision
to interview all 85 candidates was viewed by the trustees as
the simplest solution to salvaging the search. He said the
board didn't resolve who was to blame for the lack of black
finalists.
   Even though each candidate has less than 45 minutes to
make his or her presentation, the expanded interviewing could
take months to be completed by the Calpers board members,
most of whom have other full-time jobs.
   Meanwhile, the California teachers pension fund is
scheduled to interview its 12 minority-group and women
manager finalists next week, and could reach a hiring
decision later this month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Uncharted Course:
   Effort to Teach Teens
   About Homosexuality
   Advances in Schools
   ---
   Tolerance, AIDS Prevention
   Are Goals; Critics Say This
   `Promotes' Gay Life Style
   ---
   Students Tell of Harassment
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- With two questions, Maya Beach destroys
the decorum of a Family Life class at George Washington High
School here.
   "How can two ladies have sex?" the slim ninth-grader asks.
"That's impossible, isn't it?"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "No, it isn't," yells another student, cutting off guest
speakers Michael Shugert and Anna Chang before they can
answer. Amid uproar and laughter, students shout out bawdy
anatomical solutions until the speakers, a homosexual man and
a lesbian, describe what they do in bed. Students wince. Soon
the questions grow hostile:
   "After you had sex with your partner, did you feel
guilty?" "Haven't you ever thought what you were doing was
wrong?" "Why do gay males act so feminine?" "If you adopt
kids, won't you make them lesbians?"
   Ms. Chang pauses after one pointed query, takes off her
glasses and rubs her face slowly with an open hand. Mr.
Shugert finally gives up. "You don't have to like us," he
implores. "Just try not to hate us enough to hit us over the
head with baseball bats."
   Speakers like Ms. Chang and Mr. Shugert lecture in San
Francisco classrooms regularly in a program aimed at curbing
violence against homosexuals by introducing them to students.
"Some of us call it Gay 101," jokes Mr. Shugert.
   Such talks are part of spreading efforts in schools both
to teach more about homosexuality and to help alienated gay
students. The National Education Association, the largest
teachers' union, has endorsed making gay-teen counseling
available in every school and is designing a training course
to help teachers talk about homosexuality.
   New York City, which already has a small public high
school for gay students and a homosexual-guest-speakers
program, is considering a seventh-grade social studies
elective on homosexuals' fight for better treatment. Los
Angeles, Minneapolis-St. Paul and Seattle have special
counseling or AIDS-education programs for gay teen-agers that
operate in schools or get referrals from school staff.
   "It used to be that you couldn't even say the word
{homosexual} in the classroom or in a textbook," says Patty
Ann Whiting, former senior editor for health at
Glencoe/McGraw-Hill textbook publishers. "Now it's getting a
lot more attention."
   The higher profile of homosexuals in the schools has
angered some parents and traditional groups, including
Christian educational activists. Critics say that teaching
acceptance of homosexuality to impressionable adolescents is
tantamount to promoting it, and that classroom discussion of
homosexuality is often too graphic. Detractors are also upset
that under some counseling programs, minors who say they are
homosexual or confused about their sexual orientation can be
referred by schools to gay adult groups without parental
knowledge or consent.
   "I have a problem with promoting homosexuality within the
school system," says Karen Schappert, a mother of two
schoolchildren in San Francisco, who is opposed to a proposed
counseling service for gay students there. "This kind of
program would serve a very small segment of the population,
when {we} have friends with a child who is partially deaf and
hasn't had a speech pathologist in two years."
   In San Francisco and Madison, Wis., gay activists'
advocacy of expanded homosexual-oriented programs or
curricula has touched off heated political wrangling.
   AIDS has helped force the once-taboo subject of
homosexuality into the classroom. Thirty-three states and 80%
of large school districts now mandate AIDS-prevention
education, with more considering it. "You can't do AIDS
prevention if you can't talk about people who have loving
same-sex relations," says Anne Thompson Cook, a consultant to
the NEA.
   Yet schools that make more than a passing reference to
homosexuality are still in the minority. Sex-education groups
estimate that only about a third of schools discuss
homosexuality explicitly. AIDS "is being taught as biology
and virology," says Debra Haffner, executive director of the
Sex Information and Education Council of the U.S., a
foundation-financed group in New York. Instead of saying that
AIDS is commonly transmitted by homosexuals through anal
intercourse, Ms. Haffner says, health teachers only "talk
about exchange of bodily fluids."
   Another reason for schools' greater attention to gay
concerns is a growing awareness of how desperate homosexual
teen-agers can become. Often terrified of telling anyone they
are attracted to the same sex, and mercilessly hazed or
ostracized if they do, gay teens drop out more and abuse
drugs more. A 1988 study commissioned by the U.S. Department
of Health and Human Services found gay adolescents commit
suicide at two to three times the rate of heterosexuals, and
some studies say that 40% of all homosexuals make attempts on
their lives when young.
   "The hardest part was not being able to talk to anyone
about what was going on," says Kathleen Ayotte, who graduated
from the University of Illinois last month and plans to
attend graduate school next year. At high school in suburban
Chicago, Ms. Ayotte adds, "The only time homosexuals ever
came up was when they were the butt of jokes."
   Ms. Ayotte developed an unrequited crush on her closest
girlfriend in high school. When the girlfriend grew
uncomfortable with her doting and told her she no longer
wanted to be friends, Ms. Ayotte forced 30 sleeping pills
down her throat. Quick medical attention saved her, and later
therapy has helped Ms. Ayotte adjust. Lately, she has been
talking to teachers in Champaign-Urbana -- in support of a
proposed counseling service for gay teens there.
   Debate over how schools should treat students who think
they may be homosexual heated up a school-board election in
Madison, Wis., last month. Incumbent member Earl Kielley
accused the schools of wanting to "promote a homosexual life
style" with a proposed health-class goal of ensuring that
ninth-graders "will be accepting of an individual whose
sexual orientation is different from his or her own."
   Mr. Kielley also objected to a training seminar for
teachers that included a session on lesbian literature, and a
gay-community directory that counselors receive to tell
students with "gender identity" questions where they can get
advice. The directory included a listing for a gay video club
that distributes explicit materials and another for a group
calling itself Gay Pagan Men, whose listing said they "seek
the queer spirit powers."
   School-district management, which prides itself on
promoting "multi-culturalism," accused Mr. Kielley and his
local allies of exaggeration. The directory wasn't given to
students, says curriculum director Elaine Lohr, and the
health-class goals stemmed partly from anti-homosexual
name-calling in the schools. "We are teaching about
homosexuality, not teaching students to become homosexuals,"
she says. Mr. Kielley lost the election decisively, as did
another incumbent endorsed by a local religious group.
   Advocates of more gay-oriented programs argue that
reducing anti-gay prejudice can be an important weapon
against acquired immune deficiency syndrome. "AIDS is a
disease that is all about racism, homophobia and
discrimination," says Gary Remafedi, a pediatrics professor
at the University of Minnesota. "Those underlying factors
perpetuate the epidemic."
   He contends society inadvertently prods adolescents who
think they are homosexual toward more sexual activity.
Traditional school counselors tell them they can't know they
are gay until they reach adulthood and have sexual experience
-- so they experiment, Prof. Remafedi says. Because they fear
others will discover them and make their lives miserable, he
adds, they also have relations with the opposite sex to give
the impression they aren't gay.
   Honesty isn't necessarily the best policy. Gregory
Cartwright, a San Francisco shoe salesman, was openly
homosexual while attending Glendale High School in suburban
Los Angeles. But high school was "humiliating and pathetic,"
Mr. Cartwright says. "I had `Stop AIDS' written on my locker.
I was beaten up three times in six months, and all three
times the attackers repeatedly called me `fag.'"
   On the verge of dropping out, he heard about Project 10, a
counseling service for gay students in L.A.'s Fairfax High
School, so he transferred. Project 10 introduced him to
successful gay adults, he says, and helped him feel accepted.
At graduation, he was chosen as one of three commencement
speakers. Mr. Cartwright believes that "without Project 10 I
definitely wouldn't have finished high school."
   Conservative Christians and others have fought a running
battle against Project 10 and its director, Virginia Uribe,
for about three years. The Rev. Louis Sheldon, president of
the Traditional Values Coalition in Anaheim, says referring
students to gay groups and gay literature isn't balanced
counseling. He wants Project 10 to tell students that
choosing heterosexuality is a possible solution.
   "Our problem is not that they want to help or advise
homosexuals," says Mr. Sheldon. "But this is a recruitment
program, an advocacy program. Nowhere does Virginia Uribe
offer a statistic or advice that says that a gender identity
crisis can be resolved" in favor of heterosexuality.
   He also objects to Project 10's referral of minors to gay
groups without the consent of their parents, some of whom may
not even know their children are homosexual or having
difficulty at school. But Mrs. Uribe says fear of parental
reaction is often part of the reason students come to her.
   Project 10 has faced other vocal critics. Talks to
students around Los Angeles have been scaled back after
parental complaints and heated reactions at some schools.
"God created Adam and Eve," one combative student at a
largely Hispanic school told Mrs. Uribe, "not Adam and
Steve."
   In 1988, Mrs. Uribe agreed to stop distributing a book,
"One Teenager in Ten," to students she was counseling. The
book includes a passage in which a young lesbian recounts the
first time she had oral sex performed on her. Jackie
Goldberg, president of the school board, says that this
action was insignificant and that the board unanimously
supports Project 10. Mrs. Uribe, she says, also urges
students to stay in school, avoid drugs and refrain from sex
until they are adults.
   Three school-board members in San Francisco have proposed
a program like Project 10 for that city, touching off bitter
antipathies. Superintendent Raymond Cortines originally
opposed the plan, saying schools had to be "very careful
about enticing young people as it relates to their sexual
orientation."
   Last month, about 100 gays packed a school-board meeting
to demand quick consideration of the plan. With a bewildered
delegation of Soviet exchange students looking on,
demonstrators marched outside chanting "Two-four-six-eight,
how do you know your kids are straight?" and "We're here,
we're queer, we're not playing football."
   Inside, parent Mark Poggioli rose to speak against the
plan. He accused gays of trying to indoctrinate students.
Gays jeered him and other speakers, disrupted the meeting
with calls for a vote, and even heckled a Russian exchange
teacher giving an unrelated slide show on the Caucasus
Mountains. Woeful tales -- of suicidal friends, "unremitting
abuse" and "hellish" days in school -- were recounted by gay
speakers. Debate about the plan, said supporter Tim Wolfred,
had "tapped a large reservoir of pain."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises Against Yen After Election
   But Falls in Relation to Other Currencies
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Political news in Japan combined with
technical factors to push the yen broadly lower against the
dollar, but the U.S. currency ended lower against the other
major currencies.
   Word that Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party lost a
seat in the upper house of parliament to the socialists added
steam to a yen sell-off already in progress as a result of
the dollar's push above the 152.50yen level Friday, traders
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conversely, dealers said the U.S. currency weakened
modestly against the mark and other European currencies after
it failed to stay above 1.7000 marks following an attempt
early in European trading to push it above that level. The
dollar fell against the Canadian dollar following news that
Canadian leaders had come to a preliminary agreement on that
country's constitutional dispute.
   The Liberal Democratic Party's loss came in a special
election Sunday that was the first on a national level since
an LDP majority was returned to the lower house of parliament
in elections last February. The defeat brought out latent
market nervousness about Japan's political stability, market
participants said. The socialist candidate reportedly won the
election on the strength of that party's opposition to a
widely unpopular sales tax imposed last year by the LDP.
   Support of the sales tax was considered one of the ruling
party's greatest liabilities in elections earlier this year,
and the socialist's victory on the back of opposition to the
tax could signify that the issue might trouble the LDP in the
future.
   The market was already in a mood to sell the yen following
the U.S. currency's break above technical resistance points
Friday and a sharp drop yesterday of 453.11 points in Tokyo's
Nikkei Stock Index, to 32540.18 points. Large movements in
the Nikkei have attracted considerable market attention
following a 23% plunge in the value of the index during the
first quarter. The yen tends to shadow large movements on the
Nikkei because the stock market is considered a barometer of
foreign investors' confidence in Japan, traders said.
   The dollar's current strength can be traced to the
market's failure to push the currency below 150 yen last
month, said Javier Santalla, a trader at Nippon Credit Bank
in New York.
   After a period of oscillation between 150.50 yen and 152
yen, the U.S. currency consolidated its position last week
around 152.50 yen, persuading many by Friday to drop the long
yen positions previously taken when it seemed the U.S.
currency wouldn't rise much against the yen in the near term,
Mr. Santalla said.
   Late in New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.6930
marks, down from 1.6975 marks late Friday in New York, and at
154.77 yen, compared with 153.49 yen. Sterling was trading at
$1.6860, up from $1.6845 late Friday.
   In Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was trading at 154.35 yen
soon after opening at 154.38 yen. Meanwhile, the U.S.
currency was trading at about 1.6875 marks, down from
Monday's Tokyo close of 1.6978 marks.
   Following the dollar's break above 152.50 yen Friday, a
new psychological target of 155 yen has been adopted by the
market, with some participants calling for higher levels in
the medium term, dealers said.
   The strength of the dollar's upward momentum caused
Japanese insurance companies and other large institutions to
adjust their dollar hedges. They bought the U.S. currency in
the belief that the dollar would remain steady at current
levels or continue rising, said Morris Armstrong, vice
president and manager of foreign exchange at Girozentrale
Vienna in New York.
   The hedges are maintained as a mechanism to minimize
companies' potential losses on foreign investments as a
result of daily fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
   The Canadian dollar gained against its U.S. counterpart
after news that Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and provincial
leaders had forged an agreement on the thorny issue of
Quebec's constitutional status, traders said. However, market
enthusiasm for the accord, which could lead to constitutional
recognition of French-speaking Quebec's status as a "distinct
society" within Canada, was limited by the prospect of
continued wrangling over the agreement in provincial
legislatures. The Canadian dollar finished at 85.38 U.S.
cents, up from 85.18 cents Friday in New York.
   The dollar's moves yesterday came amid a general lack of
enthusiasm for aggressive position-taking ahead of this
week's slew of U.S. economic indicators, Mr. Armstrong of
Girozentrale and others said.
   The market is awaiting the May reports on the U.S.
consumer price index and producer price index for their
possible interest rate implications, said Valerie Walker,
vice president and corporate foreign exchange manager at
Harris Trust and Savings Bank in New York.
   Although market participants don't expect the Federal
Reserve to change its current policy of maintaining steady
interest rates, the fresh inflation figures will be an
important factor in the formulation of traders' short-term
outlooks on the U.S. economy, Ms. Walker said. Producer
prices and consumer prices, scheduled for release Thursday
and Friday respectively, are expected to have risen 0.2% in
May, compared with a decline in April's PPI of 0.3% and rise
in April's CPI of 0.2%, according to economists.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at $356.20 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions June 12-25
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.: "Old Master
Drawings From the National Gallery of Scotland" -- Almost 90
drawings by Italian, Dutch and French artists such as
Raphael, Piranesi, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, Poussin and
Fragonard. Fourth Street at Constitution Avenue NW, June
24-Sept. 23. The show then travels to the Kimbell Art Museum
in Fort Worth, Texas, Nov. 3, 1990-Jan. 13, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Museum of Science, Boston: "Soviet Space" -- More than 50
artifacts document the history of the Soviet space program,
its current status and its future direction. Highlights
include a full-scale model of Sputnik I, the first artificial
satellite to orbit the Earth; Lunakhod 2, a lunar roving
vehicle; components of Luna 24, the last unmanned probe to
visit the moon; and a model of the Mir space station. The
show was produced in cooperation with Glavkosmos, the Soviet
civilian space agency. Science Park. Through Sept. 23.
                                                                                                       

   DANCE
                                                                                                       

   Mark Morris: The provocative expatriate choreographer and
his Monnaie Dance Group give the home folks a chance to see
what they've been up to in Brussels on this summer mini-tour.
There'll be a different program at each stop. The Boston
engagement, at the Emerson Majestic Theater (219 Tremont St.,
617-492-7578) tonight-Sunday, offers his critically acclaimed
"Love Song Waltzes"; the dates at New York's Brooklyn Academy
of Music (30 Lafayette Ave., 718-636-4100), June 20-23,
feature Morris's interpretation of Purcell's opera "Dido and
Aeneas," with the choreographer dancing both the ill-fated
Carthaginian queen and her mortal enemy, the Sorceress. The
final stop, at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival (Route 20,
Becket, Mass., 413-243-0745) June 26-30, marks the U.S.
premiere of "Going Away Party."
                                                                                                       

   FESTIVAL
                                                                                                       

   JVC Jazz Festival: The annual Big Apple music marathon
opens June 22 with a blast -- concerts by trumpeters Miles
Davis and Dizzy Gillespie (Davis plays Avery Fisher Hall,
while Gillespie sounds off at Carnegie Hall). For the next
week, there'll be sounds to suit almost every jazz fan, at
sites throughout the metropolitan area. Highlights include
the dream double bill of Ray Charles and Roberta Flack (Avery
Fisher Hall, June 24); the reunion of Brazilian vocalist
Milton Nascimento and saxophonist Wayne Shorter (AFH, June
26); grande dame Ella Fitzgerald (AFH, June 29); a rare
collaboration among guitarist Pat Metheny, Herbie Hancock,
Jack DeJohnette and Dave Holland (Beacon Theatre, two shows,
June 30); and a "Knitting Factory Goes Uptown" series
spotlighting exciting young performers (Equitable Center, 787
Seventh Ave., 5 p.m. June 22-29). (212) 787-2020.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Opera Theatre of Saint Louis offers a rarely performed
1899 Dvorak piece, "The Devil and Kate," about a Bohemian
princess who sets the peasants of her realm free. Richard
Buckley conducts and the cast includes Joseph Evans as Jirka
the shepard, Phyllis Pancella as the village girl Kate, and
Alexandra Coku as the princess. June 14, 16, 20, 22 and 24.
Also on the card for the season, which ends June 24, are a
Colin Graham staging of Britten's "Peter Grimes" (June 16 and
23), Donizetti's "The Daughter of the Regiment" (June 13, 15,
19 and 21) and Mozart's "The Marriage of Figaro" (June 12, 17
and 23). Loretto-Hilton Center, 130 Edgar Road (at Big Bend)
on the campus of Webster University. (314) 961-0644.
                                                                                                       

   Johnny Clegg &amp; Savuka: For the past decade this "white
Zulu" and his multiracial ensembles have beaten the drum for
freedom in South Africa. Currently, he's on tour as the
opening act for Tracy Chapman, providing frenetic Zulu
dancing and songs from his new album "Cruel, Crazy, Beautiful
World" (Atlantic). Dates include: Clarkston, Mich. (Pine Knob
Theater), June 15; Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio (Blossom Music
Theater), June 16; Atlanta (Lakewood Amphitheater), June 19;
Pittsburgh (Star Lake Amphitheater), June 22; Holmdel, N.J.
(Garden State Arts Center), June 23; Philadelphia (Mann Music
Center), June 24; New York (Beacon Theatre), June 26;
Wantagh, N.Y. (Jones Beach Theater), June 28; Manchester,
N.H. (Veteran's Memorial Park), June 30; Lenox, Mass.
(Tanglewood), July 2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Warning Flag: When a Firm's Stocks and Bonds Diverge
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PN KJI HBJ NEB CTA BLY GDV JOIN RJR TWA
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
AIRLINES (AIR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- What is Pan Am worth?
   According to the stock market, more than a third of a
billion dollars. Yet according to the bond market, the stock
of the deeply troubled and money-losing airline should be
practically worthless.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pan Am's three issues of senior debt, which have a face
value of $380 million, are trading at 30 to 40 cents on the
dollar. At least in theory, if a company's creditors can't be
fully paid, its stock, which ranks lower among its financial
obligations, is next to worthless.
   Yet even as the bond market discounts Pan Am's bonds by
about two-thirds, Pan Am stock closed on the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday at 2 1/2, or $370 million for the 148
million shares.
   "It's totally ridiculous," says Jon Bauer, a managing
director at Oppenheimer who runs the firm's high-yield
department. "Either the bond market is too cheap or the stock
is too high."
   Like many other companies with heavy debts, Pan Am is
suffering from a sort of market schizophrenia. "Generally,
people that buy stock, many of them retail investors, aren't
aware that the bonds are trading where they are," Mr. Bauer
says. With distressed companies, "it's very rare that you
find a smart guy buying the stock rather than the bonds."
   Of course, Mr. Bauer, who works on the bond side, may be
accused of professional bias. But it's indisputable that many
stock investors are blissfully ignorant of the bond market.
And corporate bonds probably do attract a more sophisticated
breed.
   In the stock market, people tend to say, "The stock is at
$1; it must be a buy. It isn't always true," says John
Boland, publisher of Bankruptcy Values.
   "You have two different kinds of analysts," says Jay H.
Lustig, head of high yield at Drake Capital Securities in
Santa Monica, Calif. Stock analysts "put a lot of faith in
business plans. Bond analysts put a lot of faith in the
balance sheet."
   While bond analysts pay attention to credit quality, he
says, stock analysts are more likely to be swayed by a
company's plans for growth (and few companies are planning
for shrinkage). Despite the slowdown in takeovers, stock
analysts still tout even troubled companies as potential
takeover bait.
   Consider the retailer Kay Jewelers, which has been
grappling with weak demand and a contraction in its bank
credit lines as well as occasional takeover rumors. Kay's 12
7/8% bonds are trading at just under 50 cents on the dollar,
a yield to maturity of 30%. Yet its stock closed on the Big
Board yesterday at 9 3/8, or a total of $115.3 million.
   "It's way out of line," says an investor who is bearish on
Kay's stock. "If you think the bond is going to be paid off,
then you shouldn't buy the stock unless you think it's going
to do better than 30% a year. . . . And if you don't think
the bond will be paid, why are you buying the stock? You
ought to head for the hills."
   In the heyday of Michael Milken, investors would pay much
more for a company's junk bonds than they would for its
stock. Now, the roles are reversed.
   The junk bond market treats the debt of companies such as
Bally Manufacturing, General Development, Jones Intercable,
Continental Airlines Holdings, Bank of New England, RJR
Nabisco and Harcourt Brace Jovanovich with newfound sobriety.
The stock market, by comparison, is relatively optimistic.
   Mr. Lustig says some canny investors try to profit from
the apparent disparity by doing an arbitrage: selling a stock
short, betting that it will drop, and buying the bond of the
same issuer.
   Such moves tend to narrow the disparities by driving stock
prices lower and bond prices higher. But short-sellers (who
sell borrowed stock, which they hope to return later at a
cheaper price) say that in many cases, including Pan Am's,
they are thwarted by a shortage of borrowable shares.
   And the arbitrage play is dicey. For one thing, if the
company is taken over, the short sale generally will produce
a loss, and the bond won't necessarily produce an offsetting
gain.
   "It's incredibly risky," says Tom Kempner, of Davidson
Kempner Partners. "You can get hammered on unfavorable
exchange offers." That is, in bankruptcy cases and in
out-of-court restructurings, stockholders usually get more
than expected -- and what they get is at the expense of
bondholders.
   Stockholders have one other advantage: Management is in
their corner. On the other hand, Mr. Kempner says, management
"stays up nights thinking about doing bad things to
bondholders."
   Chriss Street, a bankruptcy specialist with Seidler Amdec,
says the stocks of many distressed companies should be
treated as "stubs," the small sliver of equity in highly
leveraged companies, which offer a long-shot chance at
striking it rich.
   But for companies such as Pan Am, which is fighting for
survival and which has put its Northeast shuttle, one of its
few profitable operations, up for sale, the shot is
exceedingly long.
   The "real equity" in such heavily leveraged companies lies
in their bonds, says Marsh, Block trader Mark Zatz. While it
is true that the bonds' upside is limited -- they are
unlikely to rise above 100% of their face value -- that is a
long rise indeed for some bonds.
   "There is no reason to buy the stocks," Mr. Zatz says.
Even if the companies avoid a restructuring, he adds, it's
unlikely that the stock "will match the rate of return that
you're going to get on the bond."
   This situation makes the gap between stock and bond prices
all the more strange. Consider, for instance, Trans World
Airlines, another hurting carrier.
   TWA, owned by Carl Icahn, has a public issue of preferred
stock that yields about 20%. But two issues of TWA's junior
subordinated debentures trade at a yield of 36% to 40%,
meaning their price is cheaper than that of the preferred,
even though they rank senior to the preferred in terms of
credit priority.
   "It's absolutely laughable," says the well-known
short-seller James Chanos, head of Kynikos Associates, who
has sold short some of the preferred. "The market just hasn't
focused."
   ---
                Bullish stocks, Bearish bonds?
                                                                                                       

         MARKET VALUE OF STOCK           RECENT BOND PRICE
                 (In millions)          (as % of face value)
                                                                                                       

 Pan Am              $370      39 7/8 (15% senior debenture)
 Kay Jewelers         115      48 (12-7/8 senior sub deb)
 Harcourt Brace
 Jovanovich           255      42 (14-3/4% pik)
 Bank of New
 England              233      60 (8.85% senior sub note)
 Continental
 Airlines Holdings    289      72 (14-1/4% senior note)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Hachette Defers Diamandis's Dreams
   As Debt Holds Back Magazine Growth
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC TWX RDA U.REE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   When Peter Diamandis sold his company to Paris-based
Hachette S.A., the deal made the magazine publisher a
millionaire many times over. But he stayed on with the new
owners to pursue his passion: acquiring and creating new
magazines.
   Two years later, that passion looks unsated. New magazines
have been few and far between, while Hachette is faced with
burdensome debt from the $712 million it paid for Diamandis
Communications Inc., the country's largest publisher of
special interest magazines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Diamandis, who retained his title of president and
chief executive of Diamandis, is even assuming the
uncomfortable mantle of becoming a buyer turned seller: Last
month, under pressure from Hachette, Diamandis Communications
put Woman's Day -- one of the largest magazines in the U.S.
-- up for sale.
   "Emotionally, I'm not happy about selling Woman's Day,"
Mr. Diamandis said in an interview. "The editor and publisher
are my friends, and I was once its publisher. What's more, I
see myself as a builder and promoter, not a seller."
   With signs of some strain between Mr. Diamandis and
Hachette, there is speculation that he may not renew at year
end his contract with Hachette Publications Inc., the U.S.
subsidiary. Although the 58-year-old Mr. Diamandis says he
expects to renew his contract at some point, he adds there
are hitches to work out. "Money isn't the issue," he says.
"It has to do with authority. I am more concerned with the
growth of the company."
   Industry executives say Hachette has been less than
enthusiastic about Memories, the nostalgia magazine Mr.
Diamandis started as a pet project in 1989. The executives
say that if Hachette doesn't give more promotional support to
Memories, Mr. Diamandis may consider buying the magazine in
partnership with its editor and publisher, and possibly start
a new Diamandis company. (Mr. Diamandis says any speculation
about Memories has been caused by interested buyers for the
magazine who have approached Hachette, adding that Memories
isn't for sale.)
   Losing Mr. Diamandis would be a blow to Hachette, which
has relied on the 25-year publishing veteran to establish its
first big stake in U.S. magazine publishing. "Peter is a
great motivator of people, and that's key in publishing,"
says Dan McNamee, an industry consultant. "If he left, it
would be perceived as a disaster."
   Mr. Diamandis is a respected industry executive. In 1982,
he was hired by CBS Inc. to turn around its then ailing and
dowdy Woman's Day. Five years later, he led senior management
of the CBS consumer magazines unit in a leveraged buy-out,
forming Diamandis Communications. When Mr. Diamandis sold the
company to Hachette in 1988, making for himself about $20
million, he also spread the wealth through stock options and
bonuses among the company's top 100 executives. Diamandis
executives will receive the final 10% of their payout Dec.
31, and there is speculation that should Mr. Diamandis leave,
he could take with him a loyal, well-compensated echelon of
top executives.
   Even without Woman's Day and its 21 special one-shot
editions, Diamandis will remain one of the largest U.S.
magazine publishers, with 17 special-interest magazines
generating more than $450 million in revenue. Many of its
titles -- Car &amp; Driver, Road &amp; Track, Stereo Review, Popular
Photography, and Audio -- are high quality consumer
magazines.
   But expansion hasn't gone as expected. In the past year,
Hachette has lost out in bids to buy McCall's and the
National Enquirer. Since acquiring Diamandis, Hachette bought
the 50% it didn't already own of the U.S. version of French
fashion magazine Elle. But as for the cloning of U.S. and
French magazines such as Elle in both countries, the
ambitious plan has fallen short -- something Mr. Diamandis
attributes to "the economic malaise in the world." After two
years, almost no French magazine ideas have proven right for
U.S. introduction. Plans to launch foreign-language clones of
Memories and Stereo Review, haven't materialized.
   That isn't to say nothing has been added. In the past two
years, Diamandis has turned out some new niche publications,
such as Boat magazine, and Sound &amp; Image, a spinoff from
Stereo Review. Recently, Hachette launched editions of Car &amp;
Driver for Hong Kong and Greece. And Diamandis gave a new
format to American Photo (formerly American Photographer)
along the lines of Photo, an oversized French photography
magazine published by a Hachette sister company.
   Hachette's Elle magazine has been successfully duplicated
in 17 countries, from Holland to China. In the U.S., Hachette
recently launched Elle Decor, a home and architecture
magazine.
   But Elle itself, which grew astronomically after its U.S.
launch in 1985, has come back to Earth. Facing revitalized or
new competitors such as Conde Nast's Vogue, Hearst Corp.'s
Harper's Bazaar, and News Corp.'s one-year-old Mirabella,
combined with turmoil among national retailers, its ad pages
are dropping. In the first quarter of 1990, Elle's total ad
pages fell 12% from 1989. The soft advertising market has
hurt some other usually robust Diamandis magazines as well.
   As wrenching as the sale of Woman's Day would be, Mr.
Diamandis concedes: "It's probably intelligent. Taking down
the debt is important, and Woman's Day is totally different
from our other magazines."
   But the sale may not go as smoothly as Hachette expects.
Didier Guerin, president of Hachette Publications, says the
magazine will sell for at least $200 million, about eight
times 1989 operating cash flow. Some observers say that's too
optimistic. "In today's market, where multiples have sunk to
six to seven times cash flow, and given Woman's Day's
operating performance, $200 million may not be reasonable,"
says Mr. McNamee, the consultant.
   Mr. Diamandis says Woman's Day had an operating profit of
$27 million in 1988 and $25 million in 1989. But in the sales
prospectus, Hachette estimates Woman's Day operating profit
will fall to $15.9 million this year. For the first quarter
of 1990, Woman's Day ad pages fell 22% from last year, the
largest decline of any of the women's service magazines.
   Prospective buyers, running the publishing gamut from
Reader's Digest Association to Time Warner Inc., were
screened last week and a winner could be named by mid-July.
Most bidders have no comment; those that do temper their
enthusiasm. Cahners Publishing Co., a subsidiary of
London-based Reed International PLC, says, "Our level of
interest has been overstated in the media consistently."
   Hachette's Mr. Guerin says once the Woman's Day sale is
complete, there will be no need to sell off any more
magazines. The company's goal, he says, will be to
concentrate on special-interest magazines in the U.S. and
magazines with international appeal, such as Elle.
   Mr. Diamandis envisions the company becoming an aggressive
acquirer once again, with an eye on start-ups, possibly
focused on golf, travel and maybe skiing. "It's my hope we
won't sell any more and will buy and start magazines very
shortly," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Information Resources
   Forms Office to Hold
   Two Top Positions
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   IRIC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Information Resources Inc. said it has formed
an office of the chief executive, which will include both the
position of chief executive officer and chief operating
officer.
   The marketing-information concern said the office will be
shared by 42-year-old Gian Fulgoni, who has been the chief
executive and who continues as vice chairman, and James
Andress, 51, who has been the chief operating officer and
continues as president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Information Resources' chairman, John Malec, 45, said the
action "formalizes" the structure that has been in place at
the company for the last six months. The new office, he said,
"isn't very different from our past structure. We've operated
with an executive committee since our inception."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   General Dynamics,
   McDonnell Douglas
   Debt Under Review
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   GD MD
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Debt ratings of General Dynamics Corp. and
McDonnell Douglas Corp. were placed under review by Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors Service Inc., after the
St. Louis-based aerospace companies disclosed they may face
second-quarter write-offs because of delays in developing the
A-12 Navy fighter plane.
   Placed on CreditWatch with negative implications by
Standard &amp; Poor's were McDonnell Douglas's single-A-minus
rated senior debt; triple-B-plus subordinated debt; and
preliminary single-A-minus rule 415 shelf-registered senior
debt; plus the McDonnell Douglas Finance Corp. unit's
single-A-plus senior debt and single-A subordinated debt
ratings. The single-A-2 rating on the parent company's
commercial paper and single-A-1 rating on the finance unit's
commercial paper were affirmed. Total debt is about $4.9
billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P also placed General Dynamics' single-A-plus senior
debt, single-A subordinated debt and preliminary
single-A-plus rule 415 shelf-registered senior debt ratings
on CreditWatch with negative implications. About $710 million
of long-term debt is affected.
   Moody's said it will closely monitor developments on the
A-12 program "related to the potential cost overruns, their
magnitude, and the impact on the companies' cash flow as well
as their overall operating performance. Cost problems, if
significant, would have negative implications for the
companies' credit quality."
   A McDonnell Douglas spokeswoman said of the ratings
action: "We are a company with great long-term potential
that's experiencing some short-term difficulties, and we
believe that the steps we are taking now are the right ones
for the long term."
   A General Dynamics spokesman said the rating agencies'
actions were "not unexpected given the announcement regarding
the A-12."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Witty Women; Wimpy Men
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   A man visits his doctor and the doctor says, "Well, I'm
sorry to say you've got six weeks to live."
   "I want a second opinion," says the patient.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You want a second opinion? OK," says the doctor. "You're
ugly, too."
   If you grin at that old joke, you'll like Lorrie Moore.
It's a favorite of one of her heroines. And women who enjoy
jokes that require a grimace as well as a smile are a
hallmark of her fiction.
   Ms. Moore's women have the gift of wit. It makes them
brave in the face of bad luck and shields them against life's
afflictions. But it's part of their problem, too. The jokes
are an involuntary reflex, an easier response than emotional
commitment.
   "Everything's a joke with you," a man tells his lover in
Ms. Moore's beautiful story, "The Jewish Hunter."
   "Nothing's a joke with me. It just all comes out like
one," she replies.
   Many of the stories in "Like Life" (Knopf, 178 pages,
$18.95) balance brilliantly between laughter and sadness.
"The Jewish Hunter," "You're Ugly, Too," "Joy" and "Like
Life" have the power to wrench the heart, not because things
end, but because they go on -- because people find the
courage to keep looking for love, for friendship, for small
joys.
   That balance and power are greater here than in Ms.
Moore's earlier work (the novel "Anagrams" and the story
collection "Self-Help.") There, the jokes came so fast and
furiously they stunted the stories' emotional impact. "Like
Life," on the other hand, is full of stories that reward
second and third readings.
   Ms. Moore's admirable, witty women enjoy singing, tend to
drink a bit too much and live in a world of less-smart men.
Their neuroses make them suspicious as well as funny. They
not only look gift horses in the mouths, they probe their
teeth. Most are unmarried and no longer young. One day, they
tell themselves, they should give up looking for love because
in dating they only find new material for wry wit.
   One has a German boyfriend who speaks an English full of
misheard slang. He says "to each a zone" and tells her she
looks "hunky-dorky."
   Another thinks for a moment she has met a man who doesn't
want Heidi -- the stereotypical docile, unthreatening female.
"But soon she came to realize that all men, deep down, wanted
Heidi. Heidi with cleavage. Heidi with outfits."
   Unless, of course, those men are from Richard Ford's
Montana, in which case they want Mom, or no one at all.
   In several stories of Mr. Ford's earlier collection, "Rock
Springs," and now in his novel, "Wildlife" (Atlantic Monthly
Press, 177 pages, $18.95), young boys are helpless witnesses
as their parents' marriage falls apart. Always, Mom takes a
lover while Dad and son suffer. Husbands in Great Falls,
Mont., are inarticulate and passive. Their wives are
compelled toward sexual adventure that divides them from
their sons, leaving the boys to puzzle over things years
later.
   It's a small, fearful world for males. The husbands and
sons hold their emotions in a fetal crouch. Meanwhile, the
women inflict on everyone the cost of their sexual passions.
   Mr. Ford's "Rock Springs" stories make effective use of
this material, but "Wildlife" struggles unsuccessfully
against the handicap of its immature and passive narrator's
voice.
   Although years have passed since Joe Brinson was 16 and
watched his mother have an affair that broke up her marriage
to his father, his view of the events remains childish and,
at points, unbelievably obtuse. Joe ends his story telling us
that he didn't understand a lot of what went on and we can
only nod in agreement.
   Mr. Ford attempts to add resonance to his story by telling
it through the eyes of a participant who was emotionally
stunted by the events. But whereas obtuse narrators have
added depth to some novels, Joe just stretches credulity.
   He watches Mom in her lover's arms:
   "Maybe, I thought, he was not to blame for kissing my
mother and holding her dress up over her hips. Maybe that's
all he could do. Maybe no one was to blame for that, or for
much of what happened to anyone."
   He doesn't blame his mother either. He is eager to
withhold disapproval (even years later) despite great
provocation. Joe lacks a moral universe and his blandness
renders his story tedious.
   Mr. Ford leaves it to the glib lecher who seduces Mom to
provide the novel's attempts at insight into her behavior.
"Sometimes you have to do the wrong thing just to know you're
alive," he says.
   At another point, he says of Joe's mother: "She was
throwing things up to see where they'd land."
   Each parent leads Joe into deeply humiliating situations.
Years have passed, but time has provided Joe with little
perspective on all this. When he sums up, he can be pretty
unsurprising:
   "And what there is to learn from almost any human
experience is that your own interests usually do not come
first where other people are concerned -- even people who
love you -- and that is all right. It can be lived with."
   It's enough to make you ask for a second opinion.
   ---
   Mr. Lescaze is foreign editor of the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.K. Producer Output Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Producer output prices, or prices of
manufactured goods, rose 0.5% in May from April, while
producer input prices, or prices of raw materials and fuels
purchased by manufacturing industry, fell 1.1%, Britain's
Central Statistical Office said.
   The agency said the year-on-year rise in output prices was
6.2%, which was the highest since 6.3% in December 1982. It
attributed the drop in input prices largely to lower fuel,
metal and electricity prices. Input prices were down 1.3%
from May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP MDEST FREST CQB F.ACC F.NOR MER MS U.FII
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   SLOWER GROWTH FOR JAPAN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit growth at Japanese companies will fall sharply in
fiscal 1990, which began April 1, as the weak yen and high
interest rates and crude-oil prices take their toll on the
nation's economy, two securities-research institutes
forecast.
   Signs that the pace of the economy's expansion is falling
can't be denied, according to the two think tanks, Okasan
Economic Research Institute and Sanyo Economic Research
Institute.
   Okasan forecast pretax profit for all Japanese
corporations would increase 2.0% in fiscal 1990, compared
with the 7.5% pace seen in the previous year. Excluding
electric utilities, Okasan said growth is expected at a
stronger 4.8% in fiscal 1990, but still below 11.5% in the
previous year.
   As of the end of May, Japan's economy had expanded for 42
consecutive months, matching the second-longest period of
growth since World War II.
                                                                                                       

   HUNGARIAN HOTEL PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   French hotel group Accor S.A. has teamed up with another
French company, Nord France Entreprises Internationales and
Hungary's Groupe Pannonia and Hungarian Co. 43 to build and
operate a 300-bed Ibis hotel in Budapest. Accor said the
hotel would require a total investment of about 150 million
French francs ($26.2 million). Accor's hotel interests
include the Ibis, Novotel, Sofitel, Mercure and Urbis chains.
Accor said Nord France and state-owned Hungarian Co. 43 will
build the hotel, while Accor and Groupe Pannonia will manage
it.

   IRAQ'S FOREIGN DEBT
                                                                                                       

   Iraq has repaid nearly $3.5 billion dollars of its foreign
debt this year, Trade Minister Mohammed Mehdi Saleh said. He
said the repayment was made despite a drop in the price of
oil earlier in the year. He didn't identify the repaid
creditors and didn't say whether the payments were in cash or
oil. Western estimates place Iraq's total foreign debt at
between $50 billion and $65 billion.
                                                                                                       

   INVESTING IN INDIA
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong's Indosuez Asia Investment Services Ltd. said it
has formed the Himalayan Fund, which will invest primarily in
India but also in the stock markets of Sri Lanka, Bangladesh
and Nepal. Three other international funds -- two sponsored
by units of Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and one by a unit of Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. -- already exist for the Indian market, but
Himalayan Fund is the first to venture into the other
nations. The $100 million fund will be listed on the London
stock exchange.
                                                                                                       

   QUIET IN SOUTH KOREA
                                                                                                       

   Despite threats by student radicals to kidnap him, the
U.S. Ambassador to South Korea, Donald Gregg, reopened the
American Cultural Center in the South Korean city of Kwangju.
The reopening of the center, closed for 13 months because of
frequent firebombings, occurred without incident. The center
has been a lightening rod for attacks by student radicals who
blame the U.S. for Korean troops firing upon protesters in
Kwangju in May 1980. The U.S. says it had no role in the
incident, when almost 200 people died.
                                                                                                       

   HOME TO VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   About 23,000 Vietnamese now working in Bulgaria will
return home by the end of 1992 because of "changes in the
Bulgarian situation," the official Vietnam News Agency said.
Over the past decade, Vietnam has sent thousands of workers
to East Bloc countries, with the labor export helping repay
some of Vietnam's debts to the host countries. But the
political and economic changes in Eastern Europe and the
Soviet Union will lead to the repatriation of most of the
estimated 180,000 workers during the next few years.
                                                                                                       

   END OF BANANA WAR
                                                                                                       

   Negotiators for Chiquita Brands International Inc. and
Fyffes PLC agreed to share disputed bananas, bringing an end
to a four-month banana war in Honduras.
   The conflict, which had pit Cincinnati-based Chiquita
against Fyffes Group Ltd., was the subject of a front-page
story in The Wall Street Journal last week. In the dispute,
Chiquita said Fyffes paid the Echeverri family, Honduras'
largest independent banana growers, $2.5 million to break
their contract to supply Chiquita with bananas. The
Echeverris said the contract was void, and Fyffes said it was
dealing with free agents.
   The agreement calls for the two companies to split the
fruit produced by farms owned by the Echeverris, with
Chiquita getting the larger share, until April 1991.
Afterwards, the Echeverris will be free to sell to whomever
they want.
   Neil McCann, the chairman of Fyffes, said both sides
"secured some winnings." Chiquita's general counsel, Charles
Morgan, said Chiquita had established the principle of the
validity of contracts.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Finnish Sauna Society is campaigning to stop
foreigners from using the word sauna to describe what the
society says are often really houses of prostitution. "We
have no copyright on the word sauna, but it is a cause of
annoyance to the Finn when he sees the word being misused in
other countries," said a society official. . . . News of
Alberto Fujimori's victory in Peru's presidential election
brought joy to Kawachi, the small Japanese town where his
father was born. Townspeople "broke open a sake barrel and
toasted the new president to cries of `Banzai]' " Kawachi's
mayor said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Czechoslovakian Motorcycle Maker Shifts Gears
   Amid Nation's Changing Economic Landscape
   ----
   By William E. Casey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   HMC J.YMM J.KWH J.SUZ EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRODCE, Czechoslovakia -- In 1983, Jan Cernohorsky's
political opinions got him into trouble with the Communist
Party. After that, he says, they let him run only companies
with serious problems.
   But even that experience hardly prepared him for his
situation today, as managing director of Jawa.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Once a world-class manufacturer of motorcycles, Jawa
certainly qualifies as a company with serious problems.
Compared with those made in Japan and the West, its
motorcycles are obsolete. Its physical plant is decrepit. Its
workers and managers are woefully unprepared for the coming
switch to free-market methods. And its main customer -- the
Soviet Union, which caused many of these problems in the
first place -- can no longer be depended upon to buy its
products.
   "Without a substantial financial injection, we cannot
stand on our feet anymore," Mr. Cernohorsky says.
   Jawa's problems mirror those of all Czechoslovak industry,
which First Deputy Prime Minister Valtr Komarek describes as
being "systematically devastated" over the past 40 years,
leaving it uncompetitive and technologically backward. Now,
the fates of countless companies, including Jawa, are about
to be decided by their managements, foreign investors and a
new national government.
   While the nation's first free elections in 44 years this
past weekend capped the political revolution that unseated
the Communist government last November, Czechoslovakia's
economic revolution is just about to begin in earnest. The
winners of the election, Civic Forum and its Slovak
affiliate, Public Against Violence, will head a coalition
government that is expected to significantly speed up
transformation to a free-market economy.
   "Basic changes haven't been performed up to now" to create
a new economic system, notes Zdenek Tuma of the Prognostics
Institute, the think tank that has provided much of the
government's economic leadership. The new government is
expected to act soon to break up monopolies, begin
privatizing state companies, and liberalize rules on foreign
investment. Even the most optimistic leaders concede the
changes will cost tens of thousands of people their jobs.
   The problem, says a research director for a computer-parts
maker, is that by Western standards there are too many
workers for too little production. And output is declining
further in the face of collapsing sales to the Soviet Union
and other Eastern European countries.
   The research director, speaking on condition that he and
his company not be identified, says potential Western
partners are brought to his factory at lunch time so they
won't see that "people are accustomed to not working very
hard." He predicts that "at least half our (2,500) employees
must be unemployed within half a year."
   Workers know drastic changes are coming, "but no one wants
to believe this," the director says. "Everyone wants to think
there will come some miracle."
   For Jawa, the miracle would be a joint venture with a
foreign manufacturer. A less desirable alternative, if the
government allows it, would be to give up majority control
and produce motorcycles for a foreign investor.
   Japan's four big motorcycle manufacturers -- Honda Motor
Co., Yamaha Motor Co., Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. and
Suzuki Motor Co. -- have visited Brodce. While the visits
were just "first contacts," Mr. Cernohorsky says, the
companies appeared serious because they want to manufacture
closer to their European market.
   Meanwhile, Jawa, whose motorcycles were once prized by
aficionados around Europe and in the U.S., struggles to
survive. The 52-year-old Mr. Cernohorsky shows visitors a
brochure advertising Jawa's model TS350 motorcycle. When
asked what other models Jawa makes, he shakes his head and
says that, apart from about 1,000 racing machines Jawa makes
a year, the TS350 is the entire line.
   "This is the disaster," he says, adding that there is only
one street model "because that is what the Soviets wanted."
The TS350 is powered by a two-stroke engine designed more
than 30 years ago and doesn't meet emission and other
technical standards of some Western countries. But it is
cheap and easy to repair.
   More than 70% of the 100,000 motorcycles Jawa has produced
annually went to the Soviet Union and Poland. Owing to Soviet
and Polish economic problems, and to the Czechoslovak
revaluation of its crown against the ruble, these markets are
likely to shrink, with few if any buyers elsewhere in the
world to take their place.
   Despite the TS350's low price in West Germany -- 3,600
Deutsche marks ($2,120), compared with about DM6,000 ($3,540)
for a Western model of similar size -- Jawa sells fewer than
100 motorcycles there. As with most Czechoslovak industry,
Mr. Cernohorsky says, the problem is quality. And this, he
contends, is the heritage of an official Communist program of
the 1950s referred to as "the big shovel," which emphasized
quantity over quality.
   That wasn't the corporate philosophy back in 1929, when
Jawa was founded by engineer and designer Frantisek Janecek.
Mr. Janecek originally got his start by producing the
German-designed Wanderer motorcycle under license, but he
soon established Jawa's own identity by producing low-cost
vehicles with innovative designs.
   Today, Jawa plans to develop two new models for the
Western European market by 1993, Mr. Cernohorsky says. To do
that, he will need help. What Jawa can offer a foreign
manufacturer, besides a skilled work force, is access to
about 37 acres of land it owns. Restrictions on foreign
ownership of land are unlikely to be lifted anytime soon, but
a venture with Jawa potentially could offer such access.
   Mr. Cernohorsky concedes time is running out and, if the
government permits foreign ownership, Jawa might lose its
independence. "In a month's time," he says, "it's possible
that this will be the only choice."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phelps Dodge Labor Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   PD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Phelps Dodge Corp. said it reached
tentative agreement on a new three-year labor contract
covering about 900 workers at its mine, mill and smelter near
Silver City, N.M.
   The agreement, which is subject to ratification by union
members, increases wage rates about 21% over the life of the
contract, the company said. The existing contract expires
June 30, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement calls for an increase of $2 an hour on July
1, another 25 cents an hour a year later and a $400 lump sum
payment to each worker in the third year, Phelps Dodge said.
   Phelp Dodge produces copper and other metals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fatter IMF Purse Won't Fatten Third World
   ----
   By Alan Stoga
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LATAM FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   After several years of debate, the U.S. and other members
of the International Monetary Fund agreed in May to increase
the fund's financial resources by $60 billion, to $180
billion. When ratified by the U.S. Congress and other
national legislatures in the next year or so, this is
supposed to enable the IMF to help meet the financial needs
of Eastern Europe and the developing countries.
Unfortunately, the quota increase is the wrong solution to
the right problem.
   First, the problem. Almost a decade after the onset of the
Third World debt crisis, most of the Latin American and
African economies remain stagnant, pushed out of the world
economy by their own mismanagement, the scarcity of risk
capital, and industrial-country protectionism. Democratic
leaders throughout the developing world are struggling to
adopt free-market reforms and to sustain economic
stabilization programs. These efforts are understandably
impeded by the reluctance of creditors and investors to
provide much new financing, at least until the debtors
establish credible track records of reform.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The circumstances are similar in Eastern Europe. While
there is a lot of sympathy in the West for the dramatic
changes that have occurred since the Berlin Wall came down,
the capital needed to support the structural reforms that lie
ahead does not appear to be readily available.
   This is where the IMF and the new quota increase come in.
In almost any analysis the developing world and Eastern
Europe will need fresh capital to achieve reasonable economic
growth if structural reform continues. But private investors
demand higher returns and more security than these countries
can afford. The logic is straightforward: If the private
markets will not provide the capital, then the IMF, along
with the World Bank, should fill the gap.
   Unfortunately, the shoe may not fit the foot. The IMF was
designed to manage the overall direction of the international
monetary system and to provide short-term financial support
to countries with temporary balance-of-payments problems. The
fund is not a particularly good vehicle to mediate between
reluctant creditors and needy borrowers, nor to provide the
kind of long-term development finance that is required to
support structural economic reform. Argentina and the
Philippines do not have short-term payments imbalances: They
have chronic payments imbalances.
   Indeed, during the past decade the IMF has wandered far
from its original mission. Under the leadership of Jacques de
Larosiere, the fund played a major role during the early
1980s in preventing the Third World debt crisis from becoming
a systemic crisis that could have threatened the integrity of
international financial markets. But the IMF's stopgap
efforts failed to resolve the underlying problems of debtor
country insolvency and stagnation. This was because IMF
advice was sometimes misdirected and sometimes not followed.
   Stabilization programs were constantly renegotiated, and
short-term loans effectively became long-term loans. The
whole process undermined the credibility that the IMF's "seal
of approval" used to have for private investors, so the
fund's ability to mobilize private capital -- which in the
past had magnified the impact of its lending --
disintegrated.
   In addition, the reluctance of the U.S., the IMF's most
powerful member, to accept the same kind of economic policy
criticism and guidance that are routinely imposed on other
countries undermined the credibility of the fund in its role
as guardian of international monetary arrangements among the
major industrial countries.
   With currency negotiations largely conducted among the
major industrial countries, outside the context of the IMF,
the fund is now a sideshow when it comes to core
exchange-rate issues. The irrelevance of the IMF on monetary
questions has been furthered by the unfortunate U.S.
preference for bilateralism (especially when dealing with the
Japanese) and economic summitry. The annual summits of the
seven industrial country leaders have become far more
important monetary venues than the periodic meetings of IMF
directors and governors.
   The consequence has been that there has been a significant
blurring of the roles of the IMF and the World Bank. Both
have, essentially, the same clients -- developing countries.
Both tie their lending to structural economic reforms as well
as to progress in achieving short-term financial
stabilization. Both are privileged creditors that insist on
the seniority of their loans over those of other creditors.
And both are staffed by overzealous but quite talented
economists whose starting premise is that they know more
about governing any particular country than its own
government does.
   Do we need both institutions? As currently operating,
probably not. In today's circumstances more money -- the $60
billion IMF quota increase -- is not enough of a solution. No
more than $20 billion of that money would, in any case, be
paid in hard currency.
   There is, however, an urgent need to make more risk
capital available to Eastern Europe, Latin America, and the
rest of the developing world, without which the reform
process in many countries will falter. But there is also a
need to rethink the IMF and World Bank, to bring the
institutional framework created at Bretton Woods more than 40
years ago in line with dramatically changed economic and
political conditions -- and the realities of the Bretton
Woods institutions themselves.
   The U.S. and its partners should do both: fix the fund and
spend the money.
   ---
   Mr. Stoga is managing director of Kissinger Associates,
based in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Porsche Unit Recalls Cars
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   G.POR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   RENO, Nev. -- The U.S. sales arm of Porsche AG said it is
recalling 19 of its 928 S4 and 928 GT models because of a
defect that could cause fuel leaks and, potentially, fires.
   Porsche said the fuel tanks of the affected models are
attached to the car with a mounting nut that could crack. As
a result, fuel could leak from the tank. If the gasoline
comes in contact with a hot exhaust system, a fire might
occur. The auto maker said it isn't aware of any fires,
accidents or injuries caused by the defect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nestle's Unit in U.S.
   Combines Businesses
   Of Some Subsidiaries
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.NES WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nestle Holdings Inc. consolidated several of
its U.S. businesses, forming new coffee and ice cream
companies and a new group to hold its Stouffer restaurant and
hotel operations.
   Nestle Holdings is the holding company for the U.S.
subsidiaries of Nestle S.A. of Switzerland.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, Nestle combined Hills Bros. Coffee Co. and
the coffee units of Nestle Foods Co. to form Nestle/Hills
Coffee Co. The new company will have annual sales of about $1
billion and 3,000 employees and will have its headquarters in
San Francisco.
   In addition, Nestle joined the ice cream and dairy
facilities of Carnation Co. with those of Nestle Foods Co.
The new entity, Nestle Ice Cream Co., will report to Nestle
Foods Co., Purchase, N.Y., and will market Carnation and
Nestle ice cream.
   At Stouffers, Nestle merged Stouffer Restaurant Co. with
Stouffer Hotel Co., forming Stouffer Hospitality Group. It
will continue to have its headquarters in Cleveland.
   James M. Biggar, chairman of Nestle Holdings, said the
moves were "aimed at increasing and improving our
effectiveness in the marketplace and to take advantage of
synergies" in Nestle's businesses. The changes should be
completed during the second half of 1990, he added.
   A Nestle spokeswoman said revenue figures for the combined
Ice Cream and Stouffers businesses weren't available.
   Asked about potential layoffs, the spokeswoman said its
"too early to make any predictions" on force consolidations.
She said the only executive change was the promotion of
Jeffrey Caso, former group vice president of Nestle Foods
Coffee &amp; Tea division, to executive vice president of
Nestle/Hills Coffee Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   EC Aides Move
   Toward United
   Central Bank
   ---
   Committee Is Reorganized;
   German Cites Countries
   That Should Join First
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FORGN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BASEL, Switzerland -- European Community central bankers
took their first real steps toward creating a common central
bank, reorganizing the management and policy-making structure
of the EC's powerful central banking committee.
   But Bundesbank President Karl-Otto Poehl, who chairs the
EC bankers committee, suggested that some EC countries
shouldn't try to participate in the planned pan-European
central banking system until those countries' inflation rates
were both lower and more stable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In comments certain to further flame the controversy about
how quickly to create an EC central banking system and single
currency, he said a "hard core" of five or six countries
should create monetary union first, followed by the other
countries when their inflation rates are closer in line.
   The decisions about the central banking committee's
management structure, as well as discussions about how to
proceed toward full economic and monetary union, took place
in Basel ahead of the annual meeting of the Bank for
International Settlements. Mr. Poehl then flew to Luxembourg
to meet with EC finance ministers and to give his views about
future monetary arrangements.
   At their meeting, the central bankers adopted an expanded
organization to coordinate the monetary policies of the 12 EC
states. This move is part of the first phase of economic and
monetary union, which begins on July 1. The reorganization
expands the staff of the bankers committee, creating a new
analytical unit of five economists and a "committee of
alternates" to assist the central bank chiefs in preparing
for their monthly meetings in Basel. The bank chiefs also set
up three special subcommittees to coordinate policies on
foreign exchange, monetary matters and banking supervision.
   Guenter Baer, a former economist with the World Bank in
Washington and a West German finance-ministry official, was
appointed as secretary general of the committee. This new
organization is seen as an embryo of a future central banking
authority, known as the "EuroFed," which would set monetary
policy for all members of the system and eventually manage a
single European currency.
   Mr. Poehl also said that the central bank governors were
working on a "blueprint" that they hoped would form a
significant part of the treaty on economic and monetary
union. Talks on that treaty are scheduled to open in
December, and Mr. Poehl said he hoped that the central bank
governors' work would be incorporated directly into the text
of the treaty.
   Mr. Poehl's comments advocating a "two-speed" approach to
economic and monetary union will undoubtedly be
controversial. Some countries are already suspicious that the
powerful Bundesbank president will use his key position to
further consolidate Germany's domination of the EC's monetary
arrangements.
   While reflecting widely shared concerns among economists
about rushing too fast into a system of fixed exchange rates,
winning agreement for a two-speed system won't be easy. The
treaty for economic and monetary union will require unanimous
approval of all 12 EC states.
   Even Britain, which has been reluctant to bring its
currency into European monetary arrangements, isn't keen on
creating yet another institution that would exclude them.
British Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major is delaying
British entry into the exchange-rate mechanism of the
European monetary system until U.K. inflation is closer in
line with that of the rest of the EC. But British officials
have said that they want the whole EC to move together toward
whatever system is created for economic and monetary union.
   Mr. Poehl said it would be unwise to create a single
currency or a system of central banks if some members hadn't
learned to live with low inflation. France, Germany, the
three Benelux countries and perhaps Italy should move first
toward economic and monetary union, Mr. Poehl said, because
their economies and inflation rates had reached a high degree
of convergence. Other members should follow later.
   "Some might start with the European central banking
system, and others who haven't reached the same level of
convergence would be invited to join later," he said. He
added, "We have to develop a system first. We have to achieve
a high degree of convergence -- demonstrating that the system
is stable for some time."
   In its annual report, the Bank for International
Settlements took a similar view. "A policy aimed at
stabilizing nominal exchange rates in the face of significant
differences in national inflation rates will ultimately be
self-defeating," the bank said.
   ---
   Martin du Bois in Luxembourg contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mentor-Protege Ties Can Be Strained
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Suzanne de Passe was a brash newcomer to the entertainment
business when she was hired by the legendary Berry Gordy of
Motown Records in 1968.
   Today, as the 44-year-old president of Motown Productions,
a top movie and television producer, she deals with the
biggest names in Hollywood. But one person she can't quite
deal with is Mr. Gordy, who is still her boss.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Their relationship has at once engendered "pride and
resentment" of each other, Ms. de Passe recently told a
gathering of women executives in Beverly Hills, Calif. "It's
very dicey stuff," she said, in a speech punctuated with
tears. Despite her own success, she confessed, "I still feel
like the little girl that Berry Gordy wants me to be."
   As any pupil who has brought the teacher an apple can
testify, the mentoring process is filled with emotion. But in
the business world, where mentor-protege relationships often
prove decisive in determining who climbs to the top of the
corporate ladder, they can be fitfully complex. And when
inevitable frictions go unresolved, they can have dire
consequences, undermining a company's strategy or forcing
valuable executives to leave.
   "When these relationships work, they're fabulous," says
Marilyn Puder-York, a New York psychologist who has counseled
executives over mentoring gone awry. "But when they don't
work, they can be terribly destructive. There's a lot of pain
and trauma involved."
   Under normal circumstances, mentoring -- the process in
which older executives befriend younger ones, guiding them
and typically advancing their careers -- can be a positive
force. Done constructively, it's beneficial for the mentor,
protege and, above all, the organization. It builds trust and
loyalty and makes for better-informed decision making. A few
companies, in fact, have formal mentoring programs.
   "I have a strong desire to see people succeed in this
organization," says Timothy Schieffelin, a vice president at
Citicorp who has been a volunteer mentor since the bank began
a program two years ago. "If we can help newcomers avoid
pitfalls, then we all benefit." Mr. Schieffelin has coached
one "mentoree" (as Citicorp calls them) on how to ask his
boss for more responsibility and helped another to find a new
job in the bank.
   Though mentoring is widespread, some executives tend to
play it down, partly because it suggests favoritism and so
may undermine morale. "Generally, (mentor relationships) are
a negative force," says Donald Trautlein, retired chief
executive of Bethlehem Steel Corp. "At least I tried to avoid
them." But former colleagues say Mr. Trautlein advanced the
career of at least one midlevel accountant, who's now a
senior executive at Bethlehem.
   Effective mentors understand their role and accept it.
"Think of a good parent," says Ms. Puder-York, the
psychologist. "When the child grows up, he or she says,
`That's great.' They're pleased to see them succeed and move
on, because that's what they've been training them for." In
the same way, she adds, "The wise mentor recognizes that
change is inevitable, and is gratified, not threatened, by
it."
   Often, though, it's not that clear-cut. Kathy Kram, a
business professor at Boston University who has written
extensively on mentoring, has studied more than 100
mentor-protege pairs in corporate settings. Executives tend
to manifest a desire to mentor in mid- or late-career, once
their own ambitions have been largely realized. Invariably,
she says, these relationships buckle -- and sometimes break
-- as the protege ascends and the mentor recedes. "There's a
tension there that often produces a lot of conflict and
sometimes destructive dynamics," she says.
   At Motown, Ms. de Passe feels Mr. Gordy's presence cramped
her artistic latitude. "I want freedom to not have to edit or
worry about his reactions," she told the women's group. "You
become the mentor of one's mentor." Mr. Gordy couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Problems can arise in part because the motives behind
mentoring aren't always altruistic. The protege may seek the
relationship solely to advance his or her career. The mentor
may be motivated by a need for power or control, rather than
feelings of loyalty or affiliation. Hence, the mentor may
feel threatened by the protege's rise.
   Consider the case of Robert Brudno, who heads the
Washington, D.C., office of executive recruiter Leon A.
Farley Associates. As a young consultant working for Booz
Allen &amp; Hamilton in the mid-1970s, Mr. Brudno caught the eye
of a client, the owner of a medium-sized family-controlled
concern. The owner, looking for a successor, hired Mr. Brudno
as president.
   For the first few years, Mr. Brudno and the founder, who
remained chairman, had a constructive mentor-protege
relationship. But as the chairman neared retirement, he
became increasingly unwilling to relinquish control. At first
the signs were subtle: He would demand changes in programs
championed by Mr. Brudno after having already given his
approval. Or he would create problems and spring them on Mr.
Brudno in staff meetings.
   Then, one day, the owner summoned Mr. Brudno to his office
and told him that his son -- who formerly hadn't been
involved at all in the business -- would instead be the
successor. "I remember the moment vividly because I walked 30
feet to my office, sat down and immediately wrote out my
resume," Mr. Brudno recalls. Soon after, he quit the company,
which two years later filed for bankruptcy.
   "Mentorship does require that the mentor be secure," Mr.
Brudno says. "It takes a big man or woman to depart
gracefully."
   Because the mentoring process can create a sense of
obligation, departing can also be hard for the protege. Rene
McPherson, the former dean of Stanford University's business
school, recalls the difficulty he had summoning up the
courage to tell his mentor, Dana Corp. Chairman Jack Martin,
that he didn't plan to serve as Dana chief executive past age
55. Mr. McPherson wanted to quit business for other pursuits
but feared his boss wouldn't understand his rationale. "I
knew he was going to be furious, and I didn't want to tell
him, but I had to," he says. Mr. Martin eventually accepted
the decision.
   Sometimes the emotional tensions prove too great. One
woman, a lawyer in her mid-30s who was the protege of a male
partner at a New York law firm, got caught in the cross fire
of a disintegrating marital relationship. Eventually, as the
partner's marriage soured, he began to lean on her for
support. But she resisted, only able to see him as the father
she'd never had.
   The woman, who asked not to be named, ended up quitting
the firm to escape. But after seeking counseling, she
re-established a relationship with her former mentor, though
as friends on an equal footing. "She was coached on how to
communicate with him," says her therapist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   W.W. Grainger Accords
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GWW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- W.W. Grainger Inc. said it agreed in principle
to acquire two closely held regional distributing concerns.
   Grainger, a national distributor of commercial and
industrial products, didn't disclose terms of the planned
transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It said it reached a tentative accord to acquire Bossert
Co., a Kansas City, Mo., distributor of general industrial
products in Missouri and Kansas, which had 1989 sales of $22
million. Separately, it agreed to acquire W.M. Pattison
Supply Co. of Cleveland, which had sales last year of $23
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thomson McKinnon
   Files for Chapter 11,
   In Liquidation Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMA
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Thomson McKinnon Inc. said it filed for
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code, part of the liquidation of the company that
began nearly a year ago.
   The company's principal asset is its general partnership
interest in Thomson McKinnon Asset Management Limited
Partnership. It listed its liabilities at $281 million and
its assets at $35 million, a spokesman said. The largest
creditor is the company's landlord, Assay Partners, which is
owed about $62 million, the spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomson McKinnon recently agreed in principle to sell its
general partnership interest in Thomson McKinnon Asset
Management to a group including executives. This plan calls
for the group to purchase 200,000 general partnership units
from Thomson McKinnon for $800,000, and to pay $5.4 million
for an option to buy the balance of Thomson's total of about
6.2 million units. The proposed sale shouldn't be impeded by
the filing, Thomson said. The spokesman said the transaction
could be completed in six or seven weeks.
   The company also is the parent of Thomson McKinnon
Securities Inc., which sold its retail brokerage network last
summer to Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., a unit of
Prudential Insurance Co. of America. The operations that
remained of the broker-dealer unit filed for Chapter 11
protection in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Malaysia's Rate of Inflation
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- Despite credit constraints,
Malaysia's consumer price index in April rose 0.7% from
March, the steepest increase this year, the government
statistics department said.
   The index, in which the base of 100 is calculated with
1980 prices, rose to 136.6 from 135.7. The index, which
reflects retail prices of goods and services, was up 0.8%
from the end of December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Averaging the rise in prices in the first four months of
this year, the index rose 2.3% from a year earlier,
registering inflation below official government projections
of about a 4% rate for this year. But many private analysts
have forecast a rate of at least 5%, as price pressures are
fueled by strong domestic demand in Malaysia's rapidly
expanding economy and accommodated by the relatively fast
growth of the money supply. The weighting of the index's
various parts doesn't fairly represent new consumption
patterns in the developing nation, the economists say, and
the index thus underestimates true inflation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Nissan Taps First American, Mignanelli,
   To Head U.S. Sales and Marketing Arm
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NSANY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nissan Motor Co. named Thomas D. Mignanelli president and
chief executive officer of its U.S. sales and marketing arm,
making him the first American to hold such a title at any
major Japanese auto company.
   Mr. Mignanelli succeeds Kazutoshi Hagiwara effective July
1. Mr. Hagiwara is returning to Tokyo to assume new
responsibilities at the parent firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mignanelli, 45 years old and currently Nissan's
executive vice president of U.S. operations, said his
promotion "raises visibility of Americans being accountable
for the American market."
   Mr. Mignanelli said he will have considerable autonomy.
"We price our own products and we have a good deal . . . of
the input on product-cycle plans," he said.
   Nissan's move comes as Japanese auto makers are under fire
from some U.S. executives who say they feel relegated to
subordinate positions and isolated from key deliberations
with executives of the parent companies in Japan.
   "Japanese firms have been fairly slow to shift control of
top management positions to Americans," said Robert Cole, a
business professor at the University of Michigan. Nissan,
however, has been "somewhat of a leader" in furthering that
process, particularly at its Smyrna, Tenn., manufacturing
facility, where there are "relatively few Japanese," he said.
   Mr. Mignanelli will report directly to Yoshikazu Hanawa,
president of Nissan North America Inc., the umbrella
organization for Nissan's North American operations. Mr.
Hanawa divides his time between Japan and the U.S. In
contrast, the top U.S. sales executives at the U.S. sales arm
of Honda Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. have the title of
executive vice president and report to Japanese executives in
the U.S., who hold the title of president.
   Mr. Hanawa said, "Mr. Mignanelli's appointment is in
keeping with our strategy to become a fully localized,
customer-oriented company in America. As we move toward
realizing this goal, we will continue to localize management
function of overseas subsidiaries and promote local
decision-making on important issues."
   Still, even with Mr. Mignanelli's high-profile promotion,
Nissan has a long way to meet its goal. Americans now head
just two of Nissan's 10 U.S. operating divisions. Besides Mr.
Mignanelli, the other senior U.S. executive is Jerry
Benefield, president and chief executive of Nissan
Manufacturing Corp. in Smyrna, Tenn. Mr. Benefield also
reports to Mr. Hanawa.
   Moreover, Mr. Mignanelli has Japanese executives in his
operation who not only report to him but have direct access
to his superiors in Tokyo. These Japanese executives also
have "career paths leading back to Japan," and, potentially,
to bigger jobs with the parent company, a company spokesman
said.
   Mr. Mignanelli came to Nissan in 1987 after 18 years with
Ford Motor Co., where he rose to national sales manager of
the Lincoln-Mercury division. Mr. Mignanelli joined Nissan's
U.S. sales arm as vice president of marketing, and was
promoted to executive vice president of operations in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Liberate America's Other Economy
   ----
   By Jack Kemp
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   In 1984, Mario Cuomo of New York electrified the
Democratic Convention with his tale of America as two cities,
one rich and one poor, permanently divided into two classes.
He talked about the rich growing richer and the poor becoming
poorer, with the conclusion that class conflict, if not
warfare, was the only result, and redistribution of wealth
the solution.
   With all due respect to Gov. Cuomo, he got it wrong.
America is not divided immutably into two static classes. But
it is separated or divided into two economies. One economy --
our mainstream economy -- is democratic and capitalist,
market-oriented and entrepreneurial. It offers incentives for
working families in labor and management. This mainstream
economy rewards work, investment, saving and productivity.
Incentives abound for productive economic and social
behavior.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was this economy, triggered by President Reagan's
supply-side revolution of tax cuts in 1981, that generated
21.5 million new jobs, more than four million new businesses,
relatively low inflation and higher standards of living for
most people. This economy has created more jobs in the past
decade than all of Europe, Canada and Japan combined. And
according to the U.S. Treasury, federal income taxes paid by
the top 1% of taxpayers has surged by more than 80% to $92
billion in 1987 from $51 billion in 1981.
   There is another economy -- a second economy that is
similar in respects to the East European or Third World
socialist economies. It functions in a fashion opposite to
the mainstream capitalist economy. It predominates in the
pockets of poverty throughout urban and rural America. This
economy has barriers to productive human and social activity
and a virtual absence of economic incentives and rewards. It
denies black, Hispanic and other minority men and women entry
into the mainstream. This economy works almost as effectively
as did hiring notices 50 years ago that read "No Blacks -- or
Hispanics or Irish or whatever -- Need Apply."
   The irony is that the second economy was born of desire to
help the poor, alleviate suffering, and provide a basic
social safety net. The results were a counterproductive
economy. Instead of independence, the second economy led to
dependence. In an effort to minimize economic pain, it
maximized welfare bureaucracy and social costs.
   All around the world, despite the resistance of the old
guard, freedom and free markets, democracy and capitalism are
increasingly on the march. East Europe is looking to us for
market-oriented answers, but so is East Harlem, East St.
Louis and East Los Angeles.
   If we are to present the example of democratic capitalism
and the rule of law to the rest of the world, we've got to
make it work for the low-income people and distressed
neighborhoods and communities right here in our own country.
Whether it's called bleeding-heart conservatism, capitalism
with a social conscience, or populist conservatism -- it's
the right thing to do, the right time to do it, and we're the
right people to help lead it.
   Let's step away from our orthodox notions and examine this
from afar. What if you wanted to create poverty? What
policies and principles would you use to destroy the economy
of cities and make people dependent on government? How would
you do it? Let me offer some suggestions:
   -- Impose steeply graduated and progressive tax rates and
then inflate the currency to push people into ever higher tax
brackets.
   -- Reward welfare and unemployment at a higher level than
working and productivity.
   -- Tax the entrepreneur who succeeds in the legal system
-- while permitting an underground, untaxed, economy.
   -- Reward people who stay in public housing more than
those who want to move up and out into private housing and
home ownership.
   -- Reward the family that breaks up rather than the family
that stays together.
   -- Encourage debt, borrowing and spending rather than
saving, investing and risk-taking.
   -- Weaken and in some cases destroy the link between
effort and reward.
   The startling fact in America today is that the highest
marginal tax rates are being paid not by the rich, but by
welfare mothers or unemployed fathers who want to take a job.
In most cities, a welfare mother would have to earn $15,000
to $18,000 in a private-sector job to earn the equivalent of
the average tax-free welfare payment.
   According to a study by Christopher Jencks and Kathryn
Edin in American Prospect magazine, a mother with two
children who is employed at about $5 an hour would take home
about 45 cents an hour less than if she were on welfare. She
loses nearly $4 a day after taking into account the loss of
government benefits, taxes and such work-related expenses as
transportation and child care.
   The heavily regulated U.S. housing market is another
example of government-created scarcity. Rent control in many
major cities has crippled rental housing by making it
unprofitable to be a landlord or investor. Rent controls do
not help the poor, because they cut apartment supply.
   Another glaring example of counterproductive government
policy is how the Department of Housing and Urban Development
had been spending more than $1,300 per unit to subsidize
vacant public housing -- housing often used as crack houses
for gangs and drug pushers. The Bush administration has
started a policy called Operation Occupancy under which only
units actually occupied by low-income people will receive
public housing subsidies.
   Let me outline some ideas for a national agenda to help
low income people and our nation find the keys that will
unlock the shackles of poverty and despair:
   -- Cut the capital-gains tax to 15%. Eliminate it in
distressed inner cities and rural communities that we would
designate as Enterprise Zones.
   When the top capital-gains tax rate was reduced to 20%
from 49%, the number of small-company start-ups more than
doubled, rising to 640,000 and creating 15 million jobs. By
dramatically reducing the capital-gains tax rate again, and
greenlining inner-city neighborhoods, we can expand the
economy and put that enormous job-creating potential to work
where it is needed most.
   -- Expand resident management and urban homesteading in
public housing to empower residents to buy their own homes
and enjoy the dignity of ownership.
   -- Widen use of housing vouchers and certificates to give
low-income families greater choice of where to live, while
expanding access to affordable housing for those most in
need.
   -- Reform the tax system to remove low-income families
from the tax rolls and dramatically increase the after-tax
income of welfare mothers and unemployed fathers who go to
work.
   In 1948, at the median income, a family of four paid
virtually no income tax and only $30 a year in direct Social
Security taxes (1%). This year, the same family's tax burden
would be more than $6,000. To reach a level comparable to
1948, the personal exemption -- the tax allowance for the
costs of nurturing children -- would have to be well over
$6,000 today. Instead, it is only $2,000.
   -- Expand the earned-income tax credit dramatically,
creating up to a $6,000 exemption for children under 16.
   -- Help the homeless. Congress should pass the
administration's new Shelter Plus Care program to expand
community-based mental-health facilities, drug-abuse
treatment, job training, and day care. This program will help
homeless Americans get shelter, transitional housing, and
support services to help them re-enter the mainstream
economy.
   -- Provide educational opportunity by expanding true
choice and competition through magnet schools, education
vouchers or tuition tax credits.
   -- Encourage Congress to pass President Bush's HOPE
legislation, including IRAs for first-time home buyers, the
low-income housing tax credit, and Operation Bootstrap
linking housing vouchers to strategies for gaining
self-sufficiency.
   A program like this would make the 1990s the decade in
which we win the war against poverty -- just as the decade of
the 1980s was the one in which we won the Cold War against
communism.
   ---
   Mr. Kemp is secretary of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Unmentionable Prescription
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The economy is sluggish, real-estate values are slumping
nationwide, the savings-and-loan bailout grows more expensive
and the Northeastern states are threatening to sink into the
Atlantic. It's too bad Washington can't come up with an
economic policy to get us moving again.
   What we need is a policy that would increase the values of
real estate, and for that matter other assets held by sick
savings and loans. Some S&amp;Ls now headed for the tank might
make it after all, and in any event all the assets the
government is taking over would be worth more, reducing the
cost to taxpayers. It would be all the better if the policy
could boost tax revenues for Mario Cuomo, Michael Dukakis and
Jim Florio, so they wouldn't have to tax their economies
under water. And, of course, doing these things would add a
new spark to the nationwide economy. They would put new pep
into the economic expansion, which set peacetime records on
the basis of tax cuts but now seems a bit peaked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Let's see; anything in the macroeconomic pharmacopeia that
would cure these current ills? Do we dare? Can we talk of
forbidden drugs? Is it time to cast aside childhood taboos?
Let's whisper the unmentionable prescription: cut the capital
gains tax.
   Real-estate values would improve overnight, for example,
since the unmentionable prescription would lower a tax on
potential gains. The tax was in fact lower when the
properties now being liquidated were initially purchased;
their current low values in part reflect a higher tax. The
same is true, of course, for junk bonds, another S&amp;L asset.
But, of course, thanks to expansive deposit insurance,
taxpayers are getting stuck with these assets at their
current eroded values. The higher tax rate doesn't help
government revenues if there are no gains to tax; and if
there are losses in the S&amp;L portfolios, government
expenditures have to increase (though, for what it's worth,
probably outside the Gramm-Rudman calculations).
   The current round of budget problems in New York and
Massachusetts, remember, started with faulty estimates of tax
receipts for capital gains. Old and developed states hold a
lot of capital assets. A lower tax on these assets would give
their economies a nice shot in the arm. And whether or not
you think they deserve it, their prosperity is interlinked
with the nation's as a whole.
   Alas, the prescription remains unmentionable, especially
in the company of Governors Cuomo, Dukakis and Florio. They
have a strong ally in Senate Majority Leader Mitchell, who
personally was the only thing keeping the Congress from
writing the unmentionable prescription last year.
   This year the prescription has vanished into the maw of
the budget summit. There are those who say the economy can't
have the prescription unless it also takes a lot of poison in
higher taxes. With one side pushing for higher taxes and the
other for better budget procedures, it may be some time
before the summiteers find their prescription pad, and if
they do it's not sure that anyone will be able to decipher
their handwriting.
   The doctors at the Treasury, for that matter, haven't
helped matters much. They keep insisting on diluting the
active ingredients in an attempt to cure some other disease.
In order to comply with Congress's computer models to predict
deficits, their proposal had a bottom rate of only 19.6%, and
that was only for assets locked up for at least three years.
The Bush administration seems to forget why it first came up
with the prescription.
   GOP Senators Bob Kasten of Wisconsin and Connie Mack of
Florida and Democrat Richard Shelby of Alabama will soon get
the prescription back on the table, though, with a bill to
cut the capital gains tax back to 15%, the rate George Bush
proposed in his presidential campaign as opposed to the 33%
typical today. By Friday, they hope to have more than 20
co-sponsors, including several Democrats.
   Kasten-Mack gets the debate back to the main issue of
economic growth. Congress's computer models predict only
short-term increases in tax revenue from a lower capital
gains tax. In the real world, though, a lower capital gains
rate would instantly mean that assets of all kinds would
suddenly be worth more. Every time an asset is sold at a
gain, the government gets its take, so tax revenues would
probably rise even with the lower rate, just as they did
after the tax rate was cut in 1978. And if it cuts the cost
of the S&amp;L bailout, the real deficit -- government demands on
the credit markets -- would be lower.
   The U.S. economy may weather its current mild stagflation;
the stock market has set new records in the face of the
problems. But if anyone in Washington wants to help with the
problem areas and take out some insurance on the broader
picture, the prescription is clear enough. Except that it's
unmentionable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing, as Expected, Gets
   Big Korean Airlines Order
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   BA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Boeing Co., as expected, received an order from
Korean Airlines for 23 747-400s.
   The aerospace giant valued the order at $4.8 billion,
including spare parts and training, in delivery-year dollars.
It is one of the largest orders ever placed with Boeing, the
world's leading commercial jet maker.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The news sent Boeing's stock soaring. The company's shares
closed in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at
$58.50, up $3.50. (A 3-for-2 stock split, announced in April,
kicked in yesterday.)
   Korean Airlines's 747-400s are configured to carry as many
as 392 passengers in a three-class seating arrangement. The
planes are capable of operating at nonstop ranges of more
than 8,000 miles, and will be used to connect Korea to
destinations in Europe and North America.
   The booking brings total orders of the 747-400 to 307
aircraft, of which 71 have now been delivered. For the year,
carriers have ordered from Boeing 243 aircraft valued at
$19.3 billion. That compares with 596 planes valued at $32.5
billion in the year-ago period.
   The decrease partly reflects the fact that the two largest
orders in Boeing history, from UAL Corp.'s United Airlines
unit and GPA Group Ltd., both came in April 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Poindexter Gets Prison Term for Lying
   To Congress About Iran-Contra Affair
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- John Poindexter was sentenced to six months
in prison for lying to Congress about the Iran-Contra affair
while he was former President Ronald Reagan's national
security adviser in late 1985 and 1986.
   Mr. Poindexter, who was sentenced in federal court here,
was the first of the Iran-Contra defendants to receive a
prison term. He was also the most senior Reagan
administration official tried and convicted on charges of
concealing U.S. arms sales to Iran and White House support
for the Nicaraguan rebels during a period when Congress had
banned such aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Explaining his decision, Judge Harold Greene said that
incarcerating the retired Navy admiral would deter other high
public officials from misleading Congress. Failing to
imprison Mr. Poindexter "would be tantamount to a statement
that to lie to and to obstruct Congress was of no great
moment," Judge Greene said. Mr. Poindexter declined to make a
statement when given the opportunity by the judge.
   Mr. Poindexter will remain free while he appeals his
conviction on five felony counts of making false statements
to Congress and obstructing the inquiries of lawmakers into
the Iran-Contra affair. He was sentenced to serve six months
in prison for each of the counts, but the terms will be
served concurrently. Judge Greene didn't impose a fine.
   The judge had wide discretion in determining the sentence
because Mr. Poindexter's actions took place before the
November 1987 effective date of federal guidelines that would
have made a prison term mandatory for such felonies.
   Mr. Poindexter's prison sentence pulls a reluctant
President Bush back into the biggest White House scandal
since Watergate. Mr. Bush, who has attempted to play down his
role in the Iran-Contra affair as Mr. Reagan's vice
president, must now decide whether to pardon Mr. Poindexter.
A Bush spokesman said the president wouldn't immediately
comment on the sentence.
   Mr. Poindexter's attorneys, who maintain that he didn't
break any laws, had asked Judge Greene to consider their
client's previously stellar Navy career and not give him a
prison term.
   Prosecutors from the office of Independent Counsel
Lawrence Walsh had sought a prison sentence as a warning that
executive branch officials must tell Congress the truth.
After the court proceeding, Dan Webb, the lead trial
prosecutor, called the result "very fair and very proper."
   Leading Iran-Contra defendants who were spared prison
terms despite convictions include Robert McFarlane, another
former national security adviser who pleaded guilty to four
misdemeanors of withholding information from Congress, and
Oliver North, a mid-level national security aide who was
convicted of three felonies, including helping to obstruct
congressional inquiries. Both men were sentenced to two
years' probation, as well as being forced to pay fines and do
community service.
   Prosecutors in the Poindexter trial argued successfully
that previous Iran-Contra sentences shouldn't preclude prison
time for Mr. Poindexter.
   Some criminal law experts agreed with this position. "I'm
not surprised by the sentence," said Samuel Dash, the chief
counsel to the special Senate Watergate Committee and now a
law professor at Georgetown University. "Here was somebody
who went to trial and was right next to the president," Mr.
Dash said. In contrast, Mr. McFarlane admitted his guilt and
Mr. North was "a middle-ranking" official, "not one of the
bosses," Mr. Dash added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Leaky Standards
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   All of a sudden leaking to the press in Washington can be
bad for your career. The chairman of the National Endowment
for the Arts has dismissed his deputy for talking on the
phone with columnists Evans and Novak. Earlier two Justice
Department officals were transferred for not lying to a
reporter about an investigation involving a Congressman.
   If this keeps up, who knows who could lose their jobs? For
example, someone might decide to ask who leaked hearsay from
raw FBI files to Bob Woodward on the drinking habits of John
Tower. Or someone could investigate which Senators leaked
from an FBI file that said banking-nominee Tim Ryan admitted
he'd once used cocaine. But of course, some leaks (and some
targets) are more equal than others.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the NEA case, for example, the leak was not of FBI
files, but of how taxpayer money was being spent. Evans and
Novak learned of an NEA decision to fund the "performance
art" of one Karen Finley, a nightclub performer whose
artistic and ideological program has been to shock audiences
with anatomical crudities. The NEA already is under political
siege for funding the homoerotic works of Robert Mapplethorpe
and body-fluid art of Andres Serrano. So the "leak" was a
threat to its annual $171 million taxpayer subsidy for
artists.
   John Frohnmayer, the NEA chairman, was angry enough about
the leak that he had computer experts sift NEA phone logs,
Evans and Novak report. This turned up a phone call between
them and Alvin Felzenberg, who nonetheless denies being the
source of the leak. In this, he's seconded by the columnists,
who also say the White House intervened to save Mr.
Felzenberg's job, though he is now without anything to do and
awaits a transfer.
   This flap follows the outrage over last year's leak
alleging an FBI investigation of Pennsylvania Congressman
Bill Gray. The story came as Mr. Gray was running for
majority whip, and was repudiated quickly by the Justice
Department. FBI agents had interviewed Mr. Gray, but he
wasn't a target of the investigation. Yet the incident caused
an uproar that continued for months.
   Justice assigned 11 FBI special agents, who spent 385
workdays looking for the leaker. They interviewed 109 people.
Ten officials, including Attorney General Dick Thornburgh,
even took lie detector tests. Two officials who took those
tests ended up being transferred or demoted because they had
played a role in "confirming" the fact of an investigation.
   Who leaked the Bill Gray story was even a question asked
by newspapers who benefit daily from leaks. (The Washington
Post also reported, with a straight face, Senator Joseph
Biden's pique that someone had leaked to these columns a copy
of his outrageous document request to then-judicial nominee
Clarence Thomas.) Yet indignation seems missing over the leak
on Tim Ryan's drug use.
   Mr. Ryan was confirmed later by the full Senate, but it's
clear somebody hoped the cocaine leak would destroy him, even
though he had volunteered it to the FBI. Senator John
Danforth's request for a formal investigation by the ethics
committee didn't even make news, though the leak clearly was
a violation of Senate rules. And of course, leaks from the
FBI files were instrumental in defeating Mr. Tower. Who took
lie detector tests?
   So it seems that leaks to Post reporters are scoops; leaks
to Evans and Novak are a breach of trust. Leaks about the
executive branch are news; leaks about Congress are
underhanded politics. In truth, it's all politics, and leaks
have become a standard part of the way the game is played in
Washington. If the rules can't be changed, they ought to be
made the same for all players.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   `Tracy' T-Shirts to Skew
   Disney Purse, Warner Says
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- With one of the summer's most competitive
box-office weekends looming, Time Warner Inc.'s Warner
Brothers film unit is complaining that Walt Disney Co. isn't
playing fair. Disney is retorting, "Keep your shirt on."
   Disney's marketers came up with a new promotion for "Dick
Tracy," in which customers may buy T-shirts from theaters for
prices ranging from $12 to $20. The shirts serve as admission
tickets for special midnight showings Thursday night at 1,500
theaters across the country. The film then officially opens
on Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Warner, which is premiering "Gremlins 2" the same weekend,
is complaining because the box-office take from those special
midnight shows -- at prices well above that of a normal
ticket -- will be included in the three-day grosses reported
by Disney on Monday.
   Warner officials declined to comment, but in yesterday's
edition of the trade paper Variety, distribution chief Barry
Reardon said of the Disney plan, "I object to it vehemently.
How can a T-shirt be part of the theatrical gross? I don't
think it's fair."
   A Disney spokeswoman said, "Every dollar taken in will be
reported because we're not selling T-shirts, we're selling
premium-priced tickets." She added that because the showings
technically begin at 12:01 a.m. Friday, the midnight shows
can be included as part of Friday's results.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Forward Motion
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The prospects for the world economy took a step forward
Sunday as President Bush and President Salinas of Mexico
announced their intention to seek a free-trade agreement.
"The speed of the change requires decisive answers on all
fronts, in all markets," Mr. Salinas said of the trade
agreement. True enough, but it will be interesting to see
what opposition creeps out of the woodwork.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BCM CHKE MYG NOB
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Banco Central S.A., offering of four million American
depositary shares, each representing the right to receive one
half of one share of stock, to be sold by subsidiary
Productora de Seguros-Correduria de Suguros S.A., via
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding and Merrill Lynch Capital
Markets.
                                                                                                       

   Cherokee Inc., initial offering of four million class B
common shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Maytag Corp., shelf offering of up to $250 million of debt
securities and warrants to purchase debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Norwest Corp., offering of four million depositary shares,
each representing one quarter share of cumulative preferred
stock, via Merrill Lynch.
                                                                                                       

   Pamida Holdings Corp., initial offering of 2.8 million
common shares, of which two million will be sold by Pamida
and 800,000 by holders, via Merrill Lynch.
                                                                                                       

   Trimble Navigation Ltd., proposed initial offering of
three million shares of common stock, of which 2.5 million
are being sold by the company and 500,000 by holders, via
Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. and Needham &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology -- Corporate Focus:
   IBM Seeks to Tap Potential in Services
   ---
   New Program Puts Firm's
   Skills at Customers' Disposal
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. is rolling out a
program to become more of a service company and cut its
reliance on traditional hardware sales.
   The computer giant has racked up five years of lackluster
results as competition has slashed profit margins on computer
hardware. Growth in software revenue, once hailed as IBM's
likely savior, has slowed too. So IBM is increasingly turning
to services -- both to generate fees and to increase demand
for its hardware and software.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new program won't be a quick fix. Most other companies
in the industry have the same idea, and IBM's credentials in
so-called professional services are a mixed bag.
   Still, customers, consultants and even some competitors
say the new IBM program, called Enterprise Alliance, will
help IBM on its way. And IBM executives say they will be able
to use some of the ideas behind Enterprise Alliance
profitably in other areas.
   "It's a very smart approach," says Mel Bergstein, a senior
vice president in the consulting arm of Computer Sciences
Corp., which offers systems integration and professional
services.
   Enterprise Alliance is simple in concept. IBM sends in a
small team to talk about a specific problem -- the difficulty
that companies have in pulling together data stored in
different types of databases on hardware from numerous
companies.
   Once the customer picks an instance of that problem that
it wants solved, a handful of IBM programmers produce a
prototype of a piece of software -- usually in about a month.
The people who run the part of the business that will use the
software then suggest changes, and IBM's programmers produce
a finished piece of software. The whole process takes about
three months. For its troubles, IBM collects a fee of
$75,000.
   But that's just the beginning. The customer could then ask
IBM to solve that sort of problem in other areas. Because the
inability to pull together data from different sources is one
of the biggest problems in corporate computer operations, the
projects could be enormous. Even proceeding on their own,
many customers, having been shown the way, will tackle the
problem more quickly than they would have otherwise. That, of
course, means buying more hardware and software -- and much
of the equipment will have those big blue IBM logos on it.
   "We're not doing this to get $75,000. We're doing this to
get that relationship," says Bob Berland, an IBM vice
president involved with Enterprise Alliance.
   Marshall Balter, director of the program at IBM, says
several hundred people are already involved in the project
and the number will grow rapidly. IBM has completed only a
few pilot projects under Enterprise Alliance, but Mr. Balter
says that number should hit 40 or 50 this summer. And, while
it's still too early to forecast precisely the program's
impact, initial reports are favorable.
   "I'm such a cynic when it comes to computer systems," says
John Gunn, executive vice president at Memorial Sloan
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, site of one pilot project.
"It always takes five times as long to write as anybody
budgeted and costs 10 times as much as anybody hoped." But he
says that IBM finished on time and that the $75,000 fee was
one-half to one-third as much as it would have cost him to
write the software himself. "Quite frankly, IBM surprised the
hell out of me," he says.
   Mr. Gunn says the software IBM wrote lets physicians at
one site easily get all sorts of information -- lab reports,
billing information, some medical records, pharmacy records
and so forth -- even though that had proved difficult in the
past and even though not all the information is stored in IBM
computers.
   David Roberts, senior vice president of corporate
information services at the Federal National Mortgage
Association, another pilot site, says, "We've found the
program to be very productive." He's cautious, saying that he
doesn't expect the association -- a reseller of mortgages
that is commonly known as Fannie Mae -- to buy any more
hardware or software because of the project. Still, he says
that he may make the purchases more quickly than he would
have otherwise and that he's more likely to buy from IBM.
   As IBM prospects for more business, potential corporate
customers and some competitors say it will face significant
hurdles. For one thing, while corporate customers are
increasingly trying to turn over their headaches to
consultants and systems integrators, many are leery of
dealing with a company that also makes hardware or software.
They fear they could wind up buying a piece of IBM equipment
even if it isn't the best available for the job.
   "That is a significant disadvantage for IBM," says Jim
Fischer, managing partner of technology services at Andersen
Consulting, one of IBM's biggest competitors.
   In addition, companies that do systems integration work
need to really understand the problems at, say, the bank or
manufacturer that is doing the buying, and IBM is newer at
that game than some of its competitors.
   "This all boils down to how good the people are, and IBM
hasn't yet developed the skills that they need," says James
Sutter, vice president of information systems at Rockwell
International Corp.
   But at the same time, IBM has plenty of close
relationships with customers that it can use to build the
business. Mr. Sutter, for instance, says IBM "certainly has
the staying power and the presence" to be a force in systems
integration. In addition, access to capital is becoming
increasingly important for companies in this field as the
projects they undertake become larger, and IBM can beat just
about anybody at that game.
   IBM also has plenty of experience with the technology.
   IBM's computer guys "are actually using a lot of their
systems within their own manufacturing operations," says Ace
Hall, general manager of General Dynamics Corp.'s data
systems division. "They have real-life experience, whereas
the consulting people (at many other firms) don't have that
kind of thing."
   Some corporate customers even like dealing with a hardware
company on systems integration. They say they think it gives
them additional say on future products.
   "I want to influence the products and services that IBM
provides as they go down the road rather than sitting back
and hoping they provide what I want," says Mr. Roberts of
Fannie Mae.
   Somehow or other, IBM needs to become a bigger factor in
systems integration and other service arenas. Market-research
firms say systems integration is a $20 billion-a-year market
that is growing some 20% annually. Yet the computer industry
as a whole is growing less than half that fast, and IBM is
feeling pressure on all fronts.
   IBM said in the late '80s that it wanted more than half
its revenue to come from software and services by the early
'90s, but progress has been slow. IBM's revenue from
software, maintenance services and its systems integration
business with the federal government totaled $17.5 billion
last year, or less than 30% of its total revenue of $62.7
billion. And that $17.5 billion wasn't much higher than the
1988 figure.
   Whatever happens, Mr. Berland of IBM says he hopes
Enterprise Alliance will be "a paradigm for the '90s." Mr.
Balter says that, for one thing, IBM thinks the production of
software ought to be faster, with ultimate users getting a
chance to see an early prototype and adapt it to their needs.
The huge backlog of requests for software at corporations is
widely considered to be one of the biggest impediments to the
growth of the computer industry. In addition, much of the
software misses the mark because there is often little
communication between the people writing it and those who
will use it.
   Mr. Berland says he hopes Enterprise Alliance will also be
an example of how IBM should approach its customers:
Traditionally, IBM has dealt with data-processing
departments, but under the new program, it is trying to deal
more with the people who actually run the corporate
customer's business.
   "Many companies are talking about closer partnerships with
customers," says Sam Albert, a consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y.,
"but this is a real demonstration of that. This could
potentially mean a great deal of revenue."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   An Unlikely Battle
   Pits Englishmen
   Against Mad Dogs
   ----
   Attacks by Vicious Canines
   Lead the Wardens to Don
   Riot Gear, Pack Pistols
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Chief Inspector Jan Eachus stares past thick
bars at the suspect he dragged in the previous night, after a
fierce street fight. The suspect, known only as Bella, glares
back through smoldering black eyes. Bella doesn't have a rap
sheet, but Mr. Eachus knows this isn't her first offense.
"Just look at those scars," he says, pointing at raw marks
across Bella's powerful shoulders. "No question this one's
been in a scrap before."
   Mr. Eachus will tell this to the judge as evidence that
Bella, an American pit bull terrier, shouldn't have been
allowed to roam uncontrolled. Bella's handler could be fined
more than $3,000 or imprisoned for up to six months. Bella,
who ripped open a dachshund's throat and bit its owner's
hand, will pay the ultimate price. "See ya in doggy heaven,"
says Mr. Eachus, watching Bella gnaw at the bars of her cage.
Asked if there's anything a pit bull such as Bella won't
bite, Mr. Eachus responds, "A 747 jetliner -- flight."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   England is renowned as a nation of dog lovers, a land
where corgis trail Queen Elizabeth II and where shoppers park
their poodles in a carpeted kennel at Harrods department
store. Queen Victoria even shared her deathbed with a
Pomeranian. But England's long affair with dogs has soured.
Aggressive breeds such as pit bulls and Rottweilers are
suddenly in vogue, and as their numbers have risen, so have
reports of dog attacks. The result is public panic,
Parliamentary debate and press headlines suggestive of "The
Hound of the Baskervilles":
   "Devil Dog Scars Tot"
   "Girl, 8, Scalped in Dog Horror."
   England isn't the first country to do battle with
dangerous dogs, but it may be unique in the lethal force it
is deploying. Some animal wardens are arming themselves with
riot shields, chain mail, and ultrasonic stun guns. "Heroes
get bit," explains Mr. Eachus, an inspector with the Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA),
which is often called to handle vicious dogs. In a country
where gun control is so strict that most police go unarmed,
Mr. Eachus is licensed to pack a .32 automatic pistol in his
van.
   "We need that kind of weaponry to control humans, not
dogs," Micky Niego, an official with the American Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, says of the varied
English arsenal. Some U.S. wardens carry tranquilizing darts
and Mace, but most prefer nets and rods with loops.
   The English say their situation demands special tactics.
Unlike the U.S., where rabies has led to tight animal
control, England is free of the disease and has no dog
licensing, no leash law and, in many areas, no dog wardens.
England's pet-obsessed public also can be feral in defending
animal rights. "The English worry more about the welfare of
poor little pooch than they do about the safety of Joe
Public," says Mr. Eachus, an American who has been living in
England since 1977.
   The English also resist the notion that some breeds may be
tough to tame. "People think a little loving care will turn
pit bulls into nice pets," says Roger Mugford, an animal
psychologist in London. "They're wrong." Mr. Mugford echoes
the view of many English experts in describing the dogs as
fearless, almost immune to pain, "and able to turn from
playful jokers into psychopathic killers without a moment's
warning."
   Some dog warriors are taking no chances. Standing beside
her van in the north England city of Bradford, Pat Harwood
dons the latest in canine battle dress. Long blond curls
vanish beneath a visored helmet designed for riot control by
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Hands slip into
elbow-length gloves. She cradles a reinforced plastic
"Armadillo Tactical Riot Shield," used by police to repel
missiles. Her tall frame is enveloped by a zip-up jump suit,
lined with chain mesh and heavily padded.
   "I feel like I'm inside a Brillo Pad," says the warden,
her voice muffled by the helmet's visor. Ms. Harwood uses the
suit only for emergencies, but she never patrols without her
"Dazer," a pocket-sized weapon designed to startle dogs with
a high-frequency squeal. "It's important to intimidate," says
her boss, senior warden Terry Singh.
   Some say such gladiators are barking up the wrong tree.
"If you approach a pit bull looking like a creature from
Mars, he's more likely to go berserk and bite you," says
Kevin McNicholas, a veteran London dog warden.
   Answering a call on his van's radio phone, Mr. McNicholas
races to a suburban home whose residents are alarmed by a
gnashing sound from an adjoining yard. He finds a huge German
shepherd ripping apart the fence between the two yards with
its fangs. When the dog bounds toward him, Mr. McNicholas
kneels, clicks his tongue and slips a rope around the dog's
neck. "It doesn't need to be Waterloo every time you take a
dog in," he says, calmly guiding the animal into his van.
   On another call, an anxious woman points into her
neighbor's yard, where two dummies hang from trees, their
pants legs in shreds. The woman says her neighbors often
stand in the yard shouting "Kill]" as two pit bulls tear the
effigies apart. Mr. McNicholas's advice: If the dogs come
close, stand perfectly still, avoid eye contact, and, if
possible, whimper like a puppy. "Dog biscuits also help," he
says. The most lethal weapon he has ever employed is a fire
extinguisher. In eight years of service, he hasn't been
bitten.
   Many other officials haven't been so lucky. There were
7,717 dog attacks on mailmen last year; dozens of police were
injured. London police also are receiving twice as many calls
about dangerous dogs as they did just six months ago. While
fatal attacks remain rare (one or two a year compared to an
average of 15 in the U.S.), there now are an estimated
500,000 strays on English streets and crowded dog pounds with
cages marked "Mad] Take Care]"
   Despite strong lobbying by police, postmen, the RSPCA and
other groups, Parliament narrowly rejected a dog registration
law in May. But the government now is considering banning
some breeds, or requiring that such dogs be muzzled in
public. "It sounds like hysteria until a Rottweiler chews
your kid to pieces," says Bill Wadman-Taylor, a veterinarian
and head of the Battersea Dogs Home in London.
   Bill Edmond, head of Britain's Kennel Club, says the RSPCA
and other groups are overreacting. "The problem is people,
not dogs," he says. "Irresponsible owners can make any dog
vicious." His organization opposes dog licensing and other
restrictions "because the people who are neglecting their
dogs, or training them to attack, are the very same people
who won't comply with the licensing law."
   The RSPCA's Mr. Eachus doesn't hesitate to get tough with
both mad dogs and Englishmen. The chain-smoking inspector has
shot two dogs to death and donned riot gear to take in many
others. In his van, he carries a forensic kit containing a
magnifying glass, camera and tweezers to collect evidence
such as dried blood and dogs' hair for use in prosecuting
owners.
   "There's no room for amateurism here," says the veteran
enforcer. He can quote chapter and verse from English dog
law, such as the 1847 statute citing owners for "suffering to
be at large a ferocious unmuzzled dog," and more recent laws
regarding the fouling of sidewalks with what some
euphemistically call "dog-logs."
   Mr. Eachus predicts that the craze for pit bulls and other
macho dogs will peak in a few years, as it has in the U.S. In
the meantime, though, "we need to get dangerous dogs off the
street and their owners behind bars," he says.
   Officials fear, however, that another creature may soon
terrorize England. The RSPCA recently received a panicked
phone call reporting that a wild boar was running amok in a
London street. It turned out to be a Vietnamese pot-bellied
pig, a faddish pet in America that is just now reaching
English shores.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aetna Loses Plea
   On Its Auto Rates
   In Pennsylvania
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   AET
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pennsylvania insurance officials denied Aetna Life &amp;
Casualty Co.'s request for relief from the auto insurance
rate rollbacks required by the state's new auto insurance
law.
   Aetna, the state's fifth-largest auto insurer, had agreed
to halt its withdrawal from the auto insurance market in the
state until officials ruled on its rate filing. An Aetna
spokesman said the company couldn't comment on the
Pennsylvania insurance department's ruling on its rate filing
until it had a chance to review the department's entire
decision carefully.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The insurance reform law, enacted in February, requires
that auto insurers reduce rates 10% for all drivers and as
much as 22% for motorists who waive their right to sue in all
but the most serious accidents. However, it does allow
insurers to apply for relief from these rollbacks under an
"extraordinary circumstance provision."
   For instance, one unit of the Hartford-based Aetna which
operates in Pennsylvania had asked for a 2.3% decrease for
drivers who chose the limited tort option and an 8.6%
increase for those who kept all their rights to sue.
   The state rejected that request, saying this Aetna unit
should decrease rates by 20.4% for drivers who elected the
limit tort option and drop rates by 8.2% for drivers who
didn't take this option. The insurance department said its
decision was based on each company's ability to earn a 12%
rate of return on its surplus capital.
   But the department said it would approve revised filings,
granting the company some partial relief by allowing it to
drop rates to the levels calculated by the insurance
department rather than the full 10% and 22% mandated by the
new laws.
   Officials also rejected four other applications for relief
from the rollbacks yesterday. To date, 12 of 22 relief
applications have been denied.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CRR PCG CIR FNM X.MID VOLVY J.MIN JNJ ELUXY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated Rail Corp. -- $550 million of 9 3/4%
debentures due June 15, 2020, priced at 99 to yield 9.854%.
The non-callable debentures were priced at a spread of 140
basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bond. Rated
single-A-3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will be sold through
underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co. -- $150 million of 9.30% first
and refunding mortgage bonds due July 1, 2023, via First
Boston Corp., priced at 95.75 to yield 9.73%. The issue was
priced at 127 basis points above the Treasury's 30-year bond.
Rated single-A-1 by Moody's and single-A by S&amp;P, the issue is
noncallable for five years.
   Circus Circus Enterprises Inc. -- $100 million of 10 5/8%
senior subordinated notes due June 15, 1997, priced at 99 7/8
to yield 10.65%. The non-callable notes were priced at 212.5
basis points above the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated Ba-2
by Moody's and triple-B by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   San Bernardino County, Calif. -- $85 million of 6 1/4% tax
and revenue anticipation notes, apparently won by a Merrill
Lynch Capital Markets group. The notes, rated
MIG-1/SP-1-plus, were priced for reoffering to yield 5.9779%.
The notes are due Aug. 1, 1991.
   Fresno County, Calif. -- $50 million of 12-month 6 1/4%
tax and revenue anticipation notes due July 1, 1991,
apparently won by a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group.
The notes, rated MIG-1 by Moody's, were priced for reoffering
to yield 5.80%.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 13 classes by Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-79, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities. Price and yield data weren't
immediately available.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 20 classes by
PaineWebber Inc. The offering, Series 1990-78, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9% securities with a weighted average remaining
term to maturity of 29.58 years. Among classes for which
details were available, planned yield spreads ranged from 50
basis points above the rate on two-year Treasury securities
on the issue's Class A to 155 basis points above 20-year
Treasurys for its Class Z securities.
                                                                                                       

                        ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Marine Midland Bank -- $600 million of 8.95% securities
backed by credit-card loans priced at 99 30/32 to yield
9.143% via First Boston Corp. The issue, through Marine
Midland Credit Card Trust 1990-A, was priced at 75 basis
points above the Treasury's three-year note. The offering has
an expected average life of three years. The issue is
expected to be rated triple-A by both S&amp;P and Moody's because
of the quality of the underlying Visa and MasterCard loans
and a letter of credit from Union Bank of Switzerland backing
11% of the issue. A First Boston official said the deal was
sold out.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Volvo Group Finance Europe B.V. (Sweden) -- $100 million
of 8.96% Eurobonds due initially June 18, 1991, extendible
until June 18, 2000, priced at par, via Merrill Lynch
International Ltd. Fungible with $150 million offering
launched in 1985 under the name Volvo Capital B.V. due
initially June 18, 1990, and extendible until June 18, 2000.
Put and call option. No fees.
   Minebea Co. (Japan) -- 23 billion yen of floating-rate
notes due June 21, 1995, priced at 100.10, via Nomura
International Ltd. Coupon 0.40 point below long-term prime
rate. Fees 0.40.
   Electric Power Development Corp. (Japan) -- 100 million
European currency units of 10 1/2% Eurobonds due July 18,
1995, priced at 101 5/8 to yield 10.56% less fees, via IBJ
International Ltd. Guarantee by government of Japan. Fees 1
7/8.
   World Bank (agency) -- 200 million Swiss francs of 7 1/8%
public bonds due July 5, 2000, priced at 102 via Credit
Suisse. Fees undisclosed.
   Johnson &amp; Johnson (U.S.) -- 150 million Swiss francs of 7%
privately placed notes due July 11, 1994, priced at 101 5/8,
via Union Bank of Switzerland. Fees 1.38.
   Electrolux AB (Sweden) -- 70 million Swiss francs of 8%
promissory notes (Shuldscheindarlehen) due July 2, 1992,
priced at 101, via Credit Suisse. Fees undisclosed.
   Credit Local de France (France) -- 50 million ECUs of
Eurobonds in two tranches due July 13, 1995, via Societe
Generale. Redemption linked to West German DAX stock index.
Amount of each tranche disclosed on payment date, July 13.
Coupon: zero on Tranche A, 4 3/4% on Tranche B.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Turning University Research Into a Profitable Business
   ---
   Many Schools Fund Ventures to
   Commercialize Professors' Discoveries
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   More than 100 American universities have started financing
new companies to exploit their researchers' discoveries, and
others are expected to join the trend.
   This has created opportunities for entrepreneurs who want
to make money commercializing academic research -- and for
professors who want to make a bundle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently, only a few institutions, such as
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford
University, aggressively marketed their research, largely by
licensing the technology to others.
   But a federal law four years ago gave universities far
greater rights to profit from the fruits of federally funded
research. Since then, universities have been gleefully
establishing venture-capital pools, technology-development
companies and research groups to make money.
   Unlike earlier efforts, the new programs commonly call for
the university to own pieces of the new ventures or to be
formally involved in an outside entity that invests in them.
Researchers who developed the technology being sold often get
a share of the action.
   All told, about $750 million, including federal and state
funds, has been made available for such efforts.
   "Many universities are recognizing that their research
base has more commercial value than they realized," says
Alistair Brett, director of technology management and
transfer at Virginia Polytechnic Institute &amp; State
University, Blacksburg. But the ventures go beyond producing
revenue. Universities "are hoping that commercialization
efforts will expand their contact with corporations and also
promote regional economic development," he says.
   Iowa State University is one such school. With an annual
research budget of over $110 million and over 2,500 research
projects, the school figures that it can create a number of
businesses that will generate new revenue and new jobs, says
Michael Crow, director of the Institute for Physical Research
and Technology, a group of 10 research centers at the
university.
   Mr. Crow's organization, in conjunction with a
biotechnology program, now keeps track of all Iowa State
research and even helps obtain patents when needed. The
University's Center for Advanced Technology Developments
checks the potential of a technology.
   In the last three years, the center has started 20
projects, of which 17 are still operating. One of those is
Ames Specialty Metals Co., a company controlled by private
investors that plans to make a new alloy to produce permanent
magnets. To test the economic viability of the Iowa State
research, which was funded by the Department of Energy, the
center built a pilot manufacturing plant for $800,000.
   When it was determined that the company could produce on a
larger scale, the center helped estimate manufacturing costs
and created financial models for a business plan. Edge
Technologies Inc., a local high-tech investment company,
later provided $500,000 and recruited an executive to help
start a full-fledged operation, which began last December.
   The University of Texas is taking a different approach.
Four years ago, its Southwestern Medical Center helped
establish Dallas Biomedical Corp. as a private, for-profit
company with $12.5 million in equity from Southwest
Enterprise Associates, a Dallas venture capital firm, and
Dallas investors. Southwestern Medical Center retains a stake
in the company.
   One of the companies developed by Dallas Biomedical is
GeneScreen Inc. It developed a DNA analysis system for
personal identification and for testing individuals'
susceptibility to certain diseases. Dallas Biomedical
invested in testing to determine whether the system worked.
It then raised $3.75 million for a start-up that would market
the technology. GeneScreen, which currently earns most of its
revenue from contract work for forensic labs, expects to
break even this year and produce a profit next year.
   Some universities are forming joint projects with other
institutions. The University of Chicago has teamed up with
Argonne National Laboratory to create Argonne-Chicago
Development Corp., or Arch. The not-for-profit corporation
will develop and market inventions produced by scientists at
the two institutions.
   Amid the rush to market inventions, many universities
worry that commercialism could taint research and lead to
financial conflicts of interest. To counter such criticism,
Johns Hopkins University and the Johns Hopkins Health Systems
established an independent technology-development enterprise,
Dome Corp., in 1985. Through a business development incubator
and a $5 million seed fund, Dome will select projects with
commercial potential. It then will help sell the technology
or create companies that can market their products.
   Dome won't have exclusive rights to the research; it will
have to bid for rights along with other interested parties,
says James McComas, president and chief executive officer of
Dome. And because the commercialization will be conducted by
researchers employed by Dome, "we should avoid many of the
sticky conflict issues some institutions face," he says.
   Because the new university programs are so young, it is
unclear whether they will significantly boost university
revenue or create many viable businesses. But administrators
expect more universities to attempt the strategy. Says Mr.
Brett of Virginia Polytechnic: "All you need is a large
enough research base. You don't have to be an MIT or a
Stanford."
   ---
                    Research Leaders
                                                                                                       

   U.S. univerisities receiving the most U.S. patents in 1989
                                                                                                       

                                               NO. OF
                                               PATENTS
                                                                                                       

   Massachusetts Institute of Technology         102
   University of California                       81
   California Institute of Technology             59
   University of Texas                            51
   Stanford University                            43
   University of Florida                          42
   University of Minnesota                        41
   Iowa State University                          28
   University of Wisconsin                        28
   Johns Hopkins University                       27
                                                                                                       

   Source: Association of University Technology Managers
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Microsoft, Everex File
   Suit Against Alleged
   Product Counterfeiters
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT EVRX
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   REDMOND, Wash. -- Microsoft Corp. said it and Everex
Systems Inc. together filed suit against 16 individuals and
companies, accusing them of producing and distributing
counterfeit copies of a Microsoft computer product.
   Microsoft, a software company, and Everex, a Microsoft
licensee, alleged that the group sold some 30,000 fake MS-DOS
operating systems under Everex's ParCorp. label. An operating
system controls the basic functions of a computer. Everex has
a licensing agreement with Microsoft under which it produces
and markets the MS-DOS operating system under the ParCorp.
trade name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Microsoft sells more than 10 million MS-DOS products a
year.
   Microsoft said the 16 defendants include J&amp;S International
Co. of San Jose, Calif.; Benny S. Lee, Norman Chan and Susan
Chan, all of Fremont, Calif.; and Micro-Generation, a
division of Continental Technolgoy Inc., located in Edison,
N.J. None could be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Gain,
   Bond Prices
   Slip Slightly
   ---
   Trading Is Desultory
   Ahead of Price Data;
   Dollar Ends Mixed
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After four days of declines from record highs,
stock prices rebounded, but only on meager volume, as some
investors ventured into blue chips to put idle cash back to
work.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 30.19 to close at
2892.57.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bond prices wound up only slightly lower than Friday's
level in light trading, despite an early morning decline led
by foreign selling. The dollar continued to hold its own,
largely because of weakness in other currencies.
   Activity in the stock and bond markets was muted in
anticipation of crucial inflation indicators to be released
this week. The producer price index is due Thursday and the
consumer price index Friday. Investors will be looking for
confirmation that inflation isn't nearly as bad as the
numbers earlier this year indicated.
   Lower inflation is good news for stock prices because
subdued inflation can help company profits. Bond prices also
benefit.
   Meanwhile, both small and large investors seem to have
taken last week's decline as a chance to move more cash into
the stock market. But the market remains troublesome for some
investors.
   "We had a pullback last week, and now it's off to the
races again," said Frank A. Cappiello Jr., president of San
Francisco-based money manager McCullough, Andrews &amp;
Cappiello. Noting that trading was narrow, he said, "What
worries us is the activity seems to be mainly in blue-chip
and story stocks," or companies in unique and attractive
situations.
   Another bothersome element, Mr. Cappiello said, is the
failure of the Dow Jones Utility Average to keep pace with
the rest of the market. Yesterday, the industrial average
rose a little more than 1%, while the utilities index gained
0.76 to close at 213.22, a gain of a less than 0.4%.
   The utility average "has to start moving rapidly to a new
high," he said. "Otherwise, the rationale for this market
rise doesn't exist." Rising prices for utility stocks --
which like bonds are helped by the prospect of lower interest
rates -- tend to indicate that investors believe interest
rates are going down.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in slow trading, with 119.6 million
shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange, down
from 142.6 million Friday. Advancing issues outnumbered
decliners, 918-563.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices eased slightly. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond inched up to 8.44%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar ended mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6930 marks and 154.77 yen, compared
with 1.6975 marks and 153.49 yen late Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Riegle, Seeking Political Advantage,
   Paints Gloomy Picture of S&amp;L Cleanup
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In the search for political advantage on the
savings-and-loan mess, the chairman of the Senate Banking
Committee gave a gloomy assessment of the Bush
administration's cleanup efforts so far.
   In an unusually detailed, two-hour speech before an empty
Senate chamber, Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) painstakingly
tried to put the administration on the hook for snags in the
S&amp;L industry bailout, providing potential fodder for the
Democrats to exploit in future elections.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He chided the administration for the slow sale of seized
S&amp;L assets, for not pursuing fraud aggressively and for only
recently acknowledging that cleanup costs will more than
double from its original estimates to more than $300 billion
over the next 10 years.
   Sen. Riegle was careful not to make inflammatory
accusations; he is himself under investigation by the Senate
Ethics Committee for his association with Charles Keating,
who presided over the costliest thrift failure ever. "It is
still too early to predict with confidence how the entire
thrift-reform and resolution process will work out in the
years ahead," he said.
   But with discussions looming on how to raise new funds
necessary for the bailout next year, he urged Congress to
agree only to a predetermined sum -- not to allow the
administration to spend whatever it deems necessary, as
suggested by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady. "I believe
the blank-check approach could be dangerous and inconsistent
with Congress's oversight responsibilities," Sen. Riegle
said.
   Thus, every time the administration requested new funds,
it would be called on the carpet by Congress to explain why
the cleanup costs had increased.
   A senior Treasury official defended the thrift-bailout law
and the progress of the cleanup, and said that in the current
quarter it would very likely meet its ambitious goal of
selling 141 insolvent S&amp;Ls. Slow sales of government-seized
S&amp;L real estate, the official said, can't be helped, and
result from depressed real-estate prices. "It's a reality of
the markets," he said.
   With Congress also taking heat for the S&amp;L mess, Sen.
Riegle took pains to say that the cleanup law was drafted by
the Bush administration, and that responsibility for its
success or failure should rest with the administration. "No
major substantive amendments were added on the Senate floor,"
he said. That included the administration's plan to raise
funds through special bonds, which will pile another $12
billion in interest costs on the final bill.
   He was more critical of the administration's slow sale of
thrifts and their bad investments, while acknowledging "it's
an enormous job." To date, he said, all sales of sick thrifts
have left bad investments on the government's hands for later
sale. The administration, he said, "has barely started on its
real asset-disposition job."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Southwest Seen Leading Nation
   In Economic Growth Up to 2000
   ----
   By Tuesday Georges
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Southwestern states are expected to lead the
nation in economic growth through the end of the century,
continuing the shift in economic activity to the Sun Belt,
the Commerce Department projects.
   Nevada and Arizona will show the fastest growth rates in
personal income, jobs and population between 1988 and 2000,
the department predicts in a new report. One of every six
jobs created during that period will be in California, the
report says. And Florida, Utah and Hawaii also are expected
to grow rapidly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report points to continued softness in northeastern
states. While total personal income is expected to grow 46.2%
after inflation in Nevada and 40.6% in Arizona, it is
expected to expand only 21.6% in New England. Nationally, the
department expects personal income to grow 26.2% by 2000.
   New England surged ahead of most of the country in
economic growth through much of the 1980s. But in 1988, its
fortunes began to turn. Also during the past decade,
increasing numbers of people and companies began to move to
the Sun Belt, which stretches from the Southeast to the
Southwest.
   Kenneth Johnson, a Commerce Department analyst, said
Arizona and Nevada "have exhibited strength already over the
last few years. They have shown a competitive {growth}
advantage over the other states and we expect that to
continue into the year 2000."
   In particular, growth in the transportation equipment and
service industries will drive economic gains in the two
states, said another department economist, Hugh Knox.
   According to the report, four states -- California, New
York, Texas and Florida -- will account for one-third of the
nation's projected $4.1 trillion total personal income by
2000.
   While California will continue to have the highest total
personal income in the country, Connecticut will continue to
have the highest per capita income, rising a projected 10.8%
by the end of the century to $20,503 after adjusting for
inflation.
   That would be 34% above the national average of $15,345.
New Jersey, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia also
are projected to have per capita incomes 20% above the
national average.
   Of the 18.9 million new jobs expected to be created in the
U.S. by the end of the century, 3.4 million will be in
California. Florida and Texas are projected to add more than
a million new jobs each.
   The projections suggest that Texas will continue to
recover from the downturn caused by a plunge in oil prices in
the 1980s. Its per capita income is expected to increase
18.2% between 1988 and 2000, compared with a meager 3.7% rise
between 1979 and 1988.
   Nevada is projected to experience the fastest population
growth -- 29.8% -- followed by Arizona's 21.4% growth and
Florida's 18.2%. In Wyoming, West Virginia, and Louisiana,
population is predicted to fall slightly.
   ---
                          Job Growth
                                                                                                       

   Percent change in total employment, by region
                                                                                                       

                                   1979-88     1988-2000*
                                                                                                       

 Total United States                 18.7%        14.3%
 New England                         24.9         12.3
 Mideast                             16.0         11.0
 Great Lakes                          8.0         11.8
 Plains                              11.2         11.8
 Southeast                           24.2         14.9
 Southwest                           21.9         15.2
 Rocky Mountain                      16.9         17.0
 Far West                            27.1         20.8
                                                                                                       

   *Estimate and Source: U.S. Dept. of Commerce
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   HEWLETT-PACKARD Co. says use of a non-Hewlett toner in its
laser printers does not, by itself, affect the overall
warranty on the printer. "However," the company says, "if an
HP LaserJet failure or damage is found to be directly
attributable to the use of a non-Hewlett toner cartridge,
Hewlett will not repair the printer free-of-charge."
Wednesday's Form + Function column said Hewlett "warns that
anyone who uses refilled toner may void the warranty."
   (See: "FORM + FUNCTION" -- WSJ June 6, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   TIME WARNER Inc.'s loan agreement with Pathe
Communications Corp. stipulates that additional financing
procured by Pathe be in equity, not debt. The terms were
misstated in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Marketing &amp; Media: Time Warner to Amend Loan to
Pathe, Which Is Seeking to Acquire MGM/UA" -- WSJ June 8,
1990)
   ---
   HENLEY GROUP Inc.'s Pneumo Abex Corp. subsidiary will
continue to own its brakes division after Henley distributes
35% of Pneumo Abex to shareholders. Henley, which dropped an
earlier plan to spin off 100% of Pneumo Abex to shareholders,
would have purchased the brakes division from Pneumo Abex
under the earlier plan, Henley said, clarifying a story in
yesterday's edition.
   (See: "Henley Modifies Plan To Spin Off 2 Units" -- WSJ
June 11, 1990)
   ---
   MEDTRONIC Inc.'s bid for Bio-Medicus Inc. calls for
Bio-Medicus holders to exchange 3.1 shares for one Medtronic
share, subject to certain stock-price provisions. In
yesterday's edition, the ratio was misstated.
   (See: "Business Brief -- Bio-Medicus Inc.: Medical-Gear
Maker Accepts Medtronic's Sweetened Bid" -- WSJ June 11,
1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justices Uphold President's Authority
   To Send National Guard Outside U.S.
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   HMX TAXES F
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court upheld a federal law that
gives the president the power to mobilize the National Guard
for training missions outside the U.S. without approval of
state officials.
   By a 9-0 vote, the high court upheld the constitutionality
of a 1986 federal law that said the approval of a state's
governor isn't required for the president to send the Guard
abroad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 1986 law was challenged by the governors of Minnesota
and Massachusetts in separate lawsuits objecting to the use
of the Guard for training missions in Central America. The
objections that Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis voiced
concerning this use of the Guard were raised as a campaign
issue by some opponents in the 1988 Democratic presidential
primaries, who tried to make him appear weak on national
security.
   Prior to 1986, federal law required that a state's
governor approve calls to active training, but the 1986
amendment deleted the governor's authority. The two state
officials argued that the amendment violated a provision of
the Constitution that leaves it to the states to mobilize and
train the "militia."
   A federal appeals court in Boston rejected the
Massachusetts' claim; a federal appeals court in St. Louis at
first ruled in the Minnesota case that the 1986 amendment was
unconstitutional, but then reversed itself.
   In an opinion written by Justice John Stevens, the high
court said the Constitution clearly gives Congress the power
to order the National Guard to active duty without approval
of state officials. (Perpich vs. Department of Defense)
                                                                                                       

   Penalizing Lawyers
                                                                                                       

   The justices ruled, 8-1, that federal appeals courts
should defer to the decisions of federal district judges to
fine lawyers for filing frivolous lawsuits. The decision will
make it tougher for lawyers to win on appeal of their fines.
   In an opinion written by Justice Sandra O'Connor, the
court ruled that appeals courts should reverse fines imposed
on lawyers only if the judge "abused his discretion." This is
legal terminology for a lenient standard that gives district
judges wide leeway.
   The decision involved what is known as Rule 11 of the
procedures governing civil lawsuits in federal court. Adopted
in 1938, the rule was amended in 1983 to give judges the
authority to impose sanctions on lawyers to discourage the
filing of frivolous cases.
   The justices resolved three issues. First, they ruled that
a plaintiff's decision to get their lawsuit dismissed doesn't
preclude a federal judge from considering whether to impose
sanctions on the lawyer. Second, the justices said the
appeals courts should defer to district judges in such cases.
Finally, the high court said lawyers who appeal Rule 11
sanctions can't be penalized further by having to pay the
winner's legal fees for the appeal.
   The high court ruling is a defeat for Cooter &amp; Gell, a
Washington law firm that was engaged in a long legal battle
on behalf of a competitor of Hartmarx Corp. A federal
district court ordered the law firm to pay $21,452 and
required the competitor, Danik Inc., to pay $10,701. (Cooter
&amp; Gell vs. Hartmarx Corp.)
                                                                                                       

   State Taxes
                                                                                                       

   Just a week after deciding two state tax cases that tied
the high court in knots for two years, the justices agreed to
hear two more challenges to state business taxes, one in
Florida, the other in Georgia.
   In one case, the court agreed to hear a challenge by James
B. Beam Distilling Co. to a Georgia liquor tax that the
company paid from 1982 through 1984. The tax was amended in
1985, but the company sued for a refund of $2.4 million it
had already paid. The company said the tax discriminated by
charging higher rates on liquor manufactured in other states
and imported into Georgia.
   The Georgia Supreme Court ruled that the tax before 1985
was unconstitutional since it directly interfered with
interstate commerce. But the state court, saying that Beam
wasn't entitled to a refund, said the ruling applied only to
future cases.
   Last week, in a Florida case, the justices ruled that
states must give taxpayers relief if their taxes are ruled
retroactively unconstitutional. But the court was deeply
divided about when such rulings should be retroactive. The
Beam case gives the court another chance to clarify when
decisions that taxes are unconstitutional should be applied
retroactively. (James B. Beam Distilling Co. vs. Georgia)
   In the other case, Ford Motor Co.'s financing unit, Ford
Motor Credit Co., challenged a tax assessment by the state of
Florida of $2 million including penalties and interest for
1980 through 1982.
   The Florida tax is imposed on intangible property. In this
case, the tax was imposed on the value of outstanding car
loans extended by Ford and owed by Florida residents for cars
manufactured in other states and shipped to Florida.
   The company argued that the tax was imposed in a way that
would expose the same property to multiple taxation by
Florida and other states where the company does business. The
company argued that this is unconstitutional.
   But a Florida appeals court upheld the tax. The appeals
court said that the U.S. Supreme Court has never said the
Constitution prohibits this risk of overlapping taxation when
it comes to property taxes.
   Yesterday, the justices agreed to hear Ford's appeal.
(Ford Motor Credit Co. vs. Florida)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLE MCD EUROP JCI LABOR DD
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WILL CLEANER AIR cost jobs or add them?
   The debate heats up as Congress moves to enact a major
cleanup bill. The United Mine Workers sees lost jobs in
high-sulfur coal areas, and steelmakers say the tough Senate
bill could cost 25,000 jobs in closing most coke ovens by
2020. "We would be exporting pollution and the jobs" by
buying coke abroad, says Bethlehem Steel. Chrysler sees
eventual harm to employment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the work required to reduce acid rain will add 30,000
jobs, says Pure Air, an Allentown, Pa., firm involved in a
joint Indiana venture. Use of more coal-consuming ethanol
could add 2,000 jobs, says the Renewable Fuels Association.
Westmoreland Coal and Walker Manufacturing may add jobs, for
low-sulfur coal and auto catalytic-converter production.
   Michael Silverstein, who edits an environmental-investing
directory, says the bill moves work from polluters to
"polluter cleaner-uppers."
                                                                                                       

   HAPPY FATHER'S DAY. Now help out around the house, please.
   Fully 86% of women and 84% of girls in a poll by Working
Mother magazine and Walt Disney's Epcot Center say Dad,
breadwinner or not, should help with household chores and
child rearing; 69% of men and 64% of boys agreed. "America's
view of a father's role . . . has shifted dramatically," says
social psychologist Carin Rubenstein, on the poll of 2,962
adults and children.
   Two-thirds of the women and 55% of men said the sexes can
equally raise children. Only 38% of the boys believe women
are as good as men at disciplining; 67% of girls think so.
Dad doesn't do more with his children because he works hard,
say 33% of men, 36% of boys, and 24% of women and girls. More
women than men say he just doesn't want to get involved.
                                                                                                       

   GIVE WORKERS MORE SAY, and they'll do more.
   That's a key message of a report due next week by a
35-member Commission on the Skills of the American Work
Force. The study of 400 employers will urge reorganizing work
-- to emphasize teamwork, rigorous training and high skills,
to be more competitive with foreign nations. But most U.S.
firms opt for a doomed low-wage, rapid-turnover strategy,
says Ira Magaziner, the panel's chairman.
   Governments must require high-schoolers to meet firm
educational standards and train non-college graduates better
for job demands, says business strategist Magaziner. "The
situation will get worse" without action, adds former Labor
Secretary Ray Marshall, a commission co-chairman.
   Teamwork urged by the panel would often be deemed cheating
in the classroom, says Bill Brock, also a panel chief and
former labor secretary.
                                                                                                       

   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT sides with female workers and the Auto
Workers union, challenging a Johnson Controls "fetal
protection" policy that bars women of childbearing age from
jobs exposing them to lead. In a Supreme Court brief, the
department said Johnson didn't provide strong reasons for
fertility-based discrimination.
                                                                                                       

   A SIMPLE BINGO GAME it wasn't, the feds say, as a grand
jury indicts six former or current Steelworkers union
officials, five bingo-game operators and a Catholic priest,
in Gary, Ind., for violations including illegal gambling and
embezzling union funds. The Labor Department's inspector
general and the IRS had investigated.
                                                                                                       

   WORKERS URGED to strike last week in East Germany by
retail, restaurant and other business groups responded
mildly, with walkouts of only about an hour. The businesses
are concerned that western competitors will grab big parts of
their market after the two German states move in July toward
merging economies.
                                                                                                       

   IMMIGRANT NURSES involved in a strike against the Kaiser
Permanente Health Plan in Los Angeles won't be deported, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service said. The Service
Employees union had sued, after the INS ruled in January that
H-1, or temporary, workers who strike aren't maintaining
required "status."
                                                                                                       

   THE YOUTH SUPPLY shrinks for summer jobs, but more seekers
often apply.
   The 16-to-24-year-old force will reach 24 million in July,
down 930,000 from last summer, the Bureau of Labor Statistics
says, as that population narrows. Some hotel and resort
owners say it's harder to find youngsters who want to work.
But more-vigorous promotion of pay as high as $7 an hour and
perks such as free bus service to work spurred 7,000
applications, up from 4,000 last year, for Six Flags Great
Adventure, in Jackson, N.J.
   Bids doubled for work at the Garden State Arts Center in
Holmdel, N.J. A job fair produced the surge, helped by a
slowing economy, officials say. Long Island's Town of
Hempstead boosted starting pay for parks and beach workers to
$4.50 an hour from $4, to compete with fast-food firms, and
applications rose more than 10%.
   Walt Disney World uses a three-day Food Feast to lure
reluctant youths for food and drink service jobs.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: The Dole Foundation will honor McDonald's
for an "exemplary" record of employing persons with
disabilities; the President's Committee on Employment of
People with Disabilities similarly honors Du Pont. . . . No
hard feelings: Sara Lee, cited by the Labor Department last
year for workplace-safety violations, honors Labor Secretary
Elizabeth Dole for outstanding achievements in government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Norway's Consumer Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   OSLO -- Norway's consumer prices rose 0.2% for the month
ending May 15 and were up 3.9% from the year-earlier period,
the state Central Bureau of Statistics said.
   Travel and transportation showed the sharpest increase,
with that May index up 1.1% from April and 2.1% from May
1989, the bureau said. Food prices declined 0.1% in May from
April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eastman Kodak Co.:
   Company Introduces 4 New
   Beginners' Compact Cameras
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EK
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seeking to boost its share in the inexpensive 35mm-camera
market, Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y., introduced four
new compact cameras designed for beginners.
   The Star 35 cameras, which have suggested retail prices
from $44.95 to $79.95, will be smaller than slightly more
expensive existing Kodak models. All are designed for
point-and-shoot photography popular with beginners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Industry analysts said the line extension isn't a
significant investment for Kodak, but the company hopes the
move will increase sales of film and paper. Each new camera
comes with a roll of Kodacolor Gold 200 color-print film and
two AA-size Kodak Photolife alkaline batteries.
   Kodak had dropped out of the 35mm market in the 1970s.
Since the company re-entered the market in the mid-1980s, it
has concentrated on budget-minded starting photographers and
left the higher-margin market primarily to Japanese
companies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Triton Group Posts
   Loss of $12.8 Million
   For Its First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMI TGL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LA JOLLA, Calif. -- Triton Group Ltd. posted a fiscal
first-quarter loss of $12.8 million, or $1.01 a share, and
said that it expects a net loss for the full year ending Jan.
31, 1991.
   In the year-ago quarter, Triton had a loss of $730,000, or
seven cents a share. Revenue in the quarter ended April 30
rose 70% to $72.3 million from $42.6 million, mainly
reflecting the acquisition of a majority interest in liquor
retailer Liquor Barn Inc. in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Triton said its widened loss reflects higher interest
expense and amortization of acquisition costs for Liquor Barn
and restaurant chain Western Sizzlin Inc., in which Triton
acquired a majority stake in 1988, as well as a markdown of
certain security investments. Triton said its $140 million
investment in Fuqua Industries Inc., a consumer-products and
services concern, returned less than 5% in the quarter on an
annualized basis.
   "Except for the nonrecurring investment write-downs, our
operating results . . . were close to plan," said Charles R.
Scott, chairman and chief executive officer. "We knew when
(the) Western Sizzlin and Liquor Barn (stakes) were acquired
that interest costs and amortization would result in losses
during the building phase."
   Triton, a diversified holding company, said that its other
two majority-owned businesses are operating profitably,
although "the effects of the softening economy are beginning
to appear." The first-quarter operating performance of Fuqua,
in which the company holds a 24% stake, improved.
   "We believe that most of Triton's bad news is over, but
because of the new acquisitions, we do not expect the company
to be profitable at the bottom line for fiscal 1991," Mr.
Scott said. Intermark Inc., also based in La Jolla, owns 52%
of Triton's stock and the two firms recently agreed to merge,
pending various approvals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrial Average Climbs 30.19
   As Blue Chips, Growth Issues Surge
   ----
   By Craig Torres and David Wilson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Blue-chip and growth stocks advanced sharply
yesterday as investors began their ritual of sprucing up
portfolios before the quarter's end.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered nearly all of
its 38.59-point net loss of last week, advancing 30.19
yesterday to 2892.57.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock-index arbitrage buy programs, especially in the
Major Market Index, which mimics the industrial average,
helped push up many blue-chip issues sharply. "There was an
explosion in buy programs limited to 20 stocks," said Thomas
Gallagher, head of Oppenheimer's block trading department.
   Broader market measures lagged behind the industrial
average. Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.92 to
361.63; the gain was equivalent to a 21-point rise in the Dow
industrials. The New York Stock Exchange composite index went
up 1.37 to 197.42 and the Dow Jones Equity Market index rose
2.51 to 336.89. Advancing issues outpaced decliners on the
New York Stock Exchange, 918 to 563. Big Board volume totaled
only 119,550,000 shares.
   Although investors loaded up on blue chips such as Boeing
and Chevron, and growth stocks such as Home Depot, they also
sold some financial stocks they don't want to show on the
books at quarter's end.
   Boeing soared 3 1/2 to 58 1/2 and led the list of
most-active Big Board issues, as 2.3 million shares changed
hands. As expected, Korean Airlines made commitments for 23
of the company's 747-400 jumbo jets; the pact, valued at $4.8
billion, represents the third large order Boeing has received
from Asia in recent weeks.
   Among growth issues: Walt Disney jumped 3 1/4 to 126 5/8,
Wal-Mart Stores rose 1 to 60 3/8, Gap Inc. gained 1 7/8 to 58
and Home Depot rallied 2 to 58 3/4.
   Energy stocks, which were battered last week as oil prices
fell sharply, rebounded on bargain hunting. Exxon gained 7/8
to 47 7/8, Chevron rose 1 1/8 to 70 5/8, Texaco went up 3/8
to 57 7/8, Amoco climbed 7/8 to 51 1/2 and Mobil gained 5/8
to 62. In the oil field-services group, Schlumberger rose 3/8
to 56 5/8, Halliburton climbed 1/2 to 45 7/8 and Baker Hughes
added 7/8 to 27 7/8.
   One exception was Unocal, which dropped 1/4 to 28 3/4.
Union Exploration Partners, in which the company has a stake
of about 95%, skidded 2 1/4 to 16 after disclosing plans to
convert from a partnership form of ownership into a
corporation.
   Financial shares, which attracted strong buying interest
in recent weeks, were sold by many investors who are
forecasting a slower decline in interest rates than
previously expected, according to one trader. Citicorp fell
1/2 to 23 1/2 on 1.1 million shares; Chase Manhattan declined
1/2 to 26 1/2. American Express, a stock in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, fell 1/8 to 30 5/8.
   Dividend-related trading swelled volume in Occidental
Petroleum, which rose 3/8 to 27 and ranked second on the
most-active list at 1.6 million shares. The stock has a
dividend yield of 9.3%; shareholders of record yesterday will
get the company's next quarterly payout.
   Environmental Systems fell 2 to 12 3/4. Arizona's governor
asked state regulators to extend the period for public
comments on the company's request for a permit to operate a
hazardous-waste treatment plant.
   HomeFed gained 1 1/4 to 33 5/8. Justin Mamis, a technical
analyst at Gordon Capital, recommended the issue; last week,
analysts at Montgomery Securities and Dean Witter Reynolds
reiterated their buy recommendations.
   Foxboro climbed 1 1/2 to 30. The company said it is
exploring the possibility of a strategic alliance, which may
involve the sale of an equity stake or the entire company.
   H.H. Robertson added 5/8 to 11 7/8. USA Today reported
that a group headed by New York investor Douglas Kass is
expected to offer about $15 a share, or $100 million, for the
company this week.
   Manville slid 3/8 to 7 1/8. The chairman of the trust
established by the company for the settlement of
asbestos-related claims said the trust is exploring the
possible sale of Manville stock as one of several
alternatives for dealing with a cash shortfall.
   Floating Point Systems remained unchanged at 1 3/4. The
company signed a letter of intent to sell $14.5 million of a
new series of convertible preferred stock to an institutional
investor, which wasn't identified.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 1.15
to 362.32. Volume totaled 9,360,000 shares.
   Sierra Health Services went down 3/4 to 6 5/8. A jury
ruled against the company in a class-action suit over alleged
securities law violations and ordered that Sierra pay a $6.5
million settlement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CF Income Partners Limited Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CFI
</CO>
<LP>
   CF INCOME PARTNERS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (Los Angeles) --
Jeffrey H. Lynford, 42 years old, was elected vice chairman
and chief financial officer of CF Management Corp., the
general partner of CF Income. As chief financial officer, he
succeeds Raymond H. Olinger, 61, who retires July 1. The post
of vice chairman is newly created. Mr. Lynford is chairman of
Wellsford Group Inc., an affiliate of Wellsford Capital
Partners Limited Partnership, which acquired 20% of CF
Management late last year. CF Partners invests in
income-producing multifamily residential, commercial and
industrial properties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Grossman's Inc.:
   Retailer Expects Earnings
   `Below' Year-Ago Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GROS
</CO>
<LP>
   Grossman's Inc. said second-quarter net income will be
"well below" the year-ago $10.6 million, or 40 cents a share.
   The Braintree, Mass., building-supplies retailer blamed
the decline on poor business conditions in the Northeast and
the expense of launching a new merchandising plan with name
brands, broader selection and lower prices. It said that
"customer reaction to the program has been heartening."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said its May sales on continuing
operations rose 4.1% to $78.5 million from $75.5 million in
May 1989. For the June quarter last year, Grossman's reported
sales of $343.9 million. Sales for the quarter from
continuing operations were $237.9 million.
   Grossman's sold its operations in the Northwest in the
year-ago third quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Energy Agency Told to Pay Fine to Ohio
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk and Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SIE S MVL DAL
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court ruled that the Energy Department
must pay $250,000 in civil penalties to the state of Ohio
stemming from environmental problems at the nuclear weapons
facility in Fernald, Ohio.
   The decision by the 6th U.S. Circuit Appeals Court in
Cincinnati, which could have an impact nationwide,
essentially bars the federal government from claiming that it
is immune from suits under state and federal pollution laws.
The decision is believed to be the first by a federal appeals
court to deal with the question.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ohio Attorney General Anthony J. Celebrezze Jr. said:
"This is an issue that's been a thorn in the side of states
and environmentalists for quite some time." Twenty-four other
states filed friend-of-the-court briefs backing Ohio.
   The Energy Department had claimed that it had sovereign
immunity against paying civil damages under the federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Clean Water
Act. In Washington, a spokeswoman said the department hadn't
seen the ruling and would have no comment until it was
reviewed by Energy and Justice Department attorneys.
   The federal government's 1,050-acre facility at Fernald
processes uranium for nuclear weapons production. Ohio and
the Energy Department have been battling over pollution
problems at the facility since 1984, when the state
Environmental Protection Agency first inspected the facility.
   In 1986, Ohio sued the Energy Department and private
contractors who had operated the Fernald facility, alleging
that they improperly disposed of hazardous wastes and
released radioactive materials into the environment and
polluted surface and ground water.
   In 1988, Energy Department officials acknowledged that the
government had ordered a previous operator of the Fernald
facility to continue dumping radioactive and hazardous wastes
at the site over a period of years. Late that year, the
department agreed to pay Ohio more than $1 million to settle
two suits. The department also agreed to allow Ohio to
inspect the facility and to oversee its cleanup. The
department has said it expects to spend $500 million to
improve Fernald and to bring it into compliance with Ohio
law.
   ---
   SHAREHOLDER GROUP wins $6.5 million in suit against health
company.
   A U.S. District Court jury in Las Vegas made the award to
certain shareholders of Sierra Health Services Inc. who had
charged the company with securities-laws violations related
to its 1985 initial public offering.
   The jury ruled Friday that Sierra Health and two of its
officers -- Anthony M. Marlon, chairman, president and chief
executive officer, and David B. Willis, a former director,
senior vice president and chief financial officer -- made
misrepresentations and omissions about a computer-information
system described in the offering prospectus. Mr. Willis left
the company in 1986.
   "The case isn't over yet," said a spokeswoman for the Las
Vegas company, which operates six subsidiaries including a
health maintenance organization and an insurance company. She
said the defendants "disagree" with the verdict and plan to
ask the court to set it aside. If the motion fails, the
defendants will appeal the decision, she said.
   Mr. Marlon said in a brief statement that the company has
the financial resources to pay the award if it is ultimately
upheld. The verdict "should have no impact on the company's
current and ongoing day-to-day activities," he said.
   Last year, Sierra Health had net income of $3.2 million,
or 56 cents a share, on revenue of $136.7 million. One
securities analyst has estimated that the company will earn
$5.3 million, or 90 cents a share, this year. In American
Stock Exchange composite trading, Sierra Health shares fell
75 cents to $6.625.
   The lawsuit, certified as a class action, was filed by
stockholder David Gould in Oct. 1986. The class includes all
holders who purchased Sierra Health's common stock during the
period from April 11, 1985 through Aug. 5, 1986.
   The jury exonerated Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. and Sanford
C. Bernstein &amp; Co., which underwrote the offering and were
named as defendants in the suit.
   ---
   MANVILLE TRUST says it's considering ways to ease current
cash shortfall.
   The trust, whose funding has come under criticism from a
federal judge in New York and a New York state justice, also
filed a court motion informing the judges that it has met
with Manville Corp. to discuss the problem. The trust, which
is independent of the Denver company, was set up as part of
Manville's bankruptcy-court reorganization plan in 1986 to
pay asbestos-personal injury claimants.
   In a statement, the trust's chairman, John C. Sawhill,
defended the trust's handling of the 152,000 claims that have
been filed so far. The trust has said the current shortfall
-- which means new claimants won't be paid for about 20 years
-- was expected. The judges, however, have said that delay is
unacceptable.
   The trust said it is considering various options,
including the immediate sale of Manville stock and borrowing.
It may also start paying claims in installments, so that
claimants won't have to wait several years before receiving
any money at all. The trust, funded by Manville, isn't
scheduled to receive any additional money from the company
until August 1991.
   In its motion filed with Judge Jack B. Weinstein in
federal court in Brooklyn and state Justice Helen Freedman in
Manhattan, the trust said it will file a more detailed
response to the judges' concerns by July 9.
   The judges said they will consider taking action against
the trust and the company if changes aren't made in the
trust's funding.
   ---
   DELTA AIR LINES is sued for libel by pilot fired after
1988 crash.
   In a case filed in state court in Fort Worth, Texas,
Steven Judd alleges that Delta wrongfully blamed him for
contributing to the crash at Dallas/Fort Worth International
Airport that killed 14 people. Mr. Judd was the engineer on a
three-man flight crew that Delta publicly faulted for the
crash. The airline said the crew had failed to properly set
the wing flaps for takeoff. All three were terminated.
   But Mr. Judd asserts that he was exonerated by the
National Transportation Safety Board. Last September, the
NTSB criticized the captain and first officer for "inadequate
cockpit discipline," but not Mr. Judd, the second officer.
The report also said Delta hadn't moved forcefully enough to
correct deficiencies among flight crews.
   In a complaint seeking unspecified damages, Mr. Judd
alleges that Delta's "false public statements" about his role
in the crash damaged his reputation so badly that major
airlines won't hire him. He also accuses Delta of
fraudulently encouraging him to testify favorably for the
airline at NTSB hearings on the accident. A Delta spokesman
said Mr. Judd, as a member of the flight crew, had a
responsibility to ensure that the flaps were properly set.
   "We stand firmly behind our position to fire the pilots,
including second officer Judd," he said.
   ---
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT is looking for a new criminal-division
chief.
   Assistant Attorney General Edward Dennis, the Reagan
administration appointee who now heads the unit, probably
will leave soon, according to people familiar with the
situation. The exact timing of his departure isn't known, and
Mr. Dennis hasn't responded to requests for interviews.
   The Bush administration was expected eventually to name
its own person to the prestigious law enforcement post.
Justice Department officials have denied emphatically that
Mr. Dennis's probable departure has anything to do with a
recent shakeup of Attorney General Dick Thornburgh's personal
staff. "The attorney general has great confidence in Mr.
Dennis's skills," said Dan Eramian, a department spokesman.
"There is no vacancy and nothing announced."
   Mr. Dennis, a former U.S. attorney in Philadelphia, has
served as the Bush administration's spokesman on a variety of
controversial issues, including expansion of the federal
death penalty.
   Mr. Dennis has come under fire from congressional
Democrats who blame him and Mr. Thornburgh for failing to
press white-collar prosecutions with sufficient zeal.
   The white-collar issue has been heightened by the scandals
involving the savings and loan industry and the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.
   ---
   CHARACTER WITNESSES line up in defense of John A. Mulheren
Jr.
   Alan C. Greenberg, chairman of Bear, Stearns & Co.; Samuel
Belzberg, chairman of First City Financial Corp.; and Jack
Nash, general partner of Odyssey Partners all provided
testimony for Mr. Mulheren in his securities fraud trial in
federal court in New York.
   "I would trust everything I have to John Mulheren," Mr.
Greenberg testified. "I just hope that each of my children
has a friend like John Mulheren," added Mr. Greenberg, a
close friend and business associate of Mr. Mulheren's. Mr.
Belzberg, whose Vancouver-based company invested $80 million
in a partnership formerly run by Mr. Mulheren, said he
believed Mr. Mulheren is "a sincere, hard-working, honorable
gentleman."
   Messrs. Greenberg and Belzberg and Mr. Nash, who runs
Odyssey, a New York-based investment firm, all said they knew
nothing about Mr. Mulheren's dealings with Ivan F. Boesky,
the convicted former stock speculator whose cooperation with
the government led to the case against Mr. Mulheren.
   The defense is expected to continue its case today.
   ---
   Wade Lambert in New York and Wayne E. Green in Houston
contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Mitsubishi Metal Corp.:
   Consolidated Pretax Profit
   Increased 27% in Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBM J.MMC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitsubishi Metal Corp. said it posted a 27% rise in
consolidated pretax profit in the year ended March 31 to
34.48 billion yen ($224.5 million) from 27.26 billion yen in
the previous fiscal year.
   The Japanese company's net income jumped 32% to 15.15
billion yen, or 22.55 yen a share, from 11.48 billion yen, or
18.68 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mitsubishi Metal said revenue dropped 7.3% to 789.18
billion yen from 851.29 billion yen because of a change in
accounting policy. The change removed proceeds from gold and
silver trading from the overall revenues category.
   Mitsubishi Metal forecasts sharply higher consolidated
sales and earnings levels for the current fiscal year because
they include predictions for Mitsubishi Mining &amp; Cement Co.'s
performance in the last four months of the year. The two
companies will merge Dec. 1.
   Sales are seen at 914 billion yen, pretax profit at 43
billion yen, and net income at 18.5 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Genlyte Group Inc.:
   Lighting Fixture Maker Sees
   Drop in 2nd-Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLYT
</CO>
<LP>
   Genlyte Group Inc. said second-quarter earnings may plunge
as much as 50% because of construction strikes in Canada and
a slowdown in commercial and residential construction in the
Northeastern U.S.
   The Secaucus, N.J., company, which makes lighting fixtures
and controls under such names as Lightolier, KLP and Hadco,
said it has increased spending to promote sales and maintain
market share, but a spokesman said there could be some
cutbacks in operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "When things are off this much you always have to look at
{cutbacks} even if they're temporary," he said, adding:
"We're watching all our expenses now, obviously." Genlyte
employs 4,000 people and has 21 plants in the U.S., Canada
and Mexico.
   For last year's second quarter, it posted a 14% increase
in net income to $3.4 million, or 26 cents a share; revenue
rose 3% to $128.5 million. For all of 1989, net increased 8%
to $12.3 million, or 95 cents a share; revenue rose 4% to
$511 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Union Exploration
   To Be Converted
   To Delaware Firm
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL UXP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp. said Union Exploration
Partners Ltd., a publicly traded entity that it created five
years ago to help fend off T. Boone Pickens Jr.'s hostile
advances, will be converted from a Texas master limited
partnership to a Delaware corporation, known as Unocal
Exploration Corp.
   Unocal said it was making the switch, in part, because of
recent tax law revisions. Unocal Chairman Richard Stegemeier
also cited "the improving climate for investments in domestic
oil and gas exploration and development." Unocal and its
Union Oil Co. of California subsidiary hold about 95% of the
outstanding units of Union Exploration Partners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "A corporation is now generally a more efficient vehicle
for capital accumulation and reinvestment than a publicly
traded partnership," Mr. Stegemeier said. Earlier this year,
Unocal announced a 22% boost in its annual budgeted spending
for exploration and capital projects.
   Union Oil, which acts as managing general partner of Union
Exploration Partners, projected in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing that the change would be effective Aug. 1.
It is expected that each outstanding Union Exploration
Partners unit will be converted into a new common share of
Unocal Exploration, which will be traded on the New York and
Pacific stock exchanges.
   Before that, on July 25, a special cash distribution will
be made to Union Exploration Partners unitholders of record
July 11. The pay-out will be equal to about 100% of the
partnership's estimated distributable cash for the four
months ended July 31. A Unocal spokesman said the company
couldn't speculate on the amount.
   Unocal said Unocal Exploration's board intends to declare
quarterly common share cash dividends. It said the first
dividend is likely to be 10 cents a share, payable Nov. 15 to
shareholders of record Nov. 1.
   In addition, Union Exploration Partners unit-holders will
be entitled to an extra cash distribution of up to $3 per
unit if, during pre-defined time periods, the average closing
price of Unocal Explorations's common stock falls below
$18.20 a share.
   Eugene Nowak, oil analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds in New
York, said the move should give Unocal "more flexibility." He
said Unocal Exploration could become an acquisition vehicle
for Unocal, which has shed much of its debt in recent years.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Union
Exploration Partners units closed at $16, down $2.25, as
investors faced the prospect of immediate reduced pay-outs.
They have been pocketing from the partnership more than 43
cents a unit quarterly for the past year.
   Unocal closed on the Big Board yesterday at $28.75, down
25 cents.
   As of the end of last year, Union Exploration Partners
controlled about 29% of Unocal's total U.S. proved reserves
of crude oil and about 59% of its U.S. proved reserves of
natural gas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sara Lee Corp.:
   Bakery Operation to Close
   Plant, Dismiss 500 Workers
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   SLE
</CO>
<LP>
   Sara Lee Corp., Chicago, said its bakery operation plans
to close a plant in Deerfield, Ill., and dismiss the
facility's 500 workers by March 1.
   The food concern's bakery unit, which has about 4,500
employees, also said it will trim its administrative staff by
about 100 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Deerfield plant's production of frozen baked goods
will be shifted to other facilities, the company said. The
closure "is necessary for us to remain competitive," said an
official. A spokeswoman noted that the plant, built in 1964,
lacks certain production capabilities the newer plants have.
   Sara Lee has a total world-wide work force of about
100,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RTC to Prematurely Redeem $3.8 Billion
   Of Failed S&amp;L's Mortgage-Backed Bonds
   ----
   By Andrew Bary
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   FSAK
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The government's thrift bailout agency said it will remove
from the market billions of dollars of mortgage-backed bonds
of a failed thrift, dealing a setback to investors who
thought they had locked in high interest rates.
   The Resolution Trust Corp. said it will prematurely redeem
six mortgage-backed bond issues of Franklin Savings
Association with a face value of $3.8 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action raises the prospect that the RTC will call
other bond issues. Earlier, the agency warned investors that
it had the authority to make the move.
   The RTC is the federal agency responsible for rescuing the
nation's troubled thrift industry. It seized Franklin
Savings, a large Kansas-based thrift, in February.
   The move is bad news for investors because the bonds
backed by home and other mortgages were issued when interest
rates were at double-digit levels. Now, investors will have
to scramble to find ways to reinvest the cash.
   The $900 million in cash-paying bonds will be redeemed at
face value. The $2.9 billion of zero-coupon bonds will be
redeemed at their so-called accreted value, which is just a
tiny fraction of face value. The RTC said bondholders will be
paid accrued interest through the date of payment.
   Zero-coupon bonds pay no interest but are issued at a deep
discount. Investors' gains come from the difference between
the discounted purchase price and the face value received at
maturity.
   An RTC spokesman said that, in legal terms, the bonds are
being repudiated under a policy that was adopted by the RTC
in April. The law gives the RTC the authority to pay off
bondholders early and repudiate redemption agreements that
bondholders had with issuers.
   The RTC spokesman said "there will likely be more
repudiations occuring" in the future. "Our decision to do
this is based on the fact that repudiation will save
operating costs for the institutions involved and ultimately
provide savings for taxpayers."
   Market talk about the RTC action, which was made on
Friday, prompted some concern in the mortgage securities
market because the collateral backing the issues will have to
be liquidated to pay off bondholders.
   Because mortgage-backed bonds are overcollateralized as a
protection for bondholders, the collateral liquidation should
yield more than enough funds to meet the payments to
bondholders.
   Analysts said the zero-coupon bondholders are going to be
very unhappy with the RTC action because the accreted value
of the $2.9 billion of zeros is much less than the market
value of the bonds prior to the RTC seizure of Franklin.
   That's because the zeros were sold in 1984, when rates
were at their highs during the past seven years. The Franklin
zeros were sold at double-digit interest rates, reflecting
the rise in Treasury yields to as high as 14% in 1984. By
early this year, with rates much lower than in 1984,
investors were paying a big premium above the accrued value
for the Franklin zeros.
   The RTC action was a surprise to some investors,
considering the RTC faces a federal district court hearing in
Kansas on June 25 about its seizure of Franklin.
   Franklin's former management, headed by ex-chairman Ernest
Fleischer, will ask the federal judge to return the thrift to
the former management, which says the thrift was solvent at
the time of its seizure and, therefore, should never have
been seized.
   John Scowcroft, president of Franklin Savings Corp., the
holding company for Franklin Savings Association before its
seizure, told Dow Jones Capital Markets Report that "we
weren't consulted" by the RTC about the bond call.
   "We think there's no need for the conservatorship. We at
Franklin would never have done this," Mr. Scowcroft said of
the calls. He added that it's his opinion that "you have to
give bondholders the benefit of the bargain." He noted that
some of the zeros are held by pension funds.
   Following are the bond issues that will be redeemed:
Franklin's 1984 offering of $2.9 billion of zero-coupon bonds
due in 2014, 2019 and 2024 and secured by the Government
National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage
Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.; $200
million of Ginnie Mae/Freddie Mac/Fannie Mae-secured 12 1/4%
bonds, Series A, due April 1, 1992; $100 million of 10 3/8%
Freddie Mac/Fannie Mae/Ginnie Mae-secured bonds, Series B,
due Sept. 1, 1993; $200 million of 9% "terms" bonds, due
March 15, 1995; $150 million of 9 1/2% bonds, due Feb. 15,
2018; and $250 million of collateralized floating-rate notes
due December 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Amersham International PLC:
   Pretax Profit Increased 11%
   In Year Ended March 31
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   U.AHM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Amersham International PLC, a British health-care and
life-science group, reported an 11% gain in pretax profit for
the year ended March 31 despite losses on Japanese business
and the costs of a now-canceled diagnostic equipment
development project.
   The company said pretax profit rose to #23.9 million
($40.22 million) from #21.4 million, at the upper end of
market forecasts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after tax, less minorities, or profit attributable
to shareholders, increased 31% to #16.9 million pounds from
#12.9 million. No extraordinary items were reported in the
latest results or for the year-earlier results.
   Sales rose 15% to #207.7 million from #180 million.
   The company said it has canceled the development program
of its automated clinical diagnostic instrument, in favor of
enhancing the existing Amerlite system, a series of tests
that measure hormones and key substances in the blood.
   Amersham said it is reassessing the need for a better
balance between short-term profit and long-term growth and
applying core skills and technologies to real market
opportunities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Coke Bottler in Bolivia
   Reportedly Kidnapped
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KO LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co. said the chairman of its
independent bottler in La Paz, Bolivia, was reported missing
and may have been kidnapped.
   But a company spokesman couldn't confirm wire service
reports that Bolivian industrialist Jorge Lonsdale was nabbed
by hooded gunmen while driving to work yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Witnesses said three men intercepted Mr. Lonsdale's car
three blocks from his office and shot and seriously wounded
his chauffeur, according to wire reports. The bottling
executive was bundled into the trunk of a waiting car which
sped off toward the northern sector of La Paz, the witnesses
told a local radio station.
   Police said they didn't know whether the industrialist was
wounded in the shooting, according to the reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Union Carbide Corp.:
   Sale of Operation by Unit
   Will Boost 2nd-Period Net
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UK G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Union Carbide Chemicals &amp; Plastics Inc. said it expects a
second-quarter earnings increase of 12 cents a share to its
parent, Danbury, Conn.-based Union Carbide Corp., from the
sale of its primary alcohol ethoxylates (PAE) business.
   The sale, to Hoechst Celanese Corp., was announced today,
although the price wasn't disclosed. Hoechst Celanese is a
unit of Hoechst AG, of West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoechst Celanese's acquisition of UCC&amp;P's PAE business
includes inventories and, under a licensing agreement,
associated business technologies. No plants, real property or
personnel are included in the deal, the company said. Union
Carbide Chemicals will continue to manufacture PAEs for
Hoechst Celanese under a multiyear agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Immunex Corp.:
   Investor Richard C. Hedreen
   Increases Holding to 7.91%
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMNX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Richard C. Hedreen, president of R.C. Hedreen Co.,
Seattle, said he raised his stake in Immunex Corp. to the
equivalent of 7.91% of the common shares outstanding.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Hedreen said that as of June 6 he controlled 633,789
Immunex common shares, assuming the conversion of debentures
and the exercise of warrants. His Immunex holdings include
securities held by immediate family members, the filing said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last December, Mr. Hedreen said he controlled the
equivalent of a 6.39% stake in Immunex.
   In the filing, Mr. Hedreen said he acquired his Immunex
holdings solely for investment purposes.
   Seattle-based Immunex, a biotechnology concern, declined
to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tanker Fire Raises Serious Questions
   About Liabilities in Oil Spills Off U.S.
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon and Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   F.AQU RD SC CNPA ARC BP Y.HAF CGP
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The fire-ravaged tanker crippled in the Gulf of Mexico
raises serious questions about responsibility for oil spills
off U.S. shores, even as major oil companies were already
scrambling to limit their liability in such incidents.
   As of late yesterday, the Norwegian-flagged tanker Mega
Borg was lying about 57 miles southeast of Galveston, Texas,
oozing some of the 38 million gallons of crude in the ship's
hold. The ship caught fire early Saturday morning and later
explosions turned surrounding oil-coated seas into an
inferno. Two seamen were killed and two others remain
missing. Fears that the ship might sink raised the specter of
a possible oil spill three times as large as that of the
Exxon Valdez last year off Alaska.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, costs of fighting the fire and containing the oil
were being born by the ship's owner, according to U.S.
authorities. The oil company that produced the crude,
France's Elf Aquitaine Inc., and the Texas facilities where
the oil was headed disavowed responsibility.
   "Elf was not the shipper and we don't believe we're
liable," said a spokesman, who flew to Houston from Paris on
Sunday. But he promised, "We're certainly going to do
anything in conjunction with the Coast Guard and the ship
owner to contain any potential threat to the environment."
   Though no one has suggested that in this case the shipping
company will attempt to avoid liability, the incident renews
concerns over who would -- and more important, could -- pay
to clean up a giant spill off the U.S. Right now, legal
experts say, liability for any spill and cleanup belongs to
tanker operators.
   But unless the tanker is owned and operated by a big oil
company, as the Exxon Valdez is, there's some question about
whether any shipper's pockets would be deep enough to cover a
disaster on that scale. Exxon Corp. so far has shouldered
more than $2 billion in costs in the Alaskan cleanup now
entering its second summer.
   Ironically, yesterday one of the world's largest oil
companies, Royal Dutch/Shell Group took a step directly aimed
at reducing its liabilities as a tanker operator by curbing
the number of its own ships being sent to the U.S. The
company will hire independent ships instead, which means
their owners, not Shell, would face potential spill
liability.
   The Anglo-Dutch oil company decided its ships no longer
will carry about 40,000 of the 180,000 oil barrels they now
haul daily into dozens of U.S. ports, idling as many as four
of the company's 46 owned or managed tankers world-wide.
   Although relatively minor in terms of Shell's overall
shipping, the move could encourage others to follow suit. If
the practice spreads, higher U.S. gasoline prices and
increased risks of oil spills as smaller and less-qualified
operators handle more oil imports could result, some analysts
predicted. The impact "could be a half cent a gallon as an
extra environmental price" for gasoline, said Jeremy Elden,
an oil analyst at U.K. brokers UBS-Phillips &amp; Drew.
   "We have looked again at our {U.S.} shipping operations in
the light of the fallout from the Valdez situation," said Ian
McGrath, managing director of Shell International Marine Ltd.
in London. "We face largely unlimited and uninsurable damage
claims" from spills in the U.S., exposure that doesn't exist
in most other nations, he added.
   Shell's groupwide coverage totals about $1 billion. The
company hasn't "been involved in any spills which we would
call major" in the past decade, Mr. McGrath stressed. But
open-ended U.S. claims for billions of dollars are "the sort
of risk I'm not prepared to take anymore."
   Other shippers may well follow Shell's lead. "When Shell
makes a decision, all the responsible {tanker} owners
seriously consider the matter," said Kristian Fugelsang,
shipping policy manager of the International Association of
Independent Tanker Owners, an Oslo group that represents more
than half of the world's tanker tonnage. The number of
independent operators likely to copy Shell's move "depends on
how they view the prospects for getting insurance," Mr.
Fugelsang said.
   In the Gulf of Mexico accident, parties quickly tried to
distance themselves. "We were buying oil delivered," said
James Smith, president of Crown Central Petroleum Corp. in
Baltimore, which was awaiting delivery of the Angolan crude
to its Pasadena, Texas, refinery. "Title and risk pass only
when the crude passes our reception point. It belongs to
Elf," he said.
   Mr. Smith conceded that the potential for liability if the
Mega Borg were to unleash its full cargo is huge. "It sure is
scary," he said. "It's a consideration every time that you
get something like this."
   The tanker's destination was actually a terminal operated
by Atlantic Richfield Co. in Texas City, Texas, which then
was to transport oil to Crown by pipeline. "We don't have
anything to do with this," said an Arco spokesman in Long
Beach, Calif. "Arco operates the terminal but it was not our
oil."
   Attempts to ascertain the owner of the Mega Borg
illustrate the complexity of the international shipping
industry. The Coast Guard said the U.S. agent for the Mega
Borg is Biehl &amp; Co. in Galveston. A person answering the
phone for Biehl who declined to give his name said, "We have
no comments at this office." He said the ship's owner was
K.S. Mega Borg II of Norway. Efforts to reach the company
there were unsuccessful late yesterday.
   But according to some Norwegian news accounts, the owner
of the tanker is called Hafslund Nycomed A/S. By other
accounts, the ship is just under 50%-owned by a company
called Mosvolds Rederi AS of Norway with the rest held by
private shipowners, and the ship is operated by a separate
concern.
   Concerns about liability raised by the Mega Borg accident
were already growing after a tanker spill just last week in
New York Harbor and another earlier this year near Huntington
Beach, Calif.
   In last week's spill, the buyer of the oil said it wasn't
responsible because the oil never got to its dock. "It's not
ours until it's delivered," said a spokesman for
Houston-based Coastal Corp. "It wasn't delivered." The tanker
owner has been paying for and coordinating the New York
Harbor cleanup.
   But in the California spill, the buyer of the oil, British
Petroleum Co., took a different tack. Though the company
maintains it didn't have to, BP nonetheless coordinated a $30
million cleanup. "The primary responsibility is on the vessel
owner in the event of a spill," said John Morgan, a BP senior
vice president, crude trading and transportation. And BP said
the cost will be passed on to the shipping concern.
   But BP had a clause in its contract with the vessel that
allowed it to step in. "We recognize that many tanker owners
have most of their assets on the water and don't have a
wealth of personnel shoreside who could be quickly mobilized
to clean up a spill like that," said Chuck Webster, BP's
crisis manager who oversaw its mobilization. By quickly
taking charge, BP may also have headed off some of the kind
of criticism that Exxon faced.
   Actually -- though Exxon might not agree -- industry
officials now say that Alaska was fortunate that the ship
operator there was a wealthy oil company like Exxon instead
of a company that operates only tankers. "It's an absolute
certain fact that we're lucky it was Exxon," said Bob Skall,
a U.S. Coast Guard assistant chief in the environmental
response division in Washington.
   The recent series of events may renew pressure on Congress
to send President Bush an oil-spill prevention and liability
bill that has been stalled on Capitol Hill for six months.
The House and Senate passed similar versions of the
legislation last year in the wake of the Exxon Valdez spill
but have been unable to work out deep differences over
whether to require double hulls on tankers.
   Among other provisions, the legislation would raise
minimum and also set maximum liability limits for tankers,
barges and oil facilities, although states could still
enforce their own stricter liability laws. Federal
compensation and cleanup costs beyond the proposed liability
limits would be paid out of a new $1 billion fund financed by
a five-cent-a-barrel tax on domestic and imported oil.
   The oil industry and its shippers have been arguing for
limits. Without ceilings, "you would end up with only the
unscrupulous owners" or single-ship companies "prepared to
take the chance of going" to the U.S., maintained Mr.
Fugelsang of the international tanker owners' group.
   "That's a distinct possibility," said Kenneth Norris, an
attorney for Boyar, Norton &amp; Blair in Houston who is also
commander of the Coast Guard Reserves in Galveston. "A lot of
the shipping companies are shells, so you can't get to the
parents' assets."
   ---
   Barbara Rosewicz contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Some Funds Fly High
   In a Holding Pattern
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SOR MES WFSL MMM
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For a handful of funds, doing well consists of
doing very little.
   Take Source Capital, a publicly traded fund managed by
George Michaelis. This fund typically hangs on to a stock for
three years or so, compared with 15 months for the average
fund manager.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The result of all this inactivity? Mr. Michaelis's fund
has returned 19.3% a year in the past decade, well ahead of
the 17.7% notched up by the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stocks and
16% for the average stock fund.
   The secret: Mr. Michaelis tries to buy low-debt companies
with high, sustainable returns on equity that are trading
below the market's multiple of earnings. And then he holds
the stocks for a long time.
   "If you're successful in identifying such businesses, you
almost win by default," he says. "If you own a portfolio of
companies that earn returns on equity of 20% or 25% over long
periods of time, you can't help but be successful unless you
pay an absurdly high price" for each stock.
   This brand of buy-and-hold investing has been made
respectable by the legendary value investor Warren Buffett,
chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., who is fond of saying,
"Our favorite holding period is forever." Among Berkshire's
core stockholdings are Coca-Cola Co. and Washington Post Co.,
both of which boast impressive returns on equity.
   Mr. Michaelis got his stock picking education at the hands
of Charles Munger, Berkshire's vice chairman and Mr.
Buffett's longtime business partner. Shortly after Mr.
Michaelis joined Source Capital in 1971, a Berkshire
subsidiary bought 20% of Source's stock.
   Why does Mr. Michaelis zero in on companies with high and
sustainable returns on equity? Because a company with a high
return can compound its retained earnings at a brisk pace.
Even if a stock's multiple of earnings doesn't change, the
stock's price will rise as retained earnings are compounded.
A company with a steady 19% return on equity will double its
earnings every four years if it plows back all profit into
the business.
   Mr. Michaelis has recently been buying stock of Minnesota
Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co. The company, whose long list of
products include specialty chemicals, adhesive tape and
printing plates, has averaged a return on equity of almost
21% a year in the past five years, but it trades at less than
15 times its trailing 12-month earnings.
   What convinces Mr. Michaelis that Minnesota Mining can
sustain that high return on equity? "A lot of companies have
high profitability because they have one great business that
carries the show," he says. "This is a very broadly based
business with thousands of product lines. It doesn't have a
franchise as clearly definable as Coca-Cola or Kellogg's corn
flakes. The profitability is more the result of a high level
of research and development."
   Source Capital is a so-called closed-end fund. Unlike a
regular mutual fund, a closed-end fund issues a fixed number
of shares, which then trade publicly just like any other
stock.
   Source's shares closed yesterday at $41 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, just barely below its portfolio
value of $41.04 a share.
   One of Mr. Michaelis's colleagues at Los Angeles's First
Pacific Advisors, Christopher Linden, follows the same
approach for the mutual fund he runs, the $60 million FPA
Perennial. Among the stocks that Mr. Linden thinks are
reasonably priced are Melville Corp., a specialty retailer,
and Washington Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association of Seattle,
one of the best-capitalized thrifts in the country. Both
trade at a discount to the market's price-earnings ratio of
17 but have five-year average returns on equity of well over
20%.
   "Over a long period of time, shareholders' returns and
those of the company are going to be similar," Mr. Linden
says.
   Other mutual funds also follow this buy-and-hold strategy.
Despite the recent lackluster performance of small companies'
stocks, GIT Equity Trust-Special Growth has posted impressive
gains by buying and holding small company stocks. Over the
past five years, the fund has had an average annual portfolio
turnover of less than 26%, compared with 80% for the average
stock mutual fund.
   But in the category of snail-paced trading, Century Shares
Trust takes the prize. The fund has averaged turnover of just
3.5% a year for the past decade. Century Shares, which
concentrates its assets in insurance stocks with high returns
on equity, is a firm favorite of Gerald Perritt, editor of
the Mutual Fund Letter, a Chicago-based newsletter.
   Mr. Perritt began recommending the fund in August 1988
because he thought the fund's holdings would benefit as
interest rates fell and the cycle for property/casualty
insurance rates turned upward.
   But Mr. Perritt now figures that the fund is a good buy
solely for its low-turnover investment strategy. "We're still
looking at the potential for lower interest rates," he says.
"And if you have a recession, the insurance stocks won't be
affected like the cyclicals would be."
   ---
                      Many Happy Returns
                                                                                                       

   Instead of buying and selling like crazy, the funds below
get their edge by investing in top quality companies and then
hanging on for the ride.
                                                                                                       

                   ANNUAL       SALES  5-YEAR*
 FUND            EXPENSES  COMMISSION  RETURN  TELEPHONE
                                                                                                       

 Century Shares
 Trust              0.94%      None    14.3%  (800) 321-1928
                                                                                                       

 FPA Perennial      1.12       6.5%    12.8   (800) 421-4374
                                                                                                       

 GIT Special Growth 1.50       None    16.1   (800) 336-3063
                                                                                                       

 Source Capital     0.96       N.A.    14.3   (800) 421-4374
                                                                                                       

 Lipper All Equity Funds Average       13.9
                                                                                                       

                                        N.A.=Not applicable.
                                                                                                       

 *Annualized total return, which includes share price change
plus dividends, for the five years ended March 31, 1990.
                                                                                                       

 NOTE: Source Capital is a closed-end fund whose shares can
only be bought and sold through a broker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ing. C. Olivetti &amp; Co.:
   Payment Systems Venture
   Set Up With French Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   I.OLV F.ING
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ingenico S.A., a French electrical engineering company,
said it formed a joint venture with a unit of Ing. C.
Olivetti &amp; Co. of Italy to develop and market electronic
payment systems.
   The venture, Eurosix S.p.A., in which Ingenico and
Olivetti's Sixcom will each have 50% stakes, intends to
develop a new standard for the electronic payment markets
that can be used for bank transactions, commerce and
distribution networks. It will focus on systems using
electronic teller or credit cards, and is expected to start
operations in 1991, focusing on the banking market in Europe
initially. Ingenico and Olivetti expect the joint unit's
annual revenue to reach at least 110 billion lire ($88.1
million) between 1991 and 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The partnership also may lead to cooperation in
telecommunications and security. Ingenico said it wants to
tap Olivetti's marketing and distribution acumen in foreign
markets. The venture will be able to take advantage of the
sales infrastructure established by Olivetti Networks &amp;
Systems in the countries where Olivetti is active, Ingenico
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Earth Technology Corp.:
   Third-Quarter Net Income
   Declined on Special Items
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   ETCO
</CO>
<LP>
   Earth Technology Corp. said net income for the third
quarter ended May 25 was reduced about $100,000, or three
cents a share, because of non-operating items.
   The items include a percentage of a restated operating
loss at Waste Processor Industries Inc., in which Earth
Technology holds a 24% stake, and a valuation adjustment from
a deferred compensation arrangement in Earth Technology's
acquisition of Alternative Ways Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, the Long Beach, Calif., company had profit
of $32,952, or one cent a share, on revenue of $6 million.
The consulting firm, specializing in environmental and
engineering issues, said it will release full results in
about 10 days.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Trimble Navigation Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TRIMBLE NAVIGATION Ltd., a Sunnyvale, Calif., maker of
navigational instruments, said it filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering of
three million common shares, of which 2.5 million are being
offered by the company and 500,000 by certain holders. It
said the shares are expected to be priced between $8 and $10
each. Proceeds will be used for retiring debt and for working
capital. Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. is underwriting the
offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ferranti International PLC:
   Chairman Seeks Financing
   To Alter Remaining Lines
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   U.FNT
</CO>
<LP>
   Ferranti International PLC's chairman, Eugene Anderson, is
seeking new financing arrangements to help bankroll his
planned restructuring of the troubled British electronics
concern's remaining businesses.
   Mr. Anderson said he has asked Ferranti's bankers "to
refinance us to give us the working capital we need." He said
he wants "to complete those {financing} negotiations this
month." A U.S.-born corporate troubleshooter, he took the
Ferranti post in February after the company had a crisis last
fall, owing to an alleged $363 million fraud at a big U.S.
unit, which led Ferranti's 29 banks to craft an emergency
financing accord. Mr. Anderson said he wants to replace that
pact with "a more normal banking relationship," in which the
number of banks may drop to as few as 10 or 15. The new
arrangement would enable Ferranti to pursue new business, he
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the plan, Ferranti's five divisions will shrink to
three: aerospace systems, strategic management systems, and
commercial and industrial systems; some manufacturing
facilities will be closed, and an unspecified number of the
12,000-member work force world-wide will be cut.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Birmingham Steel Corp.:
   Company Has Land Option
   For New Mill in Arizona
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIR
</CO>
<LP>
   Birmingham Steel Corp., Birmingham, Ala., said it has an
option to buy 1,000 acres of land just west of Phoenix,
Ariz., as a likely site for a new steel minimill.
   The new mill, which would produce 500,000 tons of steel
annually, could begin production before the end of 1992, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A new minimill, which would use an electric furnace to
produce steel from scrap, would cost more than $100 million,
Birmingham said. The new mill would employ about 250 people.
   The facility would replace a mill at Emeryville, Calif.,
which the company must close before the end of 1997, under an
agreement with local officials, Birmingham said. High
transportation, electric power and labor costs at Emeryville
led the company to start seeking a new site well before the
deadline.
   Birmingham produces reinforcing bars, steel roof-support
systems for underground coal mines and other steel products.
   The company said it will continue to evaluate several
other possible locations for the mill, but that it has begun
seeking environmental and operating approvals for the Arizona
site.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ultimate Corp.:
   Midlantic Corp. Unit Sells
   Company a Block of Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MIDL ULT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ultimate Corp., East Hanover, N.J., bought from Midlantic
National Bank, 575,000 Ultimate shares, which the bank had
received as part of a personal bankruptcy-law settlement made
by former Ultimate Chairman Theodore Sabarese.
   Ultimate paid $6.50 a share, or $3.7 million, for the
block, leaving the computer-systems concern with 8.9 million
shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last June, Mr. Sabarese resigned as Ultimate's chairman
and made a personal filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Newark, N.J. In a recent Securities and Exchange Commission
filing, he disclosed the settlement with the bank and said
that he might bid to take over Ultimate. He couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Midlantic is a subsidiary of Midlantic Corp., Edison, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Canadian Pacific Ltd.:
   Montreal Company Decides
   To End Real Estate Spinoff
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CP T.MRE
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Canadian Pacific Ltd., Montreal, said it won't proceed
with a proposed distribution to common shareholders of 80% of
its Marathon Realty Co. real estate unit.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Canadian Pacific rose 12.5 cents to $19.25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court of Ontario blocked the
proposed 767 million Canadian dollar ($653 million) spinoff,
ruling that the proposed distribution was unfair to holders
of preferred shares, who weren't included in the transaction.
   With the Marathon plan dead analysts said shareholders
expect the transportation, energy and natural resources
company to take other actions to increase the value of its
stock. "The onus is on them to do something," said Jeffrey
Putterman, an analyst with County NatWest Securities Corp. in
New York.
   The measures could include a share buy-back or asset
sales, analysts said. A Canadian Pacific spokesman wouldn't
comment on the company's plans. He added that "we don't have
specific plans to reinstate" the Marathon distribution.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Huffy Corp.:
   Ohio Firm Expects Refund
   Of Excess Duties on Tires
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HUF
</CO>
<LP>
   Huffy Corp. said it expects to receive a refund of excess
duties on bicycle tires and tubes totaling $700,000 after
legal fees and taxes, but the gain will be partially offset
by an after-tax charge of about $350,000 to increase bad debt
reserves.
   Net effect of the two items will be to increase profit for
the second quarter by three cents a share, the Dayton, Ohio,
company said. For the 1989 second quarter, the bicycle,
juvenile products and retail service concern earned $5.3
million, or 62 cents a share, on sales of $127.3 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Huffy said the refund of duties on bicycle tire and tube
combinations was the result of a lawsuit it filed in 1983.
The company won a lower court ruling, which the U.S. Customs
Service appealed. But the agency recently dropped the appeal,
Huffy said.
   The increase in bad debt reserves results from financial
problems at major retail store chains, Huffy said,
particularly Ames Department Stores Inc., Rocky Hill, Conn.,
which is operating under protection of Chapter 11 of the
federal Bankruptcy Code. Ames said it will close about
one-third of its stores.
   Huffy sells its bicycles, basketball goals and juvenile
products mainly through mass merchandisers, such as Ames.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Canadian Pacific Forest Products Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CP T.PFP
</CO>
<LP>
   CANADIAN PACIFIC FOREST PRODUCTS Ltd. (Toronto) -- This
forest products concern, which is 79.7%-owned by
Montreal-based Canadian Pacific Ltd., said it closed a
private placement of US$200 million of 20-year senior notes
with U.S. institutional investors. The company said the notes
were issued in two series: $98 million of Series A notes due
June 15, 2010 and bearing interest at 10.63%; and $102
million of Series B notes at 10.5% interest, also due June
15, 2010, but with a sinking fund starting in 2001, producing
an average life of 15.5 years.
   The firm said proceeds will be used to repay debt incurred
to finance its capital expenditure program. Canadian Pacific
Ltd. has interests in resources, real estate,
telecommunication, energy, transportation and hotels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greenwald Sees
   Bank Optimism
   In Talks on UAL
   ---
   But Head of Buy-Out Says
   Lenders Aren't Jumping
   To Embrace Transaction
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Gerald Greenwald, head of the employee effort
to buy UAL Corp.'s United Airlines, said banks were
"generally optimistic" during initial discussions last week
about financing the $4.38 billion offer, but he conceded that
lenders aren't jumping to embrace the deal.
   In his first in-depth interview since joining the buy-out
effort two weeks ago, Mr. Greenwald said he recently
discussed the transaction with "five or six" major U.S.
banks. "Nobody was willing to say then and there, `The
proposal is fine. Let's go,'" he acknowledged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lenders sought assurances from Mr. Greenwald on how the
100% employeeowned company would be governed, who would hold
key management positions and whether the company could
withstand a recession if it took on additional debt. "I find
this quite normal in early discussions with banks," he said.
"Generally, the tone was on the optimistic side."
   Mr. Greenwald declined to name the banks involved in last
week's discussions. He said the talks were only a prelude to
more detailed discussions that will take place in coming
weeks.
   Although the buy-out group is just beginning its push for
financing, the questions banks raised give an early
indication of the issues that must be resolved for the banks
to back the buy-out effort.
   Mr. Greenwald said he believes the banks' concerns will be
allayed when they receive more detailed financial information
on the buy-out group's business plan. The group is expected
to make that material available to potential lenders within
the next few days.
   The data include the group's five-year revenue projections
for United, as well as other financial data. For instance,
the buy-out group is counting on increased revenue from
United's lucrative Pacific routes and the sale and lease-back
of aircraft to generate sufficient cash flow to operate the
airline and service debt.
   Mr. Greenwald said he is convinced there will also be
sufficient cash flow for expansion. He conceded, however,
that United might be unable to grow as quickly as some of its
competitors until the debt is paid off.
   Mr. Greenwald's task is made more difficult because this
is the second time in 10 months that banks have been asked to
finance a UAL buy-out. Banks scoffed at financing an earlier
labor-management bid, saying the group based the earlier
proposal on highly optimistic revenue projections.
   Mr. Greenwald described the latest projections as "far
more conservative." He added that before he decided to leave
the No. 2 job at Chrysler Corp., he read through all of the
information that is about to become available to banks, and
there is "no undue optimism" in the latest projections.
   He said United's cash flow should be sufficient after the
buy-out for it to remain competitive, even in a recession.
Despite the additional debt United will incur as a result of
the buy-out, Mr. Greenwald said he believes it would be able
to withstand a sustained fare war.
   Many bank executives have expressed the fear that a
debt-laden United would lose ground to its healthier
competitors if a major fare war broke out.
   Mr. Greenwald, who will become UAL's chairman if the
buy-out is completed, succeeding Stephen M. Wolf, said banks
were particularly concerned about who will fill the other top
two management positions. "They want seasoned management in
the top three or four jobs," he said.
   Although the buy-out group hasn't yet made a decision on
those positions, Mr. Greenwald said he expects substantially
all of UAL's current 35 senior managers to remain in place.
He said he planned to spend the next several days talking
with current managers to head off the possibility of mass
resignations, should the buy-out succeed.
   He said he is also in the process of contacting
prospective candidates to serve as outside directors.
United's three unions will also have a say in who those
directors are. He declined to name his nominees, but he added
that some of his choices aren't known for their union
sympathies, but that the labor leaders so far haven't
objected to his recommendations.
   Mr. Greenwald said he believes his biggest obstacle is
time. The employee group has a deadline of Aug. 9 to obtain
financing. "There isn't time to make mistakes," he said.
   He also said it is difficult to gauge how much of an
effect current market volatility will have on the
transaction. "On the other hand, lenders are in the business
of lending money, and there aren't many big deals around that
are{as} financeable" as the UAL proposal, he added.
   Separately, United said Barry A. Kotar resigned as
president of Covia, the reservations system in which UAL
holds a 50% interest. If the employee buy-out succeeds, Covia
will be spun off and UAL shareholders will receive a new
security in the reservations unit.
   Mr. Kotar left to become an executive vice president,
computer and communications operations, at NWA Inc., parent
of Northwest Airlines. His departure wasn't viewed as a
harbinger of other possible UAL management resignations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Communications Transmission:
   Long-Distance Phone Firm
   Says It Restructured Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALCCC CTIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Communications Transmission Inc., an Austin, Texas-based
provider of digital communications transmissions and network
services, said it significantly restructured its debt.
   Prudential Insurance Co. of America, CTI's subordinated
lender, was issued warrants to purchase convertible preferred
stock that could increase its common equity to 68% from 23%,
a CTI spokesman said. The preferred stock can be converted to
about 15.8 million shares of common, in addition to the 11
million shares that had been outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The debt restructuring, the spokesman said, cured CTI's
defaults in interest payments on subordinated debentures as
well as similar defaults by its majority-owned subsidiary,
ALC Communications Corp. The spokesman said CTI will be
required to make "substantial" payments after 12 and 18
months but declined to specify the amount.
   The restructuring also gives CTI, in exchange for certain
contract concessions and bridge note modifications, preferred
stock in ALC which, if converted, would increase CTI's
ownership of ALC from about 55% to 64%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hardee's Will Introduce
   A `Healthier Hamburger'
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKY MOUNT, N.C. -- As part of a continuing push among
fast-food outlets to offer healthier foods, Hardee's Food
Systems Inc., a unit of Imasco Ltd. in Montreal, is expected
to announce today that it is introducing a quarter-pound
hamburger with less fat than conventional patties.
   The fast-food restaurant chain's new "Lean 1" burger will
have 18 grams of total fat, including garnish of lettuce,
tomato, pickle, onion and ketchup. According to Hardee's,
that compares with 20.7 grams of fat in McDonald's Corp.'s
"Quarter Pounder" burger, without garnish; and 36 grams in a
Whopper sandwich, with garnish, from Burger King Corp., a
unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hardee's began testing the new hamburger in May in cities
in Illinois, South Carolina and Alabama. The company expects
the product to be offered nationwide by year end.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foxboro Exploring
   `Strategic Alliance'
   With Other Firms
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FOX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FOXBORO, Mass. -- Foxboro Co. said it is "exploring
alternatives" that could lead to the acquisition of some or
all of its stock by another company.
   The maker of industrial process controls said it is
considering "a possible strategic alliance with a limited
number of firms which could add complementary strengths" to
Foxboro's technology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials of the company, which is struggling to turn
around after losing money for several quarters and omitting
its 10-cent quarterly dividend, declined further comment.
   However, analysts noted that Foxboro's stock has risen in
recent weeks due to speculation that it might become a
takeover target. It closed yesterday at $30, up $1.50, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Robert Sullivan, an analyst with PaineWebber Inc., noted
that about one-third of Foxboro's shares are held by the
widely scattered descendants of the founding Bristol family.
With the dividend omission, "probably some have been
disillusioned," he said.
   At its annual meeting in April, Foxboro added to its board
two new directors representing a group that said it had
acquired a 4.8% stake.
   The new directors are Purnendu Chatterjee, president of
Beall Technologies Inc., a North Bergen, N.J., computer parts
maker, and Alan R. McFarland, partner in McFarland, Dewey &amp;
Co. a New York investment firm. The proxy statement
identifies both as representatives of a group that also
includes investor George Soros. Mr. Soros and Mr. Chatterjee
were allied in two unsuccessful takeover attempts in the
mid-1980s.
   The proxy statement disclosed that the group holds a 4.8%
stake and had agreed to limit its holdings to no more than
9.9% until the end of this year. It also said that Foxboro
and the two new directors agreed that the men won't make
public comments on Foxboro.
   Foxboro has technologically advanced products and a good
customer base, analysts say, but it has repeatedly posted
disappointing earnings. Last year it reported a net loss of
$4.6 million, or 37 cents a share, on sales of $597.8
million.
   Mr. Sullivan of PaineWebber said he expects Foxboro's
earnings to come back in the second half, resulting in net
income of about 65 cents a share for the year and $1.75 a
share next year. "My position is it's undervalued, either
because of what it could earn a year or two out or because it
could be taken over at a premium to the present price," he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Du Pont Co. to Get Out
   Of Acrylic Fiber Business
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   DD MTC
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Du Pont Co. said it will get out of
the acrylic fiber business after 40 years of supplying the
fiber to makers of sweaters, socks and other products.
   Du Pont, which sold the fiber under the Orlon trade name,
said it had been losing money on the business in recent years
because of imports and the loss of customers to polyester and
cotton. "Each market, for its own set of reasons, has been
under attack," said Paul G. Gillease, director of Du Pont's
textile division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said annual sales of Orlon were about $200 million. In
1989, total fiber sales by Du Pont, including those of nylon,
were $5.97 billion.
   Mr. Gillease said Du Pont will withdraw from the acrylic
fiber business as soon as possible to concentrate on its
other apparel fabrics, Dacron polyester and Lycra spandex. He
said the company will probably be able to offer other jobs to
a majority of the 775 people currently employed in the Orlon
business. Du Pont makes Orlon along with other fabrics at
plants in Camden, S.C., and Waynesboro, Va.
   The exit by Du Pont should give a boost to other acrylic
fiber makers, who have been operating amid excess production
capacity. Monsanto Co., which counts itself the largest U.S.
producer, said there is more than enough domestic capacity to
absorb the closing of Du Pont's production lines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Mobil Unit Said
   To Face Suit
   On Hefty Bags
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MOB
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   A task force of state attorneys general is expected to
file legal action against Mobil Chemical Co. for making
allegedly false advertising claims concerning environmental
benefits of its Hefty garbage-bag line, people close to the
situation say.
   Those people say lawsuits planned in seven states could be
filed as early as today and would represent the first
enforcement action since the task force began investigating
environmental product claims last November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The attorneys general, led by Hubert H. Humphrey III of
Minnesota, are taking action against Mobil Chemical because
Hefty products on store shelves in some states continue to
claim they are "degradable," "even after they are buried in a
landfill," those people say. They also say the actions could
seek removal of the products from store shelves and payment
of legal costs.
   Barry J. Cutler, Federal Trade Commission director of
consumer protection, confirmed the states planned to take
legal action, but wouldn't identify the company. In general,
he said, such lawsuits could produce guidelines defining when
other companies could legally use the term "degradable."
   Hefty trash bags contain an additive that accelerates
decomposition of the plastic when it is exposed to sunlight,
wind and rain. Critics complain that these conditions are not
a factor once the trash is buried in landfills.
   Allen Gray, spokesman for Mobil Chemical, a unit of New
York-based Mobil Corp., said the company hasn't been notified
of any pending legal action. He said Mobil agreed in late
March to remove degradability claims and began changing
labels in April because of "mounting confusion" over the
meaning and value of such claims. "This is news to us. We're
disappointed," Mr. Gray said, adding that Mobil had
cooperated with the investigation and "substantiated" its
product claims.
   The states are believed to have singled out Mobil for
deterrent value because after having originally claimed on
labeling that Hefty bags were "degradable," the company had
later said publicly that it didn't believe the bags would
degrade when buried in landfills. Mr. Gray said Mobil made
the claim because consumers were demanding degradable bags
and Hefty risked losing market share to competitors that were
making similar claims. Mr. Gray said company officials met
several times with the attorneys general to settle the case,
but those efforts apparently were unsuccessful.
   Attorney General Humphrey wasn't satisfied in late March
when Mobil indicated it would take "several months" to clear
the offending packaging from store shelves. Earlier this
month, government investigators found Hefty bags with very
prominent "degradable" labeling is still being sold. Mr. Gray
couldn't be reached for comment on when supplies of the old
packaging would be exhausted.
   Under federal and state laws, a company's decision to
voluntarily withdraw product claims doesn't preclude legal
action, Mr. Cutler said. "The purpose of an action would be
to get a court order specifying what kinds of claims a
company can make in the future. These cases will also provide
guidance for other companies," Mr. Cutler said.
   The FTC and the states are continuing to investigate a
variety of products, such as disposable diapers, hairsprays
and plastic foam containers, claiming to be degradable,
recyclable or environmentally friendly. Earlier this year,
DowBrands Inc., a unit of Dow Chemical Co., decided to delete
"recyclable" and "photodegradable" labeling from its
Handi-Wrap product line. Late last year, First Brands Corp.
began removing some degradability claims from its Glad brand
of trash bags.
   People close to the Mobil Chemical investigation said the
lawsuit would be filed in seven states: Minnesota, New York,
California, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Texas and Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Semiconductor Indicator
   Rose in May From April
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   CUPERTINO, Calif. -- The semiconductor industry's leading
indicator rose in May, as the industry's modest rebound from
depressed sales in the last half of 1989 continued.
   The Semiconductor Industry Association said the so-called
book-to-bill ratio for May was 1.14:1, up from 1.09:1 in
April. Both figures are preliminary. A 1.14 rate means that
for every $100 of products shipped, or billed, chip makers
received $114 in new orders, or bookings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rising indicator reflects a stable market that has so
far escaped the slump that many in the industry expected in
1990, though some in the industry were reluctant to predict
any incipient boom. "It's certainly a positive sign, but the
long-term impact remains to be seen," said Tom Beerman, a
spokesman for the semiconductor association.
   Semiconductor billings in May were $1.18 billion, 5.7%
above April's $1.11 billion and 4.5% lower than a year
earlier, when billings totaled $1.23 billion.
   Average monthly orders for the three months ended in May
totaled $1.38 billion, 7.8% above April's figure of $1.28
billion about 8% above the year-earlier figure of $1.28
billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   JUSTICES STRUCK DOWN a federal law against desecrating the
flag.
   The Supreme Court declared the law unconstitutional on the
same grounds the court used to invalidate a Texas statute a
year ago. The court's 5-4 decision is expected to touch off a
political battle in Congress to pass a constitutional
amendment protecting the flag. The justices also ruled that
the federal government may order state National Guard troops
to participate in peacetime training abroad without a
governor's consent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The court gave police broad authority to stop and
interrogate a person on the basis of an anonymous tip that
the person is involved in a crime.
   ---
   GORBACHEV AGREED to meet with presidents of the three
Baltic republics.
   The Soviet president scheduled a meeting today with the
leaders of Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia to discuss their
recent independence moves, which Moscow has termed
unconstitutional. It will be the first such meeting.
Gorbachev has said the republics are free to pursue
independence, but insists they do so in accordance with
Soviet constitutional guidelines that were established in
April and require a referendum, legislative approval and a
wait of up to five years.
   The three Baltic presidents formed a united front last
month to press their drives to restore the independence the
republics lost when annexed by Stalin.
   ---
   Poindexter was sentenced in federal court to six months in
prison for lying to Congress. Reagan's former national
security adviser was the first of the Iran-Contra defendants
to receive a prison term for his role in concealing U.S.
weapons sales to Iran and White House support for the
Nicaraguan rebels.
   ---
   Israel's Shamir won parliamentary approval for the
nation's first right-wing cabinet since 1984, gaining 62
votes in the 120-seat Knesset. The prime minister pledged to
work for peace but also promised expanded Jewish settlements
that could heighten tensions with both Washington and the
Arabs.
   ---
   Two white men were sentenced for their roles in the
bat-wielding group involved in last August's racial slaying
of a black teenager in the Bensonhurst section of the New
York borough of Brooklyn. Joseph Fama received the maximum 32
1/3 years to life in prison, and Keith Mondello was sentenced
to a maximum 5 1/3 to 16 years.
   ---
   Liberian peace talks were delayed as rebel officials said
their delegation was having difficulty getting to neighboring
Sierra Leone, where the negotiations are to take place with
Monrovia's government. A chartered plane arrived in South
Carolina carrying about 350 U.S. citizens who were evacuated
from the West African country.
   ---
   Bush met in Washington with East German Premier de
Maiziere as the U.S. said it made "considerable progress"
during the recent superpower summit toward persuading Moscow
to accept a united Germany in NATO. Separately, the Soviet
and West German foreign ministers reported progress in their
talks on German unification.
   ---
   Rival Christian armies fought in eastern Beirut in what
was viewed as the fiercest confrontation since a shaky
cease-fire went into effect there three weeks ago. Renegade
Gen. Aoun's Lebanese Army exchanged fire with militia forces
as security sources said a possible showdown looms in the
four-month battle for control of the enclave.
   ---
   Czechoslovakia's Havel is expected to retain a former
Communist, Marian Calfa, as prime minister and call upon him
to put together the next Czech government, a spokesman for
the president said. Havel's party last weekend won the first
free elections held in the country since 1946.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   FDA Panel Urges
   Warning for Seldane,
   Dow Chemical Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   DOW FISNY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- An advisory committee of the Food and Drug
Administration recommended several changes in labeling for
Seldane, a prescription anti-allergy drug made by Marion
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc., a unit of Dow Chemical Co.
of Midland, Mich.
   The advisory committee suggested that the label be changed
to warn that an overdose of the drug could cause an irregular
heartbeat. It also recommended that the label warn that use
of the drug by patients suffering cirrhosis of the liver
could make it difficult for the drug to be metabolized
properly, thereby increasing the risk of heart disease. A
company spokesman couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The advisory committee also recommended approval for
Tilade, an anti-asthma drug manufactured by British-based
Fisons Corp. Advisory committee recommendations are usually
approved by the FDA.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Pork Belly Prices Climb Daily Limit on Estimates
   More Frozen Bellies Were Shipped Than Expected
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pork belly prices closed up the daily permissible limit of
two cents a pound in response to estimates that more frozen
bellies were taken out of storage last week than had been
anticipated, analysts said.
   Live hog futures initially traded lower, but responded to
the rally in pork bellies to close higher for the day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pork belly futures for July delivery closed up two cents a
pound at 69.75 cents on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and
July hogs closed up 0.77 cent a pound at 63.10 cents.
   "We're within shooting distance of the contract high of
71.60" cents a pound for the July pork belly contract, said
Jerry Abbenhaus, a futures analyst with A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons
in St. Louis.
   Pork bellies shipped from warehouses outside of Chicago to
meatpacking plants totaled as much as three million pounds,
said Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling Research Corp.,
Arlington Heights, Ill. That's nearly three times the amount
that would normally be shipped in a week this time of year
from outside of Chicago warehouses as well as those in the
Chicago area, Mr. Morgan said.
   Summertime demand accounted for a portion of the increase
in shipments, as did relatively light hog slaughters
recently, analysts said. Prices for fresh pork bellies
recently exceeded prices for frozen bellies, which also
fueled the belly futures price increase, analysts said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices plunged again, accelerating the
decline that began in late May. The July contract dropped $54
a metric ton to $1,181, as speculators liquidated positions
taken in an effort to capitalize on the political upheavals
in the Ivory Coast, the world's largest cocoa producer.
Despite earlier concerns, the upheaval "didn't affect cocoa
or alter the overwhelming supply situation that had been such
a depressant on price previously," said William O'Neill of
Merrill Lynch Futures in New York. As this becomes clearer,
he said, prices are "simply reflecting the prevailing
conditions." Sandra Kaul, analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton,
said there was little market support for cocoa prices
"because dealers had bought significant quantities of the
beans earlier when prices were lower, and they have little
incentive to buy at this time." At the same time, she said,
rain in West Africa has improved crop prospects there, and
the Brazil summer crop will soon be arriving on the market --
both factors that depress prices, she said. Ms. Kaul also
cited continuing concern that the Soviet Union, because of
credit problems, may have to forgo accepting delivery of
cocoa it has previously bought. If that happened, the cocoa
could end up being offered for sale on the world market, she
said.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: U.S. crude prices for July closed slightly higher
after traders seemed to digest, but disregard, several
tidbits of news. A fire continued to burn aboard a Norwegian
tanker in the Gulf of Mexico, but the market apparently
accepted Coast Guard predictions that the tanker, which has
38.2 million gallons of light crude, wouldn't sink. Prices
were apparently hurt in the U.S. and in Asia by reports that
Japan, a large petroleum importer, is counting on significant
additional discounts from some members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Meanwhile, Exxon Corp. said it
would reopen its Linden, N.J., refinery by mid-July; Norway's
oil workers threatened to strike July 1, and a major Alaskan
pipeline will be closed today so that corrosion can be
repaired. Traders took all the news in and the result was
that West Texas Intermediate -- like crudes for the July
contract closed on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $16.82
a barrel, up four cents a barrel. Products finished the
session lower.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices declined in the wake of news that
the second of three major U.S. copper mining companies had
reached a new labor agreement. The July contract ended with a
loss of 2.10 cents a pound at $1.0965. A spokesman for Phelps
Dodge Corp., in Phoenix, Ariz., said the company had come to
a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union; the
rank and file will vote on the new contract today. Late last
month, Kennecott Corp., a Salt Lake City unit of RTZ of
Britain, reached an accord. This leaves Asarco Inc. of New
York as the last major U.S. mining company yet to reach a new
agreement. The U.S. labor pacts run out on June 30. The talks
between managements and the union have been progressing
harmoniously, according to analysts, but even so, the early
settlement by Phelps Dodge came as a surprise, they said. The
Phelps Dodge agreement diminishes the prospect of supply
disruptions because of labor problems and enhances the
possibility that a pact with Asarco will soon be reached,
analysts said. They estimated that the London Metal Exchange
today will announce an increase of 3,000 to 5,000 tons in
warehouse supplies of copper. More ample inventories of the
metal and a slowing U.S. economy, which could reduce demand,
remain price-depressing factors and contributed to a
narrowing of the premium of soonest-to-expire deliveries over
more deferred contracts both in New York and London, they
said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Analysts are divided over whether the
Agriculture Department will lower its one-month-old estimate
of the winter wheat harvest under way in the U.S. In May, the
department forecast the harvest at 2.09 billion bushels, up
44% from the drought-damaged 1989 harvest. Some analysts are
speculating that recent heavy rains damaged the soft red
variety grown in Illinois and Indiana. Others, however, are
projecting that the hard red variety grown in the Southern
Plains is in better condition than indicated in May. Based on
June 1 conditions, Richard Feltes, director of research at
Refco Inc., Chicago, said he expects a winter wheat harvest
of 2.14 billion bushels. Susan Leighty, a grain analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., New York, is predicting a
harvest of 2.12 billion bushels. The Agriculture Department
is also slated to update its supply and demand estimates for
corn and soybeans. Among other things, analysts expect the
government to begin trimming its rough estimate that the
recently planted corn crop could total 8.1 billion bushels at
harvest this fall. An unusually wet spring prevented many
farmers from planting as many acres as the government had
expected. Some crop analysts, however, are projecting a corn
harvest of 7.4 billion to 7.7 billion bushels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Dispute Will Go
   To the June 23 Deadline
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   Canada's constitutional fight will go right to the
deadline.
   Newfoundland Premier Clyde Wells said he will submit the
Meech Lake constitutional accord to a free vote in the
provincial legislature just before or on June 22, one day
before the legal deadline for ratifying the agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pact would give Quebec special status and end a
constitutional impasse that has revived talk of independence
in the French-speaking province.
   Speaking in the Newfoundland House of Assembly, Mr. Wells
urged legislators to consult with their constituents before
the vote. In a free vote, legislators aren't bound by party
discipline. Mr. Wells's Liberal government holds 31 seats in
the House of Assembly. The Progressive Conservatives hold the
remaining 21 seats. Opposition Leader Tom Rideout said his
members will also be able to vote freely.
   Saturday night, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and
the 10 provincial premiers signed a tentative agreement that
attempts to deal with the concerns of three provinces that
had refused to ratify the Meech Lake accord as drafted.
   But Mr. Wells opposed Saturday's agreement and said he
signed only so he could submit the Meech Lake accord and the
add-on agreement to his legislature for approval. The
premiers of the two other holdout provinces, New Brunswick
and Manitoba, agreed Saturday to pass the accord. But they
must still submit it to their legislatures for approval. The
accord could run into trouble in Manitoba, where Premier Gary
Filmon heads a minority government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Drexel Committee
   Postpones Filing Plan
   For Reorganization
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The creditors' committee of Drexel Burnham
Lambert Group Inc. postponed filing its own proposed
reorganization plan for the securities concern.
   Last week, the committee had said it would include the
proposal in its motion opposing an extension of Drexel's
"exclusivity period," the time period in which only Drexel
can officially propose a reorganization plan under Chapter 11
of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Instead, according to people close to the case, an
agreement has been reached to extend the period until
mid-November. That would give Drexel time to further develop
its preliminary reorganization proposal, which was panned by
the creditors' committee. The creditors had criticized the
proposal for being too vague and for leaving current
management in charge of the company.
   Attorneys for Drexel and the creditors didn't return phone
calls seeking comment. A spokesman for the company said no
comment would be made until a hearing today before U.S.
Bankruptcy Court Judge Howard Buschman III.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE BIG BOARD today will propose new and expanded trading
halts to be triggered during unruly markets. But a report by
the exchange doesn't challenge the widespread use of program
trading, and describes the dispute about the computer-aided
practice as partly a public-relations problem.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock prices ended their four-day slide as some investors
used idle cash to buy blue-chips. The Dow Jones industrials
rose 30.19 points to close at 2892.57. Bond prices eased
slightly, and the dollar ended mixed.
   ---
   The new head of a group seeking to buy UAL said banks
reacted optimistically to his initial appeals for financing.
But Greenwald conceded lenders aren't jumping to embrace the
deal.
   ---
   EC ministers agreed to remove several tax barriers facing
companies that operate in several EC states. U.S. firms doing
business in Europe had lobbied hard for the changes.
                                                                                                       

   EC central bankers revamped their committee in the first
real steps to form a common central bank.
   ---
   Mexico and the U.S. agreed to hold talks aimed at reaching
a broad free-trade agreement. Formal negotiations are
expected to begin after Bush and Salinas meet again in
December.
   ---
   Thrift-bailout officials will prematurely redeem billions
of dollars of a failed thrift's bonds. The action is a
setback to investors who thought they had locked in high
rates, and raises the prospect of more such moves.
   ---
   Southwestern states are expected to lead the nation in
economic growth through the end of the century, the Census
Department projected.
   ---
   A Mobil unit may face lawsuits planned by state officials
over allegedly false claims about environmental benefits of
the firm's Hefty bags. The litigation could produce
guidelines defining when companies may use the term
"degradable" in their ads.
   ---
   Nissan named Thomas Mignanelli chief executive of its U.S.
sales and marketing unit. He is the first American to hold
such a position at any major Japanese auto company.
   ---
   Chrysler's Bennett Bidwell, head of the Chrysler Motors
unit, said he will leave at the end of the year. He is the
fourth top Chrysler executive in four weeks to announce his
departure.
   ---
   Australia said it will block a $135.1 million acquisition
by Britain's Robert Maxwell of 49% of the newspaper interests
controlled by Bell Group.
   ---
   Aetna failed to win relief from auto-insurance rate
rollbacks required by a new Pennsylvania law.
   ---
   Foxboro is exploring alternatives that could lead to the
sale of all or part of the industrial-controls maker.
   ---
   Moody's lowered Chase Manhattan's senior debt rating,
citing deterioration in the banking firm's commercial real
estate portfolio.
   ---
   WHATS NEWS Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 119,550,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2892.57, up 30.19; transportation 1202.01, up 0.73; utilities
213.22, up 0.76.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3423.30, up
0.51.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.70, up 0.15; spot
index 131.56, off 0.02.
   Dollar: 154.77 yen, up 1.28; 1.6930 marks, off 0.0045.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys Retrace Losses to End About Even
   As a Rising Dollar Encourages Some Buying
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Susan Scherreik
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   CRR X.TMP EUROP JAPAN FNM X.MID FRE
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After opening lower, the bond market spent the
remainder of the day retracing the declines to end
essentially unchanged.
   Prices of U.S. Treasury bonds began to fall during
overnight trading in Japan, as several large institutional
investors sold bonds to take profits. By the time trading
began in the U.S., prices of the benchmark 30-year bond were
1/4 point lower, or down $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But prices recovered during U.S. trading as domestic money
managers started "bottom-fishing," said William Sullivan,
director of money-market research at Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. He said the buying was encouraged by a stronger dollar.
   When the value of the dollar rises against other
currencies, the value of securities denominated in dollars
also rises. Because the value of the dollar increased
yesterday while bond prices fell, some investors viewed
prices as relatively cheap.
   "We saw buyers throughout the day," said James Capra, a
vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities Inc.
He said the ratio of buyers to sellers yesterday was
four-to-one.
   Trading, however, was slow yet again. In fact, the bond
market has barely budged since June 1, when a
weaker-than-expected May employment report caused long-term
bond prices to climb more than 1 1/2 points.
   Dealers and analysts said the slow pace of trading
reflects the cautious stance that many investors are taking
ahead of several key economic reports due to be released
later this week.
   "People are waiting for the data deluge," said Elliott
Platt, chief economist at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp. On Wednesday, the Department of Commerce
will release retail sales for May. More importantly, two key
barometers of inflation -- the producer price index and the
consumer price index -- will be released on Thursday and
Friday, respectively.
   "Whether prices break out of these ranges will depend most
importantly on the PPI and CPI," said Mr. Platt.
   Traders and analysts said the back-to-back inflation
reports should help to determine whether the Federal Reserve
will loosen its grip on credit in the near future and allow
interest rates to fall.
   Mr. Platt said that a CPI and PPI of more than 0.4% for
the month of May, would be a clear sign "to the bond market
that the Fed will not ease."
   Conversely, if those data show an increase of 0.2% or
less, "a case could be made for a Fed ease," said Mr. Platt.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury prices were little changed to slightly lower
yesterday. The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 103
7/32 compared with 103 9/32 on Friday. The issue's yield was
essentially unchanged at 8.44%. Ten-year notes ended
unchanged at a price of 102 20/32 to yield 8.46%.
   At the government's weekly Treasury bill auction, the
average discount rate for three-month bills was set at 7.73%
while the average rate for six-month bills was set at 7.64%.
The rates were up from last week's auction when they were
7.69% and 7.62%, respectively.
   In the agency market, the Federal Home Loan Banks said it
will price $1.34 billion of notes today.
   The three-part offering will consist of $365 million
one-year bonds, $570 million two-year bonds and $400 million
four-year bonds.
   An agency trader said the early talk is that the FHLB
notes will be priced at yields that are 0.05 to 0.20
percentage point above yields on comparable Treasury
securities.
   Here are details of yesterday's Treasury bill auction:
   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                13-Week      26-Week
                                                                                                       

   Applications ........... $25,686,915,000 $30,466,100,000
   Accepted bids ..........  $8,615,335,000  $8,619,205,000
   Accepted at low price                 7%             36%
   Accepted noncompet'ly     $1,521,995,000  $1,114,155,000
   Average price (Rate)      98.046 (7.73%)  96.138 (7.64%)
   High price (Rate) ......  98.051 (7.71%)  96.148 (7.62%)
   Low price (Rate) .......  98.044 (7.74%)  96.138 (7.64%)
   Coupon equivalent ......           7.99%           8.06%

   Both issues are dated June 14. The 13-week bills mature
Sept. 13, 1990, and the 26-week bills mature Dec. 13, 1990.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Consolidated Rail Corp. revisited the credit markets
yesterday and received the same enthusiastic response from
investors that it did during its first trip last month.
   Conrail, the Philadelphia-based freight railroad, sold
$550 million of 30-year debentures, which were priced to
yield 9.85% through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
The offering came less than two weeks after Conrail sold $250
million of 10-year notes to a sellout crowd of institutional
investors.
   "We were looking to do $300 million but the issue was
priced so well that we decided to do it all," said John
McKelvey, Conrail's treasurer. Mr. McKelvey said the debt
offering "essentially completes the financing related to the
company's recapitalization."
   In the junk bond market, the bonds of Trump Taj Mahal
Funding and other casinos operated by real estate developer
Donald Trump rose on news that Mr. Trump reached an agreement
with bankers that gives him time and money to restructure his
holdings.
   Trump Taj Mahal Funding's 14% bonds ended two points
higher at 59 on the American Stock Exchange. Trump Castle's
13.75% bond closed up one point at 60 1/2 while Trump Plaza
Funding's 12 7/8% bonds added one point to end at 84.
   Last week, the bonds plummeted on news that Mr. Trump was
having cash-flow problems.
   In trading, most investment-grade bonds ended unchanged to
slightly lower. Most junk bonds, speculative-grade securities
with low credit ratings or no credit ratings at all, closed
unchanged to about 1/8 point higher.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A lackadaisical municipal market ended unchanged to off
1/4 point.
   In new issue activity, two California short-term deals
were priced via competitive bid.
   A Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group won $85 million of
San Bernardino County tax and revenue anticipation notes,
which were priced to yield 5.98%, and a Prudential-Bache
Capital Funding group won $50 million of Fresno County tax
and revenue anticipation notes, which were priced to yield
5.80%.
   The San Bernardino notes are rated MIG-1 by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and SP-Plus by Standard and Poor's
Corp., and the Fresno County notes are rated MIG-1 by
Moody's.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were off 1/8 on the bid
side at 98 1/2 to yield 7.32%.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds

   West German government bonds declined again, prompting
fears among investors that yields on the benchmark 10year
government security could surpass 9%.
   Traders said investors worry that rising yields will soon
trigger a bond market selloff.
   "There's some selling now, but if yields climb over 9%,
the market expects outright sellers," said one trader at a
German bank in Dusseldorf.
   The price of Bonn's 8.75% issue due in 2000 closed
yesterday at 99.38, down 0.31 point, to yield 8.85%. Yields
on the shorter-term 8.5% notes due 1995 already top 9% and
ended yesterday at 9.01% after the price fell 0.07 point to
98.01.
   However, during after-market trading in the futures
market, prices of West German government bond futures rose
and ended slightly higher than Friday's after-market trading.
But the slight strength in the futures market didn't reverse
the general bearish feeling in the market.
   In addition to worries about interest rates, dealers said
also that investors continue to be nervous ahead of German
economic union July 1. West Germany's borrowing needs to
finance the restructuring of East Germany still rattles
investors, traders said. And weekend reports the Soviet Union
would accept a united Germany in NATO in exchange for
extensive economic aid didn't help sentiment.
   Other foreign bond markets ended lower yesterday for
various reasons. Japanese government bonds declined with the
value of the yen.
   British bonds ended lower on news that United Kingdom
retail sales grew at a relatively strong pace in May for the
second consecutive month.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-securities prices posted small losses, having
crept up from the opening lows in sparse dealings.
   Government National Mortgage Association pass-throughs for
June delivery were down 3/32 at 99 1/8, but had been off
about 7/32 in early dealings.
   Activity was centered in the primary market, where two
Federal National Mortgage Association real estate mortgage
investment conduit issues -- each for $300 million -- were
priced and a $600 million Marine Midland Bank credit-card
securities issue was priced.
   PaineWebber Inc. priced one of the Remic issues. It was
backed by Fannie Mae 9% pass-throughs. The other issue was
priced by Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., and the securities were
backed by Fannie Mae 9.5% securities.
   The $600 million Marine Midland Bank offering backed by
credit-card loans was priced this afternoon by First Boston
Corp. The issue is expected to have a three-year average
life.
   The securities were priced in line with price talk -- 0.75
percentage point over the Treasury's three-year note. The new
securities were given an 8.95% coupon and priced at 99 30/32
for a 9.143% yield.
   Among actively traded secondary market issues, Ginnie Mae
10% securities for June delivery were off 2/32 at 101 17/32,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9.5% securities were down
1/8 at 98 1/2, Freddie Mac 10% securities were off 2/32 at
100 17/32, Fannie Mae 9.5% securities were 6/ 32 lower at 98
31/32 and Fannie Mae 10% securities were down 2/32 at 101
2/32.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Citizens Utilities Co.'s
   Jacobson to Retire;
   Ferguson to Step Up
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CITUA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Ishier Jacobson said he will retire as
president, chief executive officer and a director of Citizens
Utilities Co., effective June 30.
   Mr. Jacobson, who will be 68 years old this month, will
continue to work closely with the company as a consultant to
the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Daryl A. Ferguson, 51, will become president and chief
operating officer July 1. Mr. Ferguson currently is senior
vice president, operations and engineering.
   A successor to Mr. Jacobson as chief executive hasn't been
named, nor has one been named to Mr. Ferguson's post. The
chairmanship has been vacant since last year, and it isn't
clear whether or when the chairmanship and post of chief
executive will be filled. As of July 1, Mr. Ferguson would
hold the highest positions in the company, a spokeswoman
said.
   Citizens is a public utility that provides
telecommunications services and electric, water and gas
services in 12 states. Citizens earned $88 million, or $2.01
a share, in 1989, on operating revenue of $339 million, the
spokeswoman said.
   Mr. Ferguson has broad telecommunications experience in
both regulated and nonregulated businesses. Before joining
Citizens last year, he was a senior operations executive with
Centel Corp.
   Mr. Jacobson, who has been a director since 1968 and
president since 1970, led the expansion of Citizens' utility
operations into Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and
Hawaii, among other places. He was instrumental in the
company's recent agreement to acquire Louisiana General
Services Inc., a Harvey, La., natural-gas utility, which
would position the company in the Middle South for the first
time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEALTH COSTS
   ----
   By Richard Koenig
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   FHP DD BCAM
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Time for a Fresh Look
   At Company Doctors?
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   RISING MEDICAL costs are forcing some companies to
reconsider an old form of employee benefit: the company
doctor.
   Over the past decade, Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co., Tenneco
Inc. and America West Airlines Inc. all have begun sponsoring
their own clinics. In July, Quad/Graphics Inc., a closely
held printing company, will open a clinic in Pewaukee, Wis.;
it plans eventually to provide medical care for all its
nearly 5,000 employees. The Stouffer Corp. unit of Nestle
S.A. also expects to open a clinic for 4,000 Cleveland-area
employees this year.
   Company-run clinics fell out of fashion decades ago, but
businesses that continued to offer onsite care -- including
Southern California Edison Co., Gillette Co. and Gates Corp.
-- say it helps check unnecessary diagnostic tests and
eliminates costly, inconvenient paper work. The clinics also
avoid the cost-shifting that occurs when doctors boost
charges to company-insured patients to offset lower payments
for Medicare and Medicaid patients.
   Southern California Edison estimates that its clinics,
which date back to 1903, keep costs about 20% below what
they'd be on the open market.
   Some consulting firms see business for themselves in
equipping clinics and contracting with doctors when companies
don't want to do that work independently. Using a middleman
may also guard against violations of confidentiality. "If a
manager asks whether Joe was in the clinic, we say, `That's
none of your business,' " says C. Victor Williams, president
of MediCenter Inc., which has opened three clinics for
Goodyear.
   Still, this type of venture is a big step for most
companies. Since opening a dental center last year, Fort
Howard Corp. has given some thought to taking on the greater
complexities of a medical clinic. But "the idea scares us a
lot more than this {dental center} does," says Michael
Riordan, a personnel executive at the company.
                                                                                                       

   Du Pont Is Heading Off
   Cost of Back Injuries
                                                                                                       

   FOR THREE YEARS, chemical and oil giant Du Pont Co. has
been waging an allout campaign against employee back
injuries, and the company is beginning to see results.
   Du Pont estimates that back problems, whether from
on-the-job or at-home injuries, cost it $40 million in 1987
at its U.S. operations alone, considering employee pay during
lost workdays and medical expenses.
   But a preliminary calculation, based on surveys at several
plants whose findings are extrapolated to others, indicates
the company saved $10 million last year in the U.S. By 1992,
the company intends to cut bad-back costs world-wide by $50
million annually.
   Some 500 employees helped set up prevention programs at
their worksites. About 50,000 -- a third of the work force --
have gotten several hours of training. Between $8 million and
$12 million has been invested in the effort to date.
   A few of the preventive measures are state of the art. One
of Du Pont's consultants, Biomechanics Corp. of America, has
provided hundreds of pocket-sized, electrode-equipped
"ergometers," which measure the force of muscle contractions
during training sessions. The signal from an overstressed
muscle prompts a warning tone.
   Other steps are simple, such as unloading heavy bags on an
elevated platform so that workers don't have to stoop to lift
them.
                                                                                                       

   Rhode Island Doctors
   Team Up for High Tech
                                                                                                       

   THE EMERGENCE of big ticket medical technology often
raises questions about how wisely it will be used after
hospitals have rushed to buy it. Now, hospitals in Rhode
Island have allayed these concerns through an intensive
statewide training program that uses shared equipment.
   With encouragement from state health planners, all 10 of
the private general hospitals in Rhode Island formed a
network in 1988 to buy and share magnetic resonance scanners,
the latest generation of diagnostic imaging equipment. Two
fixed-site machines and one rotated among hospitals by
trailer are operating now, and another mobile unit will be
added this summer.
   The training takes radiologists through 160 hours of
course work and hands-on instruction. That is followed by 80
hours of "overreading," in which the doctors work
independently but have the images given a second look by
outside experts. Nineteen doctors have been certified by the
network so far.
   "One of the concerns about high-tech equipment is that it
replaces the thought process, that it's just used to shotgun
all comers," says Herbert Kressel, a radiologist at the
University of Pennsylvania, and medical director for the
Rhode Island network.
   He adds that magnetic resonance imaging is especially
complicated by frequent changes in the computer software. But
about 70% of scans done in Rhode Island discover a medical
problem -- the same rate of positive findings that he would
expect at a top university hospital.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SIXTY-NINE PERCENT of chief executives believe high costs
and limited access to high-tech equipment will create a
"two-tier medical care system, one for the rich and one for
the poor," according to responses from 736 CEOs to a survey
by William M. Mercer Inc., employee benefit consultants. . .
. In Newark, N.J., the Prudential Foundation puts up $65,000
to support a van staffed by medical personnel that will make
house calls to children in housing projects.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Hughes Air Unit Suspension
   Is Removed by Air Force
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GM GMH
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Hughes Aircraft Co. said the Air Force removed its
suspension that had temporarily barred certain operations of
Hughes missile-systems group from receiving new government
contracts.
   The Air Force suspended the company last month in the wake
of Hughes's guilty plea to charges of improperly using two
classified Pentagon budget-planning documents in 1984.
Hughes, a unit of General Motors Corp., agreed to pay $3.6
million in criminal and civil penalties as part of the plea
agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The temporary suspension, which covered engineering,
research and certain other operations at the Canoga Park,
Calif., facility of the company's missile-making group, was
in effect while the Air Force reviewed Hughes plan to
re-establish itself as a "responsible contractor."
   The Air Force's decision came despite assertions by
prosecutors that Hughes officials went to greater lengths
than those at almost any other company to carry out the
document-swapping scheme.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Furniture Industry
   Figures Are Sentenced
   On Fraud Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal judge sentenced three retail
furniture businessmen on fraud and conspiracy charges in
connection with a scheme that defrauded investors of $52
million.
   Louis Bigman, 65 years old, of Douglaston, N.Y., was
sentenced to 46 months in prison. Ben Wernikoff, 64, of
Jericho, N.Y., and Henry Switsky, 61, of Marlboro, N.J., were
each sentenced to 37 months. The three men pleaded guilty in
federal court in Manhattan in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The defendants were charged with defrauding investors
through the sale of retail installment-loan agreements from
Alcor Trading Corp. and Marba Furniture Inc., two furniture
companies owned by Messrs. Bigman, Wernikoff and Switsky. The
investors were told that their money would be used to buy the
loan agreements at a sharp discount and that they would make
a profit of 15% to 22% when the defendants collected the full
amounts due under the installment loans.
   Instead, according to the U.S. attorney's office in
Manhattan, the money was used to pay off earlier investors in
the scheme or to make unsecured loans -- which weren't repaid
-- to other companies owned by the defendants. The scheme
fell apart in March 1989 when Alcor and another company owned
by the defendants were placed in bankruptcy-law proceedings,
partly because investors sought the return of their money.
   Although the defendants have agreed to try to make
restitution, the defrauded investors are expected to be
repaid less than 1% of the total owed to them, prosecutors
said.
   Another defendant, Ira Goldstein, pleaded guilty to
conspiracy and will be sentenced Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Meret to Go Private
   Through Stock Split
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRET
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Meret Inc. said it plans a reverse stock
split that will transform the retail consulting and design
concern into a privately held company.
   Under the plan, each 2,500 existing shares would be
converted to one new share. Holders owning fewer than 2,500
shares, or a number not divisible by 2,500, would receive 30
cents a share in cash for each current share that otherwise
would become a fractional share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company has 10.2 million shares outstanding, owned by
about 1,600 shareholders. Officers and directors control 46%
of the stock.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Meret shares closed
at 25 cents bid, unchanged.
   The goal of the plan is to reduce the number of
shareholders to less than 300, which would allow Meret to
terminate its registration with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and no longer be a public company, Meret said. For
the company, with annual revenue of slightly more than $10
million, the expense and management time required to meet SEC
regulations for public companies is disproportionate to
benefits obtained, Meret said.
   Meret retained Harmon Group, a Columbus investment banking
firm, to give an opinion on the fairness of the plan.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the plan at a special
meeting later this summer, the company said.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HARMAN GROUP is a Columbus, Ohio, investment banking
company. The company's name was misstated in Tuesday's
edition.
   (WSJ June 14, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Higher as Bargain Hunters
   Revive Stocks; Microcom Dives 8 1/2 to 9 3/4
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Scattered bargain hunting revived
over-the-counter stocks from the sluggishness that overtook
them late last week. But traders were wary about reading much
into the day's gains.
   The session was marked, rather, by a plunge in one of the
market's high technology stocks, reminding OTC stock watchers
that some share prices may yet be too high.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Microcom lost nearly half of its value after announcing
late Friday that it expects to lose 15 cents to 20 cents a
share in its fiscal first quarter ending June 30. It blamed
the loss on "overstocking" of Microcom products by some of
its domestic distributors and a subsequent slump in sales.
   The Norwood, Mass.-based computer communications equipment
maker earned 29 cents a share in the quarter last year, and
some analysts had expected it to do better in the current
quarter.
   "People are very aggressive about unloading stocks of
companies that come in with a disappointment," said William
R. Rothe, managing director of OTC trading at Alex. Brown &amp;
Sons.
   By the session's end, investors had dumped more than 1.7
million Microcom shares, driving the price down 8 1/2 to 9
3/4.
   While many market players are counting on improving
earnings to support the recent gain in stock prices,
occasional casualties like Microcom offer a chilling reminder
of what can happen when expected earnings don't come through.
   Meanwhile, the broader OTC market drifted higher on
shrinking volume. Only 85.4 million National Market System
shares changed hands, compared with 101.8 million shares on
Friday.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index, which fell about 1 1/2 points
shortly after the opening, closed with a 1.92 point gain, up
0.42% to 462.79. OTC advancers edged out decliners, 923 to
898.
   The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rose about
0.7%.
   Alex. Brown's Mr. Rothe says that money managers with too
much cash in their portfolios remain under pressure to put
that money in stocks before the quarter ends. He says many
late buyers who missed May's rally are arguing that corporate
profits should start showing quarter-over-quarter gains later
this year.
   But few were drawing conclusions from yesterday's
activity.
   "I don't think it means anything," says Lance Zipper,
manager of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody. "The volume is just
too light."
   Mr. Zipper says most players are likely to wait for this
week's storm of economic data to pass before venturing back
into unlisted stocks.
   May's retail sales figures will be released tomorrow,
while the producer price index and consumer price index are
due later in the week. Expiring options and futures contracts
add a further element of uncertainty to the end of the week.
   Despite Microcom's debacle, other OTC technology stocks
gained. Apple Computer rose 3/4 to 39, Microsoft gained 1 3/8
to 74 7/8, and Seagate Technology added 1/4 to 15 1/2.
   National Savings Bank of Albany jumped 1 1/2 to 32 1/2.
The company said it has received a proposal for yet another
business combination. The stock slumped after an earlier
merger agreement with Home &amp; City Savings was terminated at
the end of May.
   Amgen rose 1 to 70 1/2. The biotechnology company is
coming under pressure from federal government officials who
contend that Medicare is paying too high a price for the
company's anti-anemia drug, erythropoetin, or EPO, the New
York Times reported.
   Greenery Rehabilitation Group fell 1 1/4 to 13 3/8. On
Friday, the company said it filed with the SEC to offer 2
million common shares. It said 1.5 million shares are being
offered by Gerard M. Martin, chairman and chief executive
officer, while 500,000 shares are being sold by the company.
   Showbiz Pizza Time hit a new 52-week high in heavy
trading, adding 2 to 28 1/4. The company says it can't
explain the rise, however. The company operates a system of
259 Showbiz Pizza Palace and Chuck E. Cheese's restaurants in
22 states in addition to 26 Monterey's Tex-Mex Cafe
restaurants in Texas and Oklahoma.
   Genlyte Group lost 1 to 8 after announcing that its second
quarter could be as much as 50% lower than the 26 cents a
share earned in the year-earlier quarter.
   Summit Technology gained 1 3/4 to 14 3/4. The company has
begun clinical trials in Japan for its photorefractive
keratectomy and superficial keratectomy procedures used to
treat vision disorders. The company said trials are underway
in nine countries including the U.S.
   Trak Auto ended 1/2 point ahead at 9 1/4 after reporting
earnings of 16 cents a share in its latest first quarter
ended April 30, compared with five cents a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas American's
   Plan for Liquidation
   Is Approved by Court
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   TXA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- A federal bankruptcy court approved
the liquidation plan proposed by Texas American Bancshares
Inc., to become effective July 16 barring any creditors'
appeals.
   Texas American, whose 24 bank subsidiaries were seized by
federal regulators last summer, is the first major Texas bank
holding company to have a bankruptcy plan confirmed by the
courts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The confirmation order fixes June 12 as the date of
ownership of Texas American's notes and debentures for the
purpose of making distributions. Although creditors have
until June 17 to appeal the plan, a bank spokesman said no
appeals are anticipated. Bank stockholders will not receive a
distribution under the plan.
   A Texas American spokesman said the company has about $46
million in cash and between $105 million and $108 million in
outstanding claims, but that the initial distribution will be
limited to about $17 million, pending resolution of disputed
claims.
   All of Texas American's remaining assets, consisting
primarily of real estate, gas and oil leases, and employee
loans, will be held in liquidating trusts once the plan
becomes effective. Matthew Metcalfe of Mobile, Ala., will
continue as liquidating trustee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Two Found Guilty
   On Rackets Charge
   In Waste-Dumping
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal jury convicted two New York City men
and six waste-hauling companies of racketeering in a case
involving illegal dumping of medical waste and asbestos.
   Angelo Paccione, 51 years old, was convicted of eight
counts of racketeering and mail fraud. Anthony Vulpis, 39,
was found guilty of seven racketeering and mail fraud counts.
Also convicted of seven racketeering and mail fraud counts
were A&amp;A Land Development, August Recycling Inc., National
Carting Inc., Stage Carting Inc., Rosedale Carting Inc. and
Vulpis Bros. Ltd., all owned or partly owned by Mr. Paccione
or Mr. Vulpis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The case, in federal court in Manhattan, involved the
illegal dumping of 5,000 tons of garbage, including
infectious waste, in the city's Staten Island borough in
1988. The defendants were indicted last June on charges of
defrauding sanitation and transportation agencies of New York
City and New York state as well as several medical-care
facilities.
   Two other defendants, John McDonald of Demarest, N.J., and
New York Environmental Contractors, were each convicted of
one count of mail fraud. New York Environmental is owned by
Messrs. McDonald, Paccione and Vulpis.
   Messrs. Paccione and Vulpis and the six companies agreed
to pay a total of $22 million under the forfeiture provisions
of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
   Attorneys for the defendants said they plan to appeal.
Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 12 before federal Judge
Constance Baker Motley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parsons Corp. Says
   Judge Dismissed Suit
   Challenging Buy-Out
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PASADENA, Calif. -- Parsons Corp. said a federal judge in
Los Angeles dismissed a lawsuit brought by 15 employees who
had challenged the leveraged buy-out of the engineering and
construction company by its employee stock ownership plan in
1985.
   The case has been closely watched by pension experts and
financial planners.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit had charged that the ESOP's acquisition of
Parsons's shares was a breach of fiduciary responsibility,
misuse of corporate assets and a termination of predecessor
plans, all of which injured the participants in the
transaction.
   Specifically, the employees had charged that the company
executives who designed and implemented the buy-out pocketed
millions of dollars, while the employees' future retirement
funds became saddled with hundreds of millions of dollars of
debt.
   But, according to Parsons, U.S. Distrct Judge Robert
Kelleher found after a five-day trial that the ESOP
retirement committee had acted "both independently and
prudently in deciding that the buy-out was in the best
interests of the ESOP participants."
   An attorney for the plaintiffs said they would appeal. "I
respectfully believe the decision will be reversed," said
Frederick Furth, senior partner of Furth, Fahrner &amp; Mason in
San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   PCG
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PACIFIC GAS &amp; ELECTRIC Co., San Francisco, is offering
$150 million of first and refunding mortgage bonds, 9.30%
Series 90A, due July 1, 2023, at 95.75% of their principal
amount, plus accrued interest from June 1, to yield 9.73%,
through First Boston Corp. and associates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It Seems Safe to Say That Rubens
   Wouldn't Have Done Well Here
   ----
   By Paula L. Stepankowsky
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   KELSO, Wash. -- Dan Norman believes in historical
accuracy.
   So he thinks a saloon girl, or variation thereof, should
grace one of several historical murals to be painted on
buildings in downtown Kelso, a city of 10,000 residents in
southwest Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His proposal to paint the town a tiny bit red, however,
has hit strong opposition.
   Mr. Norman, chairman of a downtown-revitalization
committee, suggested at a recent meeting that a lady of the
evening be part of a police-scene mural. The murals are
supposed to depict aspects of Kelso's 100-year history.
   Kelso acquired a racy reputation early this century, when
loggers from camps in surrounding river valleys came to Kelso
on weekends looking for a good time in its saloons and dance
halls.
   "That's what was really going on down there," Mr. Norman
says. "To ignore it is a little hypocritical." But he adds
that he has in mind "just . . . something along the lines of
Miss Kitty in `Gunsmoke.'"
   His proposal hasn't been put to a formal vote, but already
some committee members have responded with "a look like, `We
don't want to deal with it,'" he says.
   Committee members who oppose the suggestion say they want
to use Kelso's turn-of-the-century ambiance to attract
tourists and shoppers.
   "We do want to give the flavor of Kelso, but we don't
think {Mr. Norman's proposal} is the type of flavor we want
to promote," says committee member Lynn Woodard. Betty
Wilson, a former city councilwoman who attended the meeting,
says, "We've got a big future ahead of us, and I don't think
we need to put such insignificant, ordinary things up there."
   Darrell Frost, a Kelso city councilman who acts as liaison
to the committee, says Mr. Norman's idea might be appropriate
if it's done tastefully. "I think there would have to be a
sketch or design of what the final product would be before we
could consider it," he said.
   Committee member Vickie Jordan thinks the proposal is
amusing, but she has another concern -- one about the use of
federal grant money: "It's a cute thought, but I don't think
we want to go any further. This is taxpayers' money,
heavens]"
   But Mr. Norman isn't giving up. He plans to make a formal
motion on his proposition at the committee's next meeting
tomorrow. "We're not Disneyland. This isn't Mayberry, and I
don't think we should paint Aunt Bee on the wall."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Study
   Proposes Wider
   Halts in Trading
   ----
   By William Power and Craig Torres
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange, in a long-awaited
report on program trading, proposes new and expanded trading
halts to be triggered during unruly markets.
   But the Big Board report, which is scheduled to be
released today, doesn't challenge the widespread use of
program trading in the stock and stock-index futures markets,
and it describes the dispute about the computer-aided trading
as partly a public-relations problem for Wall Street.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report is the result of six months of study by an
18-member "Blue-Ribbon Panel on Market Volatility and
Investor Confidence," headed by Roger B. Smith, chairman of
General Motors Corp. The Big Board formed the panel amid an
outcry about program trading, following the 190-point plunge
in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Oct. 13, 1989, that
was blamed partly on computer-assisted program trading of
stocks and futures.
   The report, a preliminary copy of which was obtained by
this newspaper, makes a total of eight recommendations to
curb stock and futures markets volatility, some of them
involving new controls. These include a "four-tier circuit
breaker" that would halt trading for an hour when the Dow
industrials move up or down 100 points from the previous
day's close; 90 minutes when it moves 200 points; two hours
when it moves 300; and, likewise, two hours when it moves 400
points.
   These proposed trading halts are longer than previous
circuit breakers enacted by the Big Board. The report also
suggests that the Securities and Exchange Commission make it
easier for corporations to buy their own stock during
plunging markets.
   But in an unusual admission, the report virtually concedes
widespread "intermarket" trading abuses exist, involving the
stock, futures and options markets. The report suggests that
intermarket regulation and surveillance systems need to be
improved "to prevent undetected wrongdoing in today's complex
marketplace."
   Yet the report also repeatedly tries to assure investors
that the markets, despite the hair-raising plunges of recent
years, are basically in good shape.
   The report concludes: "First, although market fluctuations
are inevitable," the stock and futures markets "are
essentially stable and sound. Second, they are not `tilted'
against the individual investor. But there is ample room for
improvement, especially in increasing the public
understanding of the markets."
   Program trading involves rapid-fire, computer-aided trades
of large baskets of stocks and stock-index futures and
options. The most common form, index arbitrage, has been
blamed for contributing to sudden swings in the stock market,
including the 1987 stock market crash.
   Several dissents to the report are expected to be filed,
including one from the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The Merc,
a panel member, is expected to reject the recommendation that
a single federal agency coordinate stock and futures markets,
or at least the margin requirements in each. Chicago futures
markets set their own margins, or good-faith payments needed
to trade futures. The Chicago exchanges are fighting efforts
in Washington to give the SEC more power over the futures
markets.
   Wall Street executives say some major Wall Street
brokerage firms may step up their program trading activity
when the report is officially released at a major news
conference this afternoon.
   These firms, including a major program trader, Morgan
Stanley Group Inc., have in recent months pulled back from
the index arbitrage form of program trading for their own
accounts, though they are accommodating customers who want to
do program trading.
   The firms have said privately they wouldn't reconsider
trading for their own accounts until the Big Board report was
issued. Now, they are expected to increase their regular
program trading.
   Some firms that cater to individual investors have
remained steadfastly opposed to program trading. Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co.'s Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., for example,
stopped all forms of program trading last year and has said
it doesn't have any plans to resume it.
   A GM spokesman said Mr. Smith wasn't available to comment
yesterday. A Big Board spokesman declined to comment.
   Among the Big Board report's recommendations:
   -- Coordination by a single body of margin levels across
stocks, futures and options markets. This is something the
Chicago futures markets don't want, because they have wide
leeway now in setting their own margins.
   -- A new SEC rule to ease constraints on corporations'
ability to buy their own stock during volatile markets, and
to "pre-announce" their intentions to do so.
   -- New Big Board rules to allow market makers, or
specialists, to use options more easily to hedge their
positions in stocks.
   -- "Active efforts" by the stock and futures exchanges to
"work with the media and educate the public" about program
trading and related matters.
   -- New products to enable individual investors to protect
themselves from daily market swings.
   -- Better systems to detect intermarket trading abuses.
   -- One federal agency to regulate U.S. stock and futures
markets.
   -- A single federal agency to oversee margin requirements.
   Some institutional money managers are wary about any
additional regulation.
   Robert Arnott, chief investment officer at First Quadrant
Corp., which manages about $10 billion for institutions, said
he thinks margins for hedged positions on stock-index futures
are "at perfectly adequate levels. In fact, raising them
might restrict liquidity," which is the ability to buy and
sell securities easily. He said: "I think 1990 may be the
most dangerous year for the capital markets in the post-war
period. Most of the regulatory actions that have been
proposed {by Congress} would moderately or severely affect
liquidity, which is dangerous and counterproductive."
   Some of the Big Board panel's recommendations overlap
earlier ones from the Securities Industry Association, a
trade group, and the government's Brady report on the 1987
crash.
   The trading halts would technically be triggered by
specific percentage swings, either up or down, in the stock,
the stock-index futures or the index option markets. The
first trigger is a 3.7% movement, equivalent to about 100
points on the Dow, or 12 points on the Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index traded in Chicago. Other triggering points
are 7.4%, 11.1% and 14.8% moves in the markets.
   The triggering points were determined partly by a Big
Board study, which showed that, on average, the public
believes a 60-point to 70-point change in the Dow is "a large
amount," a footnote in the Big Board report states.
   One of the public-relations moves suggested by the Big
Board panel is that the media report percentage changes in a
broad index, such as the S&amp;P or the Big Board composite
index, rather than point changes in the Dow when covering the
market. Percentage changes don't look as alarming as big
moves in the Dow, the reasoning goes.
   People close to the Big Board's program trading committee
said the panelists had several heated exchanges during the
six months of talks. They said GM's Mr. Smith didn't offer
his own opinions, but played the role of mediator.
   Some investors would like a ban on program trading, or at
least on index arbitrage, in which traders buy or sell large
baskets of stocks with offsetting futures and options trades.
But even though the panel included members from
public-oriented firms such as A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc., Dean
Witter and Kemper Corp., any such ban was quickly dismissed
by the group. "I don't think anyone thought to eliminate
{program trading}," a person close to the panel said. "So why
spend time talking about it?"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush, Salinas
   To Seek Pact
   On Free Trade
   ---
   U.S., Mexican Leaders Plan
   To Begin Formal Talks
   After December Meeting
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM LABOR CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush and Mexican President Carlos
Salinas de Gortari said a comprehensive U.S.-Mexico
free-trade agreement is in the interest of both nations, and
they indicated they want formal negotiations to begin shortly
after their next meeting in December.
   Mr. Bush is scheduled to travel to Mexico for the December
meeting. Until then, White House Trade Representative Carla
Hills and Mexican Commerce Minister Jaime Serra Puche will
consult and do preparatory work for the trade negotiations.
Mr. Salinas said his government would send a formal request
letter to the U.S. later this year that would trigger
congressional consideration of legislation to facilitate the
talks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This timetable allows the Bush administration to pursue
its top trade priority, the successful completion of the
current Uruguay round of multilateral trade liberalization
talks under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Those
talks are due to be completed in December.
   "We and the Mexicans anticipate that the Uruguay Round
will conclude first," the White House Trade Office said in a
statement. There has been concern that the U.S.-Mexico talks
might get in the way of the GATT talks.
   The two presidents, in a joint statement, said, "Free
trade between Mexico and the U.S. can be a powerful engine
for economic development, creating new jobs and opening new
markets." They also declared that such a pact should "help
forge a vigorous partnership for sustained economic growth
and opportunity." In 1989, commerce between the U.S. and
Mexico, the U.S.'s third largest trading partner, totaled $52
billion, with U.S. exports to Mexico totaling $25 billion.
   Meanwhile, Mexican Finance Minister Pedro Aspe -- who
accompanied Mr. Salinas on his visit here -- said some
foreign banks, including U.S. ones, are involved in
debt-trading operations through which some Mexicans are
alleged to have diverted funds and committed tax fraud. He
declined to name the banks, but said he is supplying that
information to the U.S. authorities. The allegations involve
possible misuse of Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos
Cambiarios, or Ficorca, a government program through which
the foreign bank debts of Mexican private companies are
settled.
   As reported, the Mexican finance ministry last week
charged that two local businessmen had improperly diverted
Ficorca funds to shell companies in apparent attempts to
evade taxes and move the money out of the country. These
transactions involved foreign bank creditors, Mr. Aspe said,
but he declined to name them or elaborate on their role.
   The Federal Reserve now is looking into a number of
possible instances of irregularity and impropriety in the
handling and trading of developing country credits, including
those of Mexico, according to officials in the U.S. central
bank.
   During Mr. Salinas's two-day visit to the U.S., which ends
today, the Mexicans are emphasizing the potential benefits of
a free-trade pact. "We do envision an area of free trade
covering Mexico, the U.S. and Canada," Mr. Salinas said,
conjuring a vision of a united North American market that
might even be larger than the European Community.
   There is much support in the U.S. for a U.S.-Mexico
free-trade agreement. Last week, the Business Roundtable, a
group of about 200 top U.S. corporate leaders, urged both
countries to negotiate "a comprehensive bilateral trade and
investment agreement."
   But there also are some reservations. Some U.S. lawmakers
have expressed concern that such an agreement might adversely
affect groups such as U.S. labor and farmers. Bush
administration officials say such concerns can be addressed
during the period of informal dialogue between now and
December.
   Some more protected U.S. industries are particularly
fearful of the proposed pact. "We oppose a free-trade
agreement between Mexico and the U.S.," said Donald Hughes,
president of the American Textile Manufacturers Institute.
"Such an agreement would further erode the market share of
domestic industry and result in further U.S. job losses,
which should be the first concern of our government," he
said.
   The Bush administration also has its concerns. Despite
Mexico's significant recent steps toward economic
liberalization, "the U.S. would like to see Mexico take
additional steps to: eliminate or reduce nontariff barriers
(particularly in agriculture), further liberalize its
investment regime and implement more extensive intellectual
property protection," the White House Trade Office said in a
statement released yesterday.
   U.S. and Mexican leaders are eager to keep Canada fully
informed about their talks. President Bush called Canadian
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney prior to the private dinner he
hosted for Mr. Salinas on Sunday to explain his talks with
Mr. Salinas about a trade pact. Both governments hope that
their trade agreement can be completed more quickly than a
similar pact negotiated between Canada and the U.S., which
took three years to negotiate.
   Mr. Salinas clearly hopes that a free-trade pact will open
his country to foreign investment. "Free trade is a signal
for stronger flow of investment into the country, as well as
capital reflow," he told reporters.
   Those funds are particularly important because Mexico is
embarking on the biggest process of privatization in its
history. Mr. Salinas estimated the effort may require
investment of between $20 billion and $25 billion. The
Mexican president pointed out that the recent announcement of
a plan to privatize his country's banks -- which were
nationalized in 1982 -- already had led to a 10 percentage
point drop in domestic interest rates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900612-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900612-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Blaze on Tanker
   Off Coast of Texas
   Blocks Use of Foam
   ----
   By David D. Medina and Sue-Sun Yom
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
06/12/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   GALVESTON, Texas -- Burning oil forced firefighters to
postpone plans to use foam against the blaze aboard the Mega
Borg, whose stern slipped under water late yesterday,
slightly increasing chances it would sink.
   Smit International, the largest maritime firefighting
outfit in the world, had ordered up special state-of-the-art
equipment from its Rotterdam headquarters in the Netherlands
to apply the foam that deprives fires of oxygen. But burning
oil belched from the Norwegian tanker, forcing fireboats
back.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Smit officials worried that the ship's metal
was still too hot to guarantee foam would be successful. They
planned to attempt to apply foam again this morning.
   Meanwhile, Coast Guard officials insisted that chances
remain slim that the Mega Borg and its 38.2 million gallons
of crude oil will sink.
   "There's a risk," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Gene
Maestas, "but I wouldn't say it's an overwhelming concern at
this time." Todd Nelson, another Coast Guard petty officer,
said the Mega Borg is highly compartmentalized and that even
though the stern has slipped under water, "lots of airtight
compartments are keeping the boat afloat." An estimated
100,000 gallons of oil have spilled from the tanker since
fire and explosions ripped through its pump room in the early
morning hours of Saturday.
   The oil tanker disaster 57 miles southeast of this port
city has much of the Gulf of Mexico on alert.
   Local, state and federal authorities that set up command
posts here are contending with the problems of putting out
the fire and being prepared should the Norwegian ship spill
more crude.
   Even the possibility of a major oil spill -- the Exxon
Valdez spilled less than a third as much crude as the Mega
Borg is carrying -- put emergency plans into immediate high
gear. The Coast Guard, in addition to local personnel, called
in its Atlantic Area Strike Team from Mobile, Ala., to serve
as technical advisers, and has Coast Guard cutters and
skimmers on the scene.
   The Environmental Protection Agency -- even though it had
some doubts -- approved the use of dispersants almost
immediately. "We don't like to" use dispersants, said EPA
spokesman Roger Meacham, "because of the danger to marine
life. But we want to make sure this oil is broken up as
quickly as possible." Coast Guard Admiral William Kime said
the dispersants will help the oil evaporate faster. About
half of the spilled oil is expected to evaporate, he said,
because it is a light crude and the weather is favorable. The
Valdez spilled heavy, Alaskan oil into icy waters.
   Industry observers as well as the government officials
themselves said it was obvious that many people were trying
to respond as quickly as possible to the Mega Borg emergency
in order to avoid the accusations of slow action and decison
making that came out of the Valdez incident.
   "The response was nearly immediate," Mr. Meacham said. "We
called the major players to Galveston to get the situation
under control." Other federal agencies such as the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service have been consulted.
   The Texas Water Commission, which has jurisdiction over
oil spills in the state, said it has materials ready in case
there is a major oil spill that hits shore. Buck Wynne,
chairman of the commission, said: "It's not going to stay in
one place."
   In fact, oceanographers at the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration say the Mega Borg's oil could
pollute 200 miles of beaches from Corpus Christi north. Jim
Conn of the Corpus Christi area oil spill control association
said the association is ready to set out booms to protect
beaches and inlets between barrier islands and the coast. "We
haven't done anything other than monitoring at this time," he
said, adding: "We're the fourth-largest oil port in the U.S.
and so we have a large exposure to oil spills. We clean about
40 small oil spills a year."
   Galveston already has activated its Emergency Operations
Center. "We've basically got the same people down here that
we have here for hurricanes," said Gary Stone, a city
spokesman."We get people from all different departments in to
help answer phones and monitor activities." The Beach Parks
Board has two people checking the beaches every two hours to
report if any oil is washed up.
   Gary Clark, president of the Houston Audubon Society, said
the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge and Matagorda Island,
both north of Corpus Christi, are especially vulnerable right
now. "This is one of the worst times to have (a spill),
because the waterbirds are breeding," he said. "We have
chicks coming out of the eggs."
   If a major spill occurs, Mr. Clark sees devastating
effects on two endangered species -- the brown pelican and
the Ridley Sea Turtle. The brown pelican is making a comeback
after its population was decimated by DDT. Now, there are at
most "20 birds, a very fragile population," Mr. Clark said.
Because light crude is more toxic than what was spilled in
Alaska, "they wouldn't be oiled birds, they would be dead
birds."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
