<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Jaguar Cars Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   F WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   JAGUAR CARS Inc. (Mahwah, N.J.) -- Michael H. Dale, 55
years old, was named president of the U.S. sales arm of
Jaguar Ltd., the British luxury car maker and a unit of Ford
Motor Co. He succeeds Graham W. Whitehead, 61, who retires
Oct. 1. Mr. Dale was previously senior vice president of
Jaguar Cars, responsible for the company's U.S. sales
operations and marketing activities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Big U.S. Companies Favor
   Loosening Anti-Dumping Laws
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA EUROP IBM HWP CAT
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Some large U.S. corporations now favor
weakening anti-dumping laws, and this rift in the business
community threatens to undercut congressional support for a
new global trading accord.
   Most U.S. manufacturers still adhere to the traditional
position of rigorously protecting American companies from
imports that are "dumped" -- that is, sold at less than their
assumed costs. But U.S. multinational companies are
increasingly interested in weakening the anti-dumping rules,
and thus are allying themselves with trading competitors of
the U.S., such as Japan and South Korea.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leading the drive to water down the anti-dumping rules are
giant companies such as International Business Machines
Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co., Caterpillar Inc. and Cargill Inc.
Many of these multinationals rely heavily on foreign
components or raw materials; strict enforcement of current
anti-dumping rules raises the costs of these imports.
   Moreover, these companies have become large exporters and
thus are vulnerable to other nations' anti-dumping actions.
Donald Fites, Caterpillar's president and chairman-elect,
contends that unless the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade, the group that sets rules for world trade, acts to
prevent what he sees as abuses of the anti-dumping code, such
actions could become "the protectionist weapon of choice in
the 1990s."
   On the other side are many U.S. industries -- such as
steel, automotive, ball-bearings, glass and textiles -- that
have been the victims of dumping. They are pressing the
administration to seek a toughening of the rules, or at least
to get the GATT negotiators to leave them alone.
   These proponents of strong anti-dumping laws also claim
considerable clout in Congress. Caucus leaders claiming to
represent as many as 300 House votes have warned President
Bush that they will oppose any agreement that "substantially
weakens" the anti-dumping laws.
   The conflicting demands could hurt the Bush
administration's ability to win quick congressional approval
for a new accord under GATT, which it hopes to send to
Capitol Hill next year.
   Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher, who believes the U.S.
anti-dumping law is the only shield some industries have
against predatory imports, vows that the U.S. won't accept a
code that "diminishes the rights and remedies available to
U.S. firms."
   But U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills has overall
responsibility for coordinating the U.S. position in the
current round of GATT negotiations. As it draws to a
conclusion in December, she will be trying to bundle all the
GATT issues into a single package that the U.S. and more than
100 other nations can agree on. At that point, advocates of a
strong anti-dumping code worry, Mrs. Hills may give up part
of the U.S. position on dumping in order to gain important
trade benefits in other areas.
   "Some countries will whisper, give us some changes in the
anti-dumping code if you want an agreement in agriculture,
services and investments," says Alan Wolff, trade counsel for
the Semiconductor Industry Association.
   Making matters even more worrisome for Mr. Wolff and his
clients is the new congruity of interests between some U.S.
multinationals and trade adversaries such as Japan and South
Korea. Like the multinationals, the Japanese want the new
GATT code to accept the practice of "forward-pricing," or
spreading capital and research costs over the entire
projected life of a product, allowing exporters to ship
products at less than their current costs. This would reverse
the current U.S. practice.
   Japan, Canada and the U.S. multinationals also are jointly
pressing the Bush administration to accept a "sunset"
provision in the GATT code, which would require member
countries to terminate anti-dumping duties after a specific
period of time. The European Community already has a
five-year sunset provision, but under current U.S. practice,
anti-dumping orders remain in effect until it can be shown
that the goods in question have been landed at non-dumped
prices for three consecutive years.
   There are obvious reasons for this unanimity of views
between major U.S. exporters and Japan. Until the mid-1980s,
only the U.S., Canada, Australia, and the European Community
had active anti-dumping programs. Now at least 27 countries
have adopted similar laws, including Argentina, Brazil,
Mexico and Chile.
   As a result, U.S. companies are finding themselves on the
receiving end of anti-dumping actions. Mexico alone has
directed at least 15 against them since 1987, according to
the International Trade Commission. "The U.S. now ranks up
there with Japan as the leading targets of anti-dumping
actions," says Gary Horlick, a trade lawyer advising IBM,
Caterpillar and other multinationals.
   The Commerce Department is resisting the pressure to
change. Eric Garfinkel, the department's assistant secretary
for import administration, acknowledges that the U.S. and the
European Community are practically the only two parties in
GATT that oppose weakening the code.
   ---
                 The U.S. and Japan As Targets
                                                                                                       

   Anti-dumping investigations launched between 1980 and June
1988
                                                                                                       

                                   AGAINST     AGAINST
 COUNTRY             TOTAL           JAPAN        U.S.
                                                                                                       

 Australia             465              47          52
 U.S.                  409              62         ---
 European Community    357              31          23
 Canada                319              25          55
 Argentina              43               4           6
 Mexico                 30               2          14
 New Zealand            17               2         ---
 South Korea             6               4         ---
 Others                 19             ---         ---
                                                                                                       

 Totals              1,665             177         150
                                                                                                       

   Source: "Anti-Dumping Law and Practice," ed. by John H.
Jackson and Edwin A. Vermulst, Univ. of Michigan Press, 1989
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lancaster Colony Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   LANC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLUMBUS, Ohio -- Lancaster Colony Corp., a producer of
automotive, specialty food, glassware and candle products,
said directors authorized the purchase of as many as 200,000,
or 1.7%, of its 11.8 million common shares, in open-market or
private transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Renewed Jitters
   Boost Prices
   Of Oil, Products
   ---
   Concern Is Solution for Gulf
   Won't Be Found in Time
   To Avoid Tight Supplies
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil prices rose on renewed jitters that a solution to the
Persian Gulf crisis might not be found quickly enough to
prevent a tight supply situation, climbing 85 cents a barrel
to $26.77.
   Traders late yesterday said they perceived that peace
initiatives by the U.N. seemed destined to produce little
progress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Product prices moved upward more quickly than crude prices
because market participants are finally realizing that if and
when a shortage as a result of the embargo of Iraqi-Kuwaiti
crudes arises, it will likely hit the products sector first.
"We are consuming products faster than we are producing
them," said Ted Eck, economist for Amoco Corp. "There are no
refined products in the strategic petroleum reserve, just
crude."
   Gasoline futures prices for September delivery rose 4.35
cents a gallon to 89.07 cents, while heating oil for the same
month climbed by 3.90 cents to 75.54 cents.
   Indeed analysts and industry executives are becoming
increasingly concerned that the longer the crisis persists,
the more difficult it will be to replace dwindling product
supplies. Under the best of situations, refining capacity in
the U.S. can barely meet the needs of consumers. Mr. Eck
added that world-wide the war has already knocked out 600,000
barrels a day of refining capacity in Kuwait, where several
sophisticated facilities capable of putting out high-quality
refined products have been closed down.
   Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries Wednesday promised to increase their output by at
least three million barrels daily to make up for the
Iraq-Kuwait shortfall. But at least for the short term,
markets will remain short of one million barrels of daily
production.
   Remarks made by Sun Co. Chairman Robert McClements to
analysts yesterday did little to allay fears. He told the
gathering that the additional production brought on line by
global producers during the crisis would be of lesser quality
than crude that has been previously available. These crudes,
he explained, will yield less gasoline and other refined
products.
   In addition, reports that oil workers in Brazil were
threatening to strike sparked buying in the gasoline pit.
Brazil exports gasoline to U.S. markets. Also perceived as
bullish were reports by Dow Jones International Petroleum
Report that Yemen, a small Middle Eastern producer, would be
unable to export any oil in September because it needed to
use all of its oil internally. Yemen feeds some of its
refineries with Iraqi crude.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Franc, Mark Become Havens
   For Wealthy Middle East Investors
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST CMB CCI JPM BT EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Since Saddam Hussein's troops rolled into
Kuwait, the smart Mideast money has rolled into Swiss francs,
German marks and even a little gold.
   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait has sent shock waves throughout
the salons of wealthy individuals in the Middle East. Wealthy
people from Saudi Arabia to the United Arab Emirates to Oman
have bought billions of dollars of relatively stable Western
currencies and sold less-liquid securities and local
investments, according to bankers in London, Switzerland and
the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Middle Eastern investors have moved as much as $8 billion
in capital outside the Gulf region since the Aug. 2 invasion,
bankers in Europe say. The capital flight is a potentially
damaging long-term blow to local efforts to establish
private-banking businesses in the region. And the main
beneficiaries of the outflow of capital are such big U.S.
banks as Chase Manhattan Corp., Citicorp, Bankers Trust Co.
and J.P. Morgan -- some of whose private-client operations in
the region have doubled since the invasion, bankers say. "We
have a host of new customers whom we weren't doing business
with last month," says a senior executive at an American bank
in Zurich, Switzerland.
   "There has been a flight to quality and safety," adds
George Asseily, director of London-based Schroder Asseily &amp;
Co., an investment and private-banking concern with strong
Mideast ties. "People are diversifying into stable
currencies, remaining fairly liquid and just waiting" for
some stability to return to the region.
   Peter Widmer, director in charge of institutional asset
management at Zurich's Bank Julius Baer, agrees: "People have
been looking for liquidity and safety. There has been a move
towards cash -- the Swiss franc, the Deutche mark and
possibly the dollar -- with less of a move towards gold."
   The flow of capital from the Mideast is affecting world
markets. Some people attribute the franc's near 10% rise
against the dollar this month largely to the invasion. Many
European bankers say that savvy Mideastern investors have
also been buying sterling, largely because real, or
inflation-adjusted, British interest rates of roughly 5% are
well above those for other major currencies.
   Despite the dollar's recent weakness, many Mideastern
investors have bought the U.S. currency. Bankers say
Mideasterners have also been trading volatile gold bullion,
whose price has swung by over 15% this month. However, their
interest hasn't been enough to compensate for big
institutional selling.
   The unprecedented wave of orders in the Middle East has
transformed the usually hushed tones and orderly manner of
Europe's private-banking halls. One London-based private
banker, pointing to stacks of telexes that cover his antique
Sheraton desk, says he has never before seen so many people
wanting accounts. "They all want to know how they can move
their money, and if we can set up accounts. It's
unbelievable," says the normally understated banker. Adds
Richard Lowe, a Chase Manhattan banker normally based in
Bahrain: "We have been extremely busy."
   The movement has prompted some unusual requests. "People
have asked us to secure safe passage for jewels," says a
banker at a U.S. bank in the Gulf. The crisis has meant a
boom for such specialists as British firms that store
investment-quality luxury automobiles. One such company,
which operates a garage in a converted cow shed in
Buckinghamshire, England, has received or expects nearly a
dozen high-cost luxury cars -- including two #250,000
($486,286) Lamborghinis from Bahrain and a Mercedes stretch
limousine from the Saudi royal family -- because of fears
that the vehicles would be damaged if hostilities escalate.
   The Gulf region is home for an estimated quarter of a
million so-called high-net-worth individuals. These wealthy
investors may control in total over $100 billion, bankers
say. Much of that money includes holdings in infrastructure
investments, as well as rights to oil income. Roughly 10% or
more is in such highly liquid assets as stocks, bonds and
cash.
   The safer havens are considered such European money
centers as London, Zurich, Geneva and the low-tax Channel
Islands of Jersey and Guernsey. These centers -- that permit
easy access to capital and often offer low tax rates -- are
more accessible than U.S. locations for people who want to
remain close to the Gulf. Bankers say as much as two-thirds
of the Middle Eastern capital has gone to Switzerland, with
the rest flowing to London and elsewhere. A typical portfolio
switched to 70% cash and 30% stocks and bonds since the
invasion from roughly equal distributions of cash, stocks and
bonds before.
   One group that isn't benefiting from the flight of capital
from the Gulf is the Japanese. Many Japanese financial
institutions have sharply curtailed their activity in the
Gulf since the Iraqi invasion. And few Japanese banks have
the private-banking facilities to try to tap wealthy
Mideastern investors. One Japanese banker says the
uncertainty in the region may be discouraging Japanese banks
from trying to exploit the situation -- and even putting a
chill on normal business in the region.
   Now that the money is out, it looks likely to stay out
until current tensions subside. "No one is going to rush back
into these countries," says one Mideast banker. "Long term,
they all have oil wealth, but short term, they seem too
unstable." A big casualty thus are the emerging
private-banking financial institutions of the Gulf, set up in
the region in recent years to tap some of the newly rich
Middle Easterners' wealth.
   Though many Arabs are trying to keep a low profile, the
sudden movement of wealth -- and the prospects of higher oil
prices -- has already generated some critical comment in
Europe. London tabloids this week reported a surge in
Mideastern interest in London homes on a scale unseen since
the 1970s petrodollar boom. And attention was drawn to an
obscure member of the Saudi royal family who recently lost a
reported $22 million at gambling casinos in the south of
France. Mentioning the gambling incident in this week's
Spectator magazine, author Charles Glass asked whether U.S.
and other soldiers in the multinational force are "going to
fight, kill and die so the sheik can try his luck again?"
   ---
   Marcus W. Brauchli contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   This Music Man
   Of the Wilderness
   Engages the Sole
   ---
   Jim Stoltz Walks the Wilds
   With a Guitar on His Back
   And a Cause to Promote
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BIG SKY, Mont. -- Walkin' Jim Stoltz can't stop. Every
year for the past 17, he has walked in the wilds, with 60 or
so pounds of camping gear, dried fruit, pasta and a guitar on
his back. This summer, he has been walking in the heart of
Montana, adding 600 miles to the 17,000 miles he has walked
so far.
   Mr. Stoltz, a tall, scrawny 37-year-old, composes songs
about his life in the back country and takes thousands of
pictures -- of sunsets and sunrises, of streams, lodgepole
pines and eagles. He presents his songs and slides to
preservation and school groups in a multimedia show called
Forever Wild.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Walkin' Jim isn't a pushy guy, but if his concerts inspire
someone to take a hike, he figures that's good, and if he
arouses people to join his campaign to save the wilderness,
that's even better. "A lot of my audiences on the East and
West coasts are unaware that the wilderness is being
threatened," he says.
   The conservation groups that often sponsor his concerts
say Walkin' Jim is a persuasive missionary for wilderness
preservation. "Unless you're a Martin Luther King-type
orator, somebody like Walkin' Jim, who mixes songs with
photographs, is the best way to reach people," says Mike
Bader, the executive director of the Alliance for the Wild
Rockies, a Missoula, Mont., group that's leading a drive to
expand wilderness areas.
   Mr. Stoltz concedes that his passion for solitary
wilderness walking is somewhat "wacko." Perhaps it's a
reaction to growing up in Detroit, where he was a shy,
reclusive teen-ager. "I was a city boy. The last thing you
think of as a Detroiter is to be so close to the earth," he
says. A Boy Scout leader "inspired in me a love for music" --
and of hiking, he says.
   In 1973, while hiking in Virginia, Mr. Stoltz met a man
who was walking the 2,100-mile Appalachian Trail from Georgia
to Maine. "I was captivated by the romance of it," Mr. Stoltz
says. The next year, he trekked the trail. When the 28-week
walk ended on the peak of Maine's Mt. Katahdin in mid-October
of 1974, he decided to walk West.
   He started from West Quoddy Head, Maine, the easternmost
tip of the U.S., and finished -- 4,811 miles and a year and a
half later -- at Cape Alava, Wash., the westernmost point in
the lower 48 states. For three months he hiked on snowshoes.
He fell through the ice trying to cross a river. He was
almost hit by a train while walking along the tracks in a
blizzard.
   Frightening to some, perhaps, but less so to Walkin' Jim.
To him, back woods and mountains are home, and fending for
himself gives him a sense of confidence. Of his first major
hike, he says, "I discovered a real peace out there. I felt
like I was coming home."
   In the hiking hierarchy, Mr. Stoltz is at the pinnacle: a
wilderness walker. "Most people who do it, do it on roads. I
did it all back country," he says. He's never taken a ride,
even when he ran out of water halfway across a 60-mile desert
in Idaho and was found, sick and trembling, by a woman in a
truck. He accepted water and fruit juices from her, but not a
lift. It's a point of pride.
   In 1979, Mr. Stoltz walked the Continental Divide, from
the Mexican to the Canadian borders, composing songs along
the way. "I wrote a song about every 100 miles, and since it
was a 2,700-mile trip, it was pretty productive," he says.
   Mr. Stoltz, who has recorded three albums, sings in a deep
bass that sounds like a distant rapid in a canyon stream. His
songs are paeans to nature, like "Listen to the Earth," or
ballads. "The Ballad of Willie and Millie" tells of romance
and destruction in Butte, Mont. "Listen to the Wind" recounts
the life of Jim Bridger, the 19th-century explorer and
mountain man. "I'm Going Back to Idaho" was written on his
third walk across that state.
   In the winter, Mr. Stoltz sings at Lone Mountain Ranch, a
Big Sky mecca for cross-country skiers where his wife,
Leslie, is a guide. He tours in the spring and fall,
appearing in schools and concert halls at fees ranging from
$300 to $2,000.
   At his concerts, he promotes his causes. One is to win
wilderness classification of 17 million acres of roadless
Forest Service lands, primarily in Idaho and Montana. It's a
controversial issue here.
   "The polarization in the Northwest between the logging
industry and the people who want to preserve the environment
is really incredible," he says. The fight has been
particularly bitter since 1988, when President Reagan vetoed
a bill that would have added 1.5 million acres to Montana's
protected wilderness areas.
   While he concedes he's no politician, he follows
wilderness legislation carefully and asks his audiences to
sign petitions promoting the protection of wild lands. "I
hate even thinking about this, but I can't help it," he says.
"My vision of the wilderness, the things I sing about, the
slides I show, are all things that are in danger."
   Not everybody likes the message. As Bruce Vincent, the
business manager of Vincent Logging Inc. in Libby, Mont.,
sees it, "A bunch of ardent preservation groups are pushing
to have a ludicrous amount of public land" set aside as
wilderness. "It's not responsible environmentalism to exclude
man" from the woods by setting aside vast tracts that only
the hardiest hikers can use, he argues.
   Walkin' Jim couldn't disagree more. To him, the wilderness
is a "place where everything works like it's supposed to
work, and it doesn't need any help from humans." On his
walks, he averages 12 to 14 miles a day, often going weeks
without seeing another person. The most he has ever walked in
one day is 32 miles. "I was feeling strong," he says.
   Mr. Stoltz packs all his food for the trip before he
leaves so his wife can mail it to him along the way. Usually
he carries a 60-pound pack with a two-week supply of food --
granola and dried fruit for breakfast, trail mix and candy
bars for snacks throughout the day and pasta or rice with
vegetables for dinner. He plans his routes meticulously to
take him close to water and to towns where he can pick up
supplies and indulge his passion for ice cream.
   After their marriage two years ago, he and Leslie took a
23-day honeymoon hike through the Grand Canyon. "I love
hiking with my wife, but I've found that I also need time
alone with the wilderness," he says, because "the solitude
and closeness with the earth is much more intense."
   But long walks aren't as free as they used to be. As his
concert career expands, he is obliged to answer more
correspondence, be more businesslike. Says Walkin' Jim: "I
consider myself a success in a lot of ways, but the more
successful I am, the harder it is to get away on walks."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   AON Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   AOC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AON Corp. (Chicago) -- John E. Johnston, formerly resident
vice president, Europe, was named to the new post of
president, European operations, for Combined Insurance Co. of
America, a major operating unit of this insurance holding
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ashland Oil Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ASHLAND OIL Inc. (Ashland, Ky.) -- G. Thomas Wilkinson was
named president of Ashland Exploration Inc., the company's
oil and gas production unit, and a vice president of the
parent company. Mr. Wilkinson, formerly executive vice
president of Ashland Exploration, succeeds James R. Boyd, who
continues as a senior vice president and group operating
officer of Ashland Oil. Ashland is mainly a refiner and
marketer of petroleum products, but it also is involved in
chemicals, engineering and construction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Now, Higher Oil Prices Are Expected
   To Batter, Not Boost, British Economy
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- As Europe's biggest oil producer, Britain
logically should gain from the jump in oil prices Saddam
Hussein set off with his charge into Kuwait.
   At least that was the conventional wisdom in the early
days of the crisis. But economies are often perverse, and a
month later, the outlook for Britain seems shakier. Indeed,
as forecasters tally up probable winners and losers, many see
the U.K. economy to be among the more badly bruised by the
oil shocks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The initial reaction that the U.K. would be a beneficiary
is a view that's outdated," said Keith Skeoch, an economist
with James Capel Ltd., a London securities firm.
Unfortunately for Britain, the impact of the crisis doesn't
begin and end with a surge in oil prices. Any big jolt to the
world energy markets spawns an array of aftershocks and
secondary effects, and it's these that cloud prospects for
Britain's economy.
   Part of the problem is timing. Like the U.S., Britain
comes to the current oil trauma at a juncture when lots of
other things are going badly for the economy. The U.K.'s
inflation rate, the highest of the major industrial nations,
is expected to break into double digits with the next set of
indicators; interest rates are stuck at 15%; and business
insolvencies are rising ominously.
   Turmoil arising from the Gulf showdown may be "the classic
straw that breaks the camel's back," says Leo Doyle,
economist at Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd.
   True, Britain's revenue from the North Sea will rise. But
petroleum, once the jewel in Britain's economy, is fading in
economic significance. Nowadays oil accounts for about 9% of
Britain's exports, compared to 22% in 1985. Costlier oil
mainly serves to increase costs for British industry, which
is already struggling with high interest rates, high
inflation and anemic domestic demand.
   The oil-price runup also highlights what's been a chronic
Achilles heel for the British economy: high wage increases
that tend to feed inflation. This year, U.K. wage increases
have been running at about twice the European average,
according to Incomes Data Services Ltd., a London statistical
firm.
   Higher oil prices will push up the official inflation
measures, leading to higher wage demands in the round of
negotiations many big industrial concerns will embark on this
fall. If history is any guide, management will likely go
along with them. "All this exposes the U.K.'s problems," says
Tappan Data, U.K. economist with the American Express Bank in
London. "Wage inflation has been a difficult nut to crack."
   Meanwhile, foreign-exchange markets still tend to treat
the British pound as a petrocurrency, sending it several
rungs higher against the mark and the dollar in recent weeks.
Sterling's rise makes U.S. and German imports cheaper,
thereby offsetting some of the inflationary pressure that
comes with higher oil and petrol.
   But with the pound pushing past three marks, British
companies will have a harder time exporting their products.
Just before the Gulf crisis and the latest surge in the
pound, the Confederation of British Industries found that
companies it surveyed were becoming more pessimistic about
winning export orders. Sluggish exports, on top of the
stagnant economy at home, threaten to shove the British
economy into full recession, the CBI warned.
   Now, said CBI economist Andrew Sentance, "the situation
has weakened." He predicted that in coming months, the pound
will subside somewhat, settling at about $1.88. But he added:
"People competing in dollar markets prefer it to be $1.60."
   The present turmoil in the currency markets may delay
Britain's entry into the exchange-rate mechanism of the
European Monetary System, which holds together the major
European Community currencies within set bands of
fluctuation. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, long skeptical
toward the arrangement, could see the recent volatility as
grounds to delay entry further.
   At minimum, the oil-price rises will postpone by a month
or so the turning point at which British inflation peaks and
begins to slide downward. Getting U.K. inflation more in line
with the rest of the EC is one of the preconditions the
Thatcher government set for full EMS participation.
   In another gloomy assessment, Capel's Mr. Skeoch figures
that after weighing all factors, the higher oil prices will
actually worsen rather than help the U.K.'s giant
current-account deficit, which rose to a record #20.3 billion
last year.
   One school of economists interprets all the bad news as a
kind of good news: The strain and pain is necessary therapy
for the British economy, they believe. "This may be just what
the doctor ordered," said Bill Martin, chief economist with
UBS Phillips &amp; Drew. "The more-rapid containment of the
disease may benefit productivity." He reasoned that the
higher pound and continued high interest rates will force
managers to resist lofty wage demands. And higher
unemployment will temper the demands themselves, he added.
Eventually, he said, inflation will be wrung out of the
economy.
   What's worrying officials in the City is the prospect that
once the British economy has gone through the wringer,
recovery will be both more elusive and weaker than expected
before the Middle East crisis. "We'd hoped for a sharp
rebound in mid-to-late 1991," said Kleinwort's Mr. Doyle.
"That's going to be postponed."
   How long the recovery is delayed is critical to the
political fortunes of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, whose
Conservative Party is trailing the Labor Party in current
polls. Mrs. Thatcher must call an election by mid-1992, and
she is banking on a decisive improvement in the economy
first.
   Economists fear that pressures arising from the political
calendar will prompt the Thatcher government to chop interest
rates prematurely, creating the mirage of a recovery. The
real effect of such a move, however, would be to reignite
inflation and continue the stop-and-go cycles that have beset
the British economy in the past.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Humana to Sell Two Hospitals
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HUM CMY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Humana Inc., which owns and operates 83
hospitals and has 1.2 million members in its health benefit
plans, said it agreed to sell its hospitals in Pasadena,
Texas, and Shreveport, La. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Pasadena Health Care Management Inc. agreed to buy the
208-bed, acute-care hospital in the Texas city. Community Psy
chiatric Centers of Laguna Hills, Calif., will buy the
174-bed psychiatric facility in Shreveport, Humana said. The
transactions are expected to be completed within 30 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   External Pressures Push Czechoslovakia
   Toward Its Moment of Economic Truth
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia -- The moment of economic truth is
approaching for Czechoslovakia.
   Since its anti-Communist revolution last November, the
second most industrialized member -- after East Germany -- of
the former Soviet bloc has hesitated to apply a full dose of
market medicine. Many in President Vaclav Havel's government
didn't want to inflict radical changes that would be certain
to result in huge price rises and high unemployment on the
populace. And, with the nation's stores reasonably
well-stocked and living standards fairly high in Eastern
European terms, the new leaders felt little pressure for
immediate action.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, that pressure is building rapidly. Although concrete
action will come after Parliament reconvenes in September,
officials say that a series of recent external jolts are
pushing the Prague government to overcome its remaining
resistance to rapid economic reform.
   First, the Soviet Union abruptly reduced oil deliveries,
creating gasoline lines and forcing a sharp reduction in
Czechoslovak exports to the Soviet Union, the destination
last year for two-fifths of the country's exports. Trade
tensions are expected to worsen next year when the Soviets
start insisting on payment in hard currency for their oil.
   Then, East German companies, after German monetary union
on July 1, began refusing payment in non-convertible
Czechoslovak crowns and breaking contracts to supply
Czechoslovak factories. East Germany has been
Czechoslovakia's second largest trading partner after the
Soviet Union, supplying crucial machinery and chemicals.
   Finally, higher world oil prices stemming from the Persian
Gulf crisis closed off one potential partial escape from the
country's energy crisis. Czechoslovakia had hoped to recoup
in the form of oil a $300 million loan to Iraq. Instead, it
has adopted the United Nations sanctions against Baghdad
resulting from its invasion of Kuwait and may never recoup
the money.
   "Our sense of complacency is being replaced by a sense of
urgency," says Karel Dyba, finance minister of the Czech
republic. "Our markets are fading away, and unless we act and
act quickly, our economy could collapse."
   So far, the government has responded only by raising
gasoline prices 50% at the start of the month, a move that
eased lines at gas stations.
   Negotiations about the canceled East German contracts have
been opened with West German Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich
Genscher. The East Germans have stopped sending the Czechs
agricultural machinery and fertilizer and no longer buy
Czechoslovak cars, trucks and machine tools. Czechoslovak
Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier says he hopes Bonn will come
forward with a significant sum of marks in compensation for
the broken contracts. A spokesman for the West German Foreign
Ministry confirmed that Bonn will compensate for any broken
contracts.
   "The East Germans have broken more than 400 cooperative
agreements, and many of our factories will have to close,"
Mr. Dienstbier says. "Somebody has to pay for the losses."
   Officials admit, however, that diplomacy won't solve the
economy's fundamental problems. Legislation is needed to
create a full-fledged market economy. In September, a new
company law, based on West German and Austrian legislation,
will be ready for Parliament. If approved, it would transform
state enterprises into joint stock companies, paving the way
for their privatization.
   In October, a restitution law will be introduced,
detailing property nationalized by the Communists that former
owners now may reclaim. Although Czechoslovakia already has
begun giving some disputed properties confiscated by the
Communists back to religious groups, the absence of a
comprehensive law has been a powerful deterrent to potential
foreign investors.
   "Foreigners don't know who the owners of property are, and
as long as there is no clearly defined owner, they will not
come to Czechoslovakia," says Jiri Pehe, a Czechoslovak
analyst at Radio Free Europe in Munich.
   Price reform represents another potential boost for
foreign investors. On Jan. 1, price controls are scheduled to
be lifted except on food and fuel, and the Czechoslovak crown
is to be made convertible. Convertibility will end the
complicated system of varying exchange rates, the so-called
business rate of about 15 crowns to the dollar and the
tourist rate of about 25 crowns to the dollars.
   "We must free prices, not gradually, but quickly" to adapt
to the "new trade conditions with Russia and Germany," says
Mr. Dyba. He says the decisive move could come even before
Jan. 1. "We may not be able to wait that long."
   Despite the forces pressing for quick action, there
remains much controversy about several elements of the
planned reforms. For example, foreigners can own 100% of a
Czechoslovak company, but they still can't own land. "This
contradiction will have to be clarified," says Radio Free
Europe's Mr. Pehe.
   Another dispute concerns the speed of privatization. One
group within the government "says there is no need to move
fast with privatization, that it would be better first to
improve management and create joint stock companies," says
Zdenek Draibek, an economist with the World Bank serving as
an adviser to the Czech government. "The others say ownership
is important, that we cannot get significant improvement
unless the owner is clearly identified."
   In the past, President Havel has proved unwilling to
settle such debates among his economic advisers, saying that
he is a philosopher, not an economist, and that the advisers
must settle their own disagreements. The result has been a
confusing muddle of hesitations and half-reforms. But, in the
new government named in June, one of the chief go-slow
proponents, Valtr Komarek, was dropped from his post of
deputy prime minister.
   "The fast reformers have won," says Jaroslaw Jiru, foreign
editor at Prague daily Lidove Noviny. "They will get the laws
they want."
   However, the true reckoning will come after the market
legislation goes into effect. If the resulting pain to
citizens is too great, either because of high prices or high
unemployment, many fear a social explosion could result.
   "There is no other solution except to go fast on the
economy," Mr. Jiru says. "But nothing is won in advance."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cedar Fair Amusement Park
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   FUN
</CO>
<LP>
   SANDUSKY, Ohio -- Cedar Fair L.P. will spend more than $9
million to upgrade its Cedar Point amusement park for the
1991 season, about the same amount as the partnership
invested at the Sandusky park for 1990, according to Cedar
Fair Management Co., the managing general partner.
   The major 1991 project is the addition of a $7.5 million
wooden roller coaster, the company said. The 160-foot-tall
addition will be the world's tallest wooden roller coaster
and will make Cedar Point the only amusement park with 10
roller coasters, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Calgon Carbon to Buy Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C4
</SO>
<CO>
   CRBN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Calgon Carbon Corp., which produces
activated carbon and supplies related equipment and services,
said it agreed to purchase the operating assets of TMPC Inc.,
Vero Beach, Fla., principally a design and construction
company specializing in solvent recovery, pollution control
and the design of chemical processes. Terms weren't
disclosed.
   Calgon said that sales of the unit last year were about
$10 million, and that it expects to complete the purchase by
mid-September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Elegy in a Greek Graveyard
   ----
   By Joseph Amiel
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   The taxi was carrying me this summer from the airport into
Thessaloniki, Greece's second-largest city. All I had was an
address to start from, the address of the city's Jewish
community center. I had heard before my trip that the records
of the Jews from the nearby city of Kavala, where my father
was born, were kept there.
   In 1492 King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella expelled from
Spain all Jews who refused to convert to Catholicism, among
them leading doctors, scholars, artisans and merchants.
Non-converts who remained behind would be killed. Turkey's
pragmatic sultan was delighted, as he put it, to "enrich" his
empire, which then included Greece, by offering the exiles
refuge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For more than four centuries, these Jews thrived in Greece
under Turkish rule. By 1910 Thessaloniki had a Jewish
population of 65,000, half the city's inhabitants, and was a
center of Sephardic (Hebrew for "Spanish") Jewish culture.
But the ravages of World War I and the fears of anti-Semitism
after Greece retook its northeast from Turkey caused many of
the region's Jews to emigrate west, among them my 12-year-old
father and his family.
   My father relished America's freedom to climb as high as
his talent could take him, achieving success as a Broadway
restaurateur and the owner of a Kentucky-Derby-winning
racehorse. After his death four years ago, I began to sense a
disquiet within me, a murky longing to know my heritage, to
find my place in the long line of men who handed our name
along, one to the next.
   The Jewish Center in Thessaloniki (also known as Salonika)
turned out to be a surprisingly bustling place, surprising
because the Nazis who occupied the city during World War II
deported and slaughtered nearly all the city's Jews, over
46,000. Less than 2,000 returned alive from the death camps,
and only some 1,300 reside in the city now; according to
Athens's Jewish Museum, only 6,000 Jews are left in all of
Greece. But in the rich tradition of its history,
Thessaloniki's Jewish Center runs two schools, an old-age
home, a children's summer camp, a community center and a
medical clinic. One synagogue survived the war -- because the
Red Cross was using it.
   When I inquired about Kavala, an official at the center
sadly informed me that no Jews were left there and, as in
Thessaloniki, there were no records. The Nazis had plowed
under the cemeteries and burned all the records, intent on
obliterating not only the Jewish people, but every memory of
their existence. My paternal past had been made invisible.
   One older man at the community center, however, remembered
that a Jewish cemetery remained in Kavala because it was
within a Christian cemetery. Perhaps there I could find my
family's graves. That would be something, I thought --
enough. I hired a taxi for the hundred-mile trip.
   My driver, Stavros, pointed out seaside condominiums along
the way that housed residents from other countries,
particularly from Germany. He spoke no English and I no
Greek. He kept trying to communicate in German. I dredged up
the few German words I had picked up from books and movies
and fewer Yiddish ones learned as a child from my mother's
mother. ("Ja, Stavros, mein fater geborn in Kavala.") Irony
piled on painful irony.
   Kavala turned out to be picturesque, situated on hills
that embrace beaches and a long harbor. Stavros snapped a
photo of me on the quay in front of the old Turkish quarter,
fortress -- helmet atop it, which thrusts into the sea to
guard the city. Then we drove beneath an arch of the aqueduct
built by Suleiman the Magnificent and along the coast road to
the Greek Orthodox cemetery.
   A Jewish graveyard was indeed inside it, but enclosed by
high walls and a locked gate. Some Jews in Thessaloniki had
the key, I was told. No one had visited or tended the place
in years.
   I had come too far to be blocked now. A worker was talked
into bringing a ladder, which I climbed. Spread below me was
an enclave about 40 yards square filled with rows of
rectangular above-ground tombs, each about three feet high.
Some had collapsed or been vandalized. To one side was a
marble cenotaph, a memorial to Kavala's Jews rounded up for
extermination in 1943. A sad serenity hung on the trees like
crepe.
   Descending into the enclave, I moved slowly from one grave
to the next, trying to read the names carved in Hebrew or
Roman script on the marble and concrete slabs, trying to find
"Amiel" or "`Abravaya," my grandmother's family name. On some
gravestones the writing was illegible, worn away by time and
the elements. A decaying compost of leaves and pine needles
was heaped high on others, covering the names.
   I had a sudden compulsion to cancel my plans and spend the
next few days repairing the tombs and scrubbing them clean.
Just as quickly that feeling was replaced by a vast sorrow.
No descendants or relatives of the people buried in this
place were left to view the names. Those who had not escaped
to other continents had been annihilated by the same sort of
maniacal hatred that their Spanish ancestors fled 4 1/2
centuries before.
   I did not find my family names on any of the graves, but
that no longer seemed important. In that moment I felt as if
I were descended from every person buried there, as if I were
their single aggregate child who had by the miracle of
America survived and returned. I began to say Kaddish, the
prayer for the dead, for them all.
   When I climbed back over the wall, burrs were clinging to
my pant legs, as if the nettles had tried to keep me from
leaving and, failing that, had forced something of the place
on me, something that would hurt when held in my hand and
would sting my memory and remind me of my responsibility: to
continue to say Kaddish for them wherever I was, to make sure
that they -- all of them my forebears now -- would be
remembered.
   ---
   Mr. Amiel is a writer in New York. His newest novel, "Star
Time," will be published next spring by Crown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Osaka Gas Sets Up Unit in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.OSG
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Osaka Gas Co., Japan's second-largest gas
supplier, said it established a subsidiary, Osaka Gas America
Inc., in Pasadena, Calif., as the base for its activities in
North America.
   The new company is capitalized at $3 million. It is owned
50% by Osaka Gas and 50% by its wholly owned subsidiaries. It
will export products and materials to its parent and
affiliates in Japan, and market Osaka Gas products in North
America.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. unit is Osaka Gas's second base of business
overseas. Last August, it created Osaka Gas Europe PLC in
London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Don't Tell Him Those in the East
   Actually Compete to Be Rudest
   ----
   By Carlee R. Scott
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Kevin Riberdy spent the summer updating his
employer's mailing list. To do so, he talked to 450 corporate
receptionists across the country.
   That explains how he devised a new measure of the business
climate: the rudeness ranking of office receptionists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York City and New Jersey won't receive the news well.
Judged the most discourteous, receptionists there were "very
abrupt, wouldn't let me finish sentences and gave me the
runaround," he says. One New Jersey receptionist would only
check on one executive per call, making him ring back three
times.
   By Mr. Riberdy's courtesy count, East Hartford, Conn.,
Foxboro, Mass., and Danbury, Conn., also could use some
lessons in manners. Frequently, he says, receptionists would
sigh, as if thinking, "Oh my God, here's another one of them
calling."
   Midwestern receptionists, he says, were the most helpful.
"They would always ask a service-type question, such as, `How
can I help you?'" says Mr. Riberdy, a high school literature
teacher who worked this summer for a management consulting
firm (which seeks anonymity, for obvious reasons). Topping
the friendly list: receptionists in Wisconsin -- especially
Racine and Milwaukee -- Tulsa, Okla., and Cleveland.
   Mr. Riberdy also gives high marks to Southern
receptionists -- especially in Tennessee -- who he says were
"pretty friendly and willing to take time to help answer
questions." He says that while receptionists on the West
Coast "weren't as harsh" as Easterners, they didn't meet the
high standards of those in Wisconsin.
   Receptionists at many companies "make you feel they are
too busy to deal with you," says Mr. Riberdy. That's a nono,
says Nancy Friedman, a consultant in St. Louis who offers
advice on office manners and calls herself the "Telephone
Doctor." Her cardinal rule of customer service is: "Be
friendly before you know who it is." (Ms. Friedman also
thinks Midwesterners are first-rate: The first winner of her
annual Friendliest Voice contest, in 1988, was from Racine,
and last year's winner was from Wabash, Ind.)
   Automation is no solution to rudeness, in Mr. Riberdy's
view. At least 40 companies had automatic telephone answering
systems that require a caller to press buttons to direct a
call to the right person. He's especially upset with a
company that put him through three layers of automation
before "I got a recording to call back {later}."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Community Psychiatric Centers
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMY HUM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAGUNA HILLS, Calif. -- Community Psychiatric Centers said
it agreed in principle to purchase Humana Hospital-Brentwood,
a 174-bed psychiatric facility in Shreveport, La., from
Humana Inc., a Louisville, Ky., hospital operator. Financial
terms weren't disclosed.
   Community Psychiatric owns and operates 48 psychiatric
hospitals in the U.S., Puerto Rico and the U.K.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Environmental Research
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   GE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FAIRFIELD, Conn. -- General Electric Co. said it named
Samuel A. Schulhof, a former associate administrator of the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, as director of its
newly created Environmental Research Center.
   GE said the research center, based at the company's
research and development center in Schenectady, N.Y., will
focus environmental research and development on practical
applications and market opportunities for newly developed
technologies. Mr. Schulhof comes to GE from the University of
Pittsburgh, where he was associate vice president for
research and chief operating officer for the University of
Pittsburgh Trust.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater in the Cowshed
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Dervaig, Isle of Mull, Scotland -- Keeping production
values high in a century-old stone cowshed in the middle of a
desolate, craggy Hebrides island can present unusual artistic
challenges. For instance, sheep.
   "The bloody place is surrounded by them," sighs David
Pitman, director of the Mull Little Theatre. "Once we were in
the middle of a serious play about a projectionist's booth in
wartime Glasgow, and suddenly there was a loud bleating. I
had to go out in the interval with a torch and drive the
bastards away."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Little is too big a word for Mr. Pitman's theater. It has
a mere 43 blue plush seats in six tight rows, and a stage the
size of a large bathtub. Its wee proportions have actually
earned it a place in the Guinness Book of World Records, as
the United Kingdom's smallest regularly operating theater.
(Guinness's smallest is the 30-seat Piccolo in Hamburg.)
   Mull is an island of gorgeous, rolling moors, chilly lakes
and stark cliffs just off Scotland's Atlantic coast. It has
never been a hot destination. Samuel Johnson came here in
1773, rode through streams and bogs on a little horse that
could barely carry him, and concluded that the island had
"not many allurements, but to the mere lover of naked
nature."
   Today Mull is still overshadowed in the Hebrides by the
bustling Isle of Skye, 30 miles to the north. Only 3,000
people live on Mull's 351 square miles (15 times the size of
Manhattan). They drive along breathtaking one-lane roads that
wind for miles under a broad sky with no trace of
civilization in sight. In the summer, tourists come by ferry
to the island's sole municipality, a pretty harbor village
called Tobermory (a name now better known as the title of a
strange Saki short story about a talking cat).
   David Pitman came here in 1970 to escape from London,
where he wrote the "William Hickey" gossip column for the
Daily Express. The column was a dismal assignment,
dangerously entangled with the friendships and enmities of
the Express's legendary publisher, Lord Beaverbrook. "Seven
years of hell," Mr. Pitman remembers.
   He eventually dropped out of the dish trade and wound up
running the grocery store in Dervaig, a northern Mull hamlet
where a little cluster of like-minded English escapees lived.
Among them were an actor and actress couple named Barrie and
Marianne Hesketh, who ran the Druimard guesthouse on a
hillside above the Bellart River. Next door was an old
cowshed. In 1966, the Heskeths dragged some seats into one
end of the shed, stood at the other end, and the Mull Little
Theatre was born.
   By the time the Pitmans arrived, the Heskeths had become
the Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy of Dervaig. Their
renditions of such romantic comedies as "The Four Poster" and
"Old World" were Hebrides legends that regularly toured the
mainland and drew sellout audiences at home.
   Mr. Pitman, a longtime theater buff, quickly found himself
drawn into this vortex. He and his wife, Kathleen, regularly
bought up 4.6% of the theater's seats. One summer he wrote
the Heskeths a two-character historical drama about Bonnie
Prince Charlie's visit to Skye. When Marianne Hesketh died
and Barrie left the island, David Pitman took over the
theater, in 1986.
   One of the chief difficulties of the job is the limited
dramatic repertory for little casts. The Heskeths solved this
problem with some imaginative adaptations. They presented
"The Tempest" and "Macbeth" with two actors and a bagful of
puppets, and "Henry V" with one actor and a hatbox. They
wrung two-character plays out of "Miss Julie" (which only has
three characters) and "The Importance of Being Earnest" (it
lasted half an hour in the Mull version).
   Mr. Pitman's preferred solution is to refresh the supply
himself. A tousled 53-year-old with a distracted air about
him, he potters about his store in suspenders and a paisley
bow tie and writes plays in the back room when things quiet
down. He's written plays called "Movie Time" (about the
Glasgow projectionist's booth), "Dear Desperado" (based on a
true story about a Colorado outlaw's romance with an
Englishwoman whose sister lived in Tobermory), and "Cora" (a
turn-of-the-century musical murder mystery).
   Over the years his store, a two-story cottage with faded
yellow paint, has moved away from groceries and into coffee
and books. Strewn with sagging shelves and cardboard boxes on
the floor, it also stocks raspberry wine, yo-yos, oatcakes,
cambozola cheese, flowered wrapping paper, shortbread and Old
Mull whiskey.
   A handful of other local merchants help Mr. Pitman run the
theater. Across the street, Zelda Sawyer's Cottage Crafts
shop doubles as the box office. Mornings, Ms. Sawyer can
often be found sipping coffee at Mr. Pitman's place with a
mobile phone by her side in case any orders come in. Richard
Fairbairns, who runs a recording studio and a whale-watching
boat a few miles away in Quinish, supplies the plays' sound
effects. In return, the theater lobby sells tapes of his
newest recording, "Uaithne," featuring Fiona Davidson on the
clairschach, a wire-strung harp traditional out here in the
Celtic fringe.
   The night I visited the theater, the bill was "The Woman
in Black," a melodrama about a lawyer, an actor and a haunted
house on a fen. A cozy stone shed in the countryside is a
good place for a ghost story, and while this one's dialogue
tended toward the purple, both performers (James Gibb and
Anthony Ventre) were polished and often quite scary. At
intermission, the theater served delicious chocolate cake and
coffee.
   This summer the Mull Little Theatre also is presenting
"Bones," a one-man play about a 13th-century monk (written by
David Pitman and also starring him); "Sheila," a comedy about
a Glasgow undergraduate and her decorator; and Terrence
McNally's "Frankie and Johnny in the Claire de Lune."
   The Mull players ran into a little trouble with "Frankie
and Johnny," when they couldn't figure out the recurring
references to cooking and eating a "Western." Fortunately a
woman from Miami called to make reservations while the cast
was puzzling over this mystery. She jotted down a phone
number, and a few minutes later, over the fax machine at the
Fairbairns recording studio in Quinish, came a recipe for a
Western omelet.
   ---
   Mr. Miller is a reporter for the Journal in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Wholesale Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's overall wholesale prices from Aug. 11-20
rose 0.1% from the previous 10-day period and were up 1% from
a year earlier, the Bank of Japan, the central bank, said.
   The wholesale price index, in which the year 1985 equals
100, stood at 90.6 at the end of the latest 10-day period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic prices rose 0.1% from the previous 10 days and
increased 0.5% from a year earlier. Central bank officials
said this was fueled by higher prices for processed food,
especially pork and eggs.
   In July, the latest full reporting month, wholesale prices
rose 0.4% from the previous month, and increased 0.5% from a
year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Genzyme's IG Labs to Buy Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   GENZ IGLI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRAMINGHAM, Mass. -- IG Laboratories Inc., which provides
genetic testing services and is 56%-owned by Boston-based
Genzyme Corp., said it definitively agreed to purchase
Genetic Associates of Miami Inc., which provides prenatal
testing services to hospitals and clinical laboratories in
Florida and Georgia. Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   News Corp., Whittle Pick
   Different Salon Strategies
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Two media barons who had targeted the nation's
beauty salons as avenues for introducing new media properties
are headed in different directions.
   Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. said it has scrapped its
heavily publicized plan to create a commercially sponsored
video network for beauty salons. The plan, the Salon Network,
was announced in February, but it was shelved because of weak
response from key advertisers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whittle Communications L.P., however, said it will unveil
next week a revamped magazine for the nation's beauty salons.
Called American Style, the slick magazine takes the place of
Southern Style, an oversized magazine that had been
distributed free of charge in salons in southern states.
Southern Style was discontinued last year after its sole
sponsor, Procter &amp; Gamble Co., pulled out. Procter &amp; Gamble,
however, is one of several advertisers in the new American
Style.
   Both projects are part of a wave of new media properties
that attempt to go beyond TV, newspapers and magazines in
targeting audiences in supermarkets, doctors' offices and at
sporting events.
   Copies of American Style will be sent next week to 140,000
beauty salons. Craige Johnson, American Style publisher, said
25% of women visiting the salons are expected to read a copy
of the magazine, which will be published every two months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Malaysian Exchange Ends
   Debacle of Detoured Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -- The case of the missing
Malaysian shares has closed.
   Nik Mohamed Din Yusoff, executive chairman of the Kuala
Lumpur Stock Exchange, said all investors with valid
share-purchase agreements have been given their securities,
concluding an embarrassing episode that dragged on for more
than six months and tarnished the credibility of the
Malaysian exchange soon after it severed its last links with
the more developed Stock Exchange of Singapore.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the height of the affair in mid-February, about 150
million shares, valued by securities analysts at more than
250 million Malaysian dollars (US$93 million), had been
mislaid.
   The delivery of share certificates to the wrong brokerage
and incorrectly recorded trades left the 53 member brokerage
firms and exchange officials unable to cope with soaring
trading volume.
   Last week, the final claims outstanding were filled by the
exchange's clearinghouse, the Securities Clearing Automated
Network System, known as Scans. The only party that stands to
lose from the incident is Scans itself, Nik Din said.
   The clearinghouse covered the claims by distributing
shares it bought on the open market and by recovering from
brokerage firms shares that had been delivered to them by
mistake.
   Nik Din declined to specify the amounts of shares bought
by the clearinghouse or retrieved from brokers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Metrobank
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MBN
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   METROBANK said its board increased the quarterly dividend
to eight cents a share from seven cents. The regional
business bank, based in Los Angeles, said the increase will
take effect with the next payment scheduled for Oct. 20 to
stock of record Oct. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Violence in Living Room and Gym
   ----
   By Merle Rubin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   In his 15th novel, "Lies of Silence" (Doubleday, 199
pages, $18.95), the versatile and accomplished Brian Moore
returns once again to Belfast, which he left 47 years ago, to
introduce us to Michael Dillon, manager of the city's best
hotel.
   In no time at all, Michael has engaged our sympathy and
interest: As a young man, he tried without success to become
a poet before returning to his family trade of innkeeping. At
the moment, he is deeply involved in a love affair with a
cheerful and sensible younger woman, Andrea, and on the point
of gathering up the courage to leave his cold, modishly
beautiful, shallow wife, Moira, and the narrow-minded land of
his birth, to make a new life with Andrea in London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Just as Michael is about to break the news to Moira, who
already suspects he is having an affair and who seems no
happier with the marriage than he does, this intriguing
domestic drama is interrupted by a bulletin from the outside
world. Four gunmen break into the Dillons' home and hold them
hostage in their living room.
   Michael, the trained hotelier, tries to keep cool.
"`Listen,' he tells his wife in a low voice, `It's not us
they want. We are being used in some way. If we do what they
tell us, we won't get hurt.'" It is at this point that
Moira's character emerges from the shadows: "`How do you know
what they want?' she demands. `They're in our house, they're
waving guns around, they're the same ones who kneecap kids
and blow up innocent people instead of the ones they're
trying to kill, and you say they won't hurt us. Well, they're
going to hurt somebody, aren't they?'"
   Moira's outburst crystallizes the situation. She and
Michael are both Roman Catholics, born and bred in Northern
Ireland. Both loath the IRA as well as the Protestant
extremist groups that help perpetuate the legacy of hate and
fear. But Michael has always wanted to break away, while
Moira has never wanted to live anywhere else.
   As the story develops through many unexpected twists,
Michael is forced to make a series of very hard moral choices
that may spell life or death to people he's never met. It
soon becomes clear that this is not going to be a simple
contrast between Moira's gritty defiance and Michael's
cosmopolitan rootlessness, but something more subtle and
complex.
   The hint of slickness in the staging of events is
mitigated by the author's ability to make the characters and
their situation so chillingly believable. Mr. Moore's
portrayal of Michael's marriage, his love affair, his
relations with his employers, in sum, of his ordinary days,
is absorbing enough for the reader to feel the intrusion of
the terrorists as the gross violation of private life that it
is. Mr. Moore has managed to achieve a near perfect balance
between the personal and political, the emotional and ethical
dimensions of this timely and riveting story.
   By contrast, Harry Crews's latest book, "Body" (Poseidon,
223 pages, $18.95), is a violent comic-strip of a novel. It
mixes clenched, muscle-bound humor with lashings of fairly
standard-style pornography, while straining toward a bang-up
conclusion that purports to say something about the perils of
the winner-take-all mentality that is so much a part of body
building -- and other kinds of competition.
   "Body" takes us backstage at the world championship
contest for the title of "Ms. Cosmos." Shereel Dupont (nee
Dorothy Turnipseed from Waycross, Ga.) is about to face her
climactic showdown against her formidable -- and much larger
-- longtime rival, Marvella Washington of Detroit.
   As Shereel undergoes her grueling regimen, harangued,
bullied, starved and generally abused by her single-minded
coach, Russell Morgan (a.k.a. Russell Muscle), life becomes
even tougher: Her family arrives on the scene. There's
Alphonse, the chain-smoking father who never takes off his
hat; brothers Turner and Motor (the latter so hirsute that
even his devoted mother wonders if he's entirely human); and
hefty but good-hearted sister Earline, who causes quite a
stir by giving mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a male body
builder whose muscle-popping pose she mistakes for a heart
attack. Most disturbing of all is Nail Head, Shereel's
one-time fiance, a Vietnam veteran with a knife in his belt
and a peculiar glint in his eye. Needless to say, the
Turnipseed clan has Shereel edgy, Russell climbing the walls,
and prissy assistant hotel manager Julian Lipschitz worried
about the disruption of the "Cosmos" pageant.
   As this brief summary suggests, "Body" is a book that
derives its comic moments from caricatures of blacks, whites,
Southerners, Jews, gays and Vietnam veterans. But any satiric
edge has been blunted by a kind of syrupy affection the
author hopes we will share for his thick-witted characters,
whose simple-mindedness is meant to render their coarseness
endearing. This is a hot little property off the
fiction-writing assembly line with the usual quota of sex (or
what passes for it in these circles), humor (ditto) and
violence that culminates in a splashy, still more violent
ending. One is somehow not surprised to note that first
serial rights were sold to Playboy.
   ---
   Ms. Rubin is a free-lance writer living in Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Texans Use Their Influence With Bush
   To Open U.S.-Mexico Free-Trade Talks
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Texans in the Bush administration have
prevailed in a behind-the-scenes struggle to give Mexico a
prominent place on the nation's agenda.
   President Bush's announcement this month that he would
soon notify Congress of plans to negotiate a U.S.-Mexico
trade pact came as a surprise to many in Washington. They
thought the Mexican free-trade negotiations wouldn't begin
until late next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It also marked a defeat for White House Trade
Representative Carla Hills, who will have to negotiate the
trade pact. Mrs. Hills, along with Agriculture Secretary
Clayton Yeutter, had argued that early negotiations with
Mexico could interfere with efforts next year to win
congressional support for a new global trade agreement under
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
   But in making his decision, Mr. Bush, who counts Texas as
his adopted home, was influenced by two other highly placed
Texans in the administration: Secretary of State James Baker
and Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher. Both Mr. Baker and
Mr. Mosbacher argued vigorously that a free-trade pact with
Mexico should be a top priority for the administration.
   The Texans' success in persuading the president suggests
that Mexico may get better treatment in the Bush
administration than it has in the past.
   "It's very obvious in Texas, and I hope that it will
become as obvious to the rest of the country, that every time
you start a new business in Mexico it creates new jobs in the
U.S.," said Mr. Mosbacher. "There's a natural supplier
situation that you don't get if you go overseas. The
machinery and plant are likely to come from the U.S."
   Mr. Baker and Mr. Mosbacher also got an assist from
another Texan, Democratic Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, who helped
persuade other key members of Congress to support the talks.
In order to proceed with the negotiations, the administration
wants Congress to authorize a "fast-track" procedure for
approving the Mexican agreement.
   Ambassador Hills and Secretary Yeutter have argued that
the administration should concentrate on the current round of
GATT trade talks, leaving the negotiating of a U.S.-Mexico
pact to well into next year, after the GATT talks are all
squared away.
   The so-called Uruguay round of GATT talks, set to end this
December, is the most ambitious round of trade talks to date.
Begun in the Uruguayan seaside resort of Punta del Este four
years ago, the talks aim to extend the world's trade treaty
to agriculture, textiles, intellectual property, services and
investment. Even after the completion of the GATT talks in
December, it will be several more months before the necessary
enabling legislation is passed by Congress.
   Also opposed to an early start for the Mexican talks was
Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole. Secretary Dole expressed the
reservations of organized labor to a U.S.-Mexico pact. The
AFL-CIO and other labor groups fear that a trade pact will
harm the interests and wage rates of their members. In its
latest policy statement on the proposed pact, the AFL-CIO's
executive council said "tens of thousands of Americans have
lost their jobs as U.S. companies move to take advantage of
the poverty of Mexican workers in the absence of any
effective regulations on company operations." It maintains
that at least 400,000 Mexicans now work for wages of less
than $1 an hour.
   Earlier this year, House Ways and Means Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski also argued against launching U.S.-Mexican
negotiations aimed at a trade pact. But a Congressional aide
says Mr. Rostenkowski "isn't prepared to fall on his sword
over the issue" of the U.S.-Mexico trade pact, although he
adds that the Illinois Democrat still is committed to the
Uruguay round as the top trade priority.
   The Texans make no apologies for their championing of a
U.S.-Mexico free-trade pact. "There's no country in my view
that is more important" to the U.S. than Mexico, says Mr.
Mosbacher. "It's already our third biggest trading partner,
and is our biggest contiguous neighbor." The rate of growth
of population points to 100 million Mexicans by the end of
the century, a huge potential market for U.S. companies, the
commerce secretary says.
   Mr. Mosbacher says the administration will shortly launch
a campaign to show the advantages of a U.S.-Mexico trade
pact. If U.S. companies are "going to move plants to
somewhere where there's cheaper labor, it's a hell of a lot
better if it moves next door where we have the supply
advantages," Mr. Mosbacher argues.
   In the coming weeks, Mr. Mosbacher and Mexican Commerce
Secretary Jaime Serra will make a tour of Los Angeles,
Chicago, Houston and New York to drum up U.S. investment and
business interest in Mexico.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   HBJ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HARCOURT BRACE JOVANOVICH Inc. (Orlando, Fla.) -- Joseph
R. Wright Jr. and Robert E. Evanson were elected to the board
of this publishing and insurance concern. Mr. Wright is a
vice chairman and a director of W.R. Grace &amp; Co. in New York.
He was also director of the Office of Management and Budget
in President Ronald Reagan's cabinet from 1988 to 1989. Mr.
Evanson is an executive vice president and the chief
financial officer of Harcourt. He was also elected treasurer
of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Comprehensive Care
   Names Former Official
   To Two Top Positions
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CMP
</CO>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Comprehensive Care Corp. said its newly
elected board named James P. Carmany, 51 years old, as
president and chief executive officer.
   Mr. Carmany, a former executive vice president who left
the company last year in a dispute with management, also was
named a director.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comprehensive Care, a provider of chemical dependency
programs, said its former president, W. James Nicol, who was
removed as chief executive officer, will continue to serve as
a board member. Norman L. Perry, president of Tree Products
Enterprises, was named chairman of the company, succeeding
Stanley Nelson, who was also removed from the post.
   The new board was elected Aug. 20 after a prolonged fight
between the former management and a dissident group of
stockholders. All of the directors, except Mr. Nicol, are new
to the board. There are now eight board members.
   Comprehensive Care said the board also named Donald G.
Simpson, a former officer of the company, to the new post of
executive vice president and chief operating officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Consumer Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's consumer price index in July rose 0.3%
from June and was up 3% from a year earlier, confirming
previously reported preliminary results, the National
Statistics Institute said.
   The latest data put the index -- in which 1980 is equal to
100 -- at 183.6, up from 183.1 in June and 178.2 in July
1989. The final result represents a slight acceleration from
June, when monthly price growth came in at 0.2%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Regulators
   Report Decline
   In Healthy S&amp;Ls
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Office of Thrift Supervision said the
number of savings and loans it rates as healthiest dropped 7%
at the end of the first quarter from the end of 1989.
   The number of so-called Group 1 institutions, which the
OTS describes as "well capitalized and profitable" dropped to
1,175 at the end of March from 1,264 at the end of December,
the agency said. Those thrifts held assets of $363 billion,
or 35% of the industry total, at March 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Given the slowdown in the economy and the real estate
market in many sections of the country, we are not surprised
by the slippage in the healthiest group," said OTS Director
Timothy Ryan. "If current economic conditions continue or get
worse, it's very possible we will see additional
deterioration."
   For purposes of analysis, the OTS this year began breaking
down the industry into four categories. In the first quarter,
232 thrifts moved down in ranking or were placed under
government control, while only 73 moved up. However, Mr. Ryan
maintained that it was too early to detect any strong trends
in the overall health of the industry. "I would wait until
the end of the year or early next year to figure out what
trends we have here," he said. He also declined to comment on
the potential effect of the deterioration on the cost of the
S&amp;L industry bailout.
   The downturn wasn't a big surprise; last month, the OTS
reported that the thrift industry had an overall loss of $271
million in the first quarter.
   At the end of the first quarter, there were 680
institutions, holding $351 billion in assets in Group 2,
which the OTS defines as meeting or expected to meet capital
requirements. In Group 3 thrifts, which the agency describes
as "troubled with poor earnings and low capital," there were
352 thrifts with $169 billion in assets. There were 246
thrifts with $166 billion in assets in Group 4, which OTS
says are thrifts expected to be taken over by the government
and sold off or closed.
   The data don't include S&amp;Ls already taken over and being
run by the government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Parcel Service
   Is Selected to Serve
   Cargo Route in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS JAPAN CNF
</CO>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Transportation Department selected
United Parcel Service Co. to serve a new all-cargo air route
to Japan.
   UPS plans to operate six flights a week using Boeing 747
aircraft between Louisville, Ky.; Anchorage, Alaska; and
Tokyo, according to the department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Emery Worldwide Airlines, a unit of Consolidated
Freightways Inc., was the only other carrier that applied for
the route authority. It was awarded backup authority. The
department found that UPS's proposed service would deliver
more capacity than Emery's and faster service to shippers in
the market.
   The cargo route was authorized in the November 1989
agreement between Japan and the U.S. that called for a
substantial expansion of air service between the countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Initial State Jobless Claims
   Increased in Aug. 18 Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Initial claims for regular state
unemployment benefits rose to a seasonally adjusted 382,000
in the week ended Aug. 18 from 366,000 in the previous week,
the Labor Department said.
   The number of people receiving regular state benefits in
the week ended Aug. 11 totaled a seasonally adjusted
2,473,000, or 2.4% of those covered by unemployment
insurance, from 2,445,000 in the previous week, when the
insured unemployment rate was 2.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Counting all state and federal benefit programs, the
number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week
ended Aug. 11 fell to 2,366,200 from 2,369,900 a week
earlier. These figures aren't seasonally adjusted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U S West Inc. Venture
   Plans Cable-TV Stakes
   In Norway, Sweden
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   USW
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- U S West Cable Communications, a division of U S
West Inc., and United International Holdings said they formed
a $100 million joint venture to acquire overseas
cable-television systems and related businesses.
   To be named United Communications International, the joint
venture will buy an 86% interest in Norkabel, the second
largest cable-TV operator in Norway, and acquire a 25% stake
in Swedish Cable &amp; Dish, the second largest cable operator in
Sweden.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Norkabel serves 118,000 basic subscribers in southern
Norway. Swedish Cable &amp; Dish serves 96,000 throughout Sweden.
   U S West, based in Denver, said it has a 90% interest in
the joint venture. "A partnership has different sharing
ratios as money is being returned," said William Elsner,
president of United International. He said his company will
eventually have about a one-third interest in the deal.
   The venture's board will consist of an equal number of
representatives from each partner, with United International
acting as the managing partner.
   U S West already participates in cable operations in the
U.K., France and Hong Kong. Denver-based United
International, formed last year by former officials of United
Cable Television Corp., manages domestic media investments
and international cable television systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   On Sports: Pete Sampras Rushes Net
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Dropping out of high school is not a wise path
for most people, but when Pete Sampras pondered the
alternative his choice seemed clear. "I could have gone to
college, met a girl and got married]" he says in not-mock
horror. "That would have been it for me."
   And, indeed, young Sampras, a likable, gangly,
curly-haired, just-turned-19-year-old two years out of
school, is thriving. He is blissfully unmarried and his mind
is untroubled by the complexities of higher learning. He's
not exactly on the dole, either; his earnings this year have
exceeded $350,000, and he has prospects for better.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As you probably have guessed by looking at the nearby
picture, Sampras is a tennis player, and the world's
12th-ranked male at that. He was engaged yesterday at the
U.S. Open here, where he defeated Peter Lundgren of Sweden in
a second-round match. If the seeders' wisdom holds, he's
headed for a meeting with sixth-seeded Thomas Muster of
Austria for a crack at his first quarterfinal berth in a
Grand Slam tournament.
   And if Sampras has not penetrated the national
consciousness to the degree of, say, Andre Agassi or Michael
Chang, who both are about his age, he one day might. We have
this from no less an authority than Arthur Ashe, a winner
here in 1968 and '69.
   "At the start of this year, Pete was this far from the
top," says Ashe, holding his forefinger and thumb a generous
three inches apart. He narrows the gap to about a half-inch
and adds: "Now he's this far."
   Jack Kramer, another former Open champ (1947 and '48), and
tennis majordomo and teacher, goes further. "One of these
days, Sampras could be the one they're all looking up to," he
says. "He has the parts of a great game; I'd say his ground
strokes already are sounder than {John} McEnroe's ever were.
He's just got to put them together."
   The game to which Kramer refers, and relishes because he
(and Ashe, too) played it, is a variety of tennis called
"serve and volley" or, more descriptively to the uninitiated,
"bash and dash." Its central idea is to make it to the net as
quickly as possible, the better to whap the ball past the
player on the other side.
   The style saves wear and tear on sneakers, and gets people
home for dinner on time. It is most effective on concrete
(like here) and grass (like Wimbledon), surfaces that don't
unduly detain a bouncing ball. Boris Becker and Stefan
Edberg, who've won five of the past six Wimbledons, do it. So
does McEnroe, who triumphed there thrice and here four times.
So have most other winners of tennis's two premier events.
   It's worthy of note that S&amp;Vers always are in a minority,
and that of the top young American hopefuls in this annual
tennis-and-noise fest, only Sampras is a consistent enlistee.
One reason for the form's poor enrollment is that many
players, no matter how talented, lack the necessary will to
whack. Another is that it almost always requires a radical
change of style for those who take up the game at an early
age.
   "Young kids are too short to serve well enough to do it,"
Kramer points out. "If you want to win in the juniors, you
mostly stay back."
   Sampras, who now stands six feet tall, fit that mold until
age 14. He played a baseline game featuring the topspin
forehand and two-handed backhand favored by most of his
contemporaries around Rancho Palos Verdes, his southern
California home town. Trouble was, the best of the other kids
were beating him.
   "Dr. Pete Fischer, a physician I hit with, talked me into
changing," he recounts. "I already had a good serve, but to
volley effectively I had to switch to a one-handed backhand.
That was the hardest part by far. It took me two years to get
decent with it."
   But decent he got, and results followed. In 1987, he was
runnerup to Chang, already his old California sparring
partner, at the Boys National 18s in Kalamazoo, Mich., and he
beat Chang in the U.S. Open juniors here.
   Sampras turned pro the next year, before his senior year
of high school, after convincing his parents that further
schooling might be a detriment to his pursuit of tennis
riches (he plans to take an exam to get a diploma, but hasn't
gotten around to it). He gained a 97th-place ranking on the
Association of Tennis Professionals' computer at the end of
1988, and finished the next year at 81st.
   He vaulted to his present, lofty ranking largely on the
strength of victories at the U.S. Pro Indoor in Philadelphia,
where he beat Agassi and the veterans Tim Mayotte and Andres
Gomez, and at a Wimbledon-tuneup tourney on grass in
Manchester, England. In other notable 1990 outings, he led
1989 French Open winner Chang three games to none in the
third and deciding set in a Canadian Open semifinal before
losing, and took a set from Edberg, the men's present No. 1
(and, incidentally, a first-round upset victim here), in the
same round of a July go in Los Angeles.
   Those losses pointed up the weaknesses in Sampras's game;
lack of stamina did him in against the relentless Chang on a
very hot day, and lack of concentration was fatal against
Edberg. "I got kind of careless and loose in the last set,"
he says of the latter bout. "Maybe I was just glad to have
taken a set from him." He also admits to a tendency to try to
hit a better shot than he needs to win a point.
   He's running and working with weights under the direction
of his coach, Joe Brandi, to get stronger. "The concentration
part is coming along, too, although sometimes better than
others," he allows.
   But as for the overhitting, well, that's not so bad, is
it? "When I see a ball sitting up there, I have this urge to
bash it," he smiles.
   Spoken like a true S&amp;Ver.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Communists' Fall Breaks Up Poland's Solidarity
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   WARSAW -- It's been quiet in Poland this August, for a
change. In August a year ago, the Communists gave up
governing; two years ago, strikes forced them into unheard-of
compromises; 10 years ago, the movement that inspired their
downfall was born in Gdansk.
   Solidarity has spent the month celebrating its birthday,
and though the Rolling Stones called off their show, the
Harlem Globetrotters put on theirs. The festivities end
today, exactly a decade since Solidarity first was legalized.
Lech Walesa will give a speech. By the time he finishes, it
should be clearer than ever that Solidarity, age 10, is dead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a trade union in a country where trade unions don't
have much say, it will go on. As a social and political
movement uniting a people against Communist oppression, its
work is done.
   Solidarity-the-movement has already split into two new
political parties, differing over the road Poland ought to
take on its way to capitalism and on how fast it ought to
travel. Fresh from a visit to the Vatican, Mr. Walesa may
choose to complete the break on this opportune day by saying
straight out to an audience of luminaries what he has been
saying in code for months: that he is a candidate for the
presidency of Poland.
   Even if a last-minute change of strategy keeps him
pussyfooting, this country's first post-Communist political
season is sure to begin in September, with a presidential
election following before long. Mr. Walesa's former ally,
Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, has been trying to decide
whether to oppose him. Some Poles think the prime minister
might make up his mind today, too.
   Neither Mr. Mazowiecki nor his supporters want an election
now. The Citizens' Movement for Democratic Action, led by Mr.
Walesa's former intellectual advisers, would rather let the
government go on calmly dismantling communism; in that
effort, Poland is well ahead of the other new boys of the old
bloc.
   "It's a distraction," says Jan Litynski, a founder of the
Citizens' Movement. "Logically, it would make sense to wait
for next spring, but they've started the campaign."
   For Mr. Walesa and his backers in a nascent party called
the Center Alliance, an election is long overdue. Despite its
democratic ideals and economic coherence, they argue,
Poland's government is still the product of a deal made
before the rest of the Soviet Empire collapsed in Eastern
Europe, and Communists still infest it.
   "We were first in the process of democratization and now
we follow," says Adam Glapinski, an economist on the
Alliance's political council. "We don't want anything more
than people already have in Hungary and Czechoslovakia."
   One hurdle, in the person of President Wojciech
Jaruzelski, remains to be vaulted before the Alliance can
have its wish. Gen. Jaruzelski must quit. The Alliance has
toyed with the idea of mass protests to force him out. Mr.
Walesa would then replace him, with parliament's approval,
and run for the presidency as an incumbent.
   The general doesn't seem pleased with this plan. He'd
prefer to exit more gracefully, and has attracted some
unlikely champions: the Citizens' Movement, the Roman
Catholic Church and the U.S.
   George Bush has invited Gen. Jaruzelski to Washington for
an official visit on Oct. 11, well after Mr. Walesa had hoped
to unseat him. And earlier this month Cardinal Jozef Glemp
received the general at Czestochowa, Poland's holiest site.
Mr. Glapinski calls that "some kind of blasphemy," and the
Alliance is still collecting signatures on anti-Jaruzelski
petitions. But it appears to have set aside for now its
threat of public disruptions.
   Instead, it will back a constitutional amendment to choose
the president by popular, rather than parliamentary, vote.
The Citizens' Movement backs it, too, and parliament will
convene in mid-September to debate it. If the amendment
passes, Gen. Jaruzelski could resign, perhaps before year's
end, to let an election take place.
   Mr. Mazowiecki, the opinion polls suggest, might win it.
But no one can ignore Lech Walesa's enduring power over
Polish politics or the potential impact of his call for an
"acceleration" of Poland's passage to the free market and
full democracy.
   By "acceleration" Mr. Walesa seems to mean the removal
from public and economic life of anyone who owes his position
to the Communists -- factory foremen to school principals.
And while the Alliance has no quarrel with economic
austerity, it wants a faster sell-off of state companies run
by one-time apparatchiks.
   "Privatization is revolution," Mr. Glapinski says. "It
means 400,000 people will lose their jobs."
   Talk like that makes Mr. Walesa's old friends gulp. He
accuses them of blocking democracy; they accuse him of
demagoguery. "It's very dangerous," says Mr. Litynski.
"People could be deprived of property, put into prison."
   The Citizen's Movement is trying to think positively. If
Mr. Mazowiecki wins the presidency, some hope Mr. Walesa will
agree to be his prime minister. And if Mr. Walesa wins, his
future at least won't be the main issue in parliamentary
elections that should take place in the spring.
   Yet by August of next year -- as things look this August
-- a good part of Poland's old opposition, once united in
Solidarity, could find itself in opposition again.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Reebok Hitches Its Wagon
   To `Flattened' Tennis Star
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RBK
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOUGHTON, Mass. -- Reebok International Ltd. yesterday
said it was "proud" to announce that it had landed a contract
with Soviet "tennis sensation" Alexander Volkov to promote
its shoes and clothes.
   On Wednesday, Reebok crowed, Mr. Volkov had scored a
"major upset" at the U.S. Open by beating top seed Stefan
Edberg. Mr. Volkov will "help Reebok become a household name
in the Soviet Union," the company added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reebok, however, was running one step slow: Mr. Volkov's
upset victory was on Tuesday. On Wednesday, he was flattened
at the U.S. Open by Todd Witsken, 6-2, 6-2, 6-3.
   Company officials couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   California's Butte County
   Is on Verge of Bankruptcy
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   A rural county in northern California is threatening to
seek protection from creditors under federal bankruptcy law.
   Should it seek bankruptcy protection, Butte County would
be the first county in U.S. history to do so, says the
National Association of Counties in Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Butte County is among roughly two dozen rural counties in
California, and scores more across the nation, that face
fiscal crises. In at least one state, distressed counties
have forced a measure onto the ballot calling for special aid
for counties and ending a practice whereby state governments
mandate services that counties must pay for.
   Butte suffers from this "mandated" problem as well, but it
has been pushed to the brink of bankruptcy by a recent
decision by California's governor to veto a $20 million
bailout of Butte and other distressed counties.
   Will Randolph, Butte's chief administrator, said the
county's board of supervisors will make a final decision
about filing bankruptcy today. Absent a promise of relief
from the state, Mr. Randolph said, "the most likely scenario
is that we'll instruct our attorneys to file {for bankruptcy}
after Labor Day."
   Butte County has a population of roughly 150,000. Though
it includes the thriving city of Chico, home to a state
university, the unincorporated areas of the county are
generally poor. Mr. Randolph said that years of
budget-cutting in the 1980s have taken their toll.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PACs' Contributions Rose
   During the Past 18 Months
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   T LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Contributions from political action
committees to candidates running for federal office continued
to rise during the past 18 months, with incumbents receiving
far more than their challengers, according to a Federal
Election Commission report.
   The report said that from Jan. 1, 1989, to June 30, 1990,
PACs contributed almost $94 million to candidates running for
federal office, up 6.1% from the 1988 period and up 32% from
1986. Overall, PACs contributed more than $101 million to
federal officeholders and their challengers, but about $7
million of that was given to candidates raising money for
future campaigns or retiring past debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As in past reports, the election commission said that
incumbents fared better than their challengers, receiving $79
million compared with only $6.5 million.
   Corporate PACs were the most generous, contributing $35
million to federal officeholders and their challengers. Trade
group and health-related PACs were next, giving $26 million,
followed by labor PACs, with $20 million.
   Democrats enjoyed a greater share of PAC largess than did
their Republican counterparts, receiving $59 million compared
with $34 million.
   The Realtors Political Action Committee led all PAC
contributions, giving more than $1.5 million. American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. led corporate PAC contributions,
giving slightly more than $1.1 million, while the Teamsters
committee led labor PACs, with contributions of more than
$1.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Saddam Hussein's Right to Life
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   L. Gordon Crovitz asserted that the U.S. government's
"executive order against assassinations is not even a law"
("What if We Had a War and No One Invited the Lawyers?" Rule
of Law, op-ed page, Aug. 8). Nothing could be further from
the truth. The rule to that effect found in President
Reagan's Executive Order 12333 of 1981 is based upon article
23(b) of the regulations annexed to Hague Convention No. IV:
"It is especially forbidden . . . to kill or wound
treacherously individuals belonging to the hostile nation or
army." Paragraph 31 of U.S. Department of the Army Field
Manual 27-10, "The Law of Land Warfare" (1956),
authoritatively defines this provision to mean: "This article
is construed as prohibiting assassination, proscription or
outlawry of an enemy. . . ."
   Beyond Executive Order 12333, Hague Convention No. IV is a
"treaty" that has received the advice and consent of the U.S.
Senate and is therefore "the supreme Law of the Land"
according to Article 6 of the U.S. Constitution. And even if
Congress were to enact a statute that expressly repealed the
rule found in Hague Regulation article 23(b) that still would
not help. This is because the Nuremberg Tribunal of 1945
expressly ruled that the rules found in the Hague Regulations
had entered into customary international law as of 1939. Even
more recently, the U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia held in 1980 that Chile's assassination of Orlando
Letelier on the streets of Washington was "clearly contrary
to the precepts of humanity as recognized in both national
and international law."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hence, it is the longstanding position of the U.S.
government that the assassination of anyone -- let alone a
head of state or head of government -- is a violation of the
laws and customs of warfare and therefore an international
and domestic crime. Any government officials who order
assassinations would be subject to prosecution in any state
of the world that obtained jurisdiction over them. The repeal
of Executive Order 12333 would not change this.
   Francis A. Boyle
   Professor of International Law
   University of Illinois
   Champaign, Ill.
   ---
   In the context of implying that the U.S. should
assassinate or abet the assassination of Saddam Hussein, Mr.
Crovitz states, "President Bush should be free to choose his
military strategy without having to worry about legalities."
If Mr. Bush is so free, so is Mr. Hussein, who has already
used chemical weapons on his own people and threatens to do
so again on Israel's people; so, in retrospect, was Hitler;
so, in the future, will be any head of state. The inhibitions
that have been reinforced by the accumulated body of
international treaties and law would be simply swept away.
   Mr. Crovitz also declares: "It demeans the law to try to
force the circle of the rule of law into the square of an
international battlefield." Without that circle there is
nothing, in our era of nuclear and chemical weapons, to
prevent that square from becoming our vast common grave.
   The mass murderer Saddam Hussein should be overthrown, and
if he dies in the event so be it. But as to waging war
without "worry about legalities," Mr. Crovitz should be more
careful. President Bush -- or Mr. Hussein -- might be
reading.
   Ronnie Dugger
   Publisher
   The Texas Observer
   Wellfleet, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Keep Congress
   Out of Court
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The effort by some members of Congress to avoid jury duty
("Jurymandering" editorial, Aug. 14) points out the blindness
of Congress as to what the American people think of them.
What rational American would accept a member of Congress on
his/her jury anyway? If the member were accepted, the
defendant's day in court would be prolonged endlessly by jury
subcommittees and the need for an environmental-impact
statement. And if by chance two members of Congress of
opposite parties were seated, the jury would be hung and the
judge would have to declare a mistrial. No matter how you
look at it, given the proven character and integrity of our
535 national legislators, justice would be delayed if not
denied, and the taxpayers would pick up the tab -- again.
   Robert B. Meredith
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mill Valley, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ranger Oil Plans
   Expansion Outlays
   Of $350.7 Million
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   RGO T.RGO T.W WE
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALGARY, Alberta -- Ranger Oil Ltd. expects to spend about
400 million Canadian dollars (US$350.7 million) to help bring
half a dozen North Sea oil and gas properties into production
by 1997, Fred Dyment, vice president, finance, said.
   With C$150 million of cash on hand and little debt on its
books, Mr. Dyment said Ranger is well positioned to finance
its ambitious development plans without any backing from
Westcoast Energy Inc., which became Ranger's largest holder
by acquiring a 12.1% stake last December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If you look at all our projects on a stand-alone basis,
we'd only need net C$200 million or so to develop them,"
which is well within Ranger's debt comfort range, Mr. Dyment
said in an interview. "We see {Westcoast} as equity
shareholders, and not necessarily providing a backstop on
financings," he said.
   Westcoast, which is intent on expanding its oil and gas
production business and was attracted by Ranger's growth
potential in the North Sea, is bound by a standstill accord
that limits its interest in Ranger to 15% until 1992, unless
a third party offers to acquire Ranger.
   Mr. Dyment didn't offer a specific production forecast for
Ranger, though he said he sees "substantial growth" by 1993,
when the company hopes to have four additional North Sea
properties in production. They include Ranger's 40%-owned
Columba oil field, whose development mainly depends on
whether Ranger and the U.K. government can resolve their
differences on fiscal terms.
   Rik Parkhill, an analyst with Deacon Barclays de Zoete
Wedd Ltd. in Toronto, said he estimates Ranger's oil output
will rise to more than 24,000 barrels a day by 1993 from an
average of 17,854 during the 1990 first half, and daily
natural gas production will climb to about 79 million cubic
feet by 1993 from a first-half average of 43.5 million.
"That's pretty close," said Mr. Dyment, "assuming Columba is
on stream."
   Mr. Dyment said he expected production in 1991 will be
relatively unchanged from 1990 levels, as output at the North
Sea's mature Ninian oil field is flat, and the first of
Ranger's development properties aren't scheduled to come on
stream until next year's fourth quarter. They include
Ranger's 35.6%-owned Anglia natural gas field, and the
40%-owned Staffa oil field.
   Initial production at Anglia is expected to be 50 million
cubic feet a day, of which 17.5 mcf will accrue to Ranger,
the field's operator. Production at Staffa, adjacent to
Ranger's biggest producer, Ninian, is expected to reach 8,000
barrels daily, of which 3,200 barrels daily is Ranger's
share.
   Anglia will supply feedstock to a planned gas-fired
electrical power generating plant at South Denes, Great
Yarmouth, in the U.K. Ranger will own 28.3% of the plant and
operate it when it starts production, scheduled for 1994.
   Mr. Dyment said the next boost in production will occur by
late 1992, when the Markham natural gas field and possibly
the Columba field, come on stream.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Volkswagen Reports
   Group Profit, Sales
   Rose 6.2% in 1st Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VOW
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   WOLFSBURG, West Germany -- Volkswagen AG said group profit
rose 6.2% in the first half of 1990 to 428 million marks
($274.4 million) from 403 million marks a year earlier.
   Sales at the West German auto maker also rose 6.2% to
35.24 billion marks from 33.18 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volkswagen said profitability was hurt by increasingly
strong competition, economic difficulties in Brazil and
Argentina, and disadvantageous foreign exchange developments.
The company cited good domestic and foreign car demand as a
factor in unit sales, which rose 2.8% to 1,544,791 from
1,502,485 units a year earlier. But sales slipped 2.1% within
West Germany to 442,585 units from 452,027 units, while
foreign sales rose 4.9% to 1,102,206 units from 1,050,458
units a year earlier.
   The company said it expects the good economic conditions
that have characterized the West German market so far to
continue in the second half. It also cited expectations of
higher demand from the economic union formed between the two
Germanys July 1.
   Sales of Volkswagen cars in Western Europe rose 1.7% to
1,179,011 units. The company said high demand for its Passat,
Golf and Jetta models couldn't be fully satisfied because of
capacity restraints. VW plans special weekend shifts in
September to help satisfy demands for its cars.
   The company cited hardening competition, overcapacity and
price wars as negative factors in the U.S. market, but said
it succeeded in boosting deliveries 0.9% to 101,458 cars. The
introduction of the Passat model had a positive impact,
Volkswagen said.
   Volkswagen boosted car output to 1,576,083 units in the
first half from 1,519,689 the year before. The company said
Wednesday it is almost certain it will have record output of
more than three million units for all of 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Weighty Distinction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Your July 12 page-one article concerning the world
standard of weight, "Le Gran K," failed to distinguish
between mass and weight. It was not clear whether Le Gran K
had lost 75-billionths of a kilogram of mass or 75-billionths
of a kilogram of weight in the past 100 years.
   The mass of an object is a measure of the amount of matter
in that object. The weight is the force due to the
gravitational attraction between the object and the Earth. If
Le Gran K is losing mass, then it is losing matter. In that
case, the cause could be the infrequent polishings, which
actually remove matter. On the other hand, if Le Gran K is
losing weight, it means that the force due to gravity is
lessening. This would make for a very grave situation,
indeed, for it would indicate either that the universal
constant of gravitation is not, in fact, a constant or that
the mass of the Earth is slowly decreasing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Neither of these alternatives is palatable, for they both
violate fundamental concepts of physics. The second
alternative, that the mass of the Earth is decreasing, could
possibly be attributed to the detonation of nuclear bombs,
each of which destroys a small amount of matter.
   In view of the gravity of this matter I believe we must
mass our forces to lessen the burden of the weight of the
problem.
   Irving R. Tannenbaum
   Professor of Chemistry
   West Los Angeles College
   Culver City, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan Taps Unlikely Oil Source -- Itself
   ---
   Hard-Luck Domestic Drillers
   Keep Fingers Crossed
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.JPE J.TEI
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGASHI-KUBIKI, Japan -- "It's the best rig money can
buy," says engineer Ken Fujii about the towering, rumbling
oil-drilling rig he operates in the lush rice paddies of this
once-quiet mountain hamlet. "If there is oil, we'll find it."
   Oil? In a country that takes a perverse pride in calling
itself a vulnerable island with few natural resouces? Sure,
says Kazuhiko Itano, an assistant director of Japan National
Oil Corp., or JNOC. "We are an oil-producing country."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not much of one, perhaps, but hope springs eternal --
though oil doesn't -- in the Japanese oil patch. So far, Mr.
Fujii, Japan's chief oil driller, and his geologists at
Higashi-Kubiki haven't displayed any Beverly Hillbilly luck.
Three of every four wells drilled in Japan are dry. Indeed,
Japan's first producing oil field wasn't found until 1891,
after 18 years of dry holes.
   But these days Japan's oil men feel themselves under more
pressure to perform. The prospect of war in the Persian Gulf
bodes ill for the economic superpower's health. Japan is the
world's second-largest oil consumer, after the U.S.,
dependent on oil for two-thirds of its energy. Acutely aware
of that dependence, Japan's oil companies are boring away
across Japan with missionary zeal.
   In the commuter-infested neighborhood of Chiba in suburban
Tokyo, small wells squeak the night away. In the rice-farming
hamlets of Niigata and Akita prefectures, where the winter
snows fall so heavily that some old wooden houses have
second-story doors, rusted skeletons of oil rigs are common.
A dozen miles off the coast of Niigata City, the flame of an
offshore oil platform burns day and night.
   The Japanese quest mixes patriotism and persistence. "We
are trying to make Japan more self-sufficient in energy,"
says an executive at a state-controlled oil company. "But it
may take time."
   Indeed. Japan imports 99% of its oil. Its purchases
account for one of every 10 barrels sold internationally. Few
Japanese know that their country produces even 1% of its oil.
   "Most local people aren't even aware what we're doing,"
says Mitsunobu Sugiyama, an administrator at Japan Petroleum
Exploration Co., the JNOC subsidiary operating the well in
Higashi-Kubiki.
   But, then, there's little reason they should be. The
Japanese oil men don't draw much attention to themselves.
This is no Cadillac-and-10-gallon-hat crowd. The favorite
hangout near Japan Petroleum's regional headquarters in
Niigata is a noodle shop where oil men shed their blue suit
jackets, loosen their ties, doff their shoes and slurp
seaweed noodles.
   Here at Higashi-Kubiki, the only roughneck is a giant
machinery trailer with the English words "Automatic
roughneck" stenciled on the side. Most everything is
automated, so the site requires only eight men a shift -- and
an aproned lady to serve steaming green tea or iced barley
tea.
   The strike-it-rich atmosphere of the Texas oil patch isn't
much in evidence here. Toshiki Takahashi, a 24-year-old
geologist at the Higashi-Kubiki rig, says: "The job is worth
doing because we make efforts to find oil for Japan even
though we don't know if it exists."
   Actually, there is considerable evidence that it doesn't.
Of the 1.33 billion barrels of oil Japan consumed in the
fiscal year ended March 31, domestic wells produced only 4.12
million barrels, or about 0.3%. The country's estimated
reserves are 52 million barrels; by contrast, Saudi Arabia
has 255 billion barrels.
   Still, nearly everybody in the Japanese oil industry seems
to know that Norway had no onshore oil to speak of before it
discovered vast offshore reserves in the early 1970s. Many
think they may replicate Norway's good fortune one day.
   "Of course there is always the possibility, a high
possibility, that we will find a large reserve because we
have this vast sea," says Takazo Ichimura, deputy manager of
Japan Petroleum's Niigata division. There's an even greater
chance, he adds, in the offshore shelf under seas that Japan
doesn't control at the moment but claims, such as those
around the Soviet-held Kuril island chain north of Japan.
   Japan's hunger for oil has caused it trouble in the past.
In 1941, after Franklin D. Roosevelt tried to cut off
Imperial Japan from the oil fields of Indonesia, Tokyo
attacked Pearl Harbor and occupied Indonesia. When the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries choked the
world's oil supply in 1973, Japan's economy ground
temporarily to a halt and inflation soared. This time around,
fears of an oil shortage have crippled the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, and interest rates have begun to creep up.
   Such agonies -- along with legends about Japanese emperors
a millenium ago burning oil that seeped from the ground --
give oil an almost mythical importance in Japan. The
government takes domestic exploration so seriously that
computers monitoring Mr. Fujii's 18,000-foot-deep well 200
miles from Tokyo beam signals to screens at Japan Petroleum's
headquarters, where officials of the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry can watch the progress.
   Although only a few companies explore and pump oil or gas
in Japan, two of them, Japan Petroleum and Teikoku Oil Co.,
were started with government money. All get big subsidies, as
much as 80%, to explore for oil in Japan.
   Despite the easy money, finding young Japanese to work in
the business isn't easy. Mr. Takahashi, the geologist at the
Higashi-Kubiki rig, says he was the only one of 40 geology
students at his university to enter the oil business.
Salaries are poor, it's a low-visibility industry and work
conditions in the field are poor compared with the office
environment at other big companies, he says.
   The few who choose oil do so because their country needs
them. "Japan needs a stable supply of oil from Japan," says
Mr. Itano of JNOC. Trying to convince the world that it will
find a real source isn't easy, though.
   "I used to start my speeches in Washington by telling U.S.
oil people that Japan is an oil producer," he says. "It made
them laugh."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Unlisted Shares Fall With Big Board;
   Sierra Tucson Dives on Earnings News
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Yet another new member of the Nasdaq club got hammered as
investors shun OTC stocks that deliver earnings
disappointments.
   Sierra Tucson, an operator of treatment centers for drug
abusers and people with mental disorders, lost 4 3/4 to 7 1/2
after lowering its sights on this year's earnings. The
company went public less than a year ago for $12 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Sierra Tucson was the worst hit OTC stock yesterday,
it joins a growing list of stocks with short track records
that have been dealt devasting blows by nervous investors in
recent weeks.
   Digital Sound, Pharmacy Management Services, and In-Store
Advertising are among those stocks that are trading well
below their initial public offering prices set earlier this
year.
   Most of those companies have not lived up to the
expectations set during their offerings, and have paid dearly
as a result. Traders say there is little tolerance for
uncertainty in a market where even the best and the brightest
have lost their shine.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 3.10 points, or 0.81%, to
378.68. The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index took a
bigger hit, dropping 1.4%.
   Tony Cecin, director of equity trading at Piper Jaffray &amp;
Hopwood, says Nasdaq dealer stock inventories are the lowest
that he has seen them in 10 years. That means OTC market
makers aren't willing to hold stock for long, and any shares
for sale will drive the stock price lower until a buyer is
found.
   OTC advancers trailed decliners, 796 to 1,015, while
volume fell to 106.3 million shares from 118.1 million shares
Wednesday.
   Piper Jaffray's Mr. Cecin says he won't feel comfortable
buying stocks until the market is much lower.
   He says that even if the Middle East crisis were settled
today and the Dow industrials rallied 150 points, there would
still be plenty of investors ready to sell their shares --
leading to another slide.
   "I would feel more comfortable about stepping in at 2,200
{on the Dow Jones Industrial Average} than at 2,450," he
says. The DJIA closed at 2,593.32, down 39.11 points
yesterday.
   Sierra Tucson's stock has lost more than half of its value
since Tuesday. Wednesday afternoon, Oppenheimer &amp; Co. analyst
Carl Sherman told his sales force and trading desk that
Sierra Tucson wouldn't meet his 1990 earnings projections,
traders of the stock say.
   Mr. Sherman lowered his 1990 projection to 73 cents a
share from an earlier range of 90 cents to 95 cents a share.
   Word of Mr. Sherman's views spread quickly, sparking a
sell-off that sent Sierra Tucson's stock plunging 4 points to
12 1/4 before the trading was halted late Wednesday.
   Later that day, Sierra Tucson announced that its new
German operations aren't going to break out of the red as
early as the company had hoped. Sierra opened a treatment
center in Germany late in 1989, but has yet to turn a profit
there.
   As a result, the company said profit for the third quarter
will fall below the 20 cents a share earned in the period
last year.
   "It's a timing issue," said Sierra Tucson's Chief
Financial Officer John Schmitz. "We made a mistake in terms
of projecting when we will break even" in Germany.
   Mr. Schmitz says the company now expects the German
operations to pass the break-even point early next year -- by
February at the latest. But Mr. Schmitz is dismayed by the
violent market reaction to the company's news.
   "The reaction is a little more negative than it needs to
be," he says of the decline in the company's stock. Even at
73 cents a share, Sierra Tucson's 1990 profit will have grown
15% year-over-year.
   Intel led the most-active list, falling 1 7/8 to 33 1/8 on
volume of more than two million shares. At least part of that
move was because of jitters over the impact of a patent
granted to a California-based inventor that could cover many
of the chips made by the semiconductor industry. This
newspaper reported that if the patent survives challenges,
chip-makers like Intel might have to fork over millions in
royalties.
   MCI Communications rose 7/8 to 32 5/8. In a meeting
Wednesday, the company assured Wall Street analysts that
their 1991 earnings estimates of $3.20 to $3.45 a share were
reasonable. That would translate into revenue growth of as
much as 20% for 1991, an MCI spokesman told Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report.
   Sunrise Medical added 1/2 to 14 1/4 after reporting that
it earned 40 cents a share on a fully diluted basis in its
fourth quarter ended in June, up from 32 cents a share in the
quarter last year.
   Envirosafe Services tumbled 4 7/8, or about 32%, to 10
3/8. The Ohio Hazardous Waste Facility Board denied an
application by one of the company's principal units to
construct an additional waste-disposal site in Ohio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Seoul's Proposal
   For Stock Market
   Depresses Shares
   ----
   By Joseph P. Manguno
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- At a time when South Korea's stock
market desperately needs a shot in the arm, the government's
latest remedy only made matters worse.
   Seoul officials proposed legislation Thursday that would
ease restrictions on corporate shareholdings, encourage more
stock buying by small-scale and individual investors, and
allow listed companies to pay semiannual dividends. They also
decided to complete funding of the four trillion-won ($5.59
billion) Stock Market Stabilization Fund in an effort to pump
more liquidity into the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But in what has become a familiar scenario on the Seoul
market, investors disappointed by news reports of the
proposals responded with a sell-off that ended a three-day
rally in which shares recovered an average 10% on signs of an
easing of tensions in the Persian Gulf crisis. The composite
index fell 20.92 points, or 3.2%, to 626.85. Trading volume
totaled about 16.1 million shares, compared with about 22.6
million shares Wednesday. Losses outnumbered gains 749 to 68.
   The market reaction underscored two points on which nearly
all securities analysts agree: The problems of the Korean
market are so complex and deeply ingrained that recovery is
going to take many months, and that investors lack confidence
in the government's ability to rectify the situation.
   "I'm afraid that we haven't seen the worst yet," said an
analyst for Ssangyong Investment &amp; Securities Co., one of the
nation's biggest brokerage houses.
   The lack of confidence and resulting frustration, shown
repeatedly in recent months by angry investors protesting in
the streets, reached a high level last week when the
composite index fell below 600 -- 40% off its peak of 1007,
in April 1989.
   The market's 16-month plunge has bankrupted many small
investors and crippled most securities dealers. According to
Ssangyong, Korean investors lost more than 17.3 trillion won
on plummeting shares during the first seven months of this
year -- more than 60% of that sustained by individual
investors.
   The Korea Securities Dealers Association warns that some
of the nation's 25 brokerage houses are in serious trouble.
The association's managing director, Kim Tae-Cheon, says 90%
of the firms' domestic branch offices didn't meet their daily
average break-even sales level of 10 billion won in July, and
have done even worse this month.
   But few see much hope of a remedy for any of the market's
central problems in the near future. "Apart from the Gulf
development in the past few days," says a Seoul manager for
Jardine Fleming Securities Co., "nothing has changed in the
fundamentals that will affect the market for many months."
   Still, there are some things the Korea Securities Dealers
Association believes the government can and must do to
prevent a total collapse of the market. The association's Mr.
Kim says such measures include expanding share demand by
loosening monetary controls, changing legislation that
restricts pension-fund managers from investing in equities,
and increasing the Stock Market Stabilization Fund.
   The government addressed two of those points in the
legislative proposals, namely revisions of pension-fund laws
and a full vesting of the stabilization fund. The fund was
authorized earlier this year to help the market by providing
soft loans mainly to institutional investors, but it has yet
to be completely capitalized.
   The government remains determined, however, not to ease
monetary controls, for fear of fueling inflation, which
already is running at a 10-year high of 7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Future of Hot Fusion Is Boiling Down
   To the Behavior of a Few Helium Atoms
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRINCETON, N.J. -- The number of helium atoms involved
wouldn't fill a thimble. But the stakes riding on them are
almost beyond comprehension: a solution to the world's energy
needs for the next million years or the sad end of 35 years
and $11 billion worth of scientific research.
   The helium atoms are those produced when a gas made of two
forms of hydrogen -- deuterium and tritium -- is heated to
more than 100 million degrees, causing their nuclei to fuse.
Theory says that the superhot helium atoms from the nuclear
fusions will cause more deuterium and tritium atoms to fuse,
producing more superhot helium atoms, and so on. The result:
a pollution-free fusion fire fed by an inexhaustible supply
of cheap fuel, much like the fire burning in the sun. That's
the theory. No one knows if it's true.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While a small piece of the puzzle could be solved by
October, scientists haven't tried yet to heat
deuterium-tritium gas to more than 100 million degrees to
verify the theory as a whole. And even physicists who
devoutly believe the theory concede it could be wrong. "There
could be some undiscovered phenomenon" that would prevent the
helium atoms from igniting a fusion fire, admits Edson C.
Brolin, acting director of the Princeton Plasma Physics
Laboratory here.
   Thus, after more than four decades and thousands of
experiments to answer hundreds of questions, the attempt to
ignite a sunlike fusion fire on Earth is down to one
remaining scientific question: the properties of a few atoms
of helium.
   Hot fusion, as it's now being called in the wake of last
year's uproar over so-called cold fusion, is about to break
into the headlines again after a hiatus of several years.
There is a good chance that in early October scientists will
announce that for the first time they have triggered a hot
fusion reaction that produces as much energy as it consumes,
the "break-even" point that has been the first goal of fusion
research since it began in the late 1950s.
   The announcement is expected to come from either the
fusion team here at Princeton University or a similar
European team working in England, which currently enjoys a
slight lead. Perhaps it will come from both groups, which are
in the midst of launching a furious round of experiments in
the hope of hitting break-even in time to report it at a
major scientific meeting in Washington.
   "We and they both would like to say at the meeting that we
hit break-even, though whether our machines will cooperate
with us, we don't know," Mr. Brolin says.
   Researchers are hoping that hitting the break-even point
will not only mark a scientific milestone but will rejuvenate
public and congressional interest in hot fusion. For almost a
decade, the attempt to ignite a fusion fire has been
relegated to Washington's budgetary backwaters. A 1976
federal plan, drawn up in the wake of the energy crisis of
the early 1970s, envisioned spending $36 billion to get a
prototype fusion power reactor in operation by 2005. But as
the energy crisis faded, so did interest in a research effort
that couldn't pay off for at least a generation.
   So far, the rate of spending on fusion research has been
only a third of that envisioned in the plan, and the goal of
a fusion reactor has been put off until after 2020. More
importantly, claim fusion scientists, critical experiments
have been repeatedly delayed, with the result that it's still
an open scientific question whether a fusion reactor is even
feasible, much less whether one can be built in 30 years.
   Unfortunately, reaching the break-even point this fall
won't clear up that question. That's because the U.S. and
European experiments aren't fueled by deuterium-tritium gas.
They're fueled by pure deuterium, a "heavy" form of hydrogen
with a nucleus consisting of a proton and a neutron, instead
of ordinary hydrogen's simple proton. The results of the
tests are being adjusted to read as if the deuterium-tritium
gas had been used.
   Pure deuterium is fine for basic fusion experiments. If
enough superhot deuterium nuclei can be concentrated in a
small enough space for only a fraction of a second, an
appreciable amount of energy will be released. For the
break-even experiment, for example, the researchers are
trying to get 150 trillion deuterium nuclei bunched into each
cubic centimeter of space and heated to 300 million degrees
for three-tenths of a second. In this brief moment, the
experiment would use only a tenth of a gram of deuterium fuel
to produce 25 million watts of energy -- the same amount of
energy that it takes to heat the deuterium atoms to 300
million degrees.
   Pure deuterium, however, isn't the best fuel for a fusion
fire. To ignite a self-sustaining deuterium fusion fire would
require heating the deuterium gas to more than 550 million
degrees for enough fusions to occur to keep the fire burning.
   That's where the deuterium-tritium gas comes in. In
theory, according to physicist Dale Meade of the Plasma
Physics Laboratory here, it should be easier to ignite a
fusion fire with a fuel that is half deuterium and half
tritium, a triply heavy form of hydrogen with a nucleus of
two neutrons and a proton. The chances of deuterium and
tritium atoms fusing are 300 times greater than the odds of
deuterium atoms fusing, Mr. Meade explains. Thus, a
deuterium-tritium gas need be heated only to about 220
million degrees for enough fusions to occur to ignite a
self-sustaining fire, about half the energy needed to light a
pure deuterium fire.
   Until now, the researchers have avoided using tritium in
their huge fusion machines -- hollow metal doughnuts, based
on a Russian design known as a tokamak, in which the superhot
deuterium gas is trapped inside the doughnut and held away
from its walls by powerful magnetic fields. The
deuterium-tritium fusions release a shower of powerful
neutrons that can render parts of the machines radioactive
and useless for new experiments. To save the machines, which
cost hundreds of millions of dollars, fusion research has
relied solely on pure deuterium fuel.
   Now, however, the scientists say they have reached the
point where the last major scientific question about the
ignition of a fusion fire can be answered only by tests with
deuterium and tritium atoms, which produce a neutron and the
nucleus of a helium-4 atom when they fuse.
   The neutrons, being electrically neutral, slip easily
through the magnetic walls of the fusion doughnut and shoot
out of the machine with four-fifths of the energy released by
the fusion. In any future power reactor, this rain of
high-energy neutrons would slam into a surrounding "blanket,"
converting the neutrons' energy to heat that can be used for
power generation.
   The new-made helium nucleus, on the other hand, faces a
different fate. Being positively charged, it is trapped
inside the magnetic doughnut. Holding a fifth of the energy
released by the fusion, the nucleus caroms about the hot
deuterium-tritium gas like a high-speed cue ball in a pocket
billiards game. Slamming into the deuterium and tritium
atoms, the helium nuclei will trigger additional fusions. If
enough helium nuclei trigger enough fusions, the fuel quickly
will be heating itself to fusion temperatures without any
additional energy input, just as a wood fire sustains itself
once a match gets the wood heated to the right temperature.
   Scientists hope the fusion fire, once lit, would burn
continuously as long as new fuel is fed in. But even if the
fire has to be relighted every few minutes, the results would
be spectacular. Burning only about 2 1/2 pounds of
deuterium-tritium fuel would produce 1,000 megawatts of
energy, an amount that currently requires burning 9,000 tons
of coal.
   Physicists know how much energy each helium nucleus
carries, but what isn't known is whether "we will generate
enough {helium nuclei} and whether we can confine them long
enough" to keep a fusion fire burning, says Mr. Meade.
   The device to ignite the world's first controlled fusion
fire is undoubtedly the world's most expensive lighter. It is
a $360 million machine known as the Compact Ignition Tokamak.
Now on the drawing boards, the CIT will have a
doughnut-shaped fusion chamber with an outside diameter of
only seven feet, less than a third that of the 25-foot
diameter Princeton tokamak chamber. Yet, if it can ignite a
fusion fire that will burn for only five seconds, it will
produce 100 megawatts of power.
   When -- or even whether -- the CIT will be built is in the
hands of a committee advising Energy Secretary James Watkins
on how much his department should seek for fusion research in
the 1991 budget.
   If the CIT successfully ignites a fusion fire, the next
step will be an engineering test reactor to be built jointly
by the U.S., the Soviet Union, Japan and the European
Community. If, on the other hand, the helium nuclei don't
behave as physicists predict, the 35-year quest for the
fusion fire may be over.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual Funds:
   Stock Fund Sales Collapse, Marking
   Most Dismal Month Since 1987 Crash
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock mutual fund investors are heading for
the hills.
   Spooked by the Middle East crisis, investors are yanking
money out of stock funds and stuffing their cash into drab
but safe money market funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two months ago, stock fund sales were on target for their
best year ever, topping even the banner year 1986. But in
July, the flow of dollars into stock funds slowed to a
trickle, and this month money started cascading out of stock
funds.
   August has been "the worst month since October 1987 {when
the stock market crashed} in terms of net outflows" from
stock funds, Gavin Quill, a marketing research analyst with
Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark, said. "It was pretty much spread
across the board." Other fund groups also reported dismal
stock fund sales during August, though they pale beside the
$7.5 billion net outflow of October 1987.
   For much of this year, stock funds have pulled in more
cash than they surrendered to departing shareholders. In May,
inflows hit a frenzied peak of $4.4 billion, the fund
industry's best month since April 1987. But according to the
Investment Company Institute, inflows in June slowed to $1.7
billion, and stock funds in July pulled in a modest $131
million. These numbers include sales, less redemptions, plus
the net effect of switches between stock funds and other
funds in the same fund family. Reinvested dividends are
excluded.
   In August, the slowdown in stock fund sales seems to have
turned into a rout. Dalbar Financial Services of Boston
estimated that stock funds hemorrhaged about $1.8 billion in
assets during August. Dalbar's estimate is a projection based
on data from 112 stock funds, which represent 1/10th of the
industry's stock fund assets.
   Stock fund investors have a reputation as lousy market
timers. They tend to buy like crazy near stock market peaks,
and sell heavily after the market has already fallen steeply.
   Dalbar Financial President Louis Harvey reckons that this
month's stock fund outflows may prove equally ill-timed.
"Many of the people who switched on the bad news are probably
already sorry," he said. "The people who move are almost
invariably making the wrong move. The best bet is a
buy-and-hold strategy."
   Mr. Harvey noted that those investors who buy stock funds
directly from fund groups, rather than going through a broker
and paying a commission, seem to have been the quickest to
bail out of stock funds in August. The broker-sold fund
groups, by contrast, survived relatively unscathed.
"Surprisingly, it's been a booming month for equities," said
Henry Schmelzer, an executive vice president with New England
Securities, which has funds that are sold through insurance
agents.
   Robert Leo, director of mutual funds at the Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc. unit of American Express Co., said new
sales of stock funds are down 40% this month, but redemptions
and exchanges out of stock funds are up only modestly. "We
have had a net outflow {from stock funds}, but nothing of
extraordinary dimensions," Mr. Leo said. "Many of the big
fund groups like Vanguard and T. Rowe Price and Fidelity are
seeing a lot of switches. These people often don't use
brokers. Our investors are longer term. We haven't seen a lot
of exchanges."
   But while there has been heavy switching out of stock
funds at the three fund groups mentioned by Mr. Leo, even
these firms have something to cheer about.
   "If you look at the business as a whole, it's been a good
month," Michael Hines, a marketing vice president at
Boston-based Fidelity Investments, said. "Though we've seen
net redemptions {out of stock funds}, our research shows that
people still plan to invest in equities in the months ahead."
   At T. Rowe Price Associates, Baltimore, much of the money
coming out of its stock funds went into the firm's money
market funds. As a result, T. Rowe Price only had a modest
outflow of assets from the fund group overall.
   At Scudder, more than 90% of the money that went out of
stock funds ended up in another Scudder fund. By contrast,
Scudder managed to hang on to only half the money that left
stock funds in October 1987. "What you find on the money
market side {during August} is the mirror image of what
happened elsewhere," Scudder's Mr. Quill said. "Net, as a
family of funds, we gained very slightly."
   Not all stock funds hemorrhaged assets. Vanguard Group's
stock-index funds picked up new money in August, as did its
energy and gold sector funds. Franklin Resources' gold fund
had strong new sales, but also was hurt by large exchanges
out of the fund. "You tend to get faster money with the gold
fund, particularly with the market timers," Gregory Johnson,
a marketing vice president at Franklin, said.
   According to the Investment Company Institute, stock fund
managers turned slightly more bullish in July, cutting their
cash positions to 10.7% of assets from 10.8% in June. Numbers
gathered by Indata, a service of Gordon, Haskett &amp; Co.,
indicate this trend didn't last. Indata, which keeps tabs on
57 stock mutual funds with assets of $20 billion, said the
cash position at these 57 funds now is at 11.6%, up from
10.2% at the end of July.
   During July, bond funds pulled in $1.7 billion more than
they surrendered to departing shareholders, the third month
in a row of net inflows. But in August, bond funds appear to
have bled assets. Massachusetts Financial Services, T. Rowe
Price and Vanguard all reported net outflows from their bond
funds.
   Investors fearing a recession pulled money out of
high-yielding "junk" bond funds in August. T. Rowe Price High
Yield Fund, which had been the firm's best-selling bond fund
for the previous three months, was the biggest loser in
August. Massachusetts Financial, Shearson and Vanguard also
reported net outflows from their junk funds.
   While money flowed out of junk funds, it flowed into funds
that buy bonds that are of higher quality or have shorter
maturities. But during August, the biggest winner of all has
been the money market funds, which buy Treasury bills and the
very short-term corporate IOUs known as commercial paper.
Much of the money switched out of bond and stock funds has
ended up in money market funds.
   Though fund groups are pleased to keep money in the fund
family, burgeoning money market funds are a mixed blessing
for them. "Money funds are less profitable than long-term
funds," Avi Nachmany, an analyst with Jesup &amp; Lamont Inc.,
said. "If you get into an environment of a sustained shift
from long-term funds to short-term funds, you'll get a
decline in profitability."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   STOCK MUTUAL FUNDS lost an estimated $1.8 billion in
assets in August, mainly because of investors' switching to
other funds. If the estimate proves correct, the loss would
be the worst since February 1989. The historical comparison
was misstated in the headline of an article in Friday's
edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   None Dare
   Call It Art
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Irving Kristol is correct ("It's Obscene but Is It Art?"
editorial page, Aug. 7) that the debate about "censorship"
has been used as a smoke screen to avoid discussion of what
art should receive the national endorsement that National
Endowment for the Arts funding provides.
   The NEA and most private entities funding art are
dominated by modernist art "professionals." This view of art
is founded on the notion that there is no reality exterior to
the self; whatever is called art by an artist is art. In its
denial that judgment is even possible, this view fosters
precisely the iconoclasm we are seeing. In arts-establishment
parlance, "only the initiated can understand" -- the
initiated being those who deny that art has intentional
meaning and can be assessed independently of the artist. This
is today's "arts community."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One practical consequence of the embrace of this set of
delusions is that the NEA routinely denies applications from
such entities as the New York Academy of Art, the nation's
only graduate school dedicated to the teaching of the
classical figurative disciplines and techniques that informed
fine-arts tradition during the 25 centuries prior to our own.
According to the NEA summary of its panelists' comments on
the school's 1989 application to its grant program, the
"Panel disagreed with basic philosophical impetus of the
application for being too rigidly modeled on European
academicism with no acknowledgment of 20th-century concepts
of Modernism. It was feared that this revisionist approach
would stifle creativity in young artists."
   Unless conservatives and liberals alike start addressing
the validity of the modernist/deconstructionist assumptions,
we shall continue the current progression toward complete
obliteration of expression grounded in the Western
Judeo-Christian tradition.
   Elizabeth B. Lurie
   President
   W.H. Brady Foundation
   Maggie Valley, N.C.
   ---
   The controversies on tax-supported pornography at the NEA
have obscured a much more alarming development. Projected
budgets for fiscal 1992 indicate that, for the first time, a
larger proportion of the agency's budget will support the
infrastructure of the arts than the artists themselves.
Somewhat under 50% -- approximately 47% in one projection --
of the agency's budget will go to the artists, more than half
of the budget -- about 53% in the same projection -- will pay
for support activities. The NEA is spending more on ancillary
activities, e.g., organizations that service the arts, paying
for mayors to meet and talk about the arts, and less on the
artists themselves. The main issue is just how much direct
and immediate good the NEA does for the working artists,
obscene or otherwise.
   Jacob Neusner
   Member, National Council on the Arts, 1984-90
   (Advisory Council of the National Endowment for the Arts)
   St. Petersburg, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Efficacy Rarity
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Our government has not lost
   Its sound, proficient ways
   In these most adverse, trying
   Census-taking days.
   And I'm impelled to praise it
   With silly prose and rhymes,
   For I have now been counted
   No less than five times.
   -- Dalton L. Nevels.
   ---
   When the Spirits Move You
                                                                                                       

   A little liquor, and you lose inhibitions;
   A lot of liquor, and you give exhibitions.
   -- Sam Ewing.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Networking: good old American know-who.
   -- Ivern Ball.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Fund Assets
   Fell $542.2 Million
   In the Latest Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Assets of the 520 U.S. money market mutual
funds dropped $542.2 million, to $407.45 billion, in the week
ended Wednesday, the Investment Company Institute said.
   The trade group also revised the week-earlier total-asset
figure to $407.99 billion, up $6.21 billion. The institute
had previously reported the total assets for the week ended
Aug. 22 as $408 billion, up $6.22 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the latest week, 162 institutional funds posted a
$772.5 million decline in assets, to $98.7 billion; 253
general-purpose funds advanced $931.9 million to $143.38
billion; and 105 broker-dealer funds sank $701.6 million to
$165.37 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTS Forms Venture
   With Moscow Lab
   For Seismic Research
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST GTSC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- GTS Corp. said it has formed a seismic-data
reprocessing and marketing joint venture with the Laboratory
of Regional Geodynamics of Moscow.
   GTS, which provides seismic data and data-processing
services for oil and gas exploration, said the venture will
be self-supporting through its contracts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the equal-partnership venture, the two concerns
will process existing onshore and offshore seismic and
geophysical data for areas in the Soviet Union that have
recently been opened to international energy exploration
companies.
   In addition, GTS will assist in upgrading the seismic-data
equipment of a Soviet research vessel, which is owned by the
Moscow laboratory. GTS will also augment the vessel's staff.
The vessel will be used in the near future to obtain new
seismic data under contracts with international oil concerns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Activists Want
   To Pry Open
   Lawyers' World
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   HALT's legal activists seem to be finally getting some
respect -- along with the usual volley of brickbats.
   The advocacy group, whose acronym stands for Help Abolish
Legal Tyranny, is waging a sophisticated state-by-state
campaign to chip away at lawyers' monopoly on the legal
system. Its activists lobby bar organizations and state
legislatures to persuade them to open lawyer disciplinary
proceedings to the public and the practice of law to trained
non-lawyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In California, legislators plan to look at a HALT-drafted
bill on legal affordability. An American Bar Association
panel is taking some of its complaints about lawyer
discipline seriously.
   But HALT's lobbying in Texas has angered leading lawyers
there, and in Florida tensions have been high since the
state's HALT director was charged with fraud.
   The national group claims 150,000 dues-paying members and
annual revenue of about $40,000 from sales of its legal
self-help books. Last year, the nonprofit organization had a
budget of $2.5 million. It also grades state legal systems.
And it lobbies; it lobbies a lot.
   HALT didn't start the legal reform movement that began in
the late 1960s with the proliferation of legal aid clinics,
self-help books and a rush to small-claims courts. The idea
of a legal consumer-rights watchdog organization was hatched
at a Washington cocktail party in 1978 by two Rhodes
scholars, who then founded HALT.
   At first, the legal establishment dismissed HALT as the
lunatic fringe.
   "I was predisposed to think of them as, kind of, like the
Yippies of the legal profession," says Stephen Gillers, a
professor at New York University School of Law.
   But Mr. Gillers says he has changed his opinion about
HALT. "When they show up at meetings, the HALT people know
what they're talking about."
   The group has turned into the Nader's Raiders of legal
reform, sophisticated lobbyists who have the ear of state and
national bar associations. Nowadays, HALT officials try to
downplay the original rallying cry of abolishing legal
tyranny.
   "A lot of people had a lot of trouble getting past our
name," says Deborah Chalfie, HALT legislative director.
   HALT argues that the legal system serves the average
middle-class consumer poorly. This would be the world
according to HALT:
   -- Like auto mechanics and other service providers,
lawyers would be required to give their prospective clients
written estimates.
   -- If lawyers overcharged or performed incompetently,
clients would be entitled to a refund. Lawyers could be fined
if they failed to return their clients' phone calls.
   -- Clients would pay bargain-basement prices for basic
legal services because non-lawyers would be permitted to
handle out-of-court legal matters.
   Of course the legal establishment is far from accepting
HALT's utopian view. So in the meantime, HALT carefully picks
its battles.
   In California, HALT has found an ally in Democratic State
Sen. Robert Presley. He will preside this fall over a
committee that will examine the HALT-drafted Affordable Legal
Services Bill.
   It would allow legal technicians (non-lawyers like
paralegals) to provide out-of-court legal services for 14
non-criminal matters, such as uncontested divorces, simple
bankruptcies, name changes, housing and estate planning that
often require nothing more than filing the correct documents.
The technicians would be required to use written contracts,
give estimates of fees and inform clients that they aren't
lawyers.
   Longtime HALT detractor P. Terry Anderlini, former
California state bar president, says that if the legal
technicians "constrain themselves to small legal matters,
then I think there is a need for them." But he adds, "I'm
concerned that they will pass out a lot of bad advice and
turn into a referral service for some lawyers."
   HALT critics have Texan accents, too, where the local bar,
which acts as a professional and regulatory body, is having
its once-every-12-years review by a state panel.
   HALT activists have fought to have Texas open its
disciplinary proceedings to the public. They want non-lawyers
included on the board that hears disciplinary cases and
publication of the names of attorneys facing disciplinary
charges. (Texas publishes only the names of attorneys who are
actually disciplined.) HALT wants the Texas Legislature,
rather than the courts, to have the ultimate authority to
regulate lawyers.
   That would put lawyers under the thumb of a fickle,
politics-driven body, complains Texas Bar President James
Parsons. As for HALT's support of more use of non-lawyers,
Mr. Parsons says: "They think just about everybody should be
able to practice law. I guess they think everybody should be
able to slice open a belly and remove an appendix."
   The heat is even higher in Florida. HALT's relationship
with the state legal establishment deteriorated early this
year when Daniel E. Schramek, the director of HALT's Florida
chapter, was arrested and charged with using fraud and
forgery to prepare divorce documents.
   Mr. Schramek, who isn't a lawyer, runs a clinic in St.
Petersburg that helps people file legal forms. The state
attorney says that Mr. Schramek twice forged a customer's
signature, notarized it and submitted it to a court. If
convicted, he faces five years in prison. The Florida bar is
also investigating Mr. Schramek for allegedly practicing law
without a license.
   Mr. Schramek says he suspects that the state prosecutors
and the Florida bar have conspired to falsely prosecute him
because he has criticized the bar as secretive and
self-serving. "This is laughable, nothing more than a
malicious prosecution," Mr. Schramek says.
   A spokesman for the state attorney's office in St.
Petersburg says Mr. Schramek's "prosecution has nothing to do
with any group he's a member of or an advocacy on his part."
   HALT criticizes lawyers in plenty of other states, too. It
recently graded how responsive each state's legal system is
to the public. California and the state of Washington each
received a "C," the highest grade. Mississippi, Nebraska,
Wyoming, Alabama and Pennsylvania scored too low to rate a
letter grade.
   Nationally, the Washington, D.C., group wants the American
Bar Association to change its model rules for disciplining
attorneys. HALT says current rules don't respond enough to
harm done to clients, don't really help with fee disputes or
complaints of lawyer incivility.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Major U.S. Makers
   Planned to Assemble
   2% More Cars in Week
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MOT J.MZD TOYOY SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- The 10 major domestic auto makers planned to
build 124,038 cars this week, up 2% from 121,653 cars made a
year earlier.
   All U.S. assembly plants will be closed Monday because of
the Labor Day holiday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
              This    Last  Yr. Ago    -Yr. to Date-     %
             Week-e  Week-r   Week     1990     1989    Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM .......  53,519  50,153  61,571 1,755,639 2,122,272 - 17
 Ford .....  30,535  13,504  23,156   962,233 1,174,612 - 18
 Chrysler .  17,400  18,714  17,022   457,494   624,872 - 27
 Honda ....   6,710   8,902   6,421   295,986   253,865 + 17
 Nissan ...   1,484   1,180   2,724    54,847    79,455 - 31
 Nummi-f ..     475     142   1,145   136,071   136,457 -  0
 Mazda ....   3,539   4,313   3,998   121,262   150,145 - 19
 Diam.Star.   3,211   3,345   2,276    95,719    44,213 +116
 Toyota ...   4,415   4,442   3,340   149,301    82,609 + 81
 Sub-Izu ..     750     722       0    15,852         0    d
 TOTAL .... 124,038 105,417 121,653 4,044,404 4,668,530 - 13
                                                                                                       

   d-Percentage change is greater than 999%. e-Estimated.
f-Includes Chevrolet Prizm and Toyota Corolla. r-Revised.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HONDA MOTOR Co. planned to build 8,710 cars in the U.S.
last week. An incorrect production estimate appeared in
Friday's edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Potomac Watch
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   Paul Gigot is on vacation. His regular Friday column,
Potomac Watch, will resume when he returns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Three Allergan Holders
   File Complaint Against
   11 Officers, SmithKline
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   AGN SBE
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Three shareholders have filed a derivative
action on behalf of Allergan Inc. against 11 Allergan
officers and directors and former parent SmithKline Beecham
PLC.
   The complaint, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, claims
Allergan could lose millions of dollars as a result of
several stockholder class actions. These actions were filed
against Allergan after its stock price dropped last September
in the wake of an announcement that sales would not grow as
previously expected.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plaintiffs charge that Allergan management and
SmithKline failed to disclose in a 1989 prospectus issued
when Allergan was spun off by SmithKline that its financial
performance was dependent on the success of new "Retinal
Analyzer" technology and on the number of "newly fit"
contact-lens wearers.
   Allergan and SmithKline declined to comment on the suit.
The complaint asks the individual defendants to repay their
salaries and other compensation to Allergan. It also seeks
unspecified damages from SmithKline to be paid to Allergan
along with attorney fees and costs.
   The shareholder plaintiffs include Peter Stuyvesant Ltd.,
Joanne Gollomp and Eisenberg Sales Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Vrooming Back:
   After Nearly Stalling,
   Harley-Davidson Finds
   New Crowd of Riders
   ---
   It Sheds Hell's Angels Image,
   Markets to Professionals
   And Aging Baby Boomers
   ---
   Biker Night at Bloomingdale's
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   HDI
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Harley.
   For decades, that name triggered images of burly bad boys
roaring down the highway on big black bikes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It was a mystique molded by popular culture and encouraged
by the manufacturer, Harley-Davidson Inc. So what if
leather-clad Marlon Brando didn't really ride a Harley in
"The Wild One," the 1954 movie about a motorcycle-gang
leader? People thought he did, and they hankered to hitch
along.
   Somewhere, though, the harum-scarum aura of tattooed
Hell's Angels and Easy Rider-era hippies became as much a
liability for Harley-Davidson as an asset. By the early
1980s, hurt by leaky, unreliable bikes and plunging market
share, the lone American motorcycle maker was brushing up
against bankruptcy. And with baby boomers headed for their
own midlife crises, the company appeared on the verge of
missing a huge new market.
   But it didn't.
   Less than a decade later, Harley-Davidson is enticing
white-collar workers to become weekend warriors. One in three
of today's Harley buyers is a professional or manager. About
60% have attended college, up from only 45% in 1984. Their
median age is 35, and their median household income has risen
sharply to $45,000 from $36,000 five years earlier.
   All this makes Milwaukee-based Harley the industry's
hottest company. Despite price tags that top $15,000 for
dressed-up touring bikes, its market share has climbed for
six years in a row. While Japanese competitors were chasing
each other with motorcycles of all sizes, Harley has captured
about 60% of the market for biggest bikes -- up from 23% in
1983. "Harley capitalizes on the impression they have the
`real motorcycle,'" says Bruce Johnson of J.D. Power &amp;
Associates, a California market-research firm.
   Harley-Davidson's turnaround suggests how a company, as
times change, can position a product without dissipating its
mystique. That isn't easy. The marketplace is filled with
brands, such as Coors, Volkswagen and Zenith, that once
carried, but then lost, a certain cachet. Some let
competitors erode their market; others failed to realize that
demographic changes demand new marketing approaches.
Successful marketers, says Michael Marsden, professor of
popular culture at Bowling Green State University in Ohio,
"realize their long history and play off it."
   What Harley officials managed to do was broaden their
bikes' appeal while keeping them looking big, mean and
American. They improved engine reliability and smoothed the
fit and finish -- though even as Harley overtook Honda in the
big-bike market, consumer surveys continued to suggest that
American Honda Motor Co. makes a better motorcycle.
   Officials targeted the yuppie generation by smoothing
Harley's rougher edges. They told dealers to brighten up
their stores with more lights. They slapped the Harley name
on cologne and wine coolers. They even competed with biker
clubs such as Hell's Angels with their own Harley Owners
Group.
   "We tried to leave nothing to chance," says Vaughn L.
Beals Jr., Harley's chairman, who headed a 1981
management-led leveraged buy-out from AMF Inc. Five years
later, Harley went public.
   The company's restyled mystique captured Todd Van Slyke,
for one. The 42-year-old Chicago advertising executive rides
his Harley on weekends with a group called the Rolex Rangers.
When you ride a Harley, he says, you're doing something "a
little bit nasty."
   Another devotee is Mike McAlister of Flagstaff, Ariz. On
weekdays, the middle-aged federal government administrator
wears a jacket and tie and drives a Honda Accord. Weekends,
he dons leather vest, earring and gold neck chain and jumps
on his Harley. "This is the real me]" he declares.
   Robert Lefton, a St. Louis psychologist, thinks that some
Harley buyers are grappling with midlife turmoil, and may see
a Harley as a chance to feel free, powerful and, well,
virile. "Here you are at middle age, and suddenly you feel
young," he says.
   Harley's image as a rugged bike goes back decades. In
1903, William Harley and the Davidson brothers -- William,
Walter and Arthur -- built three motorcycles in the
Davidsons' Milwaukee back yard. The bikes were crude but
tough; one of the first went 100,000 miles.
   They were also all-American. Harleys served as police
bikes beginning in 1907 and as scout and dispatch vehicles in
both world wars. In 1953, when Indian Motocycle Manufacturing
Co. of Springfield, Mass., stopped making its Indian
motorcycle, Harley was left as the last of what once were
more than 150 U.S. producers.
   Harley prospered until its troubles in the late 1970s and
early 1980s forced drastic changes. It successfully lobbied
the Reagan administration for stiff import tariffs against
Japanese bikes from 1983 to 1987 and then struggled to catch
up.
   Practically every step Harley took was geared to
attracting upscale riders. The first was to improve quality.
Officials realized that although blue-collar buyers, loyal
and mechanically inclined, might put up with a bike needing
frequent attention, the new generation of Harley riders
wouldn't. In 1983 it introduced the so-called evolution
engine, an improvement on the then-familiar V-twin.
Reliability increased, and owners no longer had to get their
hands dirty repeatedly fixing their machines.
   Harley also reduced vibration on its top-of-the-line
touring bikes by mounting the engines on rubber, and it
offered options such as sophisticated stereo systems and
intercoms built into helmets. But the company didn't tinker
with a few things: Its bikes still come with lots of chrome
and iron and a heavy dose of tail-pipe thunder. "It makes
your heart thump a bit," says Larry Winse, an Arizona dentist
who bought his first Harley in 1985.
   Many changes, though, involved marketing, not
manufacturing. Harley officials began wearing red or white
shirts at motorcycle rallies to dispel the image that Harley
riders wore only black. They revised their ads to lob gentle
messages at yuppies. A 1988 ad by Carmichael-Lynch, Harley's
Minneapolis agency, summed up the appeal with the slogan:
"Life should be so simple." The ad showed a stark 1950s
kitchen with refrigerator, table, chair -- and a Harley on
the white floor.
   Dealers cleaned up their stores, many of which had
conveyed a dark, menacing atmosphere. "Some people told us
they were afraid to walk into a dealership," says Jerry
Wilke, Harley's vice president of sales and marketing. The
newest "designer store" dealerships would make a Hell's Angel
weep: They sell motorcycle-fashion clothing amid neon lights,
mirrored dressing rooms and revolving jewelry cases next to
the 20-W-50 motor oil. Dealers are even advised how to
"present a look on a mannequin," says Clyde Fessler, vice
president of merchandising.
   Harley also worked on its image through licensing
agreements, with Mr. Fessler striving to convince retailers
that the bike's black, white and orange logo would attract
business, not scare it off. He showed them demographic data
and pictures of celebrities like Kurt Russell and Elizabeth
Taylor on Harleys. The company tries to let its name appear
only on quality items. In clothing, it monitors cotton
content and thread counts. And last year's promotional
activities even included Harley-Davidson fashion night at
Bloomingdale's.
   "As the demographic profile of the baby-boom shifts," Mr.
Fessler says, "so does our program."
   Because motorcycles often are an impulse purchase, one of
Harley's biggest challenges is holding its new customers
after they have bought a bike. Enter the Harley Owners Group,
or HOG. Run through local dealers, HOG gives the new rider
instant companionship through organized rides, rallies and
charity runs.
   HOG rallies are popular with Harley's new converts, many
of whom shun the tough biker rallies with Harley women who
bare their breasts or Harley men who destroy Hondas for fun.
Among those at a HOG rally in Phoenix last spring was Jerry
Clark, an IBM engineer who owns six Harleys but sports a
"ride straight" pin on his leather vest, and Jean McGrath, a
plant dealer who reads books while riding on the back of her
husband's touring bike.
   The rallies also give Harley executives a chance to see
what's on customers' minds. Richard F. Teerlink, chief
executive, rode into Phoenix on a new Ultra Glide with his
wife, Ann, on back. Then he held a "town hall" session that
attracted both easy riders in black boots and weekend rebels
in loafers.
   One biker asked whether Harley would wimp out and put
rubber mounting under the engine of its Softail model.
(Probably not.) Another griped that his Fat Boy bike was a
lemon and wanted to know what the company planned to do about
it. (A marketing man suggested they talk later.) Some
questions reflected quite different concerns. A gentleman in
the back asked whether Harley-Davidson planned to pay
dividends on its stock, which is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. (No.) Another wondered how the company's
acquisition of a recreational-vehicle maker is working out.
(So-so.)
   So far, Harley has been able to satisfy its new customers
without alienating the old. Despite a shrinking domestic
market (last year's industry sales of 217,000 road bikes were
down two-thirds from their 1980 peak), the company sold
41,000 motorcycles in the U.S. last year, up from 27,000 in
1983. Harley plays only in the super-heavyweight category and
lets the Japanese fight over the shrinking market for smaller
motorcycles.
   Its shareholders have benefited, too. Harley shares,
adjusted for June's 2-for-1 stock split, sell for $23, up
from the $5.50 initial public offering price in 1986. Last
year's net income surged 38% to a record $32.9 million, or an
adjusted $1.91 a share, on sales of $791 million. This year,
first-half profits were up 61%.
   Nevertheless, after six years of rapid sales growth,
Harley may soon face new hazards. Its Holiday Rambler RV
division is already in a slump, and the higher gasoline
prices since the Mideast crisis began bode ill for motor-home
sales. A recession could clobber both bike and RV sales.
   And Harley's motorcycles may be getting too fashionable.
The basic appeal of being bold and different loses something
when nearly everyone seems to be riding a Harley. A few years
ago, the company was happy to persuade Malcolm Forbes, Jay
Leno and Mickey Rourke to pose for its annual catalog. Today,
Harleys are the bike of choice in Hollywood. The unanswered
question: How many weekend rebels will remain loyal after
Hollywood turns to a new toy? "When they get tired of being
bikers, they'll go out and be yachtsmen or whatever the next
thing is," predicts Carl "Rodent" Metzger, a long-haired
photographer who travels the country taking pictures of
bikers.
   That thought has occurred to Harley and its advisers. It
is one reason the company diversified into RVs in late 1986.
   But Harley bets that innovations like HOG will help it
hold most of the new riders. Mr. Beals, the chairman, says
U.S. sales have grown steadily, without a sudden boom that
could lead to a bust. And officials think the fast-expanding
foreign sales, now running about 15,000 bikes a year, should
eventually approach those of the U.S. Exports to Japan are
rising, and the company is setting up HOG chapters in Europe.
   Harley even sees an untapped market in the U.S. To
encourage more women to ride, the company has formed a
"Ladies of Harley" club and come out with a new line of
tattoos for women. For those who aren't ready to make a
lifelong commitment, the tattoos are removable.
   ---
                         Whole Hog
                                                                                                       

   1989 U.S. market share of super heavyweight motorcycles,
in percent
                                                                                                       

 Harley-Davidson                59.1%
 Honda                          14.9%
 Suzuki                          9.1%
 Yamaha                          7.6%
 Kawasaki                        6.8%
 Other                           2.5%
                                                                                                       

   Source: R.L. Polk &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   In a Saudi Oil Colony,
   Workers Live in Fear
   -- Or So They Hear
   ---
   Americans Awake to Calls
   From Panicky Relatives
   Who Just Saw the `News'
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia -- For the Americans who live and
work here in the oil fields, the worst time is 3 a.m.
   Because of the time difference, that's when the telephone
calls start pouring in from hysterical relatives back in the
U.S. who have just been frightened by the evening news.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You've got your mother on the phone and she's crying,"
explains Tom Harmon, a pilot. "It really did cause a lot of
people to leave."
   But the majority of Americans who have stayed are getting
by with a heavy dose of gallows humor. T-shirts have begun to
appear at the local shopping mall: "Visit Iraq Before Iraq
Visits You." Shannon Armstrong, an English teacher, has sent
home pictures of her 12-year-old daughter wearing a gas mask
as she leafs through a comic book.
   Since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait earlier this month,
reports of impending school closings, evacuations and even
poison gas attacks have bombarded Aramco Camp, the community
where some 10,000 foreign workers of the Saudi Arabian Oil
Co. live. Almost invariably the panicky reports come from the
U.S. So far, the reports have all been wrong.
   This scattering of sand-colored one-story ranch houses may
be the most protected community in the world. To get here,
the Iraqis would have to cross about 200 miles of desert,
fighting their way through the Royal Saudi Army and troops
from several neighboring countries. Then they would have to
overwhelm a growing portion of the U.S. Army and Marine
Corps, while evading the combined air power of the Army, Air
Force and Navy.
   Any Iraqi troops that did make it here would then have to
contend with the Saudi Aramco guards at the gate, who reject
most outsiders.
   Nonetheless, more than 3,000 dependents have left, and
more are considering following them. But most are staying on.
"I thought about it (leaving)," says Mr. Harmon's wife,
McAndrew "Mickey" Harmon, "and I decided I just can't take
all that jet lag."
   Her decision became more questionable after Bryant Gumbel,
host of NBC's "Today" show, closed the local school. During a
whirlwind visit here last week, Mr. Gumbel reported that
Dhahran Academy, with 1,300 students, was "closing its
doors."
   "I don't know where he got that information," says an
angry Don Kirkpatrick, head of the private-school system that
runs the academy and nine other schools here. "I've gotten
calls from all over the States."
   Mr. Kirkpatrick says he tried three times to reach Mr.
Gumbel at his hotel here to request a correction, but wasn't
able to get through. Now his problem is to notify teachers
and students vacationing in the U.S. that school really does
start Sept. 8, as scheduled. A spokeswoman for NBC says it
stands by its story.
   A spokesman for Saudi Aramco says the company was miffed
by another U.S. television report that oil workers were being
evacuated from Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province, which
includes Dhahran. At the time, the spokesman says, the
company didn't even have an evacuation plan. It was beginning
to study some old contingency plans. One, which called for an
evacuation to Beirut, obviously needed more work.
   Some Americans wouldn't think of leaving, rumors or not.
Virginia Charlton, an English teacher, has been here 19
years. She doesn't want to leave her prized Arabian horse. "I
have a cousin who lives in North Carolina. She's a cop who
wears a gun, and every day she faces more danger than I do.
She calls me up in the night and demands I get out of here."
   Others are attached to the camp golf course, an arena of
sand where the fairways, called "browns," are heavily oiled.
To hit with an iron off the brown, a golfer puts down a
little square of artificial grass and hits off that. "It
gives you a much better lie," explains one.
   Last weekend some of the 200-plus international reporters,
photographers and TV crewmen arriving here to cover the Gulf
crisis were being driven in buses across the desert near the
Iraqi border. During a long day they passed thousands of
Saudi soldiers without stopping.
   Then they saw one wearing a gas mask. The buses stopped.
Photographers and television crews piled out with their
equipment. By evening, the lone soldier's insectlike visage
was all over the globe. And after midnight, the phones in
Aramco Camp started ringing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Mercedes-Benz Unit
   In U.S. to Unveil Car
   Priced Under $30,000
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTVALE, N.J. -- Mercedes-Benz of North America will
introduce next month the first Mercedes model in two years to
sell for less than $30,000.
   But prices of other 1991 Mercedes cars will rise as much
as 6.9% from a year ago, the U.S. sales arm of the German
luxury auto maker Daimler-Benz AG said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mercedes said it is launching a lower-priced version of
its 190 E sedan, starting at $28,050, because the company
"didn't want to abandon" buyers in the lower end of the
luxury segment.
   The new 190 E model will come with a 2.3 liter
four-cylinder engine and a manual transmission. The regular
190 E model has a 2.6 liter engine; it will start at $32,800
for the 1991 model year, up 2.6% from a year ago.
   Mercedes's decision to climb down the price ladder follows
a similar strategic shift by German rival BMW AG. BMW earlier
this year introduced a new "entry-level" BMW 318is model with
a base price of $21,500.
   Mercedes-Benz and BMW both are trying to regain ground
lost when they boosted prices sharply during the late 1980s,
in part reflecting the relative weakness of the dollar vs.
the German mark. As these price increases pushed the cost of
the cheapest Mercedes above the $30,000 level, sales
suffered. Mercedes sold 75,714 cars in the U.S. last year,
down 24% from the peak in 1986. In 1988, Mercedes offered
special "bumper-to-bumper" warranties on used Mercedes in an
effort to lure customers who couldn't afford to pay $30,000
or more for new cars. The company said it hoped these buyers
eventually would come back for brand new Mercedes.
   In addition, Mercedes, like BMW, is now trying to fend off
stiff competition from new luxury models fielded by Japanese
auto makers. These Japanese cars offer comparable comfort and
performance to the German models, but cost thousands less.
   The 190 E, for example, faces potential competition from
Honda Motor Co.'s Acura Legend and Integra, Toyota Motor
Corp.'s Lexus ES 250 sedan, and Nissan Motor Corp.'s Infiniti
M 30 coupe and G20 sedan. The new G20 is due out next month.
Acura is expected to introduce a new Legend later this fall.
All these cars start under $30,000. Volkswagen AG's Audi of
America division also fields models that compete with the 190
E.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hanson to Cut
   Its 49% Stake
   In Newmont
   ---
   U.K. Company's Holding
   In Gold-Mining Concern
   Could Fall as Low as 26%
   ----
   By Craig Forman and Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   HAN NEM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Hanson PLC said it plans to cut its stake in
Newmont Mining Corp. to about 26% from 49% through a public
offering of shares in the U.S. gold-mining company.
   Hanson would raise about $378 million in the first stage
of the transaction. The U.K. industrial conglomerate will
offer 8.4 million of its 33 million Newmont shares. Newmont
separately will offer 3.6 million shares and plans to offer
six million warrants, each of which would entitle holders to
buy an additional Newmont common share. Hanson's stake in
Newmont will drop to 26% if the warrants are fully exercised.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move, which some Hanson investors have anticipated
since Hanson acquired the Newmont stake in its #3.5 billion
($6.81 billion) takeover of Consolidated Gold Fields PLC last
year, will generate cash for Hanson. A spokeswoman said
Hanson could use proceeds to refinance its #6.5 billion in
debt or add to its #6.6 billion acquisition war chest.
   In a statement, Sir Gordon White, chairman of the
company's Hanson Industries unit, said the offering "will
permit Newmont to raise additional capital and, at the same
time, affords the opportunity to monetize a portion of our
investment while continuing to maintain a significant stake
in Newmont."
   Some analysts have questioned whether the structure of the
transaction reflects Hanson's inability to find a single
buyer for its entire Newmont stake. "Hanson thought that its
49% stake in Newmont would be very saleable, but as it turned
out nobody wanted to buy it," said William Siedenburg, metals
analyst for Smith Barney. "To dispose of it, they had to come
up with this plan."
   The Hanson spokeswoman said the company "reviews all
options. In any situation a variety of alternatives have been
viewed." She wouldn't comment on whether Hanson had held
talks with possible purchasers for the entire Newmont stake.
   On London's Stock Exchange, Hanson rose 3.5 pence to 211
pence. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Newmont
fell $3.375 to $44.50.
   For Newmont, based in Denver, the sale of 3.6 million
shares will contribute about $160 million to a rapidly
growing exploration and acquisition fund. Only three days
ago, Newmont said it had agreed to sell 20% of Newmont
Australia Ltd. for $137.7 million and that it intends to sell
the company's remaining 24% stake in the unit.
   With debt of only about $450 million, Newmont says it
intends to apply the proceeds largely to the pursuit of new
gold properties, either through exploration of new deposits
or acquisition of existing ones. The company is focusing its
exploration efforts on Indonesia and Papa New Guinea.
   The 3.6 million new shares will bring Newmont's shares
outstanding to about 71.2 million, an increase of about 5%.
Combined with the potential sale of 14.4 million Newmont
shares by Hanson, that will place a much larger chunk of
Newmont into the hands of the public and, potentially, an
unwanted suitor.
   It was to avoid a marriage with T. Boone Pickens in 1987
that Newmont took on enormous amounts of debt and wound up
with 49% of its stock owned by a white knight, Consolidated
Gold Fields. Subsequently, Hanson bought Newmont's 55% stake
in Peabody Holding Co. for $715 million, enabling Newmont to
pay some debt and reduce payments from $100 million in 1988
to less than $20 million this year.
   This time, Newmont officials aren't taking any chances. In
the statement announcing the stock offering, the company also
said it adopted a "poison pill" provison that would give
shareholders preferred stock purchase rights exercisable as
soon as anyone other than Hanson acquires a 15% stake or
launches a tender offer for that amount or more.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   China's Actions in Gulf Crisis Give It
   Chance to Thaw Chill in Ties With West
   ----
   By Julia Leung
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The Persian Gulf crisis has given Beijing a
chance to reassert its role in international politics, and
analysts believe China could thaw the diplomatic chill that
Western nations imposed after the Tiananmen Square killings.
   Things were easing even before the Middle East
confrontation, but China's move to return to global good
graces began in earnest several days after Iraq invaded
Kuwait, with Beijing's agreement to halt arms sales to
Baghdad, effectively joining the U.S.-led multinational
effort against Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   China strengthened its position by voting with the U.S. on
two resolutions in the United Nations Security Council. Last
Sunday, Beijing pledged qualified support to the U.S. for the
use of minimum military force to maintain the economic
embargo against Iraq. And on Tuesday, China agreed with the
U.S. and the Soviet Union on a peace plan for Cambodia.
   Analysts believe that by siding with Washington on these
issues, Beijing expects to be repaid by a further warming of
Sino-U.S. relations. "China has reaped a handsome windfall in
diplomacy," says Lo Chi-kin, a political commentator in Hong
Kong. "The Persian Gulf crisis is the turning point that will
bring foreign nations back to China."
   All this represents a radical shift from the situation 15
months ago, when many Western powers suspended high-level
contacts with Beijing and imposed economic sanctions on China
in response to the killing of pro-democracy demonstrators on
June 4, 1989. Some nations have since relaxed the strictures,
though occasionally at a cost to China. The U.S. decision to
extend China's most-favored-nation trade status, for example,
was apparently helped by the agreement to let prominent
dissidents Fang Lizhi and his wife leave their yearlong
refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.
   The diplomatic points scored with the Gulf crisis add to
similar gains in Southeast Asia that could enhance China's
regional role. Earlier this month, Indonesia formally
restored ties with Beijing, and Singapore expects to follow
suit soon.
   Sorting out its political and economic interests in the
Middle East is a tricky task for Beijing. China has been
neutral in previous Mideast disputes, such as the Iran-Iraq
war, and has sided with the Arabs against Israel. Such
positions made China an unlikely ally of the U.S. in the Gulf
crisis.
   In addition, Beijing has ties to both Iraq and Kuwait.
China has sold Iraq about $4 billion in arms in the past
decade, and it received multibillion-dollar concessionary
loans from Kuwait.
   But all these considerations apparently gave way before
China's desire to reclaim a place on the geopolitical stage.
"Beijing's overriding concern is how to raise its
international stature," says Joseph Cheng, a dean at the Open
Learning Institute of Hong Kong. Adds a Hong Kong-based
Western diplomat, "China doesn't want to be left out of the
Western camp."
   China actually killed two birds with one stone by joining
the Western effort to isolate Saddam Hussein. When Richard
Solomon, a U.S. assistant secretary of state, persuaded
China's leaders to halt arms sales to Iraq, his visit to
Beijing not only raised China's international stature but it
also ended the freeze on high-level official contact the U.S.
had imposed on Beijing.
   No one is expecting Sino-U.S. relations to revert
immediately to their pre-Tiananmen state. Washington, for
instance, probably would want Beijing to give a better
accounting of those arrested after the suppression of
democratic protests last year, diplomats say. But progress
could accelerate, they add.
   "The entire climate has been changed, and China's return
to the world community is anticipated," says the Western
diplomat.
   Analysts say the chief factor in renewing China's
international role is its place among the five permanent
members of the U.N. Security Council, each of which has veto
power over proposed resolutions. China's seat in that body
gave it a say in the course of events in the Gulf, and could
have torpedoed the U.S.-backed initiative to use military
force to maintain the economic embargo on Iraq.
   Beijing's decision to give qualified support to the
resolution surprised many analysts, who had expected at least
an abstention. "Now Washington is indebted to Beijing, and
China is expecting rewards for its cooperation," says Mr. Lo.
   In another show of cooperation with the West, China
supported a Security Council resolution for U.N.
administration of Cambodia until a new government is elected.
Chinese aid to the communist Khmer Rouge has been a major
obstacle to a Cambodian peace settlement. Tuesday's
resolution doesn't mean that China is withdrawing its arms
sales to the Khmer Rouge, but diplomats say it appears to be
more accommodating than before.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   BK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANK OF NEW YORK (New York) -- Moody's Investor Service
Inc. said it lowered the ratings on long-term bond issues
supported by this subsidiary of Bank of New York Co. The
action affects $357.4 million in issues. The downgrade
follows by a day Moody's downgrade of $1.2 billion of the
parent company's long-term debt. Moody's said it lowered the
ratings of 14 transactions supported by the bank's letters of
credit to single-A-1 from Aa-3. The ratings apply only to
those letter of credit-backed issues carrying long-term
ratings, primarily industrial development bond issues,
Moody's said. Moody's cited the bank's exposure in loans for
highly leveraged transactions in its downgrading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chambers Development Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CDVA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Chambers Development Co., which operates
waste-collection, hauling, recycling and disposal businesses
and provides industrial security services, said it agreed to
buy a sanitary landfill site and a refuse trucking operation
near Allentown, Pa. The company declined to disclose the
purchase price.
   Chambers said the acquisition is conditional on the
state's issuance of required permits. The businesses, part of
Chrin Brothers Landfill and Chrin Hauling Inc., together will
generate more than $12 million of annual sales, Chambers
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Gannett Co. Names
   Watson to Head
   Newspaper Group
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gannett Co. named Gary L. Watson president of its
newspaper group, the country's largest chain of newspapers,
which like most of the newspaper industry, has been battered
by widespread declines in advertising.
   Mr. Watson, 45 years old, will oversee the newly
consolidated newspaper group at the Arlington, Va.-based
media company. Effective Oct. 1, Gannett will consolidate its
Community Newspaper division and its Metro Newspaper division
into one newspaper group, bringing together Gannett's 83
small, medium, and large circulation newspapers. However, Mr.
Watson won't oversee Gannett's national daily newspaper, USA
Today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A former editor and publisher at several Gannett
newspapers, Mr. Watson had been president of the Community
Newspaper division. As he has in the past, Mr. Watson will
report directly to John J. Curley, Gannett's chairman,
president, and chief executive. Brian J. Donnelly, 56,
current president of Metro Newspapers, will become executive
vice president of the newly consolidated newspaper group,
reporting to Mr. Watson.
   Daily newspapers are the core of the company and they have
suffered in 1990. Gannett remains the largest U.S. newspaper
publisher, with total daily circulation of more than six
million. But in the second quarter, Gannett reported its
first quarterly earnings drop in 22 years. The loss was
attributable largely to a drop in retail advertising in
virtually all of its local newspaper markets. Through the
first half of this year, newspaper advertising revenue
declined 2.9%, with falloffs in national, retail, and
classified advertising.
   Mr. Watson said in an interview he would concentrate on
improving news coverage at Gannett papers by increasing
newsroom budgets. "We've increased budgets over the years and
will continue to," said Mr. Watson. "In the end, that will
help us build circulation penetration."
   He also said Gannett will increase its number of zoned
editions for specific geographical areas, and will expand its
experimental publishing of yellow pages directories.
   Gannett executives denied published reports that Mr.
Watson's appointment was an indication he was being groomed
to succeed Mr. Curley. Mimi Feller, Gannett's vice president
for public affairs, said Mr. Watson will not be Mr. Curley's
"second-in-command," and that no changes will be made among
the top corporate officers.
   The new newspaper group is a dismantling of changes made
under former chairman Allen H. Neuharth. In 1985, as Gannett
was acquiring series of large-circulation metropolitan
newspapers, Mr. Neuharth created two newspaper divisions. "At
the time, new acquisitions {in Des Moines, Iowa and
Louisville, Ky.} required special attention and two divisions
made sense," Mr. Watson said. "Now its a natural evolution to
go back to one division."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Daimler-Benz Posts
   1.2% Rise in Profit
   For the First Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Daimler-Benz AG said first-half
group profit rose 1.2% to 840 million marks ($538.4 million)
from 830 million marks a year earlier.
   Sales at the Stuttgart-based company, West Germany's
largest industrial group, rose 9.9% to 40.38 billion marks
from 38.72 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Daimler noted that its year-earlier data exclude
results of the Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm G.m.b.H. aerospace
subsidiary that was acquired in the 1989 second half.
Adjusting year-earlier figures to include the results of
Messerschmitt, Daimler's world-wide group sales rose 5.3% in
the first half from 38.34 billion marks in the first six
months of 1989.
   The Mercedes-Benz AG vehicle manufacturing division again
accounted for the majority of Daimler's world-wide sales from
all business lines. The producer of luxury autos boosted its
global sales 6.4% to 29.55 billion marks from 27.79 billion
marks. Daimler said Mercedes lifted output 2.6% to 285,484
autos from 278,342. The passenger car lines lifted sales to
17.6 billion marks from 16.36 billion marks.
   Daimler's West German sales, including those of
Messerschmitt, rose 12% to 16.45 billion marks from 14.75
billion marks. In the other 11 member countries of the
European Community, Daimler had sales of 25.65 billion marks,
up 7.5% from 23.86 billion marks a year earlier. Outside the
EC, Daimler's sales rose 1.9% to 14.73 billion marks from
14.48 billion marks.
   Daimler said its first-half earnings growth was damped
substantially by negative foreign-currency effects, arising
primarily from the strength of the mark against the dollar
and the yen. West German multinationals in general this year
are being hurt by foreign-currency translation losses.
Daimler said the negative currency effect was so strong that
price increases and higher unit sales in the vehicle
manufacturing business, as well as higher sales volumes in
other operating areas, could only partly offset it. Higher
wages and salaries for Daimler employees in West Germany also
damped profit growth, the company said.
   Daimler reiterated that for all of 1990, it expects to
boost world-wide group sales to about 85 billion marks --
including about six million marks of Messerschmitt sales --
from 76.39 billion marks in 1989. Daimler added that, based
on its "generally stable order levels," it expects 1990
earnings to be "satisfactory," but it didn't elaborate. For
1989, Daimler initially posted profit of 1.7 billion marks,
little changed from a year earlier, but it recently revised
that figure to 6.81 billion marks, to include extraordinary
gains resulting from an adjustment in its accounting method.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WORRY GROWS about lack of a clear-cut solution to the
Persian Gulf crisis.
   As hopes fade for a quick resolution, some U.S. analysts
fear that time will undermine the alliance against Saddam
Hussein and move events increasingly beyond U.S. control. The
U.S. has expressed concerns to U.N. Secretary General Perez
de Cuellar about his activities, stressing that his role
isn't to negotiate but to reaffirm that the U.N. wants Iraq
out of Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Saudi monarchy and Egypt's Mubarak remain steadfast in
their desire to see Hussein toppled, U.S. officials say. But
the State Department worries about talk from other Egyptians
of finding a face-saving way out for him, such as a deal in
which Iraq withdraws from Kuwait and is replaced by an Arab
League peacekeeping force led by Egypt.
   Some U.S. officials fear that the Saudis too will begin
thinking about cutting a deal if they become convinced that
the U.S. won't strike at Hussein.
                                                                                                       

   RESENTMENT RISES toward Japan over trade and the Gulf
situation.
   Many see Japan backsliding on its recent trade commitments
to the U.S. The forest-products industry says Japan hasn't
opened its market as pledged earlier this year; despite
previous optimistic signs, Allied-Signal has made little
progress in its thorny patent dispute; U.S. manufacturers say
the bidding process at Japan's new Kansai airport hasn't been
opened up as promised.
   In the Mideast, many see Japan's plans to aid affected
countries as insufficient. "It wouldn't be unreasonable to
expect Japan to pay for 35% to 40% of America's costs in
conducting a military campaign to protect the oil fields,"
says Kemper Financial Services economist David Hale. Such
complaints about Germany are fewer because of the huge costs
of reunification.
                                                                                                       

   BUDGET TALKS revert to square one -- the size of the
package.
   The Bush administration, worrying that next year's deficit
could top $300 billion, still wants a deal cutting it by $50
billion. But even its Capitol Hill allies question whether
that big a package is now feasible. The Mideast crisis, they
say, could add $6 billion to defense spending next year, and
it will be difficult to find that money elsewhere.
   Some lawmakers also argue that a $50 billion package, on
top of increased oil prices, would seriously harm the
economy. In the meantime, the White House is steaming over
House GOP Whip Newt Gingrich's call for tax cuts rather than
tax increases. Budget officials say they may rely on
Democrats alone to get any package through the House,
ignoring the dissident Republicans.
   The new turmoil virtually assures that next week's
three-day budget meeting at Andrews Air Force Base won't
produce a deal.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH AIDES suggest the Iraq crisis may bring lasting
improvement in ties with Syria. They don't see any change in
character by Syria's calculating President Assad, but reason
that the showdown with his Iraqi enemies and his inability to
rely on automatic help from the Soviet Union in the post-Cold
War world give him incentive for better relations with the
U.S.
                                                                                                       

   RETURN TO SENDER: Rep. Hank Brown, the Republican Senate
nominee in Colorado, attempted to donate $9,000 in S&amp;L
political contributions he received to the Resolution Trust
Corp. But the money was sent back because federal law doesn't
permit gifts earmarked for particular agencies.
                                                                                                       

   NEXT: TRUMP TURNPIKE? Cash-strapped states and localities
increasingly look to the private sector for services and
facilities. H. Ross Perot is backing construction of an
airport outside Fort Worth; in Virginia, a privately owned
and financed toll road between Dulles International Airport
and Leesburg is scheduled for completion in 1993.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECK'S IN THE MAIL: The GOP Senate campaign
committee's latest gimmick: sending people genuine checks for
$25. The catch: Depositing the check automatically authorizes
the committee to deduct $12.50 a month from the recipient's
bank account. Common Cause calls the letter deceptive, saying
many people will forget or won't be able to figure out how to
stop the debits.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH FACES a juggling act as he campaigns for GOP
candidates this fall.
   He plans to stick to his heavy schedule of political
travel but must balance his partisan responsibilities with
the need to maintain foreign-policy unity. He is likely to
tread lightly on the Gulf situation, using it subtly to sound
patriotic themes. Discussing the budget, though, may prove
even trickier.
   Angered by Democrats' posturing, Bush can pound away at
them for now. But with the specter of massive automatic
spending cuts taking effect Oct. 1 unless a deal is reached,
Bush will have to decide whether to moderate the fiery
rhetoric in order to get a deal.
   Quayle, under fewer constraints, will bear more of the
partisan attack, lashing Democrats as big spenders and
talking up the GOP as the party of a strong defense.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: James Schlesinger, energy secretary under
Carter, says, "The country was unprepared to embrace the
moral equivalent of war, so we may have to settle for the
real thing." . . . A new T-shirt in Ocean City, Md., bears
the American flag and the words, "Try and burn this, Iraq." .
. . A bumper sticker in New York reads: "No Mo' Cuomo."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The PLO Picks Sides
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   It's not quite the world against Saddam Hussein. Along
with Libya and Yemen, Saddam can look to the Palestine
Liberation Organization as a faithful cheerleader and to its
experienced terrorists as potent weapons in his arsenal. This
sends a clear message to Americans who hoped the PLO had
changed its stripes and to leaders of the Arab Gulf states
who had convinced themselves that hush money would protect
them. The PLO has shown that its cardinal rule remains:
Always side with the most radical force in the Arab world.
The corollary is that the PLO surely is not to be trusted
with responsibility for its own state.
   Yasser Arafat seemed to have a lot to lose when he sent a
telegram congratulating Saddam for his glorious conquest of
Kuwait. For one thing, it's estimated that Saudi Arabia alone
has funneled some $3 billion in aid to the PLO since the late
1970s, funds that represent literal blood money. Faced with
the choice of siding with his financial backers, standing pat
or throwing in with Saddam, Mr. Arafat chose the man he calls
"The First and Foremost" among the Arabs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Typically for the Middle East, the country that has kept
its borders the widest open to accept Palestinians fleeing
Kuwait and Iraq was not Jordan, Syria or Lebanon, but Israel.
This after the "Arab world" maintained the Palestinians all
these years as a grievance against Israel, while Israel has
long since incorporated Jewish refugees from all the Arab
lands. Saddam has at least shown the world what everyone in
the Middle East has understood all along, that no Arab
country wants the Palestinians, who are cynically used as a
whipping boy against Israel.
   The PLO, of course, has maintained itself by assassinating
any and all moderate Palestinians on the West Bank. Beginning
in the spring, Mr. Arafat decided to command these assaults
from a new headquarters -- Baghdad. Iraq, he decided, made a
better patron than Egypt. The regular meetings of his top
aides have been held in Baghdad for several months. It
strains credulity to believe that Mr. Arafat was surprised by
Saddam's invasion.
   Whatever promises Saddam may have made to the PLO, he has
gotten loyalty in return. After the U.S. troops began to
arrive, Abu Abbas, a member of the 15-man PLO executive
committee headed by Mr. Arafat, issued marching orders to his
terrorists: "Open fire on the American enemy everywhere.
Quake the earth under the feet of the invaders and the
collaborators." Abu Abbas, who committed the Achille Lauro
outrage, was last heard from in May when he took
responsibility for the failed attack on an Israeli beach that
led the U.S. to cut off talks with the PLO.
   It's estimated that Saddam has gathered some 1,400
terrorists now cooling their heels in Baghdad awaiting final
orders. Many of these are PLO-related. Indeed, all six of the
PLO guerrilla groups have now pledged "every means available"
to remove U.S. forces from Saudi Arabia. In addition to Abu
Abbas's Palestine Liberation Front, the score card of threats
to the U.S. troops stationed in the region includes Al Fatah,
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Marxist
Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine, Arab
Liberation Front and the Palestine Communist Party.
   As we noted yesterday, there are Arabs and then there are
Arabs. The Egyptians were already tiring of the PLO,
beginning with the group's attack on Israeli tourists in
Egypt this past February. An article this week in the Cairo
newspaper Al Ahram was typical of this new thinking. It noted
that Mr. Arafat had continued his terrorism despite many
promises that he would not. "He wants to be the dove of peace
in public, and the most hawkish of hawks in secret," the
article said. "This is a source of embarrassment to all those
who have been helping him among the Arabs."
   The Arab countries now united against Saddam have already
experienced scales falling from their eyes on Iraq's
benevolent intentions. When Saddam is eventually neutralized
one way or another, Mr. Arafat and his henchmen should find
themselves isolated for a good long time, the typical fate
throughout history for those who pick the losing side.
   It is ironic that it is other Arabs who are the first to
say that the character of the PLO has been exposed by its
alliance with Saddam. There surely is no longer any excuse
for wishful thinking. If the U.S. political culture doesn't
understand the PLO now, we guess it never will.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Move to Raise Its Discount Rate
   Could Ultimately Sour Global Economy
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Bank of Japan's surprise decision to raise
its benchmark interest rate could ultimately sour global
economic prospects, analysts said. And depending on the
effects of the Mideast crisis, the central bank may have to
boost the rate again.
   In what the bank said was a pre-emptive strike against
inflation, the Bank of Japan on Thursday increased the
discount rate to 6% from 5.25%. The rise was the fifth
increase in the rate, which the central bank charges on loans
to financial institutions, since May 1989. The rate is now at
its highest level since Dec. 11, 1981. Financial markets,
nervous for several days because of rumors of an imminent
rate rise, were unscathed by the announcement itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By raising the discount rate in the midst of the Persian
Gulf crisis, the central bank has left open the possibility
that it may have to act again. Even before the Bank of Japan
announced the move, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. was saying that any
rate increase announced now would probably have to be
repeated to temper inflationary pressures in Japan.
   "They spent some precious ammunition" in raising the
discount rate now, said a foreign-exchange dealer at a U.S.
bank in Tokyo. "Next time, they'll be playing a higher-stakes
game." He said he fears that tighter credit in Japan could
have a ripple effect, prompting rate increases in other
countries.
   Economists said the threat won't diminish as long as the
confrontation between U.S.-led forces in the Gulf and Iraq
continues and the price of oil, on which Japan depends for
most of its energy, stays high. The economists said a
sustained increase in oil prices or a disruption in supply
could cause an inflationary spike in Japan that would have to
be met with still higher rates.
   Higher interest rates naturally tend to damp spending and
slow economic growth. The Bank of Japan, in fact, said its
main goal in raising the discount rate was to temper demand
and thus discourage higher prices in the world's second
largest economy.
   The big concern among economists is that monetary
authorities -- in Japan and then elsewhere -- may have to
tighten credit further. For Japan, where the economy is
growing at an annual pace of nearly 5%, that isn't a huge
worry. But for the U.S., where the annual rate of growth is
only slightly more than 1%, higher interest rates could spell
recession.
   "Higher rates would be very counterproductive from an
international point of view," said Keikichi Honda, Bank of
Tokyo Ltd.'s director of research.
   Chris Tanner, an economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd
Securities Ltd., said, "We have very serious worries about
what would happen if they continued to raise rates."
   Some analysts said a global rate-increase spiral doesn't
appear imminent. They said the Bank of Japan seems simply to
have realigned official rates with expectations and with
already high market interest rates -- a motive the Bank of
Japan governor, Yasushi Mieno, mentioned at a news
conference.
   Financial markets appeared almost relieved by the rate
change. The dollar rebounded against the yen, climbing to
144.10 yen in Tokyo trading from 143.60 yen late Wednesday in
New York. In theory, higher Japanese interest rates should
attract money to the yen and cause the Japanese currency to
strengthen, but currency dealers said the rate change already
had been taken into account before the announcement.
   The dollar's resilience should come as a relief to the
Bank of Japan, analysts said. Had the dollar weakened sharply
against the yen, the U.S. Federal Reserve might have felt
obliged to raise its interest rates. "If this decision had
been postponed for another month or more, there would have
been a greater possibility of a precipitous fall in the
dollar" as investors continued to buy yen in anticipation of
a rate rise, said Nobuyuki Ueda, senior economist at LongTerm
Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. "That could {have led} to a great
change in the world economy."
   Stock and bond markets also took the discount-rate
increase in stride. The Nikkei index soared 775.17 points, or
3.1%, to 25669.96 after falling 815.97 points Wednesday. The
bellwether 10-year govenment bond surged 0.83 point to 82.97,
to yield 8.115%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AUTOMOBILES
   ----
   By Neal Templin
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   F GM FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   High-Mileage Minicars
   Attract More Interest
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMERICA'S APPETITE for bigger cars hasn't been killed by
the recent surge in gasoline prices, but some auto makers say
there is increased interest in their tiniest gas misers.
   August sales of the Daihatsu Charade -- which averages
nearly 42 miles a gallon in government tests -- have risen
about 20% from a year earlier and 40% from July of this year,
says Daihatsu Motor, which expects to sell 1,600 to 1,700
Charades this month.
   Dealer orders for the 1991-model Suzuki Swift picked up
sharply this month, Suzuki Motor reports. In addition, some
dealers are beginning to advertise Swifts -- which average 48
miles a gallon -- Suzuki says.
   Still, most customers steer away from these high-mileage
minicars, dealers say. "People who come in are concerned
about gas prices, but they're still buying the bigger car,"
says Jerry Presley, a salesman at Lapointe Honda in
Charlotte, N.C.
                                                                                                       

   Auto Makers Selective
   In Rankings They Tout
                                                                                                       

   QUOTING consumer surveys is all the rage in auto
advertising. But ads based on survey results aren't always
reliable guides for shoppers.
   Consider the full-page ads General Motors' Chevrolet
division is running in various newspapers trumpeting a survey
that found its Lumina Coupe to be the "most trouble-free car
in its class."
   In fact, the Lumina Coupe's quality during the first three
months of ownership is worse than the average for all cars on
the market, according to a recent survey by J.D. Power &amp;
Associates, an Agoura Hills, Calif., market researcher. The
Lumina averages 147 problems per 100 cars, compared with the
overall average 142 problems per 100 cars.
   Fortunately for Chevrolet, the Power survey has another
way of ranking cars that views the Lumina in a more
flattering light.
   When compared only with the six other domestic, midsized
coupes that make up the "midsize specialty" class, the Lumina
shines -- sort of. It has nine fewer defects on average than
the second-place finisher in the class, GM's Buick Regal
coupe.
   Chevy's ad doesn't tell consumers that the Lumina Coupe's
quality score is below the industry average. But Chevrolet
and J.D. Power's William Fleming say the ad isn't misleading.
Buyers interested in the Lumina typically compare it with
similar domestic rivals, and "among that competitive set,
this model happens to be the best, as far as initial
quality," Mr. Fleming says.
   Chevy isn't alone in selectively quoting Power surveys.
Consider the ads Honda Motor's Acura division is running to
tout its fourth straight first-place finish in Power's
Customer Satisfaction Index. Acura's ad names the top three
brands for 1987-1989: Acura, Mercedes-Benz and Honda. But for
1990, Acura shows only the top two brands: itself and
Mercedes. Conveniently omitted is this year's No. 3 finisher,
Toyota. Honda dropped to No. 5.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Cars Graded
   Highest by Students
                                                                                                       

   ONLY 40% of U.S. college students plan to buy a new car
made by one of the Big Three U.S. auto makers, says a
recently released survey that indicates Detroit's
market-share decline is likely to continue.
   A majority of 1,024 students surveyed this spring by Roper
Campus Reports said foreign cars are more fun to drive and
offer better workmanship, fuel economy, styling and
reliability than their Detroit counterparts.
   The only area where American cars win out: ease of repair.
   Despite what they say about purchase plans, however, some
57% of the students owning cars have American cars now. But
that is down six percentage points from a similar Roper
survey two years earlier. During the same period, the number
of students owning Asian nameplate cars rose six percentage
points to 30%.
   Though many of the students dream of owning sporty
European makes such as Porsche, BMW or Ferrari, the single
most popular car brand is as American as, well, baseball, hot
dogs and apple pie. Some 10% of the students say the car they
would most enjoy owning is a Chevrolet.
   That varies by region, however. Students in the Midwest
are twice as likely to name Chevrolet as those in the West.
Chevrolet was also the favorite of adults in a 1989 Roper
survey, when 15% picked Chevy as their top choice.
   People get more practical as they get older, the survey
also shows. More than half the students say they would most
enjoy owning a sports car or convertible; among adults, they
were named by only one in four.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends

   GM IS GOING nationwide with a program to satisfy
disgruntled customers before they file complaints under state
lemon laws. The move comes after a yearlong experiment in
Massachusetts during which the auto maker opted to settle
most lemon-law claims, rather than fight them as in the past.
The results: Only one Chevrolet owner has been accepted for
arbitration under the Massachusetts lemon law so far this
year. That compares with 180 Chevy owners accepted for
arbitration for all of 1988. . . . Ford Motor, meanwhile, is
trying to make it easier for customers to call in their
comments. In 1988, Ford began replacing its regional
customer-service offices with a central office in Detroit
having a single 800 telephone number. Before the new setup,
only 54% of callers got through to a representative. Now,
Ford says 95% do. In addition to car-owner gripes, operators
will answer general questions about the company. One recent
query: how many Mustang convertibles were built in 1966? The
answer: 72,119.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   CBS Inc. litigation counsel Heddy Gold said CBS
commentator Andy Rooney's statements in a broadcast about a
product he sampled weren't deemed fact but were "inherently
unverifiable comments, because they reflect Mr. Rooney's
personal experience with the product." Ms. Gold was
incorrectly quoted in an item in yesterday's Legal Beat
column about the dismissal of a libel suit against Mr.
Rooney.
   (See: "Law -- Legal Beat: Dismissal of Suit Against Rooney
Upheld" -- WSJ Aug. 30, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Thursday, August 30, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 8% low, 8 1/8% near closing
bid, 8 3/16% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks
for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.925% 30 to 44 days; 7.875% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 149 days; 7.70% 150 to 179
days; 7.60% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.02%
30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.95% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.78% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8% one month; 8.02% three months;
8.10% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.87% 30 days; 7.81% 60 days; 7.73%
90 days; 7.77% 120 days; 7.71% 150 days; 7.67% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 1/8% -
8% two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16%
four months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% five months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16%
six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/8% one month;
8 3/16% three months; 8 3/16% six months; 8 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 27, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.49% 13 weeks; 7.48% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.17%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.10%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.50%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.60%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Missouri Is Revoking
   License of Accountant
   Who Doubled for IRS
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Missouri State Board of Accountancy said
it is revoking the certification of James W. Checksfield, a
St. Louis accountant who doubled as an informant for the
Internal Revenue Service.
   In a harshly worded statement, the board said Mr.
Checksfield's action is "not only at odds with the role of
the CPA but acts to undermine the very foundation of the
professional relationship" between an accountant and client.
The board further added that "such duplicity cannot and will
not be condoned."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Checksfield's case was the subject of a front-page
story in The Wall Street Journal earlier this year. It raised
questions about confidentiality of information that clients
provide accountants and whether accountants should use such
information to help the IRS catch tax evaders.
   Mr. Checksfield, in an interview yesterday, said he hadn't
received any notice of his accounting certificate being
revoked and therefore couldn't comment. Nevertheless, the
75-year-old accountant added that he wouldn't appeal the
action. "Considering my age and the legal fees required, my
attorney has suggested I turn in my certificate."
   While serving as a certified public accountant for Steve
Noles, a St. Louis pizza restaurateur, Mr. Checksfield
provided the IRS with evidence that Mr. Noles skimmed untaxed
income from the receipts of his pizza restaurant. That led to
an indictment of Mr. Noles by a federal grand jury on six
counts of income tax evasion earlier this year. Mr. Noles
faces as much as 24 years in prison and $900,000 in fines if
convicted. His trial is scheduled for December.
   The board, in taking the action, said, "The general public
as well as the business community in general depend on the
professional advice of their CPA. To get that advice they
must be candid and open. They do so in reliance upon the
confidential relationship between them and the CPA." Mr.
Checksfield violated that relationship, the board said.
   Mr. Checksfield also was under criminal investigation by
the IRS, but the investigation has since been dropped. An
attorney for Mr. Noles had questioned whether the IRS dropped
the prosecution in exchange for Mr. Checksfield's
cooperation. The IRS has denied any such exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Some Sutton Holders
   Seek to Buy DeSoto's
   Detergents Business
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   DSO WIT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Sutton Holding Corp. said certain of its
shareholders are interested in acquiring DeSoto Inc.'s
detergents business by acquiring all of the remaining equity
in the company.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Sutton said the proposed acquisition would occur following
consummation of DeSoto's pending sale transactions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DeSoto is in the midst of completing a number of
agreements that will represent a liquidation of nearly all
the company's assets with the exception of its detergents
business. New York-based Sutton Holdings earlier sought to
acquire all of DeSoto, but terminated its $50-per-share bid
last month.
   In the SEC filing, Sutton said the proposed acquisition
would be subject to various conditions, including financing
and completion of a satisfactory legal and business review of
the company.
   A spokesman for DeSoto, a Des Plaines, Ill., maker of
paints, chemicals and detergents, hadn't any comment on the
filing.
   Separately, DeSoto said the Federal Trade Commission has
requested additional information on the planned sale of its
surfactants and emulsifier business to Witco Corp., New York.
In addition to that planned sale, DeSoto also agreed to sell
its industrial coatings business to Courtlands PLC of London.
   The company said it plans to comply with the FTC request
as "promptly as possible."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM to Raise Prices
   By 4% on Wide Range
   Of Its Product Line
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARMONK, N.Y. -- International Business Machines Corp. said
it will raise prices 4% on a wide range of computer hardware
and software products, effective Jan. 1.
   IBM said the price increases are the result of a regular
review, and won't apply to some of the company's big revenue
producers, such as the 3090 mainframe computer family and the
system unit of the PS/2 personal computer. But the new
RS/6000 work station is affected, as are the hot-selling 3390
mainframe disk drives and most models of the AS/400
minicomputer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts expect IBM to announce a successor to the 3090 on
Sept. 5, and to offer big discounts on mainframes until the
new machine can be delivered in late 1991. The PS/2 has been
aggressively priced for some time, as IBM fights to protect
its market share.
   Also excluded from the price increases are some
maintenance, service and network-use charges; customer
education; operating system software for personal computers;
memory for the RS/6000 and 3990 computers; the LaserPrinter
and Proprinter; and any product or new price announced since
June 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST MDEST LABOR TAXES AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AIRLINES (AIR)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARNING FOR EUROPE'S AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Europe's airports and airspace cannot meet the needs of
the future unless airlines and national governments work
together to improve the industry's creaking infrastructure,
warned Karl-Heinz Neumeister, secretary-general of the
Association of European Airlines.
   "I don't understand how policy-makers can seek a
barrier-free market on the ground for 1992 and not allow the
same for the air," the official told an aerospace and
transport conference in London.
   At present, European air-traffic control is a patchwork of
42 centers and 22 systems with different standards and
communications procedures. Mr. Neumeister said inefficiency
is responsible for 8% of the price of an airline ticket.
   Mr. Neumeister said that although the airlines had the
money to finance the creation of a single European
traffic-control system, they lacked the power to implement
change without political consent from governments.
                                                                                                       

   NO SRI LANKAN TEA FOR IRAQ
                                                                                                       

   Sri Lanka will stop selling tea to Iraq in compliance with
sanctions imposed by the United Nations as punishment for
Iraq's seizure of Kuwait, a cabinet minister said. "We have
got clarification from the U.N. that tea cannot be an
exception to the sanctions of food items to Iraq," said
Plantation Minister Ranjan Wijeratne. Sri Lanka had hoped
that it would be permitted to continue selling tea to Iraq,
which last year bought 30,000 tons of Sri Lankan tea --
nearly 24% of the Indian Ocean island's export crop.
Bangladesh, another of Iraq's chief tea sources, barred Iraqi
buyers from its tea auctions earlier in the week.

   CIGARETTE-SHORTAGE CASUALTY
                                                                                                       

   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev dismissed one of his
top ministers yesterday, blaming him for the acute shortage
of cigarettes that has caused demonstrations in Moscow and
other cities. Vladilen Nikitin, a first deputy prime minister
and head of the State Procurement Commission, was relieved of
his duties one day after Mr. Gorbachev summoned him and other
officials to demand an explanation for the shortages.
                                                                                                       

   SINGAPORE'S FOREIGN WORKERS
                                                                                                       

   Singapore, suffering from a severe labor shortage, said it
was relaxing restrictions on hiring foreign workers. The
government now allows foreign maids and overseas workers in
the manufacturing, shipyard, hotel and construction sectors.
A Labor Ministry statement said the government had decided to
"progressively allow other sectors of the economy also to
recruit foreign workers" with immediate effect. It didn't
specify which sectors.
                                                                                                       

   KOREAN AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   North and South Korea agreed on details of talks between
their prime ministers scheduled for next week, a South Korean
government spokesman said. "The two sides concluded all
procedural matters for the high-level talks to be held in
Seoul from Sept. 4," the spokesman said after liaison
officials from the two governments met in the border village
of Panmunjom. The two countries agreed to hold two rounds of
prime ministers' talks in the South Korean capital and
confirmed the itinerary for the North Korean delegates'
four-day stay in Seoul.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINE PROTECTIONISM
                                                                                                       

   Philippine President Corazon Aquino bowed to protectionist
demands and suspended her order for sweeping tariff cuts, an
action likely to undermine attempts to make the ailing
Philippine economy more competitive internationally. In an
unexpected reversal, Mrs. Aquino ordered that the lower
tariffs, which were to have taken effect tomorrow, be held
"in abeyance" while the two houses of Congress try to draw up
a resolution calling for a six-month delay in implementation.
                                                                                                       

   AIDS TESTING IN ZIMBABWE
                                                                                                       

   Life-insurance companies in Zimbabwe said AIDS-related
claims in that nation have tripled in the past year and
announced they would require medical tests from policy
applicants.
   To sidestep local laws prohibiting selective AIDS testing,
the companies increased the minimum life-policy payout to the
equivalent of $40,000, the amount that allows insurance
organizations to legally screen clients for AIDS. "We had to
raise the sum because so many policyholders are dying of
AIDS," industry spokesman Nalin Kapadia said.
   At least 9,000 people have AIDS in Zimbabwe, and about
466,000 are estimated to be carriers of the virus that causes
the disease.
   The insurers' announcement was rare in Africa, where few
governments have admitted the full extent of the AIDS
epidemic in their countries.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Beijing's zoo moved its pandas, the mascots of next
month's Asian Games, out of poorly ventilated, cramped
quarters into luxury. Liang Liang, Ling Ling and War War now
occupy air-conditioned cages in a new 2.5-acre panda house
that cost the zoo $1.38 million to build. . . . The
55-year-old son of former Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev
will do research and teach a seminar this fall at Harvard
University's Institute of Politics, university officials
said. Sergei Khrushchev, an engineer who specializes in
rocket-guidance systems, will become a fellow at the
institute in late October, Harvard said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse
   Sees Earnings
   Rising in 1990
   ---
   Power-Generation Business
   Expected to Fuel Gains
   Despite Weak Economy
   ----
   By Gregory Stricharchuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   WX
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Westinghouse Electric Corp., bouyed by
orders for power-generation equipment, will achieve
double-digit per-share earnings growth this year despite the
sluggish economy, Paul E. Lego, chairman and chief executive,
said.
   Mr. Lego said he "wouldn't take exception" with analysts'
estimates that Westinghouse will earn about $3.48 a share
this year. That would compare with 1989 net of $922 million,
or $3.15 a share, adjusted for a 2-for-1 split paid on May 5.
Sales in 1989 were $12.84 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first six month of 1990, Westinghouse earned $462
million, or $1.57 a share, on sales of $6 billion.
   "So far, we feel our projections are attainable," Mr. Lego
said in an interview, despite the fact that the gross
national product growth has been below 2% for the past five
quarters. More than a year ago, Westinghouse officials
forecast that the company would have double-digit per-share
earnings growth this year and 10% operating margins if GNP
growth was in the 2% to 2.5% range.
   Mr. Lego said the electrical-equipment industry, which
also includes General Electric Co. and Emerson Electric Co.,
has "come down faster than the S&amp;P and Dow Jones averages
have" since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
   He said the slide probably stems from investors' fears
that such companies will be hurt by capital spending cutbacks
during an uncertain economic period. But the executive said
Westinghouse might benefit in some segments because customers
"tend to repair existing equipment during tight economic
times."
   Despite a slowdown in the construction industry, for
instance, Westinghouse's electrical-parts distribution
business "is still doing well," Mr. Lego said.
   If anything, the executive said Westinghouse may benefit
longer term as a result of concerns raised by the Iraq
situation. For example, he said, rekindled interest in
alternative energy sources could help speed up a revival of
the company's nuclear power plant business. Westinghouse
hasn't had a domestic order to build a nuclear plant in more
than a decade. But it has worked on new designs anticipating
a resurgence of nuclear power by the turn of the century.
   Mr. Lego, who took over the top job at Westinghouse
earlier this summer, also said the military callup prompted
by the Iraq situation might force Congress to consider
rebuilding the nation's nuclear weapons complex. If so, he
said, Westinghouse might stand to benefit from designing and
building reactors and other facilities to produce nuclear
materials.
   Recently, Westinghouse lost a $1.5 billion contract to
design a reactor for the government. Ebasco Services Inc., a
subsidary of Enserch Corp., won the contract. But Mr. Lego
said Westinghouse may be able to participate in that project
because the company manages the Savannah River, S.C.,
facility where the reactor is slated to be built.
Westinghouse also manages other government facilities and is
involved in cleanup of radioactive and other wastes at those
sites.
   Meanwhile, Westinghouse continues to benefit from a surge
in orders for power-generation equipment. Mr. Lego said that
market is growing at an annual rate of 10% to 15%, and that
Westinghouse's sales are growing at about double that rate.
   Most of the orders for turbines and other equipment have
come from independent power producers who will sell power to
electrical utilities. Mr. Lego said the business is
performing better than expected and has an order backlog of
about $1 billion. "There isn't any indication of a slowdown
at all," he said.
   Mr. Lego added that Europe presents "lots of opportunities
for us in the service areas." In particular, he said,
Westinghouse is well-positioned to upgrade nuclear power
plants and electric power systems. "In order for those
economies to expand, they have to have electricity," he said.
   In the U.S., Mr. Lego said the most noticeable impact of
the economic slowdown has been at the company's Group W
broadcasting unit where television station revenues have
slumped. He said that some regional markets, especially the
Northeast, have softened and that auto makers also have
pulled back advertising. But some of that TV revenue decline
has been offset by better than expected results at the
group's radio stations, he said.
   Mr. Lego also said that orders for truck refrigeration
units "haven't been as strong as we would have liked them to
have been." The company's Thermo King over-the-road
refrigeration business "is still doing well," he said, but it
has been hurt as customers have been pinched by tight credit
and increased fuel costs.
   Mr. Lego said the company's financial-services business
has been hurt by the slump in the real estate market. But he
said that business "will do better this year than it did last
year. So far, it's holding its own."
   He said the company's community development business
"hasn't slowed at all. We haven't seen any major downturn."
But he expects some scaling back in development of shopping
centers or strips within such communities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BMW Sees Output
   Of Autos This Year
   Rising to a Record
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BMW
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Bayerische Motoren Werke AG
said it expects record auto output for this year.
   The Munich-based maker of luxury, high-performance autos
and motorcycles said its production of 328,000 units in the
first seven months represented a 3% increase from a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For all of 1990, BMW said it expects to produce about
520,000 cars, up from last year's record total of 511,476
units, and up from its early-August projection of more than
500,000 units.
   "Our {productive} capacity is fully taxed," Robert
Buechelhofer, a member of BMW's management board, said,
adding that "BMW is again facing a production record."
   Mr. Buechelhofer said customer demand for BMW's top-line
models has been buoyant this year, especially for the new BMW
Coupe and the prestigious 7-series. To meet the firm demand
for these models, BMW operated extra shifts at its production
lines during the usual summer-holiday factory break, the
executive disclosed. He said the company was able to assemble
an additional 1,160 7-series autos and 500 Coupes by keeping
production lines operating during the vacation break.
Moreover, BMW was able to shorten some of the continuing
delivery lag times for these models, Mr. Buechelhofer said.
   Neither the company nor the executive disclosed any new
forecasts for BMW's profit and sales for 1990. In early
August, when BMW reported first-half profit rose 8.3% to 352
million marks ($225.7 million), on a sales rise of 2.2% to
13.84 billion marks, the company said only that it expected
"satisfactory" sales and earnings for the full year. In 1989,
BMW earned 558.1 million marks on sales of 26.52 billion
marks.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Buechelhofer noted that BMW also has been
sustaining "pleasing" sales growth in its motorcycle
division. Output and deliveries in the first seven months
rose 25% to 19,700 units, compared with year-earlier levels,
he disclosed.
   By the end of the year, the company expects to build more
than 31,000 motorcycles, up 20% from 25,761 units last year,
he said.
   With the domestic economy booming, BMW and other West
German car makers have been able to defy industry analysts'
expectations this year and post strong production and order
gains, compared with those a year earlier. A soft car market
previously was forecast for Europe as a whole. Other West
Germany auto makers also have instituted extra shifts this
year to help reduce growing order backlogs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   FBI Faces a Federal Backlog of Investigation
   As Tight Budgets Cut Resources and Sap Morale
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Budget crunches and sinking morale are
doing what Baby Face Nelson and Pretty Boy Floyd never could:
undermining the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   Long viewed as the nation's premier police force, the FBI
today lacks the money, manpower and technical resources to
handle its expanding and ever-more-complex workload. Always
selective about what cases it has taken, the agency now
concedes that it ignores major crimes squarely within its
jurisdiction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawrence Lawler, special agent in charge here, says he
doesn't have enough agents to investigate savings-and-loan
fraud allegations involving losses of less than $250,000.
"That's thousands of cases we aren't dealing with," he says.
The 525-agent office is investigating only five of the scores
of telemarketing operations in Los Angeles suspected of
selling bogus precious metals and real estate. Local
authorities investigate a few more; the rest "operate
unfettered," Mr. Lawler says.
   Special Agent Kevin Kelly is using pencil, paper and a
calculator to try to untangle the convoluted paper trail of a
suspected $55 million money-laundering operation; there is a
computer terminal, but he has to share it with 13 other
agents. In San Francisco, where immigrants from Vietnam and
other Asian countries have formed violent new crime
syndicates, the FBI office doesn't have a single agent who
speaks Vietnamese to monitor wiretaps or do undercover work.
   In Newark, N.J., rows of empty steno-pool desks signify
dozens of secretarial positions unfilled because the FBI
doesn't pay enough to attract local high school graduates.
Agents do their own typing at the sacrifice of "street time."
   Things may get worse. An anticipated wave of retirements
and resignations over the next five years could strip the FBI
of half of its most experienced agents. Many are taking early
retirement at age 50. Another "huge wave of guys are about to
quit" well short of retirement eligibility because of salary
complaints, warns Larry Langberg, president of the FBI Agents
Association, a private advocacy group.
   Until the past decade, FBI pay exceeded that of most local
police. Today, though, federal agents in Los Angeles make
$5,000 to $13,000 a year less than local officers with
comparable credentials. Similar disparities exist in other
cities, including Boston, Chicago, Newark and San Francisco.
(Agents in New York City -- but nowhere else -- receive
annual cost-of-living bonuses.)
   FBI officials in Washington talk optimistically about
proposed legislation that would improve the starting salary
of $27,000 a year and extend the New York bonus program to
other cities. But morale among street agents has already
slumped, says Gary Lisotto, the No. 2 man in the Los Angeles
office. For his part, Mr. Lisotto, 48 years old, says he will
stay long enough to qualify for a pension -- less than two
years -- "and then I'm gone."
   The ability of the bureau's 9,800 agents, to be sure, is
still unsurpassed in many areas. Years of painstaking
undercover work, for example, have paid off recently with
scores of convictions of major mob figures.
   But overall, the FBI's reputation for sophistication and
self-confidence is eroding, senior agents themselves concede.
One reason is that the reputation has always been based
partly on myth. J. Edgar Hoover, the agency's director for 48
years, favored targets that generated impressive statistics,
such as bank robberies and car thefts. He eschewed messy
narcotics cases and, until shortly before his death in 1972,
didn't even acknowledge the existence of organized crime.
   The FBI thus "appeared to be winning" whatever Mr. Hoover
defined as its "war on crime," says James Fyfe, a
criminologist at American University in Washington.
   Without the master image crafter in charge, the FBI's
responsibilities have exploded, while its budget, viewed in
inflation-adjusted dollars, has grown only moderately, to
about $1.5 billion a year.
   The bureau has brought some of the additional work on
itself. It lobbied hard in the early 1980s for a role in the
widening federal "war on drugs." Congress authorized the
bureau to participate but didn't provide money for most of
the additional agents the FBI expected. Currently, the bureau
receives funding for about 600 drug agents but actually has
1,200 on the job. The difference is made up by transferring
people from other areas, which necessarily suffer.
   In Los Angeles, the bank-robbery squad has shrunk to 14
agents from 40 over the past three years, while the number of
bank hits is expected to rise to 1,700 this year from 1,300
three years ago. It now takes, on average, seven robberies
before the squad can identify a holdup man they haven't seen
previously, says Mark Llewellyn, the unit's supervisor. Three
years ago, when there were more agents to chase down leads,
it took three or four robberies.
   While drugs have absorbed more manpower, financial crimes
within the FBI's purview have grown in number and complexity
-- to the point where they baffle many agents. Years ago, a
bank case entailed "$1,000 missing from a teller's cage,"
recalls Dick Held, chief of the bureau's San Francisco
office. Today, he says, agents and supervisors struggle to
understand the real-estate schemes and insider loans at the
heart of many bank and thrift failures.
   "We simply don't have the experienced agents to put on
these cases," agrees Mr. Lawler of the Los Angeles office.
Low salaries make it hard to recruit experienced accountants,
who can earn twice as much working for a private firm. For
agents, most training for white-collar crime work comes
haphazardly on the job.
   The bureau's lack of expertise in financial-fraud
investigations helps dictate its strategy in S&amp;L cases:
seeking indictments based on a few isolated transactions,
rather than trying to prove larger conspiracies. "We put
blinders on {and} . . . stop with the first case {we} can
make," says Mr. Lawler's deputy, Mr. Lisotto.
   Even in the area of criminal identification -- once an FBI
specialty -- the bureau now finds itself behind the times.
The FBI's legendary fingerprint files are only partly
automated as a result of slashes in technical budgets to pay
for more agents. The optical-scanning equipment the bureau
does have dates to the mid-'70s. In most cases, arduous
matching done by hand causes delays of four to six weeks in
identifying prints taken from a crime scene. By that time,
many crooks are long gone, says Sue Schnitzer, supervisor for
violent crimes in the bureau's San Francisco office.
   Several states, led by California, have more sophisticated
systems, allowing fingerprint matches to be made by computers
in hours, not weeks. Says Dennis Kurre, chief of the FBI's
Identification Division: "We are no longer state-of-the-art."
   ---
                           Payday
                                                                                                       

   For two members of a federal-local drug task force in Los
Angeles:
                                                                                                       

                                FBI Special     Deputy
                                      Agent*   Sheriff**
                                                                                                       

   Biweekly Base Pay              $1,369.60    $1,724.00
   Overtime                          252.00       598.19
   Taxes and Deductions              348.11       551.68
   Take-Home Pay                  $1,273.49    $1,770.51
                                                                                                       

   *Law school graduate with 10 years of law-enforcement
experience. Overtime is capped.
   **High school graduate with 10 years of law-enforcement
experience.
   NOTE: The FBI agent and deputy sheriff have the same
duties.
                                                                                                       

   Source: FBI Agents Association
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Who Is Labor?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Labor Day was conceived by trade unions as a way to honor
worker solidarity. In today's global economy, it should
remind us that America's prosperity depends on the quality of
its individuals -- its human capital.
   When money and industry can cross national borders with
ease, the main competition is for brains and grit. With a
labor shortage widely predicted in coming decades, the U.S.
needs to find ways to attract and retain the world's best
workers. A study to be released next week by some of
America's business leaders offers some useful ideas on how to
do it.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "America has entered an era of fewer entrants into the
work force and an aging population," declares the Committee
for Economic Development's report, "An America That Works."
"As recently as the early 1980s, there were too few jobs in a
slack economy, but we can now expect plentiful jobs in many
communities as labor markets tighten. Our new problem is not
too few jobs but too few skills."
   The report travels well-trod and debatable ground on
education and policy toward children, and puts far too much
faith in governments to solve the problems they've created
(welfare dependency, for example). But the report is notable
for paying attention to the economic potential of two groups
often overlooked by politicians -- immigrants and the
elderly.
   The report calls flatly for increasing the number of
immigrants allowed into the U.S., and especially those with
usable skills. Right now, U.S. immigration policy puts a
priority on reuniting families. That sometimes means talented
but striving individuals get squeezed out. It can take months
or years for a company to get a visa to transfer a foreign
national here. The report calls for immigration laws that
allow "adequate flexibility for rapid adjustments to changing
labor markets."
   As for economics, CED concludes that immigration is
largely a boon. Take California. Without immigrants, that
fast-growing state might have faced a shortage of some 80,000
workers in the 1980s. Immigrants contributed more than 25% to
the state's job growth. Maybe someone should jetpack these
facts to Wyoming's Republican Senator Alan Simpson, who's
doing his best to kill immigration reform this year.
   Other laws needing reform are those that tell older
Americans they aren't wanted in the work force. The report
points out that today's retirement policies "were developed
during the Great Depression when the primary concern was to
create jobs for the young" and protect the old from
destitution. Life expectancy at the time was some 60 years,
but now it's nearly 75. With fewer young people entering the
work force now, it's ludicrous to treat the elderly as if
they're only good for golf and bingo.
   The report zeroes in on the perverse incentives of the
Social Security system. Social Security benefits have tripled
in real terms since 1945, making retirement more attractive.
Especially perverse are the "earnings test" and high-tax
policies that punish a retiree by taking away benefits if he
works. A retiree working at McDonald's this year loses $1 in
benefits for every $3 of income earned above a piddling
$9,340. House Democrats, led by Indiana's Andy Jacobs, won't
even let a repeal of this inane law come to a vote, so afraid
are they of losing "revenue."
   The CED study has other good ideas for making better use
of the elderly's skills, and we hope they set off a debate.
The elderly, like immigrants, may just be America's secret
weapon in the economic competition of the future.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Snow Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   It cannot be doubted that the political culture "inside
the Beltway" has contributed mightily to this country's
outlandishly large and "uncontrollable" budget. But
Washington wouldn't be Washington without folks outside the
Beltway panting after it for handouts. Example: The Ketchum
Area Rapid Transit district carts passengers around the Sun
Valley resort area in Idaho for free. Even then, the buses
are rarely crowded. Vacationers use them, but the local
service workers "don't seem to want to," one board member
noted. Nevertheless, KART may expand to provide yearround
"rush hour" commuter service for nearby towns in the Wood
River Valley, which is growing rapidly with expensive homes.
Break-even cost: $2.91 per rider if the buses were full. How
to pay for this unwanted luxury? Of course] Board member Guy
Coles wants to seek federal matching funds. We'll be watching
how Idaho's conservatives in Congress handle this one.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Simmons Continues to Seek Bigger Stake
   In Lockheed Despite Losing Proxy Fight
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LK NL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Despite losing a proxy battle earlier this year, Dallas
financier Harold Simmons continues to press for an increased
stake in Lockheed Corp.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
NL Industries Inc., a Houston-based specialty chemicals
manufacturer controlled by Mr. Simmons, said it proposed that
Lockheed directors instruct the trustee of the company's
employee stock ownership plan to sell 10 million unallocated
Lockheed shares to NL for $35 a share. NL also asked the
board to amend its poison-pill provisions to permit such a
purchase. As an alternative, NL suggested that Lockheed's
board amend the poison pill to permit NL to purchase as many
as 10 million shares on the open market. The company also
said it wouldn't vote the 10 million shares for three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Lockheed's poison-ill provisions, acquisition by Mr.
Simmons of more than 20% of Lockheed's stock could lead to
the issuance of shares that would dilute his stake.
   The SEC filing stated that a group including NL currently
holds 12.5 million shares of Lockheed common stock, or 19.8%
of the stock outstanding. That includes 510,700 shares
acquired between Aug. 15 and Aug. 29 at prices ranging from
$26.25 to $28.625 a share, the filing said.
   The proposal dovetails with Mr. Simmons's contentions that
Lockheed management created the ESOP to entrench itself. In a
complaint filed in federal court in Los Angeles soon after
the proxy fight, NL alleged that Lockheed's management and
directors breached their fiduciary duties and "manipulated
the corporate machinery" by placing millions of shares in
friendly hands through an employee stock ownership plan and
then intimidated employees into voting in management's favor
at the annual meeting, held in March.
   According to yesterday's filing, NL recently amended that
complaint. Jeffrey Davidson, an attorney representing NL,
said that the amended complaint contains new claims relating
to the size of the ESOP created by Lockheed and the company's
disclosures about the ESOP. Basically, Mr. Davidson said, NL
is claiming that "Lockheed's public disclosures on the size
of the ESOP aren't true." He added that NL has added
allegations that Lockheed violated federal securities laws
relating to public disclosures.
   In a letter to Lockheed Chairman Daniel Tellep, J. Landis
Martin, president and chief executive officer of NL, states
that "what we did not fully understand until very recently --
and what has never been disclosed to Lockheed's other
shareholders -- is that the ESOP operates in a way that
enables the board to transfer effective control of Lockheed
to the ESOP." At today's market prices, he added, the
transfer of control can be completed in just a few years.
   According to NL's filing, the creation of the ESOP
increased Lockheed's debt by $500 million. NL argues that the
$350 million in proceeds from the sale of shares should be
used to reduce the ESOP's indebtedness.
   For Lockheed's plan to acquire ESOP shares to succeed, the
ESOP's trustee would first have to agree to sell the
unallocated shares. Those shares were purchased with a loan
guaranteed by Lockheed and remain suspended in a special
account until they are disbursed to plan participants.
Lockheed, the nation's sixth-largest Pentagon contractor, has
63.2 million shares outstanding. The ESOP holds a 20% stake,
including about one million allocated shares and roughly 11.8
million unallocated shares.
   Chuck Wert, a senior adviser at U.S. Trust Co., the ESOP
trustee, said he hadn't studied the NL proposal in any detail
yet and couldn't comment on it. "It's going to take some time
to determine the prudence and validity of it," he said. "We
have absolutely no position now." He added, however, that
Lockheed's board wouldn't have any bearing on the trustee's
actions. "It's an independent fiduciary decision," he said.
   Even if the trustee agrees, it isn't likely that Lockheed
would lift the poison pill. In Calabasas, Calif., a company
spokesman wouldn't comment on the proposal. In the past,
however, Mr. Tellep has said that he is reluctant to rescind
the poison pill completely because of the company's
vulnerability to "coercive and unfair takeover tactics."
   In an interview earlier this week, Mr. Tellep said he had
met with Mr. Simmons and his chief strategist, Mr. Martin, in
Santa Barbara, Calif., three weeks ago to brief them on the
status of Lockheed programs. But the Lockheed chairman didn't
mention whether the ESOP proposal had been discussed.
   For the past year, Mr. Simmons and Lockheed have engaged
in an often contentious cat-and-mouse game. Mr. Simmons
bought and sold Lockheed shares several times while remaining
coy about his intentions. He finally announced in February
that he would wage a proxy war against the defense company,
seeking to capture control of the board.
   After a bitterly contested campaign in which Mr. Simmons
and Mr. Tellep frequently exchanged barbs, Mr. Simmons's
proposed board was handily defeated.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Lockheed closed at $26.375, down 37.5 cents.
   ---
   Rick Wartzman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   An Honest Budget
   And Honest Cuts
   For a Change
   ----
   By James T. Lynn and James T. McIntyre
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The task of the budget summit has always been difficult.
It has become even more difficult as the economy has slowed
and events in the Middle East have accelerated. Increases in
the gasoline tax, deeper defense cuts and other options that
appeared attractive to some a few weeks ago now must be
viewed in a different context. The choices are tougher. But
one critically important element of a successful summit
hasn't changed -- agreement between Congress and the
president on a budget process that will work.
   The existing process doesn't work. Not once since the
enactment of Gramm-Rudman-Hollings has an annual deficit
target been met. The national debt has tripled -- to $3
trillion -- since 1982. The fastest-growing element of the
federal budget is not defense or Social Security or Medicare,
but interest on the national debt: Interest payments now
exceed $182 billion per year. And all of this has occurred in
an era of unprecedented economic growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Persistent deficits producing mounting debt remain the
most pressing domestic issue facing our country. The crisis
in the Middle East only highlights the danger of leaving
ourselves vulnerable, as we are, to external events and
economic pressure from abroad. But however bad America's
dependence on foreign oil may be, the vulnerability arising
from dependency on foreign lenders is at least as dangerous.
How often and how vigorously does the borrower or the
prospective borrower pick a fight with his or her banker?
   As a practical matter, a solution to the budget deficit
problem will almost certainly require increased revenues. But
unless the budget process is changed, those new revenues will
pay for more federal spending, not deficit reduction.
   Gramm-Rudman was supposed to trigger across-the-board cuts
in the budget if Congress and the administration fail to
reach agreement on a more selective and judicious reduction
package. It has never worked as it was intended to, for four
principal reasons:
   -- Gramm-Rudman relies on future projections, not on past
performance. The across-the-board cutbacks are triggered when
the Office of Management and Budget makes its early October
projection of the next fiscal year's deficit. If the
projection exceeds the Gramm-Rudman target by $10 billion or
more, the president must implement the cuts on Oct. 15.
   Sequestration is based on a snapshot of the budget on a
single day of the year. This encourages manipulation: overly
optimistic economic and technical assumptions; the shifting
of spending and revenues from one year to the next; the
deliberate underestimation of spending. To top it all off,
spending additions enacted anytime after Oct. 15th don't
count.
   -- Gramm-Rudman focuses on the wrong number. Deficit
projections are the product of simple arithmetic: Expenditure
minus Revenue equals the Deficit. The temptation, then, is to
understate expenditures and overestimate revenues. Some OMB
projections have been off course by as much as $100 billion.
   To overcome temptation, we need to rely less on deficit
projections and more on expenditure limits. Real spending
control is the key to real deficit reduction.
   -- Gramm-Rudman has no valid enforcement mechanism. The
Gramm-Rudman targets have never been met. But there are no
sanctions.
   -- Gramm-Rudman punishes the good spending programs along
with the bad. Assume for a moment that sequestration is
actually going to take place. If you were playing this
bureaucratic game, what would you do to protect your favorite
spending program? Why, boost the funding level as much as
possible before the cuts. That way, when sequestration takes
place, the program's "real" base would remain intact. If
instead, in the spirit of Gramm-Rudman, you tried to keep
your program lean, sequestration would take real muscle out
of your budget. So Gramm-Rudman as now written can act as a
subtle mechanism for budget inflation.
   Despite all these problems, Gramm-Rudman remains the best
starting point for fashioning a workable process, given
political realities. However, to make it work requires
credible budget assumptions and enforceable sanctions for
failure.
   Good budget enforcement starts with good spending
controls. Five principles should therefore dominate the
reform of the budget process:
   -- Put everything -- including Social Security and the
savings and loan bailout -- on-budget.
   -- Set firm spending limits on a multiyear basis.
   -- Make the spending caps stick.
   -- If overspending is not fixed promptly by the president
and Congress, put automatic cuts on offending program
categories.
   -- Base those cuts on real numbers, not projections.
   The Truth-in-Budget plan would be based on real numbers,
it would have enforceable sanctions and it would punish only
those programs that exceeded their budget caps.
   This is a non-partisan proposal. It does not address such
questions as how to spend, or whether to impose additional
taxes. All it aims to do is to ensure that, during future
budget debates, the president and Congress talk straight
about the problem and face up to the need to make corrections
if spending goes off course.
   That, in itself, would be a major step forward. But
Truth-in-Budgeting would offer one more benefit to the
American public: By enforcing caps on government spending, it
would ensure that if revenues were raised to diminish the
deficit, the money would be spent as promised. Is that really
asking too much?
   ---
   Messrs. Lynn and McIntyre served as directors of OMB in
the administrations of Presidents Ford and Carter,
respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Fiberglass's Long Life Is Sinking Sailboat Producers
   ---
   To Counter Trend, Rhode Island Builder
   Is Set to Unveil Radical Design
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   "If God had meant us to build fibreglass boats, he would
have grown fibreglass trees."
   -- Sign in a Maine boating supply store.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WARREN, R.I. -- Can a product be too durable?
   Ask veteran boat-builder Everett Pearson. In 1959, he
built a 30-foot sailboat out of a then revolutionary material
called fiberglass. He called the boat the Triton, and
eventually sold 1,100 of them. They're nearly all still
afloat. So are thousands of other sailing yachts that Mr.
Pearson has launched in a 30-year boat-building career,
including about 8,000 yachts built by Tillotson-Pearson Inc.,
the Rhode Island boat manufacturing company that Mr. Pearson
started in 1976.
   Fiberglass was once hailed as a wonder material for yacht
hulls because of its light weight, ease of upkeep and cost
savings in mass production. Most boat owners still love this
reinforced plastic-wooden boats comprise only a small amount
of new-boat construction -- but the material's best qualities
have become a nightmare for sailboat builders.
   Unlike wood, which needs regular upkeep to keep the rot
away, fiberglass doesn't deteriorate. "God didn't invent a
fiberglass-eating termite," says Stephen Cutsforth, national
sales and marketing director for Hunter Marine Corp.,
Alachua, Fla.
   The growth in sailboat sales has slowed in recent years.
Analysts blame economic uncertainty, the high costs of marina
space and a failure to sell the sport to a wider audience.
The result is a market saturated with 30 years worth of used
fiberglass sailboats. Dealers find it excruciatingly tough to
push new boats on customers when their yards and piers are
filled with fully equipped used boats that perform nearly as
well as new boats and sell for a fraction of new-boat prices.
   Yacht builders, most of them small concerns, have been
clobbered. Companies and designs familiar to sailors
world-wide -- O'Day, San Juan, Columbia, Nonesuch, Laser,
Ericson, Irwin, Olson -- have merged, reorganized, licensed
their designs to other builders, or shut down completely.
   The sailing yacht industry, which used to be spread among
dozens of small yards, is increasingly dominated by a handful
of high-volume companies such as Hunter Marine, and the
French-owned boatbuilder Chantiers Beneteau.
   Small yards that produce luxury, custom-built boats say
business is still buoyant. "A year ago we had 18 employees.
Now we have 75," says Ned Goodhue, president of Able Marine
Inc., Trenton, Maine. "We build six boats a year that sell
from $400,000 to $3 million apiece and we're happy as a clam
at high tide."
   But these are exceptions in a glum business. "The Nordic
44 . . . still sells eight years after its introduction,"
gushed Yachting magazine, in a 1988 review. No more. "We have
just delivered our last sailboat order," says Steve Nordvedt,
president of Nordic Yachts, Inc., Ferndale, Wash. Since 1977,
Nordic built 180 sailboats from 37 feet to 45 feet in length.
The company is now building large powerboats.
   Tillotson-Pearson is feeling the pinch. Its J/24 class, a
24-foot fiberglass racing-cruising sloop, is one of the
world's most popular medium-sized yachts. Tillotson-Pearson
has built about 4,000 J/24s. But for all the boat's
continuing popularity, the existing supply is so large that
only about 30 new J/24s will be built this year, Mr. Pearson
says.
   In the past 18 months, Tillotson-Pearson has laid off 200
employees from its production site near Narragansett Bay.
That's about 40% of its work force. Mr. Pearson projects
total 1990 sales of $26 million, down from $36 million two
years ago. About 70% of the company's revenue comes from
yacht sales.
   These days, Mr. Pearson is working hard to turn his
fiberglass expertise into new products. Tillotson-Pearson has
built 15,000 giant fiberglass blades for energy-producing
windmills. It has started producing small fiberglass pools
where swimmers can stroke in place against a current produced
by a hidden paddle wheel. The New England Patriots and Denver
Broncos football teams each bought one for their training
rooms.
   And with an eye to the nation's aging infrastructure, Mr.
Pearson is trying to convince highway authorities that they
should consider fiberglass modules as an inexpensive means of
replacing thousands of deteriorating bridges on rural roads.
   But Mr. Pearson's most intriguing fiberglass gambit is
taking shape on a section of Tillotson-Pearson's yacht
assembly line, where workers are laboring on a half-completed
sailboat hull that looks something like a bullet-shaped water
bug.
   It's a radically-designed, 32-foot yacht, dubbed the Manta
32. Its co-designer, Garry Hoyt, says Manta is designed to
sail at 15 knots in a brisk wind, unusually fast for a
cruising sailboat, and travel at 15 knots anytime under
power.
   The boat's expected speed comes from several innovations:
an airfoil-shaped mast that reduces wind resistance; an
elliptical-shaped mainsail that's bigger and more efficient
than a conventional triangle-shaped mainsail; and a system of
movable water ballast that keeps the boat from heeling, or
tipping, excessively. Heeling can be uncomfortable and tends
to reduce a boat's speed.
   As Mr. Hoyt and Mr. Pearson see it, the design addresses
another obstacle to the growth of the sailing-yacht industry.
Manta has a noticeable lack of lines, blocks and other gear
that dyed-in-the-wool sailors love and yachting beginners
find puzzling. Indeed, Manta looks a lot like a power boat.
That's fine with Mr. Hoyt, a maverick in the yachting
community, who thinks tradition-bound yachtsmen who dismiss
powerboat owners as "stinkpotters" or worse have only
themselves to blame for the sales slump.
   "The sailboat business suffers from design constipation,"
says the sharp-tongued Mr. Hoyt, who was a U.S. Olympic team
sailor and a senior executive at advertising agency Young &amp;
Rubicam before turning to yacht consulting. He thinks the
all-but-indestructible fiberglass boat is only one reason
that sailboats account for less than 5% of total new-boat
sales.
   Yachting, according to Mr. Hoyt, has crafted an image of a
sport that is expensive to get into, difficult to learn,
potentially dangerous, and peopled with arrogant characters
such as America's Cup skippers who are either arguing on the
water or arguing in court. Unlike fast-growing sports like
golf and skiing, yachting is boring to watch on television,
Mr. Hoyt says. What's more, he adds, women as a consumer
class find sailboats uncomfortable and are turned off by the
loutish behavior of racing sailors.
   "No sport can aspire to serious size by writing off 50% of
the population," Mr. Hoyt told an industry conference in
Miami last February in a 30-minute speech laced with sarcasm.
"For sailing to have managed sales shrinkage during a time of
extraordinary boating growth bespeaks a rare kind of sales
genius on our part."
   Mr. Goodhue of Able Marine bristles at Mr. Hoyt's
indictment. "Garry Hoyt is viewed as a self-serving nut," he
says.
   But Mr. Hoyt says builders that scoffed at his ideas a few
years ago are beginning to listen now that sales are soft. "I
think he's accurate that the sport has been aloof," says
Hunter Marine's Mr. Cutsforth.
   Mr. Pearson is showing his confidence in the Manta with an
upfront manufacturing investment of close to $500,000. "I've
looked at a lot of Garry's ideas and not agreed with them,
but my gut tells me this boat is right," Mr. Pearson says.
"Not to take the risk," he adds, "is to sit on our hands and
go down the drain with everybody else."
   The Manta 32 is scheduled for launch in mid-September. If
the boat performs as predicted on Narragansett Bay, it will
debut at the huge Annapolis, Md., sailboat show in early
October.
   Says Mr. Hoyt with a confident grin: "I'm either going to
look very smart or very stupid."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pearson Posts Rise
   In Pretax Earnings
   Of 15% for 1st Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4A
</SO>
<CO>
   U.PSO
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Pearson PLC, the widely diversified U.K.
publishing group, said its pretax profit for the first half
of the year rose 15%, with oil services and investment
banking activities contributing the strongest earnings
growth.
   Pretax profit rose to #97.9 million ($190.4 million) from
#85.4 million. The result matched the upper end of market
expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Profit after taxes and minorities totaled #65.9 million,
up 20% from #54.9 million. Per-share earnings rose 16% to
24.8 pence from 21.4 pence.
   Net income attributable to shareholders fell by more than
half to #64.9 million after an extraordinary loss of #1
million. Net income attributable totaled #159 million a year
earlier, helped by a #104 million extraordinary gain on asset
disposals.
   Pearson said it would pay an interim dividend of 10.75
pence a share, up 19% from nine pence for the year-earlier
period.
   Pearson Chairman Lord Blakenham cautioned against using
the first-half earnings boost as a guide for the company's
full year.
   Together with the traditional seasonal bias toward heavier
earnings in the second half, the chairman noted that "there
are obvious uncertainties facing the major world economies
during the remainder of 1990."
   Overall sales totaled #711 million, up 11% from #641
million a year earlier.
   Pearson's Information and Entertainment division, which
includes the Financial Times newspaper and its 23% interest
in Dutch publisher Elsevier, showed a 13% rise in trading
profit to #57.7 million from #51.1 million. Sales rose a
similar 12% to #478 million from #427 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   An Anti-Worker Labor Bill
   ----
   By Robert T. Thompson
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   When the 101st Congress draws to a close, American
business may be faced with new and hostile federal laws and
regulations governing the workplace, including those dealing
with handicap discrimination, expansion of civil rights
litigation, mandated parental leave, federal regulation of
child care and Occupational Safety and Health Administration
criminal penalties. Active in all of these issues are the
leadership and lobbyists of organized labor -- which is
quietly working on an ambitious legislative agenda.
   The last big union legislative push, the labor law reform
effort of the late 1970s, met its end in a Senate filibuster.
And in the 12 years since then, much has changed for both
labor and business. American business has undergone major
restructuring since the late 1970s. Labor has not. Unions
today are losing members, losing strikes and losing
elections. So the labor movement is reverting to the
pessimistic and destructive strategy of seeking a legislative
bailout as a quick fix to its problems. The labor agenda is
burgeoning with initiatives. Unfortunately, many of the
pending bills -- bills addressing labor or social issues --
promote conflict and litigation rather than resolution and
conciliation of workplace disputes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most advanced until recently has been the anti-dual-shop
legislation, which is designed to restructure the
construction industry in a form more to the liking of the
building and construction trades unions. This legislation
would widen union contracts to include what are now open-shop
contractors and automatically impose unionization on
thousands of nonunion workers without a vote. This year bills
that would assist unions in packing the National Labor
Relations Board, certifying unions without secret ballots or
ensuring "quickie elections" have been introduced in
Congress. But by far the most significant piece of labor
legislation in the works is the "Striker Replacement Bill,"
which would outlaw the hiring of permanent replacement
workers during labor disputes.
   The proposal was introduced this year by Rep. William Clay
(D., Mo.) and Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) amid claims
that the strike weapon is currently ineffective. Unions
assert that there is no meaningful right to strike when
employers are permitted to replace strikers permanently. The
legislation would prohibit employers from hiring permanent
replacements and prevent strikers who want to return to work
from receiving any form of preference after the labor
dispute.
   Some have argued the legislation is not likely to become
law in this congress. But it retains important advocates.
Teamsters President and AFL-CIO Vice-President William
McCarthy, for example, has said unions will not contribute to
fall candidates who oppose the legislation in this fall's
election. The second House hearing of the bill -- there has
been one in the Senate -- is scheduled for Sept. 19. If the
bill fails to become law this year unions say the issue is
certain to be the highest priority item for labor in the
102nd Congress.
   Although an emotional grabber, the striker replacement
legislation is devoid of merit, and is hostile to business,
American competitiveness and the individual worker. The
honest answer to the complaint about strikers losing their
jobs is that workers knowingly assumed such a risk when they
choose to engage in economic warfare against their employers.
Since the origins of a federal labor policy, the law has
recognized two parallel rights: A worker's right to strike
and an employer's right to stay open during a strike by
hiring permanent replacement workers.
   Unions claim that President Reagan's firing of the air
traffic controllers taught management that it could get away
with resisting labor's demands. It is far more truthful to
recognize that foreign competition and consumer demands
compel management to take hard bargaining positions. American
management can often no longer afford to shut down their
companies' operations during strikes. It is disingenuous to
point to President Reagan as the reason that the consuming
public no longer has patience for union self-help tactics.
Nor is it logical for labor to denounce replacement workers
who are enticed by high salaries (as much as $38,000 in one
case) from which the union members walk away.
   The simple, underlying motivation of the Striker
Replacement legislation is power-union power. The bill would
take away what is frequently an employer's only defense
against unreasonable union bargaining demands. If a union
could strike without fear that its members might be replaced,
the strike would be used as often as a Saturday Night
special. This is not mere speculation; the sponsors of the
bill themselves assert that it will enable unions to use the
strike weapon more frequently.
   Today's economic climate is perhaps the best context for
understanding the deleterious effects of the legislation.
Recession looms. Under current law, labor is obliged to come
to the bargaining table in times like these ready to consider
sacrifices. If management were forbidden to hire replacement
workers during strikes, unions would be empowered to force
concessions from businesses already on the ropes, and to
exalt organized labor's interests above those of
shareholders, creditors and customers -- and workers
themselves.
   The striker replacement legislation's effects would be
wide. The law would apply not only to strikes, but to all
"labor disputes," apparently including union organizing
campaigns, informational picketing and sympathy actions.
Nonunion businesses are also subjected to the bill's effects.
Under current law, a "labor dispute" occurs anytime two or
more workers walk off a job to protest terms or conditions of
employment. Such striking nonunion workers, under the
proposed legislation, could not be permanently replaced;
anytime the strikers decide to return to work (a day, a week,
six months later), they would have to be reinstated and their
replacements fired.
   The Senate version of the legislation applies to airlines
and railroads as well. In those industries, where secondary
boycotts are still legal, Congress would be creating
incentives for labor to shut down the nation's entire
transportation network to enforce union demands at one
carrier.
   Further, the legislation would discriminate against
workers who want to work and need to work during a labor
dispute. It would prohibit employers from considering
seniority, experience, skills and training earned by
employees during work stoppages.
   Employees may be forced to work during a labor dispute out
of economic necessity, or may fundamentally disagree with the
union over the calling of the strike. Without regard to the
reason, experience confirms that nonstrikers and crossovers
are frequently the targets of the most outrageous instances
of physical abuse and verbal harassment. This legislation
enforces union solidarity -- with the imprimatur of the
Congress -- in every labor dispute by punishing workers.
   ---
   Mr. Thompson, a labor attorney and former chairman of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, served as co-chairman of the Labor
Law Reform Taskforce in 1977-78.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Horizon Gold Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   HRIZ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   HORIZON GOLD Corp. (Golden, Colo.) -- William K. Coors,
chairman and chief executive officer of Adolph Coors Co., was
named a director of this precious metals producer, increasing
board membership to seven. The company also changed its name
from Horizon Gold Shares Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federated Stores
   Reports IRS Claim
   Of $586.8 Million
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg and G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CMAFC TAXES T.NA
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Federated Stores Inc. said the Internal
Revenue Service has filed tax claims of $586.8 million,
exclusive of interest, against its Federated Department
Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp. retailing units.
   An IRS official couldn't be reached for comment, but a
Federated Stores spokeswoman said the filings were made in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Cincinnati and had been expected.
Interest on the $586.8 million in question is $125 million,
but that sum is expected to be reduced as the IRS claims are
negotiated.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to a statement issued by Federated Stores, the
IRS is questioning deductions related to the takeover of
Allied and Federated by Toronto-based Campeau Corp., the
parent company of Federated Stores; deferral of taxes on
properties sold after those units were acquired; and other
issues unrelated to the acquisitions.
   A spokeswoman for Federated Stores said the company is
disputing the IRS claims. She noted that Federated Stores
believes most, if not all, of the claims can be resolved
without bankruptcy-court intervention by year end.
   Separately, National Bank of Canada has decided to write
off the remainder of the personal debt owed it by developer
Robert Campeau. The amount involved, $80 million Canadian
dollars (US$70.1 million), was borrowed by Mr. Campeau to buy
securities in Campeau Corp. Originally Mr. Campeau had
borrowed approximately C$156 million from National Bank. The
bank previously wrote off about C$76 million of that debt.
   Earlier this month, Mr. Campeau lost his position as
chairman and chief executive officer of the company that
bears his name.
   National Bank said it will take the write-offs in two
equal amounts in its fiscal third and fourth quarters, and
noted that the write-offs were largely responsible for a
sharp profit decline in the third quarter ended July 31.
   Earnings for the quarter fell to C$22 million, or 10
Canadian cents a share, from C$65.5 million, or 50 Canadian
cents a share, a year earlier. In heavy trading on the
Montreal Exchange yesterday, National Bank stock closed at
C$8.75, down 37.5 Canadian cents.
   National Bank said it took the write-offs after Mr.
Campeau "wasn't able" to buy back the Campeau Corp.
securities that the bank had seized from Mr. Campeau in
January.
   Mr. Campeau and his lawyer couldn't be reached for
comment. A spokesman for Campeau Corp. said the Toronto real
estate and retailing concern doesn't comment on Mr. Campeau's
personal affairs.
   The failure of Mr. Campeau to buy back the securities
means National Bank now owns a 38% stake in Campeau Corp. on
a fully diluted basis. The other major holder is
Toronto-based Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., which owns
38.6% on a fully diluted basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Surges as Japanese Rate Increase
   Turns Out No Larger Than Expected
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar surged when currency speculators
who had bet that the Bank of Japan would raise its discount
rate booked profits after their bet paid off.
   As expected, the Japanese central bank raised its
benchmark rate to 6% from 5.25% -- a 0.75 percentage point
increase, or no more than the market had expected. A cloud of
uncertainty over the dollar-yen rate was lifted, and dealers
were relieved that the increase was no larger.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at
144.35 yen, above 143.60 yen late Wednesday in New York.
Against the mark, the dollar climbed to 1.5640 marks from
1.5595 marks.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was quoted at
144.40 yen, up from 144.10 yen at the close there Thursday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.5635 marks,
down from Thursday's Tokyo close of 1.5666 marks.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was quoted at
144.40 yen, up from 144.10 yen at the close there Thursday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.5635 marks,
down from Thursday's Tokyo close of 1.5666 marks.
   Pressure to buy dollars had been building ever since the
dollar's nearly 10% overall decline in the past three months,
culminated recently in record lows against the mark and Swiss
franc. Opinion has grown that the dollar's newest bottom of
1.5385 marks, set Monday, will be a short-term turning point.
   Yesterday's bidding provided the dollar with the same
rebound accorded on Monday to the yen.
   Month-end accounting requirements, coming before a long
weekend in the U.S. and Canada, further spurred profit-taking
and position-squaring by dealers who want a clean slate for
the fall.
   The market had "run out of reasons to sell the dollar,"
said John Blackley, chief dealer at Bank of Scotland in
London.
   As the dollar rose, profit-taking pushed sterling down to
$1.9224 from $1.9460 late Wednesday. The pound also fell to
3.0066 marks from 3.0348 marks.
   Though the Bank of Japan dominated conversations Thursday,
the yen wasn't the center of trading.
   The Japanese currency's failure to rally in Asian trading
immediately after the central bank announcement signaled the
opportunity to buy back dollars, said Keith Raphael, a Chase
Manhattan vice president, but afterward "it was a
dollar-based move." He noted that the yen hardly budged
against its European counterparts.
   In this respect, yesterday's action was different from the
market's reaction the last time the Japanese discount rate
was lifted March 20. That day, the dollar also gained, rising
a whole yen as the market registered its disappointment with
the size -- one point -- and timing -- late -- of the move.
But the difference was that the yen dominated trading.
   This was the fifth discount-rate increase in little over a
year.
   Some Japanese traders said a full point rise this time
would have produced a different reaction. "People in the
foreign-exchange market digested 0.75 {percentage point}
almost completely" before the move, said Katsumi Asako, chief
corporate dealer at Standard Chartered Bank in Tokyo.
   Robert A. Brusca, Nikko Secuities chief economist,
insisted that the yen fared well yesterday considering the
rate rise was "very heavily discounted in the market."
   The dollar ended stronger in Europe yesterday, boosted by
technical factors and short covering.
   In other European activity, the Bank of Spain confirmed it
had sold dollars for pesetas as the Spanish unit neared 97.80
pesetas to the dollar. The Spanish central bank didn't
disclose the amount of dollars sold, but noted that the
intervention was relatively small.
   The peseta lost strength against the dollar at the start
of Madrid trading, weakened by a report in the Thursday issue
of the Financial Times forecasting a slowdown of the recent
rapid growth of Spain's economy.
   In active Asian trading, the dollar ended in Tokyo
Thursday at 144.10 yen, below 144.35 yen late Wednesday in
Tokyo.
   The Reserve Bank of Australia moved into a soft
Australian-dollar market during the Asian afternoon and
bulldozed the currency down further to 82 cents, Sydney
dealers said.
   By late Thursday in New York the Australian dollar was
quoted at 81.67 cents, down from 83.12 cents late Wednesday.
   Some Sydney traders said large Japanese investors joined
the selling, hastening the currency's fall. Others disagreed,
saying Japanese buyers picked the currency off its lows.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $386.70 an ounce, up $1.40. Estimated
volume was a moderate four million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Friday, gold was quoted at $388.50 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Best Buy Sues Unit
   Of Onkyo, Charging
   Price-Fixing Scheme
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   BBY
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Electronics and appliance retailer Best Buy
Co. sued Onkyo U.S.A. Corp., alleging that the maker of audio
parts refused to supply its products to Best Buy because the
retailer wouldn't go along with what it said were Onkyo's
"price-fixing schemes."
   In the complaint, Best Buy alleges that Onkyo set prices
on its products at artificially high levels and penalized
Best Buy for refusing to go along with the prices by taking
away products that provide millions of dollars in Best Buy
sales. The suit charges Onkyo with antitrust violations and
breach of contract, among other things.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Ramsey, N.J., an official of Onkyo U.S.A., a division
of Japan's Onkyo Corp., said: "There is no merit to those
charges, and we'll defend ourselves vigorously. Onkyo dealers
are free to set their own prices."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Safety Group
   Cites Fatalities
   Linked to Work
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Occupational diseases kill more than 70,000 U.S. workers
yearly, says a workplace safety group that calls the issue
the nation's "most neglected public health problem."
   The National Safe Workplace Institute, an advocacy group
with headquarters in Chicago, based its estimate on an
analysis of 1987 data. The institute's report is among the
few efforts made to determine the prevalence of
workplace-related illnesses nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The report claims that occupational disease is a
substantial problem that isn't sufficiently recognized," says
Howard Frumkin, director of environmental and occupational
health at Emory University, Atlanta, and an adviser to the
institute.
   The report also says the nation's regulatory apparatus for
occupational health is in disarray. Standards for exposure to
many dangerous materials are much more lax for the workplace
than for the community at large, the report notes. It also
says funding for the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration and the National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health, as a percentage of the federal budget,
fell sharply through the 1980s.
   Diane Porter, assistant director of NIOSH, said the study
"covers an important area that we need to look at." She also
noted that while the National Centers for Disease Control
tracks such infectious diseases as AIDS and measles on a
weekly basis, no national reporting system tracks
occupational disease. A spokesman for OSHA said agency
officials hadn't yet evaluated the study.
   The institute said it based its fatality report on data
from the National Center for Health Statistics and on
established methods to estimate the proportion of deaths from
major diseases that could be attributed to workplace
exposures. For instance, it estimated that 5% to 10% of the
nation's 483,000 cancer deaths in 1987 were related to
previous occupational exposures to dangerous substances,
while 1% to 3% of 964,000 cardiovascular disease deaths and
2% to 4% of 164,000 pulmonary disease fatalities were caused
by such exposures. The estimate of total occupational disease
deaths ranged from 47,377 to 95,479.
   Such numbers are inherently imprecise, the institute
acknowledged, because the onset of many occupational diseases
occurs many years after the initial exposure and doctors
often can't distinguish between illnesses that begin in the
workplace and those that develop from other causes.
   The institute said a broad effort by industry, medicine,
labor and government is necessary to develop more information
about the problem as well as effective programs to address
it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Chemical Possibly Tied
   To EMS Outbreak Isolated
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control
said they isolated a chemical substance that may have
contaminated batches of L-tryptophan, a nutritional
supplement that triggered an outbreak of a rare blood
disorder earlier this year.
   About 1,500 cases of the illness, known as
eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome or EMS, have been linked to
consumption of L-tryptophan during the past 12 months,
according to the CDC. The disease involves abnormally high
levels of white blood cells, causing serious muscle pain,
neurological damage and, in some cases, death -- 27 people
have died from the disorder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CDC investigators said they are trying to determine
whether the isolated substance is the cause of the disease or
simply a "marker" of the actual cause. Scientists said they
don't know how the contaminant may have gotten into
L-tryptophan.
   Last December, the Food and Drug Administration banned
imports of L-tryptophan. Before that, virtually all
L-tryptophan sold in U.S. products were made by about six
Japanese companies.
   Earlier this month, Showa Denko K.K., Japan's
third-largest chemical producer, said 89 suits seeking a
total of $810 million in damages have been filed against the
company in the U.S. by victims of EMS. Until sales were
stopped, Showa exported about 70 tons of L-tryptophan a year
to the U.S.
   A report published in mid-August in the New England
Journal of Medicine said the outbreak of the disease probably
stemmed from a change in Showa's manufacturing process.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hedged Securities
   To File Chapter 11
   Petition, Lawyer Says
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WY UTH
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- Hedged Securities Associates Inc. and
its founder, James D. Donahue, plan to file today for
protection under the federal Bankruptcy Code, according to
Robert Dill, an attorney who represents Mr. Donahue and the
firm.
   Mr. Dill said Hedged Securities, a limited partnership,
plans to file under Chapter 11, which gives businesses
protection from creditors while formulating a reorganization
plan. Mr. Donahue plans to file under Chapter 13, which gives
similar protection to individuals, Mr. Dill said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The planned filings mark the latest chapters in an
investment scandal that began unfolding last week when Mr.
Donahue told a meeting of 500 investors that he had lost more
than $100 million of their money through stock-option
trading. Mr. Donahue's message was made via videotape.
   Weyerhaeuser Co., based in Tacoma, Wash., filed a lawsuit
yesterday in U.S. District Court in Denver accusing Mr.
Donahue of fraud, breach of contract and violation of certain
federal retirement securities laws. Weyerhaeuser said its
pension fund lost an estimated $35 million by investing in
Hedged Securities.
   In a lawsuit filed last week in a state district court
here, Paradigm Partners Inc. of Chicago said a pension fund
it controls lost more than $15 million through its Hedged
Securities investments. In a similar suit, Houston-based
Union Texas Petroleum Holding Inc. said its pension fund lost
about $8 million.
   On Wednesday, attorneys for Paradigm and Union Texas asked
a state judge to appoint a receiver to take over the troubled
firm. Hedged Securities staved off that action by agreeing
not to oppose the appointment of a receiver if it fails to
file for bankruptcy by early this afternoon.
   Mr. Dill said the "sheer volume of names and contracts"
prevented Hedged Securities from making a bankruptcy filing
earlier in the week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   J.E. Robert Co. Is Chosen
   For $41.5 Million RTC Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NCB
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- J.E. Robert Co., an Alexandria, Va., real estate
concern, beat out a unit of NCNB Corp. for a $41.4 million
contract to manage and sell the commercial assets of a failed
Houston thrift.
   NCNB Texas National Bank had been managing the $3.8
billion in assets formerly owned by failed University Federal
Savings Association. The loss of the contract could result in
the layoff of as many as 300 NCNB Texas employees, a
spokeswoman for the bank said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NCNB Texas purchased the deposits and some University
Federal assets almost a year ago. The remaining assets were
managed by NCNB Texas under an interim contract with the
Resolution Trust Corp., the federal agency created to dispose
of defunct thrifts and their assets.
   As the winning bidder, J.E. Robert will receive about
$41.4 million over three years for managing and selling $1.5
billion in nonperforming commercial loans and $835 million of
commercial real estate owned by University Federal. The bulk
of the real estate, valued at $569.2 million, is raw land.
   The management contract was the largest awarded to date by
the RTC. An agency spokesman said J.E. Robert's compensation
could be higher, depending on the speed of asset sales and
the sales amounts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TCBY Shareholder
   Files Suit Charging
   Firm Hid Problems
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TBY
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- A shareholder of TCBY Enterprises
Inc. filed a class-action lawsuit late Wednesday in federal
court here charging that the company defrauded investors by
concealing problems and misrepresenting its financial
condition.
   The plaintiff, Kenneth Irvine, says in the lawsuit that he
bought 500 shares of TCBY stock on Jan. 8 for about $20 a
share. Subsequently, Mr. Irvine contends, the company
repeatedly hid problems and misrepresented its outlook, until
admitting in a news release this week that earnings had
fallen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As previously reported, TCBY said Monday that its earnings
for the third quarter ending Aug. 31 would drop to between 25
cents and 30 cents a share, from 43 cents a share in the
year-earlier period. Since the announcement, the stock --
which has been dropping for months -- has fallen to below $8
a share.
   Mr. Irvine seeks unspecified damages on behalf of everyone
who bought TCBY stock between Oct. 16 of last year and Aug.
27, 1990.
   Mimi Hurst, a TCBY spokeswoman said, "Our attorneys have
examined the litigation, and they and we have concluded that
the allegations are without merit. We intend to vigorously
defend ourselves." TCBY, based here, is a large franchiser of
retail shops that sell frozen yogurt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Galactic Resources,
   Cornucopia Merger
   By Stock Swap Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GLC CNPGF T.CNP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Galactic Resources Ltd. and
Cornucopia Resources Ltd. said they agreed to a previously
proposed merger, through a stock swap with an indicated value
of about US$29.3 million.
   Under the planned merger, which is expected to close by
December, pending various conditions including shareholder
approvals, Galactic will issue 0.55 of a new Galactic common
share for each of Cornucopia's shares outstanding, the
companies said. Galactic owns 16.3% of Cornucopia's 19.4
million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Cornucopia
shares closed at US$1.4375, up 9.375 cents, and in American
Stock Exchange trading, Galactic shares closed at US$2.75,
down 12.5 cents.
   Robert Friedland, Galactic's founder and vice chairman,
said the combined company, which will be run by Galactic's
current management, is expected to produce more than 200,000
ounces of gold next year from its mines in South Carolina,
Colorado and Nevada, ranking it among North America's larger
producers. Galactic expects to produce about 140,000 to
150,000 ounces of gold this year, he said.
   Galactic initially proposed to merge with Cornucopia in
May, by swapping half of a Galactic share for each share of
Cornucopia. Galactic has about 45.7 million shares
outstanding.
   Separately, Galactic said a unit and its partner agreed to
refinance Galactic's 48%-owned Ridgeway mine in South
Carolina. Under the refinancing, Galactic said, the partners
will repay a US$31.4 million gold loan, among other things,
netting Galactic a profit of about US$3.3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equitec Seeks Chapter 11 Relief
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   EFG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAKLAND, Calif. -- Equitec Financial Group Inc., a real
estate syndication firm, said it and certain of its
subsidiaries sought relief under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code.
   The company said it needed to seek protection from
creditors because of "difficult times in the real estate
industry." The move will give it time to sell some of its
real estate partnerships to Hallwood Realty L.P. of Dallas,
the company said. Equitec also is seeking court approval to
sell some of its assets to Wells Fargo Bank and Stephens Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to its Chapter 11 filing, the company's assets
total $80.7 million and its liabilities total $91.7 million,
including $40 million of bonds outstanding. Because of its
eroding financial condition, Equitec missed bond payments in
March and June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Disney Alleges
   Ex-Film Executive
   Breached Contract
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Walt Disney Co. filed suit against a former
top movie executive, charging that when he left Disney for
Paramount Pictures last month, he took another executive and
a film project with him, in violation of a contract.
   The executive, David Kirkpatrick, was president of
production at Walt Disney Pictures and Touchstone Pictures
for 16 months before quitting to become executive vice
president of Paramount's motion picture group, a unit of
Paramount Communications Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kirkpatrick declined to comment, but his attorney,
Howard Weitzman, called the lawsuit "a complete
overreaction," and said of Disney, "Mouses that live in glass
houses shouldn't call other persons louses." This is a
reference to the fact that Disney Chairman Michael Eisner,
along with movie chiefs Jeffrey Katzenberg and Richard Frank
and several other key executives, all used to work at
Paramount. Disney wouldn't comment.
   Mr. Kirkpatrick himself had served at Paramount with
members of the Disney team for eight years. After a two-year
stint at closely held Weintraub Entertainment Group, he
joined Disney, where he was the No. 2 movie executive at
Touchstone and Disney, working with David Hoberman and
reporting to Messrs. Katzenberg and Frank.
   The suit alleges that when Mr. Kirkpatrick asked to be
released from his five-year employment contract, he signed an
agreement prohibiting him from hiring away any Disney
employees for two years or disclosing any confidential
information about the company. However, the suit says, he
offered a job to Disney film executive Donald Granger, a
former Weintraub employee, and Mr. Granger recently joined
Paramount as a vice president of production. The suit also
says Mr. Kirkpatrick interfered with a negotiation over a
prospective film by producers Ed Kaplan and Steve Tisch, "The
Dead Letter Department."
   Although Mr. Hoberman described Mr. Kirkpatrick's
departure from Disney as "amicable" at the time, the lawsuit
says that Mr. Katzenberg "remonstrated" with Mr. Kirkpatrick
after he left about alleged contract violations but that Mr.
Kirkpatrick was "unsympathetic, suggesting that he could
exploit loopholes in Disney's contractual schemes of
protection."
   Mr. Weitzman said, "I don't know what Disney's agenda is;
the only thing I can think of is that there's a lot of
hostility between them and David."
   The complaint, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court,
alleges fraud and breach of contract. It seeks an injunction
against further alleged contract violations and unspecified
damages.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OGE Drilling Stops Paying Workers,
   Including 2 Hostages, Based in Kuwait
   ----
   By Carolyn Phillips and David D. Medina
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Worried that the costs could put it out of business, a
small Midland, Texas, oil-drilling consulting firm stopped
paying its idled Middle East workers, some of whom are being
held as hostages.
   "We just absolutely don't have the money to pay them,"
said T.B. O'Brien, president of O'Brien-Goins-Simpson Inc.,
whose OGE Drilling Inc. unit employed 18 contract workers in
Kuwait. Two employees were away on vacation when the country
was invaded by Iraq Aug. 2. Ten of the remaining 16 workers
escaped Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "When they got out of the country, they weren't working
anymore," Mr. O'Brien said of the employees who left the
Middle East, "and they are off the payroll." OGE Drilling is
extending that decision to the six workers who are still in
the Middle East. Two employees, who had been working near the
Iraqi border, were captured and taken to Baghdad, Mr. O'Brien
said. The four others are believed to be in Kuwait. If OGE
Drilling continued to pay those workers, "in a very few
months, we won't be in business," the executive said.
   Mr. O'Brien said O'Brien-Goins has sales of about $4
million a year, about a third of which comes from OGE
Drilling, a company formed almost 11 years ago to work for
Kuwait Oil Co., a unit of Kuwait Petroleum Corp. "The sole
source of income for {OGE Drilling} is the work that was
going on in Kuwait," Mr. O'Brien said.
   But idled workers and their dependents are miffed by the
company's decision.
   "I just feel absolutely abandoned," said Patricia Hale of
Spring, Texas. Her husband, Edward, was a rig supervisor for
OGE Drilling. Mrs. Hale said she has hired an attorney to
advise her. O'Brien-Goins is "terribly out of step with the
way other oil field companies are handling the crisis," Mrs.
Hale said. She is physically unable to work and has an
$18,000 medical bill, she says.
   Mr. O'Brien said he appreciates the plight of the workers
and their families. "We have paid expenses that are not our
obligation and done everything we knew how to do to help
these people," he said, including contacting the Texas
Employment Commission about benefits. He said he was first
told the workers would have to apply in person.
   Bill Grossenbacher, administrator for the Texas Employment
Commission, confirmed that the commission's regulations
require that applicants appear in person to file a claim. But
he said there are provisions that could be "broadly"
interpreted to allow families of hostages to receive
unemployment benefits.
   "We've never had a case like this before," said Mr.
Grossenbacher.
   Donnita Cole of Odessa, Texas, whose husband, John, is a
captive, scoffed at the idea of receiving unemployment
compensation. "It won't even pay my telephone bill," she
said. Her August bill was $700 because of calls to Saudi
Arabia, California and Florida seeking information about her
husband. The maximum unemployment check is $217 a week for 26
weeks, Mr. Grossenbacher said.
   Mrs. Cole also says there's no reason to apply, because
her husband wasn't fired and didn't quit his job. "He is
still under contract to OGE," she says.
   Mr. O'Brien counters that the company is simply too small
to do more. Already, O'Brien-Goins has incurred more than
$500,000 in expenses that Kuwait can't repay because Kuwaiti
assets were frozen after the invasion. Part of that was the
cost of flying about 20 people -- workers and dependents --
back to the U.S. from Saudi Arabia after they left Kuwait, he
said.
   "If we don't get this money back, we aren't going to have
to pay any income tax for several years," Mr. O'Brien said.
"We're not broke, but we are severely bent."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Repetitive Motion
   Injuries Are Target
   Of OSHA Program
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department said it began a major
program to reduce injuries to the arm and wrist and other
disorders common to repeated-motion jobs.
   As a first step, the department's Occupational Safety and
Health Administration issued guidelines for preventing such
ailments in the meatpacking industry. OSHA will seek
agreements with 16 large packers with more than 1,000 workers
each to carry out those guidelines. The agency will conduct
special inspections of large plants if the companies refuse
to sign such pacts. Inspections would begin in January.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Afterward, similar agreements may be sought with 20
packing companies that have 500 to 1,000 workers each, with
inspections planned for non-signers. The inspections could
lead to OSHA citations for violating health standards.
   In addition, the agency said it will soon begin
rule-making proceedings aimed at upgrading rules on
repetitive-motion injuries in a wide range of industries. It
would take several years to develop such standards, Labor
Secretary Elizabeth Dole said.
   She said the meat industry, which employs 140,000 workers,
will get first attention because its rates of "ergonomic
illnesses" are at least 10 times those of the general
population. As new meatpacking technology puts more emphasis
on repeated-motion tasks under stressful conditions, "the
problem has been getting worse," Mrs. Dole said.
   Ergonomics involves adapting the workplace environment to
the needs of workers, rather than trying to make workers
adjust to the workplace. Occupational health experts have
been finding increased ergonomic hazards in recent years in
such industries as meatpacking, auto production and
communications. They can cause disorders such as carpal
tunnel syndrome, a crippling condition that often afflicts
the hands, wrists or arms of meatpacking or other workers.
OSHA said that 48% of workplace health disorders involve
repetitive motion.
   The guideline techniques were developed recently by
ergonomists. They include detailed suggestions for analyzing
repeated-motion hazards; taking engineering or other steps to
reduce or eliminate them; monitoring the health of workers,
removing them from the hazardous work and providing timely
treatment; and training managers and workers to avoid the
ergonomic problems.
   The United Food and Commercial Workers union, whose
members work on meatpacking lines, praised the guidelines.
But Allen Zack, a union spokesman, faulted the plan for
continuing to rely on company records to measure how well a
plant is eliminating repeated-motion hazards.
   "We should have learned our lesson by now," Mr. Zack said,
noting criticism of meatpackers by some members of Congress
as well as OSHA enforcement actions, both dealing largely
with inadequate recordkeeping.
   Mr. Zack also complained that packers would be able to
avoid inspections by signing agreements with OSHA that won't
be subject to close monitoring by the union. By contrast, he
cited a 1988 ergonomics agreement that involved the food
workers union as well as OSHA and IBP Inc., a big meatpacker
in Nebraska. OSHA has signed some other agreements with
meatpacking and auto companies since then.
   The guidelines were praised by J. Patrick Boyle, president
of the American Meat Institute, as using many recommendations
made by the trade group's safety committee. "Flexibility is
the key to these guidelines. Because they are not rules or
standards, plant management can pick and choose as they
tailor ergonomic programs to their individual needs," while
also "exploring new ways to protect their workers," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Study Rejects Bush Claim
   On Capital Gains Tax Cut
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Congressional Budget Office released a
study concluding that cuts in the capital-gains tax "could
not be counted on to significantly boost output and increase
economic growth."
   The study runs directly counter to claims by the Bush
administration that its proposal to cut the tax on capital
gains would give a big boost to the economy and would pay for
itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new study was made public by House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.). In it, the
congressional agency reviews eight different quantitative
analyses, including two by the CBO itself, of how a
capital-gains tax cut would affect savings, investment and
growth. Of the eight studies, five -- including both CBO
studies -- found that cutting taxes on capital gains is "not
likely to increase saving, investment and GNP much if at
all."
   Mr. Rostenkowski said the study suggests the best way to
boost economic growth isn't to cut the capital gains tax, but
rather "through successful conclusion of the budget summit
which would lower the budget deficit significantly over a
five-year period."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Jacor Communications Inc.:
   Noteholders Agree Again
   To Deferral of Payments
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JCOR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Jacor Communications Inc., Cincinnati, said holders of
certain notes have agreed to a further deferral of payments,
while the radio and cable television concern continues
negotiations with its creditors to restructure its debts.
   Payments on the notes that were initially due Aug. 23 were
first deferred until yesterday and now have been deferred
until Sept. 13.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company previously hired Salomon Brothers Inc. to help
negotiate a refinancing of its debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thursday's Markets:
   Oil Rally
   Hurts Bonds
   And Stocks
   ---
   Continuing Wariness
   Over Mideast Crisis,
   Arbitrage Are Factors
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A rebound in oil prices, partly because of
continuing uncertainties in the Mideast crisis, sent bond
prices falling, and the two together helped drive stocks
lower.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 39.11 points in
thin, volatile trading to close at 2593.32. Long-term U.S.
Treasury bond prices fell about a half-point, or about $5 for
each $1,000 face amount, in light trading. The dollar
strengthened as investors sold yen after a widely anticipated
interest-rate boost in Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The October futures contract for crude oil rose 85 cents a
barrel to close at $26.77. Saddam Hussein denied rumors that
Iraq was ready to negotiate its way out of Kuwait, suggesting
that the stalemate in the Mideast may deepen.
   "The morning opening {in stocks} was a little queasy
because of oil futures prices," said Frank A. Cappiello Jr.,
president of McCullough, Andrews &amp; Cappiello, a San Francisco
money manager. "That's the whole game right now."
   An abrupt sell-off in stocks in the final hour of trading
was caused partly by traders slimming positions ahead of the
long weekend. Stock-index arbitrage sell programs, in which
traders sell stocks and buy stock-index futures to lock in
profits from fleeting price differences between the two
markets, accentuated the decline.
   "The programs influenced the market a little bit more than
usual" because of light trading activity, said Peter
VandenBerg, senior vice president at Shearson Lehman
Brothers. The 120.9 million-share volume on the New York
Stock Exchange was the lightest since 119.4 million shares
changed hands July 9.
   Consumer-related stocks fell sharply in response to
plunges in the Conference Board's and University of
Michigan's indexes of consumer confidence. Wal-Mart Stores
and May Department Stores stocks each sank more than 4%.
   Some bond analysts said the decline in that market was
small considering how high prices rose the day before. "We
went real far real fast Wednesday," said Roberta D. Olson,
fixed-income portfolio manager at Banc One Asset Management,
Columbus, Ohio, "and then with oil bouncing back, bonds had
to come back some."
   The Japanese central bank's boost in its key lending rate
to 6% from 5 1/4% yesterday affected the dollar more than
bonds, said Nicholas Sargen, currency and international
fixed-income analyst at Salomon Brothers. "That announcement
had already been priced into the yen," he said, and traders
yesterday used the old strategy of "buy on the rumor, sell on
the news."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in light trading. Declining Big Board
issues outnumbered advancers, 998 to 482.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond rose to 8.97%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.5640 marks and 144.35 yen, compared with
1.5595 marks and 143.60 yen Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Development Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   GDV WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT Corp. (Miami) -- Thomas J. Hutchison
was named chief executive officer of this real estate
company, adding to his duties as president and chief
operating officer. Mr. Hutchison, 49 years old, succeeds
Charles Simons, who remains chairman of the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Landlord Trouble:
   How a Big Financier
   Of Housing Projects
   Ran Afoul of HUD
   ---
   Agency Says Bruce Rozet Let
   Low-Income Homes Fall
   Into a `Deplorable' State
   ---
   A Rich Market for Tax Credits
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<GV>
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A. Bruce Rozet lives in the opulent
Brentwood section of this city, a self-made man steeped in
the comfort of his success. His mansion stretches to 14,000
square feet and boasts terraced tropical gardens and a
remote-controlled back yard waterfall.
   It is a far cry from Tyler House, a low-income housing
project in Washington, D.C., where rats and mice scurry
through the halls, the elevators don't work and drug dealers
have been known to do business in the open. But, until
recently, Mr. Rozet, through his Associated Financial Corp.,
controlled these homes too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tyler House is just a tiny part of a virtual empire of
low-income housing that helped make Mr. Rozet a rich man,
thanks in part to Department of Housing and Urban Development
money that helped finance the projects. At last count,
Associated Financial controlled, through nearly 170 operating
partnerships and affiliates, more than 350 different
low-income housing projects with about 45,000 residential
units in some 40 states. Mr. Rozet became such a success that
Congress began asking his advice on how best to build
federally subsidized apartments.
   Not any more. These days, senior HUD officials openly
condemn the 60-year-old Mr. Rozet. The agency has accused
Associated Financial of misappropriating funds from several
projects, and Congress has asked for an accounting of where
his investors' money has gone. HUD has also taken possession
of Tyler House, castigating Mr. Rozet for the project's
condition; in January, it suspended the developer from doing
any new business with HUD for at least a year. A HUD board of
appeals completed an administrative hearing on Mr. Rozet's
case in June and is expected to decide soon whether to
continue the suspension.
   For his part, Mr. Rozet insists he is getting a bum rap. A
former think-tank scholar, Mr. Rozet says his choice of
occupation is driven as much by compassion as the profit
motive. "I help people because it's in my nature," he
maintains. He says HUD has singled him out because the
agency, beset by its own problems, wants a whipping boy. He
contends that politics and "dirty tricks" are at work: He is
a Democrat, he notes, and the administration is Republican.
   HUD's action against him is a stiff sanction. The agency
has alleged that Associated Financial mishandled about
$40,000, a small amount considering that the company controls
one of the largest portfolios of low-income housing in the
country. "There's been a very hysterical reaction to Bruce
Rozet," argues one former senior HUD official who has worked
closely with him. "I'm suspicious that they're using him as a
symbol, that there's a political side to this."
   Whatever the case, the Rozet deliberations have come to
represent something more than just one man running afoul of
the government. They reflect the efforts of scandal-plagued
HUD to recast itself -- albeit belatedly -- as a new,
by-the-book agency. And they also reveal how a policy meant
to encourage private investors to help fund low-income
projects can go seriously awry.
   This, notably, isn't Mr. Rozet's first run-in with
regulators. He has been involved in two major securities
scandals and has had business ties to people who later landed
in jail. "Obviously, that looks bad for me now," he says,
maintaining that he hasn't done anything illegal.
   Instead, he suggests he has simply mastered the intricate
rules and regulations that govern the low-income housing
industry. And much to his benefit: In an Associated Financial
filing with California regulators in 1987, his net worth was
listed as $10.5 million, excluding his 33% stake in his
company.
   Basically, Mr. Rozet's business works like this:
Associated Financial identifies a distressed apartment
building in which HUD has backed the mortgage and helps to
pay at least some of the residents' rent. The company offers
to take control of the property and fix it up. Typically, the
money to do that comes from a combination of new HUD loans
and private capital Associated Financial raises from
investors.
   The investors don't expect a cash return; instead, they
receive valuable federal tax credits through a program that,
for years, has encouraged private investment in low-income
housing. In the process, Associated Financial receives
millions in management and other fees. "This is what I do,
and it's not the kind of thing where you become Mr.
Popularity," Mr. Rozet says.
   One example of Mr. Rozet's projects is the Glenarden
Apartments, a 15-minute drive from downtown Washington. In
late 1988, HUD agreed to lend partnerships connected to
Associated Financial $16.5 million to rehabilitate the
property. That, in turn, enabled Associated Financial to
offer new tax credits, and, as a result, it was able to raise
an additional $7.6 million from private investors. Of that
sum, HUD records show, some $4 million went to pay debt and
$1.8 million went toward the restoration. Nearly $1.5 million
went straight into Associated Financial's coffers.
   "They don't have to put up anything," grouses one top HUD
official. "All they have to do is sell the credits."
   But Mr. Rozet counters that lawmakers obviously favor such
arrangements, given that they recently extended the use of
low-income housing tax credits. Associated Financial spent
about $1 million of its own putting together the plan to
improve Glenarden, Mr. Rozet insists. And in late February,
he told a House Banking subcommittee that the turnaround at
the 26-acre site is "quickly becoming the most successful
housing revitalization undertaking in the country."
   Yet there's one part of the story Mr. Rozet leaves out: It
was his management company that watched Glenarden deteriorate
in the first place. Associated Financial began to lobby HUD
to come up with the loan only after officials in Prince
Georges County, Md., threatened to prevent the company from
collecting any more rent. "They've done a good job" making
Glenarden a better place to live, says Lynda Given, director
of the county's Department of Housing and Coummunity
Development. "But they've done a good job because we were
threatening their livelihood."
   Indeed, his critics argue that Mr. Rozet's long business
history doesn't inspire sympathy. A Philadelphia native, he
earned an engineering degree from Penn State but was always
more intrigued by balance sheets than blueprints. He joined a
small Los Angeles oil firm in 1964 as a financial officer.
When it was swallowed the next year by Commonwealth United
Corp. of Beverly Hills, he emerged as chief executive.
   With the aid of his friend and investment banker, Burt
Kleiner, he bought up one small company after another. Soon,
Commonwealth United had stretched too far. Bank financing
dried up and creditors were due $100 million. In October 1969
-- with six years still to run on his guaranteed
$120,000-a-year contract -- Mr. Rozet resigned.
   That same day, the SEC sued the company, charging that its
filings in five takeover transactions were "false and
misleading." Documents from the case also said Commonwealth
United "failed to disclose fully and accurately" its ties to
Mr. Kleiner's firm, Kleiner, Bell &amp; Co.
   Commonwealth United, without admitting guilt, consented to
a court order enjoining it from future violations. Kleiner
Bell and its founder were forced out of the securities
industry in December 1970 for, among other things, selling
Commonwealth United stock on inside information. Mr. Rozet
stresses that he wasn't named personally in any of the SEC's
actions.
   Not long after, Mr. Rozet made a career switch. He says he
became acquainted with local tenant advocates through his
first wife, who ran day-care programs in the oceanside
neighborhood of Venice, Calif., in the late 1960s. From the
start, he understood what many could not: How private
enterprise could benefit handsomely from low-income housing
programs. With the government promising to accelerate the
depreciation on these properties, Mr. Rozet recognized that
not only could the housing shelter the poor, it also could
shelter the rich -- from taxes.
   Mr. Rozet's first venture in the business was Income
Equities Corp. But in 1977, Income Equities, Mr. Rozet and
three associates were accused by the SEC in a civil case of
making a series of misleading statements to investors. For
instance, the firm sold $45 million in limited partnerships
without properly disclosing their past performance, the SEC
alleged. In addition, the commission said Mr. Rozet and the
others moved money around from one partnership to the next,
creating "the illusion" that a certain cash flow had been
achieved and that they therefore were entitled to management
fees.
   Mr. Rozet, without admitting guilt, agreed in a settlement
to restrict for three years his involvement with real-estate
securities, limiting his role to that of a consultant. Mr.
Rozet blames his troubles back then on government guidelines.
"We got caught up in some things that were not well defined,"
he contends today.
   Mr. Rozet's current company has its roots in a firm called
National Development Services Corp. that he started in the
1970s to advise others how to best structure low-income
housing ventures. By 1980, the business formed the foundation
of what would become Associated Financial.
   During the 1980s, HUD, under the stewardship of Secretary
Samuel Pierce, became a place where major Republican figures,
some of them former government officials, received favored
treatment, snaring lucrative subsidies and grants for
projects in which they often held a financial interest. "When
we went to HUD, we were asked, `What party are you guys
from?'" Mr. Rozet says. "Nobody opened any doors for us. We
sat in the lobby while the Republicans got in."
   But records obtained by this newspaper under the Freedom
of Information Act reveal that, at least for a time, Mr.
Rozet had his own conduit to HUD decision makers. Mr. Rozet
used a brash Oklahoma middleman, Charles Bazarian, who would
march into HUD's multifamily-housing division without an
appointment and sometimes even demand that secretaries there
type his letters, according to an internal HUD inspector
general report.
   "Bazarian was always around, dropping names" of top HUD
political appointees he said he could influence, says Richard
Vogel, who recently retired as a HUD loan specialist.
   Mr. Bazarian is now serving a two-year prison sentence on
bank-fraud charges unrelated to HUD, and declined to be
interviewed. Once that sentence ends, he'll begin a five-year
term for failing to file an income-tax return and for
defrauding auditors at two California thrifts. On top of
that, he has been given three years' probation for skimming
money at HUD projects in Oklahoma, one of them in Associated
Financial's portfolio.
   Mr. Rozet plays down his ties to Mr. Bazarian. "We didn't
check his past because HUD introduced us," Mr. Rozet says.
"He was never an employee of the company. He was really a
property finder and received a fee based on what a deal was
worth."
   By late 1987, midlevel HUD officials had recommended that
Mr. Rozet be barred from purchasing any more federally
subsidized apartments because they thought his properties
were such a mess. However, the decision was reversed by
Thomas Demery, who was formerly one of Mr. Pierce's assistant
secretaries for housing and is now a business consultant.
"The fact is, a lot of people have strong emotions about
Bruce Rozet," Mr. Demery said in an interview earlier this
year. "A lot of that is because he knows HUD's regulations
better than HUD. It tends to rankle the bureaucrats." He
added that his staff never could supply evidence to warrant
barring Mr. Rozet.
   Nonetheless, when Jack Kemp, the new housing secretary,
toured the blighted Tyler House project in June 1989, he
vowed to hold Associated Financial accountable. Not long
after, the company was suspended from doing business with
HUD.
   The agency has charged that an Associated Financial
subsidiary embezzled security deposits, submitted false
information and engaged in other "irregularities of a serious
nature" at Tyler House and several other apartment buildings
in the District of Columbia, Louisiana and Oklahoma. Mr.
Rozet later told the House subcommittee that at least 85% of
Associated Financial's vast holdings meet standards, but HUD
general counsel Frank Keating disputes that assessment in an
interview.
   He maintains that a fourth of the properties "are in a
deplorable state." The violations found so far "are merely a
snapshot, symptomatic of a larger problem," he says. As for
Mr. Rozet's claims that he is simply a scapegoat for a
vindictive Republican administration, Mr. Keating says: "The
best friends Rozet had in Washington were in the Republican
administration of Samuel Pierce," the former HUD secretary.
"Those people looked the other way. There is no excuse for
Rozet's projects to have disintegrated the way they did. This
isn't a partisan issue, it's a health and safety issue."
   Mr. Rozet says he has provided HUD with canceled checks
and other documents proving Associated Financial hasn't
fleeced anyone. In the meantime, he has decided to get out of
the low-income housing business and sell his company. "I
can't work with HUD anymore," he says. "It's probably better
under the circumstances to have somebody else take over our
properties."
   Should Associated Financial be purchased, HUD is sure to
pressure the new owner to clean things up fast. But Mr. Rozet
contends that, unless the government puts up more money, no
private enterprise will be able to turn around the most
decrepit housing in his company's portfolio.
   "This is supposed to be a partnership," Mr. Rozet says.
"For HUD to blame us is only because we mirror their
failure."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Northrop Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NORTHROP Corp. (Los Angeles) -- Togo D. West Jr., a
partner in the Washington office of Patterson, Belknap, Webb
&amp; Tyler, was elected senior vice president of government
relations, effective in mid-September. Mr. West served as
special assistant to the secretary of defense in 1979 and was
general counsel of the Defense Department from January 1980
to January 1981. In his new post, he succeeds Stanley Ebner,
who retired from this aerospace concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Atalanta/Sosnoff Capital Corp.:
   Board Authorizes Buy-Back
   Of About 200,000 Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ATL
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Atalanta/Sosnoff Capital Corp. said its board has
authorized a buy-back of as many as 200,000 shares of its
common stock in open-market transactions.
   Atalanta, New York, said the timing of the purchases will
depend on market conditions. The asset management firm, once
a highflier on Wall Street, currently has about 10 million
shares outstanding. A spokesman said the board saw this as a
good time to get the stock at a price below book value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's earnings and assets have all fallen during
the first six months of 1990. Net income dropped 38% to $1.8
million, or 21 cents a share, for the first half from against
$2.9 million, or 35 cents a share, a year earlier. Assets
under Atalanta/Sosnoff's management have also dipped to $1.2
billion at June 30, compared with $1.7 billion last year.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Atalanta/Sosnoff closed at $2.875, up 37.5 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Paucity of Hotels
   Doesn't Discourage
   Prague's Tourists
   ---
   Dancing, Chanting, Singing
   In City's Square Express
   Exuberance of Freedom
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia -- As night falls, the scene
unfolds in what was Communism's most beautiful capital.
   On the 14th-century Charles Bridge, four teen-agers with
guitars sing a Czech version of "Blowing in the Wind," as
roller skaters coast through the crowd. Nearby, a hippie
wearing a sweater stenciled with "Cannabis is Life" passes a
joint among six friends. In the baroque splendor of the main
square, a toothless lady dances to a Lou Reed tune,
encouraged by applause.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For so long, we couldn't do anything to express
ourselves," says Prague native Mlada Muschnerova. "Now people
are so happy, they're dancing in streets."
   With all this excitement, Prague has become one of the
hottest tourist destinations for Americans in Europe. "This
is so cool," says John Kim, an 18-year-old from Chicago, who
is visiting Czechoslovakia with 30 U.S. students. Adds
20-year-old Bill Forbes, of Dover Foxcroft, Maine, "I saw the
revolution last winter on TV. Now I want to see the
revolutionaries."
   That's a problem: The country's top political attraction,
President Vaclav Havel, spent most of the month in Bermuda.
Other government officials are on vacation abroad. "In
August, all the real Prague people split. There are only
tourists here now," says Ondrej Mrazek, a dark-haired
student, as he hawks a newspaper written in English.
   But although the leading revolutionaries are on vacation,
there still is plenty of political talk in the streets.
Outside a subway station, Zdenek Sykora stands in a makeshift
stall, selling "How the Ice Melted," a book about
Czechoslovakia's so-called Velvet Revolution. "A year ago, I
couldn't have had such a stall," he says.
   At one end of Wenceslas Square, a group of Jehovah's
Witnesses thanks Jesus for his help last November, and Hari
Krishna adherents are chanting. A newly opened American
Hospitality Center, sponsored by several U.S. companies,
dispenses Cokes and maps. "It's like Disneyland," says
Suzanne A. Bartels, a banker from Walnut Creek, Calif.
   "I never thought I would live to see Prague like this,"
says Josef Sistek of Lutry, Switzerland, who left his native
Czechoslovakia amid the Soviet invasion of 1968. "It could
take 10 years to bring this city up to Western standards. But
freedom is a pretty good thing to have in the meantime."
   So is a place to sleep at night, which is a practical
problem this summer. While tourists have more than tripled
since last November, Prague has only 12,000 hotel beds, less
than half the capacity needed. Occupancy is running at near
100%, and prices -- once a bargain -- have reached New York
levels in some hotels. "These fast political changes didn't
leave us much time to prepare," says Miroslav Novak, an
official in Prague's City Hall. He says more hotels will be
open by fall.
   That won't help Frederic Massip, a red-faced, 22-year-old
student from France. "I've been looking for nearly two hours,
and I still haven't found any place to sleep," he says, as he
carries his backpack. "It looks like it may be outside
again." Dozens of students are camping out in the Vodnany
woods south of the city -- or just sleeping on the bridge,
residents say. Along the Vltava River, German and Austrian
campers have set up an impromptu campground in an unused dock
that has no sewage or garbage facilities.
   Still, Prague's city officials say they can handle such
problems. "If we want to join Europe, we are going to have to
accept all this, including the positive and negative
aspects," says Jaroslava Krutova, a City Hall spokeswoman.
   These matters seem unimportant to the late-night crowd on
the Charles Bridge, now watching a Czech jazz trio play a
version of "Sweet Georgia Brown."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Intermark Inc.:
   Merger With Triton Group
   Receives Holder Approval
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   IMI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Shareholders of Intermark Inc. and its 51.6%-owned Triton
Group Ltd. approved their merger by a wide margin at separate
annual meetings yesterday.
   Intermark, based in La Jolla, Calif., said 91% of
Intermark shares represented in the voting were cast in favor
of the merger valued at about $76.2 million. The merger also
received 91% of votes cast by Triton's non-Intermark holders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result of the combination, effective today, Triton
holders are to receive 1.4 shares of Intermark common stock
for each share of Triton common. Intermark, a San Diego-based
holding company, is the surviving entity. It will have
interests in 12 operating companies in retailing,
restaurants, real estate and other industries.
   Intermark's stock closed at $5 a share, down 50 cents a
share, in American Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday. Triton's stock, in its last day of trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, closed at $6.625, down 37.5 cents a
share.
   About 225 shareholders attended one or both annual
meetings, which were relatively quiet. A small group of union
employees that had previously sought to halt the merger
didn't disrupt the sessions.
   The group of United Food &amp; Commercials Workers withdrew
its motion for a preliminary injunction in Delaware Chancery
Court earlier this week without giving a reason.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Allou Health &amp; Beauty Care Inc.:
   First-Period Profit Rose 14%
   On Record Quarterly Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   ALU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Allou Health &amp; Beauty Care Inc. reported fiscal
first-quarter earnings rose 14% as quarterly sales reached a
record.
   The distributor of health and beauty aids posted
first-quarter earnings of $268,738, or 10 cents a share,
compared with $235,437, or nine cents a share, the year
before.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales rose 11% to $19.9 million from $17.9 million.
   At an annual stockholders meeting in Brentwood, N.Y.,
Allou executives said the company is "expanding rapidly into
the distribution of selected food products, and expects sharp
increases in sales and earnings in the current fiscal year."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Genovese Drug Stores Inc.:
   Fiscal Second-Quarter Profit
   Doubled From Year Earlier
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   GDXA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Genovese Drug Stores Inc., Melville, N.Y., said fiscal
second-quarter profit doubled from the year-earlier period on
a 6% sales gain.
   Profit for the 12-week quarter ended Aug. 17 was $795,000,
or 12 cents a share, up from $397,000, or six cents a share,
in the year-earlier period.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales at the 93-store chain rose to $96.9 million from
$91.1 million. For the fiscal first half of 28 weeks, net
income jumped 22%, to $1.8 million, from $1.5 million; while
sales increased 10%, to $225.4 million, from $204.5 million.
   Genovese sold two stores and closed one in the first half.
It said it plans two new stores and renovations in 24 more
before the end of the fiscal year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Esselte AB:
   Swedish Firm's Pretax Profit
   Plunged 70% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.ESL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   After reporting a 70% plunge in first-half pretax profit,
Sweden's Esselte AB slashed its full-year profit forecast by
50% and said it will intensify a world-wide cost-reduction
drive including hefty job cuts at all major divisions.
   Esselte, the world's biggest office-supplies group, blamed
the need for retrenchment on a surprisingly rapid downturn in
key markets that accelerated during the second quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's chief executive officer, Hans Larsson,
declined to estimate how many jobs would be lost. He said
details would be disclosed within a month.
   Esselte said first-half profit before tax plunged to 97
million Swedish kronor ($16.9 million) from 327 million
kronor a year earlier. Operating profit skidded 26% to 445
million kronor from 603 million kronor the previous year,
with divisions for office products and information systems
reporting the steepest declines.
   Esselte's financial costs during the period ballooned 49%
to 295 million kronor -- mainly the result of heavy borrowing
to finance several acquisitions last year. First-half sales
increased 7.7% to 8.56 billion kronor from 7.95 billion
kronor a year earlier, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Nintendo to Separate Men From the Boys
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD MES SAA TWX FCB
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nintendo isn't just for boys anymore.
   In a bid to hang on to its staggering 80% share of the
$3.5 billion video-game business, Nintendo of America on
Monday will begin airing a new ad campaign targeting men aged
18 to 49. The effort marks an unusual switch for the Redmond,
Wash., company, where previous marketing efforts have almost
exclusively targeted the young boys who make up the core of
its franchise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new campaign is the first for Nintendo by Foote, Cone
&amp; Belding's San Francisco office, the shop Nintendo tapped in
June to replace McCann-Erickson on its $35 million account.
But it comes as some industry experts say the video-game
market is nearing saturation. At the same time, two new
players in the category, NEC Corp. and Sega of America, are
stepping up their own ad programs to gain a foothold in the
video-game market.
   One new Nintendo spot features three career guys --
including a suited CEO-type -- playing Nintendo's Game Boy
handheld unit at the office. "You don't stop playing because
you get old," an announcer says. "But you could get old if
you stop playing." The campaign will run on the Fox network
in prime time.
   "Our focus now is that this product is completely
appropriate for adults," says Donald Coyner, advertising
manager at Nintendo, a unit of Nintendo of Japan. "We're just
suggesting that they, too, have permission to have some fun.
We want them to take a break and enjoy themselves."
   Mr. Coyner insists the decision to run ads targeting men
isn't a reaction to a saturated market or to the aggressive
moves by its competitors. He says the campaign grew out of
research showing that 40% of Game Boy purchasers are over the
age of 18, with strong potential for further growth.
   Nor is the campaign a response to flagging Nintendo sales.
The company this year estimates it will sell more than nine
million video-game systems, about even with last year's
sales. But this year, it also estimates it will sell about
five million units of Game Boy, which was introduced last
August.
   Nintendo's appeal to adults doesn't mean that it is
abandoning kids. Included in the new effort are some hip,
MTV-style ads aimed squarely at youngsters. One ad mixes
black-and-white and color footage showing kids playing
Nintendo at the basketball court. At the end of the spot, an
animated purple dog jumps toward the camera. "Nintendo . . .
word]" a kid yells. According to Nintendo, "word" is kid for
"great."
   "In talking to kids, we know that Game Boy is on many wish
lists, but it might be No. 3," says Mr. Coyner. "We're trying
to establish that game as the cool product. We want to
heighten the excitement so it moves to the top of the wish
list."
   Tim Price, group creative director at Foote Cone, says the
agency tried to develop ads that would speak to kids in their
own language. "Most video-game advertising looks the same and
sort of dated. They show two kids, playing the game, bouncing
up and down and looking phony," he says. "These ads should
kind of look like kids made them. We tried not to make them
look too slick. If it's kind of clunky in one place, that's
OK."
   Mr. Coyner credits McCann-Erickson with helping Nintendo
raise awareness of its products. But he says the McCann ads
"were fairly literal" and the Foote Cone work will have a
contemporary feel that is critical to winning the attention
of kids and adults. "Everything that speaks to the consumer
-- the advertising, our packaging -- must convey a
`leading-edge' kind of attitude," he says.
   Mr. Price and Mr. Coyner say they know they face a
challenge in getting men to think of Nintendo as more than a
kids' toy. But they say once they succeed in getting the idea
in front of a man, they have a shot at winning him over.
   Mr. Price says, for example, two Foote Cone account
executives playing Game Boy aboard a plane recently were
stopped by a middle-aged businessman who asked what they were
doing. The ad executives invited him to join along, but he
deferred, saying, "I can't do that, I'm a vice president."
"We're vice presidents," the two Foote Cone staffers said,
and convinced him to give it a try.
   ---
   Chiat Wins Canadian Air
                                                                                                       

   Canadian Airlines yesterday awarded its account for
English-language ads to Chiat/Day/Mojo's Toronto office.
   The account will bill 20 million to 25 million Canadian
dollars (US$17.5 million to US$21.9 million).
   Ira Matathia, president and chief executive of Chiat's
Canadian operations, said yesterday the account will be among
the shop's two largest clients. BCP, a French-language shop,
continues to handle that part of the business.
   Mr. Matathia said he plans to announce "within the next
week or so" the name of a new creative director for the
office.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCESSORY LADY: Accessory Lady, a Dallas-based retail unit
of Melville Corp., awarded its ad account to AC&amp;R
Advertising, a Saatchi &amp; Saatchi agency. Billings haven't
been determined. AC&amp;R, based in New York, already handles
advertising for the Marshalls retail chain, also a Melville
unit.
                                                                                                       

   MONEY MAGAZINE: Time Warner, New York, awarded the trade
account for Money magazine to Mullen, Wenham, Mass. Billings
are $2 million.
                                                                                                       

   PUMA: Etonic Tretorn Puma, Brockton, Mass., awarded the ad
account for its Puma athletic shoes to Emerson Lane Fortuna,
a Boston agency. The account had previously been handled by
Mullen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB VIA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Tribune Co.'s New York Daily News named Howard
Greenberg, 41, vice president and director of circulation. He
previously held those posts at Tribune's News &amp; Sun-Sentinel
Co. subsidiary. He succeeds Thomas G. Iaquinta, who was named
assistant to the publisher. . . . Viacom Inc.'s Viacom
International Inc. named Henry J. Leingang, 43, to the new
post of vice president and chief information officer. He was
vice president of information services at Trian Group,
formerly Triangle Industries Inc. Viacom Inc. is 84%-owned by
National Amusements Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- British Coal Corp.:
   Fiscal-Year Operating Profit
   Fell 73% to $258.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BCC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   British Coal Corp., the state-owned national coal mining
concern, reported that operating profit for the year ended
March 31 plunged 73%. It cited geological problems, tough
competition and a third consecutive mild British winter.
   Operating profit, or profit before interest charges and
exceptional items, fell to #133 million ($258.7 million) from
#498 million a year earlier. The overall loss, after special
items, plummeted to #5.08 billion from #203 million, as the
British government moved to write off British Coal's past
losses as part of changes in the company's financial
structure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British Coal had #4.64 billion of special items, including
#4.16 billion for the asset write-offs and provisions against
pensioners' concessionary coal charges. Year-earlier results
included a #269 million charge related to the cost of
restructuring. Interest charges jumped 33% to #574 million
from #432 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Alco Standard Corp.:
   Company Says It Will Sell
   Food Systems Group Units
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Alco Standard Corp., Valley Forge, Pa., said it decided to
sell the companies in its Alco Food Systems group because
they appear to lack "the inherent capacity" to achieve
long-term growth goals.
   The distribution and services concern said that no sales
transactions are pending and that it doesn't know how much
the units might bring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company didn't indicate how much the units contribute
to annual sales and profit, but it described them as
"collectively profitable."
   Separately, Alco Standard said it expects to establish a
reserve of about $8 million, or 13 cents a share, in its
fourth quarter, related to a judgment entered recently in
litigation. It didn't elaborate. The company expressed
confidence in having "excellent grounds to prevail on
appeal," but said it believes the reserve is an appropriate
precaution.
   For the fourth quarter ended Sept. 30, 1989, the company
reported net income of $33.8 million, or 81 cents a share, on
revenue of $1.08 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Circus Circus Enterprises Inc.:
   Second-Period Net Fell 25%
   On $11.2 Million Write-Off
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CIR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Circus Circus Enterprises Inc., Las Vegas, Nev., reported
net income of $16.3 million, or 59 cents a share, or a 25.2%
drop, for its second quarter, ended July 31, compared with
net of $21.8 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier.
Revenue rose 26% to $176.4 million from $139.7 million.
   The results included an $11.2 million write-off of
pre-opening expenses for the company's Excalibur casino
resort in Las Vegas, which opened June 19. Excluding the
write-off, earnings would have amounted to 86 cents a share,
which was within analysts' expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its first 43 days of operation, the 4,032-room
Excalibur resort generated about $11 million in operating
income and had an operating profit margin of 25%, the company
said, and it accounted for nearly all the company's growth in
revenue and operating income. Circus Circus Las Vegas, the
company's other major Las Vegas Strip property, posted a
decline of more than 15% in operating income. The company
cited a drop in walk-in traffic caused by the Excalibur
opening and the presence of Golden Nugget Inc.'s new Mirage
resort. July also was a soft month for casinos, as the July 4
holiday came in midweek.
   For the six months, Circus posted net of $35.6 million, or
$1.29 a share, down 13% from $40.8 million, or $1.40 a share,
a year earlier. Revenue rose 16% to $309.7 million from
$267.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Henkel KGaA:
   Pretax Profit for 1st Half
   Rose 9% at Chemical Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HEN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Henkel KGaA of West Germany, a chemical concern, said
group pretax profit for the first half rose 9% to 363 million
marks ($232.7 million) from 333 million marks a year earlier.
   Sales increased 4.2% to 6.04 billion marks from 5.8
billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Henkel said that it expects "the positive profit
development . . . to continue through the second half," but
that "risks might come from raw-material prices and from
currency fluctuations."
   Sales volume rose 6%, Henkel said. Of total sales, 72%
were exports. Though Henkel didn't provide earnings or sales
data for its divisions, it said chemical sales rose 2%,
mostly on a rise in volume, and cited good sales increases
for organic specialty chemicals, additives for plastics, and
paint and coatings. But it said sales were pressured by
weakness in customer industries in other areas. It said U.S.
business developed favorably. Cosmetics and toiletry sales
rose 11%, mostly because of high domestic sales and an early
start in the new East German market. Detergent and household
cleanser sales rose 4%, mostly from higher exports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Four California Utilities Will Profit
   From Energy Savings Under New Plan
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   SDO SCE PET PCG
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   California's four largest publicly owned energy utility
companies will be allowed to profit directly from some of the
energy savings generated from their conservation efforts
under a new program approved Wednesday by the California
Public Utilities Commission.
   The companies also have agreed to boost their collective
spending for consumer rebates, education and other
conservation-related programs by roughly 50% to about $500
million over the next 28 months. The programs could produce
$1 billion in energy savings, the commission estimates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Conservation has been low on the totem pole" of
priorities for most utilities because "we're asking them not
to sell their product," said Patricia M. Eckert, one of
California's five utility commissioners. "This (program) gets
their attention by giving them an incentive and reward."
   An unusual coalition of energy companies, consumer groups,
industry associations and regulators hammered out the plan
over the past year in response to a commission request for
ideas about how California could push conservation and
energy-efficiency more aggressively.
   In recent months, some other states also have given
financial incentives to utility companies to support
conservation programs. Besides California, "Massachusetts,
Rhode Island and New York have gone the furthest, though it's
hard to make direct comparisons," said Don Schultz, a
California commission planner who has been closely involved
in the state's program.
   To pay for the California utilities' conservation
programs, small rate increases -- less than 1% in most cases
-- have been approved. "It will cost money in the short run,
but in the long run the savings could be four or five to one
if new power plants won't have to be built," Ms. Eckert said.
   Different mechanisms for measuring conservation and
related financial benefits will be used by the participating
utilities San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co., Southern California
Edison Co., a unit of SCEcorp., Southern California Gas Co.,
a unit of Pacific Enterprises, and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric Co.
Each company helped to devise its own performance formula.
   Southern California Edison, for example, will add the
costs of its conservation programs to its rate base just as
it would the costs of a new power plant, Mr. Schultz said.
Pacific Gas &amp; Electric is expected to split an estimated $200
million in benefits this year on an 85%-15% basis, with
customers getting 85% and the company and its shareholders
15%.
   Mr. Schultz said that the companies could incur penalties
if they fall short of minimum goals, but "it's more likely
they will be rewarded than penalized."
   Southern California Edison said it will nearly double its
conservation spending to about $63 million over the next two
years. Pacific G&amp;E said its conservation program costs this
year will jump about 40% to $138 million. Southern California
Edison said it will spend about $39 million this year, and
San Diego Gas &amp; Electric said it will spend $25 million over
the next 16 months on new energy-saving programs.
   Most of the programs pay cash rebates to residential and
commercial builders to encourage use of energy-efficient
designs, materials and fixtures. Cash rebates also will be
made to consumers and retailers who buy and sell
energy-saving appliances and lighting systems.
   California regulators said they view the new financial
incentives for utilities as "experimental." The commission
will reassess the program in 1992, Mr. Schultz said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Centel Corp.:
   Concern Is Planning to Sell
   Electric Operations by 1991
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CNT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Centel Corp., a cellular-communications concern, said it
intends to sell its electric operations by January to focus
more attention on its local-exchange telephone and cellular
businesses.
   Chicago-based Centel provides electric service to more
than 136,000 customers in Colorado and Kansas. Centel
Electric had revenue of $165 million in 1989, while reporting
operating profit of $29 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the company's telephone and cellular operations are
its bread and butter. "This proposed sale continues our
restructuring to focus on those operations that provide
greater opportunity for growth and return for shareowners,"
said John P. Frazee Jr., Centel's chairman and chief
executive officer.
   The company recently agreed to sell its Centel
Communications Systems unit, a voice and data systems
operation, to a group headed by investor Edward H. Lavin Jr.,
and now is seeking to sell its electric unit as well.
   In the past three years, Centel has acquired more than $1
billion in cellular properties while selling its cable
television operations and Centel Federal systems, which sells
data systems to federal agencies. It also has divested itself
of its interest in two long-distance carriers.
   Centel indicated it had received overtures from entities
interested in buying Centel Electric, but wouldn't say who
the potential buyers might be.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co.:
   Ohio Firm to Lay Off 800
   As Part of Output Cutback
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber Co. said it will lay off 800
workers as part of a production cutback at three tire plants.
   Goodyear, based in Akron, Ohio, blamed "continued
sluggishness" in vehicle production and a corporate effort to
reduce inventories for the cut in output.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Goodyear said it will lay off 270 employees at the Union
City, Tenn., tire plant and 530 at the Valleyfield, Quebec,
facility. The company said the duration of the layoffs will
depend on tire demand.
   In addition, the Danville, Va., radial truck tire plant
will reduce production for one week, Goodyear said.
   Goodyear previously announced the layoff of 360 employees
at the Valleyfield plant.
   The company had a second-quarter loss of $9.4 million,
partly because of lower auto and truck output in North
America that led to a buildup of tire inventories and weak
replacement tire prices. Also, the company launched a
restructuring of North American tire sales and marketing that
will cut employment by 1,100 and led to a $21.4 million
restructuring charge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England
   Isn't on Brink, U.S. Insists
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., said there wasn't any truth to rumors that Bank of New
England Corp.'s major bank was facing seizure by federal
regulators.
   "That's just not true; it's not about to be closed," he
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A torrent of hearsay has circulated recently that the bank
would be seized before Labor Day weekend. The talk reached a
fever pitch yesterday when Ted DiMauro, a candidate for
Congress in Massachusetts' second district, issued a news
release saying -- erroneously -- that the FDIC had liquidated
the bank.
   Representatives of the campaign did not return telephone
calls.
   After reporting a $1.1 billion loss last year, the bank is
struggling to return to profitability. The bank continues to
be hurt by the slumping New England economy and a large
portfolio of nonperforming loans, especially in real estate.
   The FDIC's Mr. Seidman said he is scheduled to meet
Tuesday with Lawrence Fish, Bank of New England's chairman,
"to talk about their plans for restructuring the bank."
   The comptroller of the currency, as the bank's primary
regulator, normally would be the main government contact with
Bank of New England. But Mr. Seidman said he is meeting with
Mr. Fish because the bank has requested that the FDIC waive
some of its rules to facilitate the restructuring.
   "This is ridiculous," said Lee Cross of the comptroller's
office. "First off, the FDIC doesn't even recommend the
closing of a bank. The Office of the Comptroller does. And we
haven't. This is a categorical denial. We have not
recommended the bank be closed."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Portland General Electric Co.:
   Public Agency Recommends
   $917,000 '91 Revenue Hike
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C11
</SO>
<CO>
   PGN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Portland General Electric Co.. Portland, Ore., said the
Oregon Public Utility Commission's staff recommended
increasing its 1991 revenue by $917,000, a fraction of the
$81 million the company requested in the latest round of
rate-increase negotiations.
   In March, the utility filed a request for an $89 million
increase in revenue. The utility commission came back last
month with a recommendation that the Portland General Corp.
unit be allowed a $6 million increase.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Portland General Electric said it will have an opportunity
to rebut the commission's most recent recommendation and to
hold settlement discussions with it before public hearings on
the rate request open Nov. 26.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Travel:
   Air-Fare Deadline Causes Reservation-System Gridlock
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR NWA TWA DAL U UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Inundated with a flood of last-minute calls, the nation's
airline reservation systems reached an unprecedented gridlock
Wednesday. In the process, hundreds of travelers racing to
make a fare deadline were deprived of some of the industry's
cheapest fares in a year.
   Although nobody knows how many travelers were affected,
travel agents said a sizable number will have to pay 20% to
40% more for deeply discounted tickets in addition to a 5%
fuel surcharge on all tickets. The gridlock prevented agents
from booking tickets promptly and frustrated travelers who
tried to contact the airlines themselves and found the phone
lines jammed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "All I can tell you is I've got a lot of unhappy people,"
says Edward Goodman, head of Tri World Travels in Dallas, who
estimated that more than 100 of his clients were unable to
book the bargain rates.
   Along with headaches for travelers, the gridlock created
enormous difficulties for many travel agencies. Some agents
said processing a ticket, which normally takes a few seconds,
became an hour-long ordeal. To help some people make the
deadline, some agents worked past midnight, staring at
maddeningly slow computer terminals or reverting to writing
tickets by hand.
   "It was midnight madness around here," says John Unger,
president of Travel Network of Tampa, Fla. "I've never seen
it this bad. Ever."
   A few carriers -- American Airlines, Northwest Airlines
and Trans World Airlines -- said they briefly extended the
deadline for the special fares. But the extension lasted only
through either midday or midnight yesterday, not nearly
enough time for many travelers. And many carriers, including
Delta Air Lines, USAir and United Airlines, said they
wouldn't offer the public any extensions.
   "We've given people plenty of time and plenty of notice
about the deadline," says a spokeswoman for USAir.
   Airlines also said travelers were to blame for the
computer problem because they waited to book their tickets
until the last minute. The nation's largest
computer-reservation system, Sabre, a unit of American, said
it handled more than 100 million messages Wednesday, a
single-day record. On a normal day, Sabre handles about 75
million messages.
   "If it was spread out over a few days, we could have
easily handled the volume," says a spokesman for Sabre. "But
we got all the calls in a single day."
   But critics say airlines should have been able to
anticipate and prepare for the volume. Many travelers had
reason to stall because the effective date of the 5% fuel
surcharges, caused by the Persian Gulf crisis, had been
delayed twice already this month. Critics also say some
carriers created a buying frenzy by running ads for 20% to
40% fall discounts with warnings to buy by Wednesday. "This
is your last chance," several ads proclaimed in bold letters.
   "The whole problem was totally unnecessary and caused by
the airlines," says Chuck Layer, a travel consultant in New
York. "People were baited by the airlines to buy the
discounts."
   The fuel surcharge went into effect after midnight
Wednesday and applied to all tickets. The fall discounts were
valid on nonrefundable, advance-purchase tickets bought
before midnight Wednesday for travel through December, or in
some cases, February. The savings were substantial: a New
York to Los Angeles ticket bought before Wednesday was $318
round trip-compared with $449 now.
   Scrambling for such bargains, some travelers began hitting
the phones Monday, with the biggest barrage reserved for
Wednesday. Several carriers concede their phone lines were
simply overwhelmed; USAir said it received 330,000 calls that
day, or 100,000 more than normally. "Obviously, there were
people who couldn't get through or who had to wait a long
time," a spokesman says.
   And many of those travelers gave up. Sam Cowan, for
example, says he spent four hours Wednesday evening getting
busy signals from American, in a fruitless attempt to book a
$58 fare from Los Angeles to San Francisco. When he finally
got through, he got a recording -- which told him to hold on
longer. After waiting another 40 minutes on hold, Mr. Cowan
slammed down the phone.
   "I felt cheated," says Mr. Cowan, the president of a small
transportation company in the Los Angeles area. "If they're
going to offer a discount, they ought to make it available."
   Travelers who tried travel agencies -- which sell about
80% of all tickets -- didn't fare much better. Although a few
agents said they somehow avoided serious delays, most said
their computer-reservation terminals were slow all day and
even virtually shut down for brief periods. "You'd ask the
computer to price a fare and it would keep saying, `Retry,'"
recalls Thomas Nulty, president of Associated Travel in Santa
Ana, Calif.
   As the day wore on, several large agencies reported a
flood of calls from panicked and angry bargain hunters. One
major agency, Lifeco Travel Services, said call volume at its
Houston headquarters jumped 75% Wednesday. "It was
incredible," said a spokesman for USTravel Systems Inc.,
another large agency. "We got more calls than we did the day
of the San Francisco earthquake."
   Some agents said they were able to meet the fare deadline
for their clients -- but not without putting in a lot of
overtime. In New York, one Carlson Travel Network branch
stayed opened to 3:30 a.m. to process tickets.
   The airlines' computer-reservation systems said their
computers weren't close to being paralyzed. And the Sabre
system did shut down once last year for 12 hours because of a
software failure. But Covia, which runs the Apollo computer
system and is owned by United and several other carriers,
said it essentially reached capacity Wednesday. The system
handled 1,370 transactions a second that day. Normal capacity
is 1,200 transactions, a spokesman says, adding that two
extra processors had to be installed.
   Other computer-reservation systems said they stretched
their system by alternating computer time among travel
agencies. But despite the problems they caused consumers,
some industry officials chose to look for the bright side. "I
guess we're happy to report we did a record amount of
business Wednesday," says a spokesman for Covia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Ocean Shippers
   Offer Opportunity
   For Stout-Hearted
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   VLC OMM OSG INSH MCX BHM ASIPY
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Stocks of ocean shipping companies have sprung a leak,
punctured by hostilities in the Persian Gulf. At today's
low-in-the-water prices, they offer large potential rewards,
several astute money managers say.
   The marine transportation component of the Dow Jones
Equity Market Index sank 20% in the three weeks after Iraq
invaded Kuwait. Despite a partial recovery, it still is down
13% since the Aug. 2 invasion and 28% since year end.
Recession fears and concern about oil-spill liability had
hurt the group even before the Gulf crisis began.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lately, the biggest damage has been suffered by stocks of
companies that operate big oil tankers. But they also have
the potential for the sharpest recovery, some analysts and
money managers say. A leading example is Nortankers, based in
Norway but owned mainly by U.S. investors and traded on the
American Stock Exchange. From a January high of 15 3/4,
Nortankers has sunk 53%, to 7 3/8 yesterday.
   Other ocean shippers, such as OMI Corp. and Overseas
Shipholding Group, have lost 10% to 30% of their market value
since late July and could also represent bargains for brave
purchasers.
   To be sure, these stocks are risky. People who want to buy
low and sell high generally need to buy when the news is
frightening, and it's certainly scary now. One big worry:
Iraq could bomb oil fields in Saudi Arabia, disrupting
production and leaving carriers without much oil to carry.
   Short of that, there's still plenty to fret about. The
Gulf crisis has driven up insurance costs on voyages to and
from the Middle East, and fuel costs on all voyages. The loss
of Kuwaiti and Iraqi cargoes has idled some tankers and
thrown the industry into temporary overcapacity. A recession
in the U.S. could cause oil usage, or international trade in
general, to flatten or decrease.
   But at today's prices, ocean shipping stocks already have
reflected a lot of bad news, advocates say. One big buyer has
been the Fidelity family of mutual funds, particularly the
Fidelity Capital Appreciation Fund and Fidelity Select
Transportation Fund.
   Rick Mace, who runs the transportation fund and follows
shipping stocks for all the Fidelity funds, is a staunch
advocate of the stocks, especially OMI, Overseas Shipholding
Group, Nortankers, International Shipholding Group and MC
Shipping. Fidelity owns 14.5% of Nortankers, close to 13% of
OMI, and about 10% of the other three. It has added to its
positions on the recent weakness.
   Mr. Mace lays out his case as follows: "The resolution of
the Gulf crisis is unclear," he says. "But it's reasonable to
expect that the Gulf countries will continue to produce oil,
and that Europe and the U.S. and the Far East will continue
to consume oil. That will require transportation. And the
mode of transportation will probably be tankers."
   There are only some 413 very large crude carriers (VLCCs)
in the world, Mr. Mace says. (That figure also includes the
behemoths known as ultra large crude carriers.) Many of them
are owned by closely held companies, or by companies whose
stock can be purchased only in Scandinavia. In the U.S. stock
market, the only "pure play" in big oil tankers is
Nortankers, which owns four of them.
   Such ships can carry 2.5 million barrels of oil and cost
around $100 million to build. While some new ones are on
order, the fleet is expanding only about 5% a year, Mr. Mace
figures. Most of today's VLCCs are getting old, having been
built in 1974-1976.
   But "the shipping play is not restricted to VLCCs," Mr.
Mace says. Increasing U.S. exports of coal and other dry bulk
cargos could give a boost to several shipping companies.
"It's a very exciting field because the shipping cycles are
long-term," he says. "A 10-year trend is not unusual." U.S.
shippers were about three years into a cyclical recovery
before the Gulf crisis hit.
   Jay Charles Goodgal, a money manager in Paterson, N.J.,
likes the entire shipping group, but especially Nortankers.
"Should (Nortankers') ships get blown out of the water, each
is insured for 115% of appraised value. This equates to a
value for the company of approximately $20 per share net of
debt," or nearly triple the recent stock price, he says.
   Mr. Goodgal and others don't recommend the stock for
short-term traders. But Mr. Goodgal says long-term investors
have time on their side, because world economies depend on
Mideast oil.
   William Baker, who manages the Directors Fund and some
other funds at Oppenheimer Management Corp. in New York,
holds 160,000 shares of Nortankers. "It's so stupid that this
thing is at seven bucks," he says. "It's just irrational
pricing."
   Even so, he thinks the stock could go even lower in a
general market decline. If it does, he plans to add to
holdings; otherwise, he simply plans to hold on. "I assume
we're going into a recession," he says. But after that, he
expects the tanker market to improve and Nortankers to rise
to above 20.
   Not everyone wants to invest in crude oil carriers, of
course. James L. Winchester, analyst with Mabon Nugent, says
it's too soon for that, with the Mideast so unsettled. He
prefers B&amp;H Maritime, which transports dry bulk cargo and
refined petroleum products, and Anangel-American
Shipholdings, a British dry bulk cargo carrier traded in the
U.S. over the counter.
   But Michael C. Young, oil analyst at Smith Barney, thinks
investors should take the plunge on Nortankers. Even if oil
fields in the Mideast are destroyed, he says, "any damage . .
. is going to be very short term. Iraq does not have the
capacity to do permanent damage to the Saudi fields. It's
been proven that you can rebuild oil facilities that have
been bombed" in a matter of weeks.
   Though the U.S. may try to increase its own production as
well as imports from non-Mideast nations such as Venezuela
and Canada, in the long run the Mideast is where the reserves
are, Mr. Young says. "The world is depending on Saudi Arabia
to increase output to make up for Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil," Mr.
Young says. "That crude is going to have to be moved by
VLCCs." And Saudi oil is "by definition the longest-haul
crude in the world." Tankers are paid not only by the ton,
but by the mile.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Brazil Says It Won't Pay
   Overdue Interest This Year
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRASILIA (AP) -- Brazil's central bank president said the
country won't make any payments this year on overdue interest
owed on its $114 billion foreign debt, the largest in the
developing world.
   "The only gesture we are disposed to make is to negotiate
realistically with our creditors," Ibrahim Eris said in an
interview with foreign reporters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brazil, which some analysts say has had an undeclared
moratorium on debt payments for more than a year, is late on
payments of $6 billion to private banks and $2 billion to the
so-called Paris Club, the 10 industrialized countries with
the greatest influence in the International Monetary Fund.
   It wasn't clear whether Brazil's move might be matched by
other countries in Latin America, which has a combined
foreign debt of $434.6 billion, according to a study by Latin
American Economic System, Caracas, Venezuela.
   Latin American economic ministers are to meet in Caracas
next week, and the worsening debt problem will be among the
issues discussed. They have complained that debt-relief
programs such as the one created by U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady are insufficient.
   Other countries overdue on interest payments include
Argentina, Ecuador, Peru, Panama, Costa Rica, the Dominican
Republic, Bolivia and Paraguay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Wayne Newton Libel Award Overturned
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and James P. Miller
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GE KRI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal appeals court overturned a $5.2 million damages
award to entertainer Wayne Newton in his long-running libel
suit against General Electric Co.'s National Broadcasting Co.
unit.
   The suit is one of a growing number of cases in which
public figures sue on grounds that an article or broadcast
created a false impression, even if each statement taken
separately was true. In a ruling yesterday, the U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in San Francisco found that most of the
factual statements in the broadcast were undisputed and that
any false impressions had not been shown to be deliberate or
reckless.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that public figures can't
win a libel case unless they prove that a statement was
false, defamatory and published with knowledge of its falsity
or with reckless disregard of whether it was true or false.
But Mr. Newton had alleged that he had been defamed by
implication and that the reporters must take responsibility
for the impressions they intentionally conveyed.
   The suit arose out of an Oct. 6, 1980, segment on NBC's
evening news titled "Wayne Newton and the Law." Mr. Newton
argued that the NBC report created the impression that he had
received financial assistance from organized-crime figures to
finance the purchase of a hotel. Among other things, he cited
the reporters' failure to include in the broadcast the fact
that he received a bank loan to finance the purchase.
   In December 1986, a jury in a Las Vegas, Nev., federal
district court found that the broadcast had created a false
impression and awarded Mr. Newton $19.2 million in damages.
Judge Myron Crocker, who heard the case, reduced the award to
$5.2 million, setting aside the jury's award for loss of
income and reducing an award for injury to reputation to
$50,000 from $5 million.
   "Wayne Newton's case poses the danger that First Amendment
values will be subverted by a local jury biased in favor of a
prominent local public figure against an alien speaker who
criticizes that local hero," the appeals court wrote.
   The appeals panel said that NBC could not be held liable
even if the broadcast created a false impression as Mr.
Newton alleged. The panel said the lower court improperly
considered its own view of the supposed false impression
instead of the intentions of the journalists who prepared the
broadcast. Such an approach, the panel wrote, "would permit
liability to be imposed not only for what was not said but
also for what was not intended to be said."
   The panel did not rule on whether the broadcast as a whole
was false. Instead, it based the ruling on the fact that Mr.
Newton had failed to show sufficient evidence that the
reporters deliberately lied or had been reckless with the
truth.
   Morton Galane, the Reno, Nev., lawyer who represented Mr.
Newton, said he could not comment because he was unable to
reach his client.
   "This is a case that never should have been brought or
gone to a jury in the first place. But the decision reaffirms
the willingness of the courts to afford protection in the
libel area when the jury system goes haywire," said Floyd
Abrams of the New York firm Cahill, Gordon &amp; Reindel, a
lawyer for NBC.
   ---
   RACKETEERING CHARGES FILED against Asian fraternal
organization.
   A federal grand jury in Chicago indicted the On Leong
Chinese Merchants Association, and chapters of the nationwide
organization in three U.S. cities, on racketeering, gambling
and tax-fraud charges.
   The 34-count indictment -- which followed a 30-month
investigation -- alleges the operation of what prosecutors
call a "nationwide illegal gambling business." On Leong
chapters in Chicago, Houston, and New York were also accused
in the indictment of operating "casino-style" centers
featuring games of chance such as pai gow and fan-tan. Also
named as defendants were 29 officials and members of the
so-called tong, or association.
   Under racketeering law, prosecutors are seeking forfeiture
of certain On Leong properties, including the national
headquarters in New York, as well as about $11.5 million in
proceeds from the alleged gambling operation.
   On Leong officials couldn't immediately be reached for
comment.
   The indictment leans heavily on telephone conversations at
the Chicago chapter, which federal agents raided and closed
down in 1988.
   The indictment also cites conversations between the
defendants and Simon Au Yeung, an informant hired by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to penetrate illegal Asian
organizations in the U.S. Mr. Au Yeung played a role in the
FBI's 1988 investigation.
   More recently he worked undercover to assist federal and
New York authorities in seizing 850 pounds of Southeast Asian
heroin allegedly imported by a different Chinese group.
   ---
   DECISION BARRING REPORTERS from taking notes during trial
is appealed.
   Attorneys for the Philadelphia Daily News are appealing a
judge's order prohibiting a reporter from taking notes during
a first-degree murder trial.
   The order, handed down by Philadelphia Common Pleas Judge
Edward J. Maier, is thought to be unprecedented. Judge Maier
ruled at a hearing in his chambers that he had a "gut
feeling" against allowing reporters to take notes, according
to a court transcript.
   The judge said the notes could be used to challenge the
official court record and that the taking of notes could
distract jurors.
   "It might cause the jury to give greater attention to some
testimony rather than other testimony," Judge Maier ruled.
   The ruling came after Daily News reporter Joseph P. Blake
was told by a court bailiff to stop taking notes on Aug. 20.
The judge noted that few reporters ever cover trials in his
court but that he has nonetheless forbidden note-taking for
10 years. Allowing reporters to take notes, he said, could
lead to allowing tape recorders and cameras.
   Courts have generally been protective of the right of
spectators to take notes and sketch pictures during trials,
particularly news gatherers, said Katherine Hatton, of the
Philadelphia law firm Kohn, Savett, Klein &amp; Graf, which
represents the Daily News, published by Philadelphia
Newspapers Inc., a unit of Knight-Ridder Inc. of Miami.
   In 1980 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that reporters at
trials function as "surrogates for the public," and therefore
can be entitled under the First Amendment to special seating
and priority entry, Ms. Hatton wrote in her appeal to the
Pennsylvania Superior Court.
   The issue of whether reporters can be barred from taking
notes, however, has never come up in a court case, Ms. Hatton
said.
   ---
   SUPERFUND ENFORCEMENT CHIEF is to join law firm.
   Lloyd Guerci will leave the Environmental Protection
Agency next week to become a partner in the Washington office
of the Chicago law firm Mayer, Brown &amp; Platt. Mr. Guerci, who
as a career civil servant has extensive experience in toxic
and hazardous waste regulation, said he chose Mayer Brown
because of its environmental practice, which he hopes to
expand.
   Mr. Guerci said that his work at the 45-lawyer Washington
office will include representing businesses before the EPA on
pollution-enforcement matters. Currently, federal law permits
an official to lobby his former agency immediately after his
departure provided the lobbying does not involve matters in
which he was personally and substantially involved, and
provided the official's staff was not involved in the matter
during his last year on the job.
   Tougher restrictions go into effect Jan. 1.
   ---
   Milo Geyelin and Timothy Noah contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- John Wiley &amp; Sons Inc.:
   Profit Rose 17% in Quarter;
   Technical-Sector Sales Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WILLA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Publisher John Wiley &amp; Sons Inc. reported net income for
the first quarter ended July 31 grew 17%, helped particularly
by the scientific, technical and medical publishing sector.
   Fiscal first-quarter net climbed to $2.1 million, or 48
cents a share, from $1.8 million, or 41 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. Revenue rose 2.7% to $75.4 million from
$73.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue and profit at Wiley's professional and trade
publishing businesses also improved, the company said, but
results declined in educational publishing, which a spokesman
called a cyclical and very competitive business.
   "We're putting some money and focus" into the educational
business, the spokesman said. Wiley doesn't see immediate
gains, but it expects the unit to turn up, perhaps over the
next couple of years, he added.
   During the second quarter of fiscal 1990, Wiley, based in
New York, sold its occupational and nursing publishing lines.
The company narrowed the loss at its training division.
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Wiley's
shares closed unchanged at $35.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Texas Industries Inc.:
   Stock and $50 Million Paid
   To Complete 1985 Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   TXI T.CEI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Texas Industries Inc., Dallas, completing payment of an
acquisition made in 1985, said it paid $50 million and 1.2
million of its common shares, or 11% of its stock
outstanding, to Co-Steel Inc. of Toronto.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Texas
Industries closed unchanged at $19, giving the stock a value
of $22.8 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cash and stock represent the second half of a two-part
payment agreement between Texas Industries and Co-Steel. In
1985, Co-Steel sold its 50% stake in Chaparral Steel to Texas
Industries for $42 million plus a payment to be based on
Chaparral's performance in fiscal 1986 through 1990.
   The agreement called for the stock part of the payment to
be placed in a five-year trust starting in 1990. During the
five years, Texas Industries will retain voting rights, as
well as first-refusal rights to purchase the shares if
Co-Steel decides to sell them. The shares increase Co-Steel's
Texas Industries stake to more than 20%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- EECO Inc.:
   Firm Files Plan at Court
   To Reorganize by Year-End
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   EEC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   EECO Inc., Santa Ana, Calif., said it filed a plan of
reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Santa Ana
that calls for satisfying creditors by continuing to sell off
non-core businesses.
   EECO, which sought bankruptcy-law protection in May, said
it hopes to sell its hotel reservations systems business in
the next 60 to 90 days. The company sold its Maxi-Switch
computer keyboard division this month to Silitek, a
Taiwan-based electronics concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   George B. DeHuff, EECO president and chief executive
officer, said the company hopes the court will approve the
reorganization plan by year's end. The restructured EECO will
continue to manufacture electromechanical switches and
electronic keypads in the U.S. and electromechanical switches
and keyboards in Scotland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Retreat 39.11 as Hopes
   For a Mideast Settlement Fade
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market resumed its retreat as
nervousness about the crisis in the Middle East, along with
higher crude-oil prices, took its toll.
   "A lot of the optimism we had that this" crisis would soon
be over "now seems to be fading," said Philip J. Eagan,
manager of equity trading at Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. "It
seems to be drawing out now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks dropped sharply and showed weakness across the
board, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average snapping a
four-session string of gains by falling 39.11 to 2593.32.
Decliners topped advancers by 998 to 482 on the New York
Stock Exchange.
   The market's fall came amid the lightest activity on the
Big Board since July 9. Volume totaled 120,890,000 shares,
down from 134,240,000 shares Wednesday, and trading slowed to
a crawl during the afternoon as many players wound down their
dealings in advance of the Labor Day weekend. "It looks like
we're just wasting away until the holiday is over," Mr. Eagan
said.
   Among broader market indexes, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock
Index dropped 5.48 to 318.71, the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Index dropped 2.55 to 175.23 and the Dow Jones
Equity Market Index lost 4.55 to 295.58.
   Several rounds of sell programs linked to stock-index
arbitrage swept through the market during the session,
traders said, and fueled a late sell-off that led the Big
Board to put its "uptick" requirement for arbitrage-related
stock sales into effect.
   The "uptick" rule was implemented at 3:50 p.m. EDT after
the Dow Jones industrials showed a loss of 50 points. For the
rest of the session, traders had to wait until stocks had
risen in price to carry out arbitrage selling.
   Although stocks bounced off their lows after the rule went
into effect, September S&amp;P 500 futures contracts closed -- as
they did at the close of Wednesday's session -- at a level
that could spark sell programs at the opening of today's
session.
   The futures dropped 5.30 to 318.55 -- a discount of 0.16
point to the actual S&amp;P 500 index. Arbitrage selling took
effect once the S&amp;P contracts were about even with the index.
   Meanwhile, U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar
arrived in the Middle East to begin discussions with Iraqi
Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz, but there was little else in
Middle East news to reassure the market that progress toward
a peaceful settlement of the conflict could be reached.
   Amid the resulting jitters, crude-oil prices retraced part
of Wednesday's sharp decline. October crude-oil futures rose
85 cents a barrel, to $26.77, in New York trading after
tumbling nearly $2 a barrel in the previous session.
   As a result of the stock market's latest slide, the
industrial average is showing a double-digit percentage
decline for August. The average has dropped 311.88 points, or
10.7%, from its July 31 close of 2905.20.
   "August was a tough month. There was a lot of damage done
to consumer psychology, to investor psychology," said Charles
I. Clough Jr., chief investment strategist at Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co.
   Looking ahead, Mr. Clough said the Bank of Japan's
decision to raise its discount rate by 0.75 point, to 6%,
points toward yet another potential barrier to higher stock
prices: the relatively tight monetary policies of central
banks, including the Federal Reserve.
   Stocks are unlikely to rebound from their sell-off anytime
soon, Mr. Clough said, "unless we see a time when central
banks can feel free to put liquidity into the {banking}
system," or ease credit.
   Energy stocks, which held firm Wednesday despite the steep
drop in oil prices, headed lower in the face of the oil
market's rebound. Chevron slipped 1 1/2 to 75 1/4, Exxon fell
1 to 48 7/8, Texaco dropped 1 1/8 to 62 1/8, Mobil lost 7/8
to 63 and Amoco dropped 1 3/8 to 54; among oil-services
issues, Schlumberger eased 3/8 to 64 and Halliburton fell 3/4
to 52 1/2.
   Unisys dropped 1/2 to 8 1/8 as 1.3 million shares changed
hands. Prudential-Bache Securities downgraded the stock to
"hold" from "buy," although analyst Rick J. Martin told Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report he still expects a major
turnaround at the company in the fourth quarter. Analysts at
Cowen &amp; Co. and Goldman Sachs cut their estimates of the
company's 1990 earnings, and Cowen lowered its 1991 forecast
as well.
   Selling spilled into other technology issues.
International Business Machines fell 2 1/8 to 101 3/4, Compaq
Computer dropped 2 1/4 to 48 1/4, Hewlett-Packard slid 1 1/4
to 35 1/4 and Tandem Computers lost 3/8 to 16.
   Rumor-driven selling hurt Bank of New England, which
skidded 5/8 to 1. Ted Dimauro, a Massachusetts congressional
candidate, issued a press release saying -- erroneously --
that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was about to seize
the financially troubled bank holding company.
   "This is ridiculous," says Lee Cross, spokesperson for the
comptroller of the currency's office. "First off, the FDIC
doesn't even recommend the closing of a bank. The office of
the comptroller does. And we haven't. This is a categorical
denial. We have not recommended the bank be closed."
   Melville tumbled 3 to 42. Smith Barney, Harris Upham,
which had maintained a buy recommendation on the retailing
stock since November 1988, downgraded it to hold and reduced
1990 and 1991 earnings estimates.
   Analyst William N. Smith told the Dow Jones investor
report that Melville's August performance has been "very
disappointing" and its sales appear soft.
   Other retailing issues also ran into selling. Wal-Mart
Stores dropped 1 1/4 to 27 3/4 on 1.6 million shares, May
Department Stores dropped 2 to 44 1/2, Circuit City Stores
lost 1 1/4 to 17 7/8, Home Depot slid 1 3/8 to 33 7/8 and TJX
dipped 3/4 to 13 1/4.
   Newmont Mining, which filed to offer 12 million common
shares and warrants to purchase an additional six million
shares, fell 3 3/8 to 44 1/2. Through the offering,
Consolidated Gold Fields will cut back its 49% stake in
Newmont.
   Other precious-metals stocks finished unchanged to higher
as the price of gold held steady. Homestake Mining gained 1/4
to 20 1/8, Hecla Mining went up 1/8 to 11 1/8, Placer Dome
closed unchanged at 17 5/8, Battle Mountain Gold closed
unchanged at 10 3/4 and ASA went up 1 to 49 5/8.
   Student Loan Marketing Association gained 5/8 to 42 1/4. A
number of analysts who follow Sallie Mae are trying to lure
portfolio managers back into the stock, based on the belief
that it won't suffer any losses as a result of financial
difficulties facing Higher Education Assistance Foundation, a
major student-loan guarantee agency, The Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday in its "Heard on the Street" column.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 1.32
to 322.91. Volume totaled 10,750,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Corn, Wheat Prices Drop, Spurred by Forecasts
   For Good Growing Weather and Weak Exports
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Prices of some corn and wheat futures contracts
sank to life-of-contract lows during the trading session amid
forecasts for good growing weather and weak exports.
   Prices have slipped during the week because warm weather
in the Midwest is speeding the development of the corn and
soybean crops, which had been slowed for much of the summer
by unusually cool and wet weather.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Richard Feltes, director of research at Refco
Inc., Chicago, the warm weather pattern also is reducing the
chances that the crops might be damaged by any early frost.
Analysts have been speculating that the slow development of
the crops increased their vulnerability to any unusual cold
snap. In 1974, for example, a frost swept through southern
Minnesota in the first week of September.
   "We are taking out the frost premium," Mr. Feltes said.
"We don't have any evidence that we have another 1974 on our
hands."
   In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday, the
corn contract for September delivery dropped 4.75 cents a
bushel to settle at $2.4525 a bushel.
   The soft red winter wheat contract for September delivery
dropped nine cents a bushel to settle at $2.6675 at the
Chicago Board of Trade. During the session, it dropped to a
life-of-contract low of $2.665 a bushel.
   Although much of the U.S. wheat crop is harvested, wheat
prices are slipping because export sales since early June
have dropped about 29% below the same 1989 period.
   Analysts aren't sure whether wheat sales will pick up
anytime soon. The Soviet Union is usually a major buyer of
U.S. crops in the fall. Some analysts have speculated that
the recent rise in oil prices would help oil-producing
nations such as the Soviet Union generate more revenues and
that at least some of those funds would be used to finance
purchases of U.S. grain. However, the Soviet Union is
harvesting a sizable crop of its own and has been struggling
with severe credit problems.
   Analysts are watching for signs that the U.S. government
might more aggressively use subsidies to encourage wheat
exports. Under the Export Enhancement Program, the
Agriculture Department compensates exporters that sell crops
at a discount to certain nations such as China and the Soviet
Union.
   Because of the warm spell, some analysts are mulling
whether to increase their estimates of the corn and soybean
crops. Hot weather in the Mississippi Delta region and the
Southeast is damaging crops there. But those losses would
probably be overshadowed by gains in the Midwest, which is a
much larger producing region, analysts said.
   Richard A. Loewy, president of AgResource Co., Chicago,
said he might raise his harvest forecasts after he studies
next week's crop condition reports from the farm states.
   Mr. Loewy has been predicting a U.S. soybean harvest of
1.85 billion bushels and a U.S. corn harvest of 7.97 billion
bushels.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices rose on concerns over available
supplies of green, unroasted coffee. The December contract
ended 2.75 cents a pound higher at $1.0380. A number of
developments pushed prices higher in active trading,
according to Arthur Stevenson, analyst for Prudential-Bache
Securities. Prices within Brazil for coffee are strong, and
as a result exporters are reluctant to sell aggressively, he
said. Weather has also been a contributing factor, as rains
have slowed the coffee harvest, which began in May. "By this
time the crop usually has been collected, but at the moment
it has been delayed," Mr. Stevenson said. Colombia, the
world's second-largest coffee grower and exporter after
Brazil, recently reduced export authorizations, which is
leading some traders to anticipate some tightness in
available supplies of the better grades of coffee, he said.
Stocks in Central American producing nations are quite low at
the moment. The Central American crops will soon begin to be
harvested, but a pinch may be felt until then, he said.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices again declined. The
soon-to-expire September contract, which plunged 5.95 cents a
pound Wednesday, again fell, dropping 2.80 cents to $1.6065.
November and January contracts were off by their
five-cent-a-pound limit, while March and May showed
near-limit declines. According to Judith Ganes, analyst for
Merrill Lynch, supplies of Brazilian new crop orange
concentrate are expected to begin arriving in the U.S. in
September. Most of these supplies already are committed to
buyers, she said, but there is a possibility that a cargo of
several million pounds may not yet have found a buyer. Some
traders are expressing concern that if this shipment isn't
sold, it could be submitted for certification to be delivered
against September futures contracts, Ms. Ganes said. If it
was possible that the concentrate would arrive in time to be
delivered against September contracts, Ms. Ganes said, then
September should have declined more in anticipation of such
deliveries. As it is, deferred positions are showing a
two-day drop of as much as 10 cents, compared with a total of
8.75 cents for September, she noted. "It is not surprising
that there would be some uncommitted product, given that
there is a 37 cents difference between the current Brazilian
cash price of $1.85 a pound and that of the November contract
at $1.4830," Ms. Ganes said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Fibreboard Corp.:
   Texas Court Rules Concern
   Can Appeal Asbestos Claims
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FBD
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Fibreboard Corp. said that a Texas court has issued a
ruling that will allow the company, a maker of various
building materials, to pursue an appeal of claims against it
in 175 asbestos-related lawsuits.
   Under the ruling, Concord, Calif.-based Fibreboard
estimates it will have to post a bond of $3 million to mount
its appeal to the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Prior
to the ruling, the company feared the lower court would ask
for "an excessive amount" of money to be posted as bond,
making it impossible for Fibreboard to pursue an appeal, a
spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling was issued by Judge Robert Parker of the U.S.
District Court, East District of Texas in Beaumont.
Fibreboard said it thinks it will be several months before it
appeals the judgments in the asbestos-related lawsuits, since
many of the cases are still pending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Oakbridge Ltd.:
   Australian Firm Posts Surge
   In Operating Profit for Year
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.OAK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Australian coal miner Oakbridge Ltd. reported that
operating profit for the fiscal year ended June 30 soared to
42.7 million Australian dollars (US$35.5 million) from A$3.4
million a year earlier.
   Oakbridge attributed the sharp increase to a restructuring
of the company and rationalization of its assets, including
the acquisition of the Australian coal-mining assets of
Elders Resources NZFP Ltd. at June 30, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Firmer coal prices and a favorable exchange rate also
boosted profit.
   Total operating revenue jumped to A$428.6 million from
A$108.9 million, as sales revenue quadrupled to A$397.9
million from A$100 million.
   Oakbridge posted an operating profit before tax and
abnormal items of A$25.8 million, up 659% from A$3.4 million.
   It said an abnormal profit of A$25.2 million came from the
sale of 20% of the assets of the Clarence Colliery and from a
pension-fund surplus. Last year Oakbridge reported no
abnormal profits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Henry Birks &amp; Sons Ltd.:
   Talks on Selling 40 Stores
   In U.S. Held With Gordons
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Henry Birks &amp; Sons Ltd., Montreal, said it is holding
talks on selling 40 jewelry stores in the U.S. to James C.
and Daniel P. Gordon, veterans of the business.
   William Meder, chief operating officer, said closely held
Birks set a Sept. 30 deadline to conclude a transaction with
the Gordon brothers, who approached Birks. The brothers are
part of the family group that controlled Houston-based Gordon
Jewelry Corp., which Zale Corp. acquired last year for about
$312 million. James Gordon said he and his brother "want to
get back in the jewelry business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Meder said the discussions are still at an early
stage. He said the 40 stores up for sale operate under a
variety of names in cities such as Chicago, Detroit and San
Diego. Birks's 14 remaining U.S. stores, in San Francisco and
Boston, aren't on the block. Birks owns 220 stores in Canada
and the U.S. Mr. Meder said Birks had 1989 sales of 387
million Canadian dollars (US$339 million).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH CALLED FOR international assistance to finance the
blockade of Iraq.
   Asserting that the shape of the post-Cold War world is at
stake in the Persian Gulf, the president also urged economic
aid for countries hurt by the Gulf crisis. Iraq's Saddam
Hussein, meanwhile, put new bureaucratic obstacles in the
path of the Western women and children he had pledged to
release, prompting an angry response from Washington. The
Iraqi ambassador to the U.S. denied reports that his nation
demanded that planes arriving to pick up hostages deliver
food and medicine. In Jordan, the U.N.'s Perez de Cuellar
arrived for talks today with Baghdad's foreign minister.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London said Iraq was arranging to fly some British women
and children from Baghdad on Iraqi Airways, and Virgin
Atlantic Airways said it had Iraqi permission to pick up more
evacuees.
   ---
   Gorbachev said he welcomed the adoption of sovereignty
declarations by Soviet republics, calling then a "major
achievement" of his restructuring program. But the Soviet
president appeared to distinguish between declarations of
sovereignty, which entail greater autonomy, and declarations
of independence that call for secession.
                                                                                                       

   Armenian officials said 250 members of a nationalist
paramilitary group gave up their weapons after the republic
declared a state of emergency and surrounded their
headquarters with soldiers and tanks. The surrender was
viewed as a victory for Armenia's Parliament, which issued an
independence declaration last week.
   ---
   Bonn's government said it settled a dispute with its
Social Democrat opponents over abortion laws, removing the
last obstacle to today's planned signing of an East-West
German unification treaty. Separately, Foreign Minister
Genscher said his government would nearly halve the troop
strength of a united Germany.
   ---
   South Africa said it would stop paying for electricity,
trash removal and some water services in black and mixed-race
townships hit by rent boycotts protesting conditions in the
segregated settlements. Separately, it was reported that
negotiators were completing a draft accord to end a five-year
rent boycott in the black township of Soweto.
   ---
   NASA postponed tomorrow's scheduled launch of the shuttle
Columbia until at least next Wednesday. Agency officials said
an electronic part failed on one of the four telescopes in
the shuttle's cargo bay.
   ---
   A long-term study found that the experimental drug DDI
improved signs of immune functioning in most patients with
AIDS and AIDS-related complex without causing severe side
effects. The researchers said their study suggested that
DDI's efficacy is at least as good as AZT, the only approved
AIDS drug.
   ---
   Quebec's premier ordered the army to remove Mohawk
barricades at the town of Oka after talks aimed at ending a
land dispute broke off. A policeman was killed in July when
officers stormed the barricade Mohawks built to stop the
extension of a golf course onto land they regard as sacred.
   ---
   A Cambodian peace plan recommends that Prince Sihanouk be
chosen by warring factions as the nominal leader of the
country until elections can be held, Reuters reported. The
plan calls for the U.N. to play a key role during the
transition. Sihanouk heads a three-party coalition fighting
the Vietnamese-backed Phnom Penh regime.
   ---
   Researchers said animal-cancer tests in which rodents are
fed massive doses of chemicals may be useless for calculating
the cancer risks in humans because the dosage itself may be
causing the disease. The two groups of scientists said that
they questioned the value of government-supported cancer
tests on rats.
   ---
   The European Space Agency launched an Ariane rocket with a
double satellite payload from a site in French Guiana. Aboard
the rocket was a communications satellite for the British
military and a satellite for television and radio broadcasts
to Europe.
   ---
   A federal appeals court overturned a $5.2 million damage
award to entertainer Wayne Newton in his libel suit against
NBC. The suit is one of a growing number of cases in which
public figures have argued that an article or broadcast
created a false impression, even if each statement taken
separately was true.
   ---
   Occupational diseases kill more than 70,000 U.S. workers
yearly, a safety group reported, based on an analysis of 1987
data. The National Safe Workplace Institute also charged that
the nation's regulatory apparatus for occupational health is
in disarray.
   ---
   Two bombs exploded at an army barracks manned by troops of
rebellious Gen. Aoun in Lebanon's Christian enclave, killing
four soldiers and three policemen, officials said. Later,
Aoun's troops clashed with Lebanese Forces militiamen,
marking the latest violations of a three-month cease-fire in
the fight for control of the enclave.
   ---
   Czechoslovakia approved draft legislation to clear the way
for privatization of state-owned enterprises as a first step
toward creating a Western-style market economy. The proposed
measures also call for the lifting of price controls by the
start of next year.
   ---
   Afghanistan's president said he was willing to relinquish
control of the state media and of some troops to an interim
commission if elections are held. But Najibullah rejected
U.S. demands that all troops and police be placed under the
authority of a neutral council during a transitional period
aimed at ending a 12-year civil war.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Columbia S&amp;L's
   Junk-Bond Deal
   May Fall Apart
   ----
   By Robert Sherbin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   CSV H.HUW H.CKH
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- The Canadian and Hong Kong groups who agreed
last month to buy Columbia Savings &amp; Loan's $3 billion
junk-bond portfolio may back out of the deal if the U.S.
economy deteriorates further.
   In an interview, a top official connected with the
purchase said the buyers, who consist of three groups
controlled by Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing and Gordon
Investment Corp., became concerned about the transaction when
the Persian Gulf crisis erupted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We are monitoring the situation very closely," said
Richard Li, son of the tycoon and managing director of the
corporate fund management committee of Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd., a company controlled by the family. "We are aware of
our options and would exploit our options if necessary."
   Mr. Li said his group and Gordon Investment have until
Oct. 2 to decide whether to go through with the purchase and
would make the decision together.
   He said if the decision were made today, they would go
through with the deal. But he added they would back out if it
appeared that the U.S. economy would weaken to the point
where the bond issuers couldn't meet their obligations.
   The groups wouldn't face any penalty if they were to scrap
the agreement by the deadline, he said.
   Terms of the definitive agreement give the purchaser the
right to pull out or to renegotiate the transaction under
certain circumstances, such as a general collapse of the
junk-bond market or if hostilities break out involving either
the U.S. or Canada. The agreement specifically provides that
if the Merrill Lynch High-Yield Fund Index declines by 7.5%
or more the day before the transaction is to close, the
groups would probably be entitled to scrap the transaction.
   As recently as early this week, people close to Columbia
continued to be cautiously optimistic that the transaction
would be completed. The agreement was recently cleared by
Columbia's board. The company is expected next week to send
out proxy materials for a special shareholders meeting Sept.
18 to vote on the sale. Terms of the agreement also call for
federal regulatory approval to be received by Sept. 20.
   Late last month, the Li group said it would buy half of
Columbia's portfolio of junk bonds, believed to be the
largest held by any U.S. savings-and-loan, by taking a 50%
stake in a partnership owned by Gordon Investment, which had
just agreed to acquire the portfolio. Hutchison, a Hong Kong
conglomerate, and sister company Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.,
a real estate group, each agreed to take 20% in the venture,
with a company closely held by the elder Mr. Li taking the
remaining 10%.
   Together with Gordon Investment, a Toronto merchant bank,
the Li group agreed to pay $300 million to acquire the
portfolio and finance the remaining 90% on a nonrecourse
basis at 10.5% interest. That means that the partnership
could drop the portfolio if its losses exceed the down
payment, and Columbia would have to accept it back.
   ---
   Richard B. Schmitt in San Francisco contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Comshare Is Looking
   Beyond North America
   For More Acquisitions
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   CSRE
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- Comshare Inc. President Richard L.
Crandall said the computer software company "expects to make
more acquisitions" in its current fiscal year and is "looking
beyond North America" to continue expanding its product
lines.
   "In addition to internal growth, we intend to do some
acquisitions, although they are likely to focus along product
lines that relate to products we already have," Mr. Crandall
said. "However, it's likely that acquisitions we would make
outside the U.S. will be in territories where we presently
have a direct sales force."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Comshare has operations in the United Kingdom, Germany,
France and Australia, he said. Mr. Crandall said the company
also will look at developing more "strategic alliances" with
other companies.
   Comshare declined to forecast earnings for its first
quarter, ending Sept. 30. Jackson Spears, an analyst at
Chicago Corp., estimates first-quarter earnings at 22 cents a
share and earnings for the year at $1.65 a share.
   In the year-earlier first quarter, Comshare reported net
income of $1.12 million, or 20 cents a share, on revenue of
$22.1 million.
   For the year ended June 30, Comshare reported net of $6.9
million, or $1.25 a share, on revenue of $104 million. The
fiscal 1990 results were adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock
split in May.
   About 50% of Comshare's revenue is generated from markets
outside North America, the company said. Its primary business
is developing and marketing executive information systems and
financial consolidation systems for business managers.
   T. Wallace Wrathall, Comshare's chief financial officer,
said the company has increased its sales force by 20% in the
past five months in preparation for a product introduction
next month and as part of a sales expansion in Europe and
Australia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HOLIDAY NOTICE
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal will not be published Monday
because of the Labor Day holiday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Factory Orders
   Showed Increase
   In July of 1.6%
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Factory orders rebounded in July, nearly
making up for June's decline, the Commerce Department
reported.
   Orders for manufactured goods ranging from chemicals to
airplanes grew 1.6% during the month, after falling 1.9% the
previous month, the department said. Aircraft orders were
particularly strong. But orders fell for motor vehicles,
another important U.S. manufacturing industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since the beginning of the year, factory orders frequently
have risen one month only to decline the next. Economists
view the choppy pattern as an indication of softness and
uncertainty in the manufacturing sector.
   U.S. manufacturing has been hurt by high interest rates,
the result of Federal Reserve efforts to battle inflation.
   Most of the increase in factory orders in July came in
durable goods industries -- that is, businesses that produce
big-ticket items expected to last at least three years, such
as household appliances and industrial equipment. Orders for
durable goods rose 2.8% in July following a 3.1% drop in
June, while orders for nondurable goods, including food,
textiles and paper products, edged up only 0.2% after
slipping 0.4% in June.
   Economists generally dismissed the latest factory orders
numbers, as they have most reports on the country's economic
activities in July. They note that rising oil prices brought
on by Iraq's invasion of Kuwait Aug. 2 have cast new
uncertainty on the economic outlook.
   Orders totaled $240.35 billion in July. Factories'
shipments of goods slipped 0.8% during the month, after
inching up 0.2% in June. Order backlogs grew 0.6%, offsetting
a 0.6% decline in June. Inventories increased 0.7% following
a 0.5% drop.
   ---
                      FACTORY ORDERS
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Commerce Department's latest figures for
manufacturers in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.
                                                                                                       

                                  July     June
                                  1990     1990      %Chg.
                                                                                                       

   All industries               240.35   236.58     + 1.6
     Durable goods              128.22   124.69     + 2.8
     Nondurable goods           112.13   111.89     + 0.2
                                                                                                       

   Capital goods industries      47.44    44.07     + 7.6
     Nondefense                  39.79    36.19     +10.0
     Defense                      7.65     7.88     - 3.0
                                                                                                       

   Total shipments              237.48   239.46     - 0.8
                                                                                                       

   Inventories                  373.27   370.69     + 0.7
                                                                                                       

   Backlog of orders            520.42   517.55     + 0.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canon Earnings
   Rose 55% in Half
   On Brisk Demand
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   CANNY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Canon Inc., a major Japanese maker of cameras and
business machines, said that its consolidated pretax earnings
in the first half of the year surged 55% to 64.17 billion yen
($446.8 million) from 41.29 billion yen a year earlier,
because of brisk demand.
   Net income in the six months ended June 30 jumped 55% to
25.61 billion yen, or 32.55 yen a share, from 16.54 billion
yen, or 22.17 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales amounted to 832.82 billion yen, showing a 33% gain
from 627.7 billion yen.
   Encouraged by the brisk results, Canon said it has revised
its 1990 earnings projections upward. It now sees pretax
earnings at about 140 billon yen, sharply higher than an
initial estimate of 105 billion yen made in February. Net is
estimated at 55 billion yen, up from an original 43 billion
yen projection. Canon expects 1990 sales to total some 1.7
trillion yen, rising from 1.5 trillion yen.
   Canon officials said the company has decided to revise the
projections in light of stronger-than-expected demand.
   In the first half, they said, demand was brisk for such
products as copiers, laser beam printers and other computer
peripherals, as well as facsimile machines.
   Sales in the business machines division climbed 31% to
665.58 billion yen, accounting for as much as 80% of the
company's entire business.
   Camera sales came to 114.43 billion yen, up 52% from a
year earlier. Single-lens reflex cameras, as well as 8mm
video equipment, helped sustain sales, Canon officials said.
   Sales of optical machines and other related products rose
18% to 52.81 billion yen. Equipment for the production of
semiconductors was among the products that officials said
contributed to the healthy gain.
   During the six months, Canon did 71% of its business
overseas, with sales totaling 591.38 billion yen. They
represented a 38% year-to-year surge.
   Domestic sales climbed 21% to 241.45 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<LP>
   From a July 13 bulletin by the AFL-CIO's American
Institute for Free Labor Development:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Militant eagerness to strike is a notably new posture for
Sandinista labor officials. In 1984, the ATC's Garcia
{Sandinista Association of Rural Workers chief Edgardo
Garcia} defended the Sandinista government's decision to
outlaw strikes on the grounds that "to strike would be to
deliver ourselves to the counter-revolution and U.S.
aggression. . . . Instead of strikes, we have decided that
mutual dialogue is the way to resolve disputes." In 1985,
Jimenez {Lucio Jimenez, chief of the Sandinista Workers
Central, or CST} explained the CST position this way: "We do
not want strikes. What we want is, for example, orders for
machetes not to fall behind. Why not? Because if we do not
have machetes we cannot carry out the sugar harvest." . . .
   Since their inception, the Sandinista labor organizations
assumed what the leftwing Guardian newspaper called "the role
of allies of management in increasing output." In January
1987, for example, Jimenez criticized sugar workers who "did
not respond with all their capacity to the demands of the
revolution for an increase in their productive output." In
its May Day slogans of 1988, the CST exhorted its members to
"fight inflation with more production, not strikes," and
"fight against inefficiency in the workplace." . . .
   Are the Sandinista unions now converting themselves into
organizations that represent the interests of workers? To the
members of independent unions like CUS {Confederation of
Trade Union Unity}, the answer is a resounding "no." "The
underlying issue is power, pure and simple," stated Jose
Espinoza of CUS. "The Sandinista unions are still arms of the
Sandinista front, regardless of what demands they put
forward," he said. "Their willingness to drag this country
down to achieve their `government from below' has further
alienated the workers."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Calls for Global Effort to Assist
   Economies Hurt by Persian Gulf Crisis
   ----
   By David Shribman and Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST JAPAN FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush, asserting that the shape of
the post-Cold War world is at stake in the Persian Gulf,
called for a multinational effort to underwrite the blockade
of Iraq and to provide "substantial economic assistance" to
countries being harmed by the disruptions in the region.
   Meanwhile, Saddam Hussein put new bureaucratic obstacles
in the path of the Western women and children he had promised
could leave Iraq and Kuwait earlier this week. State
Department spokeswoman Margaret Tutwiler called the new
restrictions "inhumane and disgraceful."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the standoff between the U.S. and Iraq continued,
President Bush said at a White House press conference, "It is
important that the considerable burden of the effort be
shared by those being defended and those who benefit from the
free flow of oil."
   He said that the administration is calling on Japan, South
Korea, West Germany, Saudi Arabia and the oil-rich Gulf
states to provide financial and energy resources to help meet
the cost of deploying troops and to assist nations such as
Turkey, Egypt and Jordan, which are suffering economically as
a result of the sanctions. Mr. Bush plans to dispatch
Secretary of State James Baker to Europe and the Gulf and
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady to Asia to spearhead the
"consulting and coordinating effort."
   President Bush added, "There's no total price tag I have
in mind" for the effort.
   But the president also said, "U.S. forces should never
appear to be mercenary forces, and that will not be the
outcome of this, I can guarantee you."
   Japan announced a wide-ranging assistance package earlier
this week that it said had a value of $1 billion, but Mr.
Bush indicated at his news conference that he would be
pushing Tokyo for more.
   Responding to the president's call, Sulaiman Mutawa, the
exiled Kuwaiti minister of planning, said his country has
"made a straightforward commitment" to pick up part of the
cost of the military efforts under way in the Middle East.
"The precise numbers haven't been thrashed out," he said.
"But our government stands ready to provide economic
support."
   Ms. Tutwiler said Iraq now is demanding that foreign women
and children write letters stating that they want to depart
and that the letters must be translated into Arabic. In
addition, she said, the Iraqis are demanding that the letters
bear a stamp from unspecified "appropriate fiscal
authorities" showing that all Iraqi taxes have been paid.
   Iraqi officials earlier had asked for a list of those who
wish to depart. Such a list hasn't yet been provided by U.S.
embassy personnel in Baghdad.
   Privately, a State Department official said that some
Americans being held hostage by Iraq may be reluctant to
comply with the procedures. The official said that some of
the women hostages are worried that providing the information
could inadvertently reveal the whereabouts of their husbands,
who haven't been told they can leave.
   At yesterday's news conference, Mr. Bush said, "I feel
very concerned about Americans that are held against their
will." But he added: "We cannot permit hostage-taking to
shape the foreign policy of this country, and I won't permit
it to do that."
   The president also said he doesn't anticipate "major
imbalances in the oil market," adding that the U.S. Strategic
Petroleum Reserve was "available if it is truly needed." He
vowed that U.S. efforts would "go on as long as it takes" to
force Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait and release its foreign
hostages. He dismissed suggestions that U.S. costs be
underwritten by a war tax.
   Mr. Bush praised the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries for being willing to increase output to offset the
loss of oil supplies created by the isolation of Iraq.
   During his press conference, Mr. Bush stated several times
that "we have no argument with the people of Iraq." Although
Mr. Bush doesn't list toppling Saddam Hussein as one his
goals, U.S. officials are hoping that the United
Nations-backed economic sanctions and military show of force
will create sufficient domestic pressures to lead to the
Iraqi dictator's downfall. Mr. Bush said "it wouldn't
disappoint me" if the Iraqi people conclude that Saddam
Hussein was the cause of their problems. The president's
remarks came as U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de
Cuellar arrived in Jordan for talks today with Iraq's foreign
minister, Tariq Aziz.
   President Bush also expressed support for the Kuwaiti
resistance and "anybody that can have a hand in restoring
legitimacy there to Kuwait."
   He acknowledged that economic measures against Iraq may be
hurting civilians in that country more than the government,
but he said: "There's nothing that's painless." He dismissed
Saddam Hussein's suggestions that he, Mr. Bush and British
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher have a debate. "You can put
an empty chair there {for me}," the president said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   T&amp;N PLC Completes Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANN ARBOR, Mich. -- T&amp;N PLC, of Britain, said it completed
the merger of T&amp;N Automotive Components Inc. with J.P.
Industries Inc., Ann Arbor, Mich.
   The merger came after T&amp;N, an equipment manufacturer,
completed its tender offer for all the shares outstanding of
J.P. Industries for $17.30 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   J.P. Industries makes engine and transmission parts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MEI Diversified Inc. Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   MEI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- MEI Diversified Inc. said it completed the
acquisition of three companies that operate professional
beauty salons in department stores for $50 million, plus the
assumption of certain liabilities.
   MEI said it now owns 80% of MEI-Regis Salon Corp., a new
company formed to acquire Glemby Co. of New York, Essanelle
Salon Co. and Maxim's, both of Minneapolis. The remaining 20%
of the new company will be owned by Minneapolis-based Regis
Corp., the current owners of both Essanelle and Maxim's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MEI said the combined companies, which have annual sales
of about $400 million, operate over 2,000 salons in the U.S.
and Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phillips Petroleum Gas Find
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   P C.HYN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   BARTLESVILLE, Okla. -- Phillips Petroleum Co. said a
natural gas discovery about 50 miles east of Houston in
Chambers County, Texas, flowed at a rate of about 3.1 million
cubic feet of gas and 217 barrels of condensate a day through
a 10/64-inch choke.
   Phillips is the operator of the project and other partners
include Hyundai Corp. of South Korea and Opicoil America Inc.
of Taiwan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Scott Paper's Brazilian Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   SPP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Scott Paper Co. said its Scott Worldwide
unit sold its 49% stake in Brazil-based Campanhia de Papeis,
a sanitary-tissue operation, to a subsidiary of Industries
Klabin de Papel e Cellulosa S.A.
   The transaction is valued at about $49 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proceeds from the sale will be used for debt reduction and
other world-wide growth opportunities.
   The sale, which is subject to the approval of Scott's
board, should be completed in September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Are Sharply Higher on Positive View
   Of Discount Rate Boost; London Shares Also Rise
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices finished sharply higher Thursday,
reflecting a perception by participants that the discount
rate boost in the morning was a positive factor for the
market as it eliminated long-existing concerns about the
timing of the action.
   Shares were up at London and in most other markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As buying centering on speculative shares gradually spread
to blue-chip issues, Tokyo stock prices moved up strongly
late in the afternoon session, helped by dealer and corporate
buying, traders said.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 775.17
points at 25669.96. The index lost 815.97 points Wednesday.
   In Tokyo Friday, the Nikkei index surged 244.49 points to
close the morning session at 25914.45.
   Thursday's volume on the first section was estimated at
530 million shares, up from 430 million Wednesday.
   Advancing issues outnumbered declining issues, 791 to 211,
while 99 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the first section, which lost 36.09 points Wednesday, was
up 44.60 points, or 2.33%, at 1956.02.
   The second section index, which fell 4.96 points
Wednesday, was up 83.46 points, or 2.26%, to close at
3770.84. Volume in the second section was 11 million shares,
up from 9.8 million Wednesday.
   The Bank of Japan raised its official discount rate -- the
amount the central bank charges on loans to financial
institutions -- by 0.75 percentage point, to 6%, 20 minutes
before the market opened.
   Market participants said the 0.75 percentage point
increase had already been discounted at current stock prices.
   The Nikkei index gained 380 points within 20 minutes of
the opening. Stock prices dropped later in the morning
session, however, because of speculation that another
increase could follow if Middle East unrest and further oil
price rises cause inflation to accelerate.
   After finishing the morning session little changed from
Wednesday's close, stock prices gradually climbed in the
afternoon session, encouraged by the firmness of the bond
market, traders said.
   At first the pace of gains was set by speculative shares.
But as the target of buying activity widened to blue-chip
shares, the Nikkei index was pushed up strongly during the
last hour of trading.
   Many participants expressed uncertainty about whether
domestic interest rates will peak out soon.
   But growing expectations that the Mideast crisis might be
solved without an outbreak of hostilities, together with a
decline in oil prices this week, calmed investors' concerns
that the Persian Gulf situation will prompt another interest
rate increase, observers said.
   Takatoshi Okuyama, general manager of the investment
advisory department at Daiwa Securities, said market
participants, who responded only to bad news from the Middle
East over the past few weeks, have gradually been turning
their eyes to positive factors.
   Mr. Okuyama said the decision by a majority of
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries members to
sanction greater oil production has convinced many investors
that stocks have been oversold.
   Investors were also expecting fruitful negotiations at the
scheduled meeting between United Nations chief De Cuellar and
the Iraqi foreign minister later Thursday.
   Shin Tokoi, general manager of stock trading at County
NatWest Securities, said some of his clients with high cash
positions are ready to buy on Friday if any positive news
came out of the meeting.
   Traders said, however, that institutions are for the most
part major potential sellers when stocks rebound further.
   They are unlikely to buy stocks actively ahead of the
November release of corporate earnings reports, said Masami
Okuma, a senior trader at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew International.
   Concern about the impact of higher interest rates and
higher oil prices on corporate earnings is discouraging
institutions from buying stocks now, he said.
   Stocks that appeared to be targets of speculative buying
collected buy orders from dealers and corporate investors who
tried to take wide gains in a short term.
   These shares were attractive, as they could move up
regardless of changes in the market environment, traders
said.
   Among them was Kurabo, which surged 260 yen ($1.81) to
1,820 yen. Ube Industries was up 100 to 731 and Honshu Paper
rose 260 to 4,990.
   High-priced shares gained widely, with Sony advancing 290
to 7,550 and Kyocera up 260 to 7,790.
   Hitachi finished at 1,390, up 40, after a tug of war
between brokerage house buying and profit-taking by
institutions.
   Toyota Motor added 50 to 2,050, while Shimizu Corp. rose
80 to 1,680.
   London share prices closed higher Thursday, but below the
day's best levels, as uncertainty over the Middle East crisis
eased its grip on the London market.
   Wall Street's steady decline from its opening shook some
of the strength from the London market, which reached its
peak near midday.
   But despite the late-afternoon softening, one trader said
he expects the London market to find its resistance level
soon, following the marked decline in London stocks over the
past three weeks.
   At the close, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index was up 27.9 points at 2153.6. The day's high was
2164.1, and its low 2139.6.
   The narrower FT 30-share index closed up 29 points at
1687.9.
   Volume was 382.7 million shares, well above Wednesday's
297.3 million.
   In the futures markets, the September 100 index contract
was trading at 2179, up from Wednesday's close of 2142.
   Thursday's stronger performance by the dollar and the
expectation of an imminent easing in U.K. interest rates
helped international stocks. The pound fell to $1.9225
Thursday from $1.9475.
   Among overseas earners, Glaxo rose 14 pence (27 cents) to
close at 736 pence, and SmithKline Beecham jumped 18 to 523.
   Brewing stocks, which have recently been under pressure,
had a strong day. Bass shares rose 4 pence to #10.53
($20.24); Allied Lyons leapt 18 pence to 490 pence; shares in
Guinness climbed 28 pence to close at 703.
   Following an 11% profit-forecast downgrading by County
Natwest, B.A.T Industries fell 5 pence to 529. The broker
said B.A.T is likely to have pretax profit of #1.58 billion
in the latest year, down from the #1.76 billion previously
forecast.
   Elsewhere, stock prices closed higher in Paris, Zurich,
Brussels, Amsterdam, Stockholm, Madrid and Milan and mixed in
Frankfurt. South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Stocks closed higher in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore and
Wellington, and lower in Seoul and Manila. Taipei was closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                                 Aug 29    Aug 28    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  300.0     297.5   -  7.7
   Britain .....................  631.7     632.5   - 12.4
   Canada ......................  371.3     373.3   - 14.1
   Japan ....................... 1065.6    1091.5   - 35.6
   France ......................  475.3     472.0   - 16.2
   Germany .....................  261.0     260.0   -  8.5
   Hong Kong ................... 2202.7    2255.0   +  5.0
   Switzerland .................  187.6     186.4   - 15.0

   World index .................  471.6     474.7   - 16.9
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TJ International
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TJCO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- TJ International said it is trying to buy
a division of Alpine Engineered Products Inc., Pompano Fla.
   TJ International said the division, Alpine Structures,
Oxford, N.C., is a manufacturer of lumber with annual sales
of about $15 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Terms of the purchase, expected to close in mid-October,
weren't disclosed. TJ International sells building materials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Triton Energy Finds Oil
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OIL F.TCF U.TTE
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Triton Energy Corp. said it discovered oil in
the Paris Basin of France. While the Sancy Les Provins No. 1
exploratory well tested only at a rate of 160 barrels of oil
a day, the No. 3 confirmation well erupted at a rate of 1,200
barrels of oil a day from a depth of 6,300 feet. Neither
discovery had been previously reported by the company.
   Total Exploration of Paris is the operator, with a 50%
interest. Its partner is Triton France, a unit of Triton
Energy Corp., with the other 50% interest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Awards Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN MD ITT CSC UCL
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Computer Sciences Raytheon, a joint venture
of Computer Sciences Corp. and Raytheon Co., won a $68.2
million Air Force contract for operation of the Eastern Space
and Missile Center.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ITT Corp. got a $58.9 million Air Force contract for
operating the Western Space and Missile Center.
                                                                                                       

   Union Oil Co. of California, a Unocal Corp. subsidiary,
was awarded a $26 million Defense Logistics Agency contract
for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

   BMY Corp. was issued a $12.3 million Army contract for
five-ton trucks.
                                                                                                       

   McDonnell Douglas Corp. received an $11.3 million Air
Force contract for tanker-transport-trainer design.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GTE Telecom
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GTE
</CO>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- GTE Corp.'s GTE Telecom subsidiary in
Tampa, Fla., said a unit agreed to provide $11 million of
computer software, hardware and services to Puerto Rico
Telephone Co.
   GTE has interests in telecommunications, lighting and
precision materials, while Puerto Rico Telephone provides
phone service to the island.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Netherlands Consumer Credit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   THE HAGUE -- Consumer credit in the Netherlands increased
2% to 4.14 billion guilders ($2.35 billion) in the first half
from 4.06 billion guilders a year earlier, but the underlying
rate of growth was slackening, government figures show.
   In the 1989 first half, consumer credit rose 4% from a
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Study Shows Experimental AIDS Drug
   Improved Signs of Immune Functioning
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   In the first long-term study of the experimental drug DDI,
researchers found that it improved signs of immune
functioning in most patients with AIDS and AIDS-related
complex without causing severe side effects, in some cases
for well over a year.
   While the study of 58 patients wasn't designed to compare
DDI's efficacy with that of other AIDS drugs, it did "suggest
that DDI is at least as good as AZT," the only approved drug
for AIDS, said Robert Yarchoan, a National Cancer Institute
researcher who led the DDI study. In the DDI study, 80% of
acquired immune deficiency syndrome patients were alive after
21 months on the drug, compared with about 50% who survived
that long in a similar earlier study of Wellcome PLC's AZT,
Dr. Yarchoan added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest study "moves us one step beyond what has been
presented to date on DDI," said Jerome Groopman, a researcher
at Harvard University and New England Deaconess Hospital. He
said the study shows three things: long-term antiviral
effects, increased numbers of immune cells and "important
data on safety."
   Researchers cautioned, however, that they haven't followed
enough patients taking DDI long enough to draw strong
conclusions about the drug, which is made by Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. Moreover, side effects associated with DDI include
painful nerve damage to the feet and, occasionally,
pancreatitis, an inflammation of the pancreas. DDI-associated
pancreatitis, in particular, remains a "serious issue," said
Dr. Yarchoan.
   Earlier this year, a report that six AIDS patients died of
DDI-caused pancreatitis raised concerns about a
compassionate-use program under which thousands of AIDS
patients are taking the drug. Medical experts say the deaths
were probably due to the fact that a large proportion of AIDS
patients taking DDI under the program are severely ill and
highly vulnerable to complications such as pancreatitis.
   The latest study suggests that at DDI dosage levels now
commonly used, 500 milligrams to 750 milligrams daily, the
drug can be taken by most patients without severe problems
for long periods. Three of 35 patients on such doses had
serious side effects while taking DDI for up to 21 months,
the researchers reported. None of the patients died from drug
toxicity. Milder side effects included insomnia, anxiety,
irritability and headaches, the researchers reported. The
study appears in this week's issue of the British medical
journal Lancet.
   Researchers are hopeful about DDI because of preliminary
evidence that it can help when AZT doesn't. In patients
taking AZT over long periods, mutations of the AIDS virus
develop that resist the drug. Moreover, DDI causes little
bone-marrow suppression, which afflicts about half of
patients taking AZT. Dr. Yarchoan said that eventually
doctors may use a combination of DDI and AZT to fight AIDS,
thereby achieving desired effects with lower doses of each
drug and lessening overall side effects.
   The NCI researchers found that the patients who best
responded to DDI were those who hadn't taken AZT for long
periods. That may be because long-term AZT use had cut some
patients' bone-marrow production of immune cells before they
entered the DDI study, Dr. Yarchoan said. Thus, their levels
of T4 lymphocytes -- white blood cells whose levels indicate
how well the immune system is functioning -- rose little, if
at all, when they took DDI.
   In 13 patients who took moderate doses of DDI for as long
as 20 months, the study showed that T4 lymphocyte improvement
lasted at least nine months and perhaps 15 months or longer.
With AZT, T4 lymphocyte improvements typically disappear
after about six months, Dr. Yarchoan said. DDI also lowered
patients' levels of an AIDS viral protein, called p24, which
is used as a marker of disease progression, the researchers
noted.
   Additionally, five patients with symptoms of AIDS-related
dementia showed signs of cognitive improvement while taking
DDI, the NCI researchers reported.
   More than 11,150 patients are now taking DDI under the
compassionate-use program, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman said.
The company expects to file a new drug application for it
with the Food and Drug Administration late this year or early
in 1991, she added.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phone Companies Calling on Customers
   To Handle Some Service Tasks -- Gladly
   ----
   By Pamela J. Podger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4B
</SO>
<CO>
   USW BLS PAC AIT BEL NYN SBC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Linda Bordsen, a short-order cook in Bellingham, Wash.,
turned on her new phone service in less time than it takes to
whip up a plate of bacon and eggs.
   Ms. Bordsen, who relies on a daily 4:30 a.m. wake-up call
from her mother, didn't miss one day of phone service -- or
work -- when she moved last month, thanks to a new automatic
telephone connection service. "It was the fastest my phone
has ever been hooked up," she says. "When I moved before, it
took almost a week to get service."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several phone companies are experimenting with ways to
make Ms. Bordsen's experience routine. In some tests, new
residents can turn on their own service. In others, customers
can suspend or disconnect service and add or cancel special
features, such as call forwarding, call waiting and three-way
calling. By increasing the customer's role, telephone
companies hope to hold down labor costs and eliminate
installation delays.
   To get service in Bellingham, within Denver-based U S West
Inc.'s territory, a new resident plugs a touch-tone phone
into a jack and punches 811 on the telephone key pad. A
computer asks questions that can be answered by pressing more
digits, or customers can talk to a phone company
representative. In less than 20 minutes, the phone is
operating, compared with the usual two-day wait until a
technician arrives.
   Companies that don't have the sophisticated technology yet
are still finding ways to speed service installation.
BellSouth Corp. recently announced that some new customers
can plug in their phones and order service from a customer
representative. Service ordered before 3 p.m. is turned on
the same day.
   Several Baby Bells offer variations of automated orders.
Pacific Bell, a unit of San Francisco-based Pacific Telesis
Group, is conducting tests in Sacramento, Calif., in which
clients order special features on a touch-tone phone. Since
May, Michigan Bell, a unit of Chicago-based Ameritech, has
let people order custom-calling features the same way. New
Jersey shore vacationers can already suspend service from
Philadelphia-based Bell Atlantic Corp. after the summer, and
Rutgers University students may disconnect service
automatically. Brooklyn customers of New York-based Nynex
Corp. and customers throughout Atlanta-based BellSouth's
territory have been able to use touch-tone phones to
disconnect or suspend service and order special features
since 1989.
   But automation isn't problem free. Gary Ames, president of
U S West's telephone company unit, acknowledges "a healthy
internal argument" about whether to expand automated services
or allow more human intervention in the customer sign-up
process. At BellSouth, a spokesman says that even
semiautomated service may mean less hiring, although the
company has no plans to lay off employees. Some technicians
will be reassigned to repair lines and install cables instead
of connecting residential service.
   Still, the impact on employees may be painful. The new
technology is expected to reduce the number of sales,
clerical and repair jobs and threatens to cut the skill level
required for those that remain. The prospect worries the
Communications Workers of America. "I'm concerned that the
new jobs will not be of a technical nature but more
redundant, repetitive, less-skilled work that is lower paid,"
says John Hamilton, president of CWA Local 7800.
   Jim Elias, director of the U S West project, acknowledges
the eventual effect on jobs. "When it all settles down," he
says, "there will be fewer people required to operate the
exchange, that is for sure." Mr. Elias says he is unable to
project the labor savings but considers the union's attitude
"quite supportive."
   U S West is on the forefront of automated services, but
officials won't disclose savings projections. The company has
invested $20 million in its Bellingham project over the past
18 months to study residents' habits, cut labor costs,
replace aging telephone lines with fiber optics and revamp
archaic data bases.
   Bellingham is an ideal test bed: a community of 49,000
with a large population of fishermen, college students and
other transient residents. Isolated by Puget Sound and the
Cascade Mountains, Bellingham is on a separate U S West
telephone exchange so that experiments there won't confuse
phone customers in Seattle, 80 miles to the south.
   Horizon Airlines agent Holly Otis used the automated
service to transfer her phone number when she moved. "It
worked in my old apartment while I was moving, and that
evening my phone worked in the new one," she says. Western
Washington University senior Robb Faller says his new phone
was connected "just about immediately," in contrast with the
five-day delay he experienced as a freshman.
   When university students returned last September, the
service-on-demand system helped U S West handle a surge of
1,726 orders in two days instead of the usual two weeks. Last
March, a month when many fishermen head for Alaska's salmon
banks and students end a quarter, about 450 disconnect orders
were cleared through the system.
   Bugs in the computerized service must be fixed before U S
West takes "live jacks" beyond Bellingham, a move it plans to
make in a little more than a year. Odd situations stump the
computer. For example, Judy Channel tried to disconnect her
phone in January before moving to nearby Ferndale, a town
outside the Bellingham exchange.
   The computer balked when she couldn't provide her new
phone number. When she called an hour later with the
information, the computer wasn't working and she had to wait
on hold for about 15 minutes before she got an operator. "If
there is any idiosyncrasy at all," Mrs. Channel says, "it's
that you have to wait forever for an operator."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasurys Fall on Jump in Oil Prices, but Rumors
   Of Fed Rate Cut Give Boost to Short-Term Notes
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN RJR HCA FNM FRE EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The renewed upward climb in oil prices stomped
on long-term Treasury bonds again, but rumors that the
Federal Reserve will soon reduce interest rates boosted
short-term notes.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended more than 1/2 point
lower, a loss of more than $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, rose to 8.97%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders said that prices of long-term Treasury bonds
posted the bulk of their declines during overnight trading in
Japan and Europe, falling as the price of crude climbed. When
U.S. trading began, bond prices slipped a little further.
   The October contract for crude oil futures ended at $26.77
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, up 85 cents
from Wednesday. November crude oil rose 72 cents to finish at
$26.54 a barrel.
   Meanwhile, prices of two-year Treasury notes ended
slightly higher, as some investors sold bonds and rushed to
buy short-term securities after hearing rumors that the Fed
will lower the federal funds rate -- the rate on overnight
loans between banks -- from 8% to about 7.75%.
   "The rumors continued to fly that the Fed will have to
ease in the next few days," said Sung Won Sohn, economist at
Norwest Corp., a bank holding company in Minneapolis. Such a
move would benefit short-term bills and notes, but isn't
expected to have much impact on long-term bonds.
   But overnight and across the Pacific, the Bank of Japan
moved in the other direction, tightening policy by raising
the official discount rate to 6% from 5.25%.
   Although long-term bond yields rose yesterday, some
analysts were surprised that yields didn't rise even further
considering the Bank of Japan discount rate hike. In fact,
analysts said many investors focused mainly on oil prices and
paid little attention to rising Japanese rates.
   Typically, when interest rates in one country rise, the
value of the U.S. dollar depreciates, which in turn, pulls
down the value of dollar-denominated, fixed-income
securities. But the value of the dollar gained strength
yesterday, and may have lent some support to U.S. bonds.
   "Some of the trading was a bit strange in the global bond
market," said William Sullivan, director of money-market
research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "I would have thought
that higher {Japanese} interest rates would weaken the dollar
and weaken the Japanese financial markets. Instead, the
dollar firmed and Japanese bonds firmed and that is
puzzling."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury securities ended mixed yesterday.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
97 20/32, down from 98 5/32 on Wednesday. The issue's yield
rose to 8.97% from 8.92%.
   The latest two-year notes ended higher at 100 1/32 to
yield 8.09%. The price was up from 99 31/32 to yield 8.13% on
Wednesday.
   Rates on Treasury bills fell. The discount rate on
three-month bills ended at 7.44% for a bond-equivalent yield
of 7.67%, while the rate on six-month bills ended at 7.39%
for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.77%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate &amp; Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds limped lower as slumping stock prices put
pressure on the speculative-grade, high-yield market.
   But activity was very light as most investors prepared for
the long Labor Day holiday weekend. Most junk bonds ended
unchanged to 1/4 point lower as the Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell 39.11 points to 2,593.32.
   "It was a very dull day with prices drifting lower and
people waiting for the vacation," said one junk-bond trader,
expressing a view that was shared by many.
   Among the big losers yesterday: RJR Nabisco Inc.'s 17.375%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures which finished down 5/8
point at 108 on the New York Stock Exchange. Pay-in-kind
bonds pay interest in the form of additional securities.
   Meanwhile, Hospital Corp. of America's 17.5% preferred
stock rose on the expectation that the company will call its
high-yielding preferred issue now that most of an outstanding
bridge loan has been paid. Hospital Corp.'s preferred stock
climbed 1 3/8 point to 21 5/8 while the company's zero-coupon
junk bonds finished one point higher at 77 1/2.
   Among investment-grade corporate bonds, high-grade issues
ended 3/8 point lower.

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Municipal securities ended flat to 1/4 point lower.
   Among actively traded issues, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% securities of 2018 were 1/8 point lower at
98 1/8.
   "We're hanging in there," one municipal trader said of the
market. "There's not the sort of tension that was around last
Friday that `there's going to be a fighting war this weekend
and I don't want to own anything,'" he noted.
   At the short end, municipal note prices are steady.
   Volatility at the long end of the market has paid off for
notes, traders said. New issues that came to market see good
demand and are quickly scooped up by investors. In addition,
little selling has been seen in the market.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities prices ended with slim declines.
   Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. and Federal National Mortgage Association
9.5% pass-through securities for September delivery were all
off 2/32, at 98 14/ 32, 98 1/32 and 98 18/32, respectively.
   In the Treasury market, 10-year notes have dropped 9/32 to
99 9/32.
   In the primary market, two more real estate investment
conduit securities offerings were announced this session for
a total of $500 million.
   Remic volume in August is approaching $18 billion, making
it the largest monthly issuance on record.
   The latest entries are two non-agency deals.
   UBS Securities Inc. priced $200 million of Residential
Funding Corp. Remics. The offering, backed by 30-year whole
loans, is all sold, the underwriter says.
   Whole loans are ordinary home mortgage loans that can't be
sold to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae because their size or other
features don't meet agency guidelines.
   Also, a $300 million issue of Collateralized Mortgage
Securities Corp. Remics was offered by First Boston Corp. The
issue, through a special trust called CMSC 1990-5, is backed
by Ginnie Mae 9.5% securities.
   In the secondary mortgage market, traders say the
Resolution Trust Corp., the federal thrift bailout agency,
unloaded at least $700 million of securities in at least
three bid lists this week that were well received.
   Reportedly, the RTC offered $400 million of whole loans on
Monday, $200 million of whole loans on Tuesday and $100
million of various issues such as 30-year and 15-year
mortgage securities.
   There was strong investor appetite for the whole loans, a
trader said. And the 15-year securities were said to have
benefited from a steepening yield curve. Shorter-duration
issues find favor in a steepening curve environment than
long-duration issues, because investors seek the safety and
liquidity of that short-term sector.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The Japanese government bond market ended firmer
yesterday, even though the nation's central bank pushed
interest rates higher.
   The Bank of Japan said it raised the official discount
rate by 3/4 percentage point to 6% in an effort to prevent a
resurgence of inflation, calm Japan's jittery financial
markets and to provide conditions that would allow for
continued economic growth.
   An increase in the discount rate, which the central bank
charges on loans to financial institutions, had been the
subject of widespread speculation for weeks. But while
investors and dealers were expecting the increase, it came
earlier than many had anticipated.
   In trading, Japan's benchmark No. 119 10-year bond ended
Tokyo Stock Exchange dealings at a price of 83.06, up 0.88
point, to yield 8.115%. (When calculated using the semiannual
compound method used for U.S. bonds, the yield on the No. 119
ended at 7.47%, according to Salomon Brothers Inc.)
   Although bond prices have fallen sharply in recent weeks
on expectations that interest rates were heading higher,
traders said that some speculators rushed to buy bonds after
the rate hike in a classic "sell the rumor, buy the fact"
scenario.
   European bond markets were mixed yesterday in subdued
trading. West German bonds ended modestly lower while British
government bonds ended modestly higher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Charter Medical's
   Junk-Bond Ratings
   Lowered by Moody's
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. again lowered
ratings on about $1 billion of Charter Medical Corp.'s
high-yield, high-risk junk bonds.
   The ratings firm, which had downgraded Charter's debt in
early July, said the action reflects concerns about the
company's ability to service its debt because of
deteriorating earnings and cash flow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Charter had a loss of $40.6 million on revenue of $315.2
million in its third quarter ended June 30. That compared
with a loss of $5.1 million on revenue of $308 million in the
year-earlier period.
   Charter, based in Macon, Ga., is one of the largest
psychiatric hospital operators in the U.S. and also operates
13 general hospitals. In the face of a tightening market for
psychiatric care, it has been struggling this year under $1.6
billion in debt from the 1988 management-led buy-out of the
company.
   Moody's reduced Charter's senior debt ratings to Caa from
single-B-2. It also downgraded the company's senior
subordinated debt to Ca from single-B-3 and its other
subordinated debt to Ca from Caa. The rating of Charter's
preferred stock remains unchanged at Ca, Moody's said.
   Moody's said the wider third-quarter loss stems from
declining occupancy rates in Charter's hospitals, a drop-off
that exceeds the industry average and that "may well extend
into the coming year."
   J. Rodney Laughlin, executive vice president of human
resources and development at Charter, acknowledged that the
company has been faring worse than other psychiatric chains,
citing widespread publicity about the company's financial
problems as the source of the trouble. But he added that
cost-cutting measures, as well as a plan to sell and lease
back 12 hospitals, should enable Charter to "bounce back
quickly."
   "We are current with all of our debt obligations," Mr.
Laughlin said, "and we expect to remain so."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Firms Charge Arbitration Bias
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   PWJ BSC
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Usually it's the small investors who gripe
that securities industry arbitration is unfair. But now a few
financial industry titans claim they are getting a raw deal.
   In an unusual lawsuit, the New York brokerage firms of
PaineWebber Inc., Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. and Neuberger &amp; Berman
are accusing the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and its
executives of cronyism and prejudice in handling an
arbitration case brought against these firms by irate options
traders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The exchange simply chose sides in favor of its hometown
boys," complains James C. Treadway Jr., a PaineWebber
executive vice president and former member of the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
   The legal wrangling erupted after a charge by the
exchange's disciplinary committee that PaineWebber, Bear
Stearns and Neuberger broke exchange rules and federal
securities laws. Specifically, the committee alleged, the
firms violated an exchange deadline for using stock options
to capitalize on late-breaking news that boosted the
underlying stock of Farmers Group Inc., a California insurer.
Other companies that lost money on the trades have lodged
arbitration claims totaling more than $1 million against the
three firms.
   By counterattacking in court, the three brokerage houses
shattered a hallowed securities-industry code: To avoid
expensive litigation and bad publicity, member firms at
financial markets agree to arbitrate disputes internally.
   If the suit succeeds, "It might become common to challenge
the arbitration process, which would run counter to the whole
intent of exchange arbitration," says Edward W. Morris, vice
president for arbitration at the New York Stock Exchange.
"It's supposed to be quick, fair and inexpensive." Brokers
warn that individual investors might ultimately bear the
added costs of litigation.
   In their suit, now pending in federal court in
Philadelphia, the New York firms charged that members of the
Philadelphia exchange's arbitration committee had direct
financial interests in the Farmers Group trades. They accused
exchange officials -- including President Nicholas Giordano
and General Counsel William Uchimoto -- of prejudging the
three firms guilty and then tainting the proceedings by
conveying their views to arbitration committee members.
   "That's just not true," Mr. Uchimoto says. "The exchange
has gone out of its way to make sure the process is fair."
   Mr. Giordano declined to comment.
   The feud began on a Friday in June 1988, when investors
were speculating on the outcome of a ruling by California's
insurance commissioner on whether a London conglomerate could
acquire the Farmers Group insurance company. The timing of
the ruling was critical because options on Farmers Group
stock were set to expire the following day. Under
Philadelphia Stock Exchange rules, any orders to use the
options to buy or sell stock had to be given before 5:30 p.m.
that Friday -- 90 minutes before the insurance commissioner's
ruling.
   The commissioner ruled that the takeover violated
California law. It was clear that Farmer's stock price would
slump Monday morning. That meant a profit for PaineWebber and
some clients of Bear Stearns and Neuberger who exercised
their options to sell shares at higher pre-ruling prices. The
losers in the trades were options firms such as Susquehanna
Investment Group, O'Connor &amp; Associates and Ocwen Trading
Inc., which had to make up the difference in prices. They
accused the three New York firms of violating the exchange
deadline and using their options late, after the commissioner
had already ruled.
   One arbitration claim, filed by Susquehanna, O'Connor and
Ocwen, was being handled by the Philadelphia exchange's
arbitration committee when PaineWebber and allies decided
they weren't getting a fair shake and went to court. In May,
they sued the exchange, Susquehanna, O'Connor and Ocwen,
seeking a neutral arbitrator in the dispute and alleging
prejudice at the exchange.
   PaineWebber's Mr. Treadway points to a Feb. 15 vote in
which the exchange arbitration committee denied PaineWebber's
request for an independent arbitrator. Three of the eight
committee members who voted are employed by firms whose
customers lost money in the Farmers Group trades, Mr.
Treadway says. According to exchange-prepared minutes of the
session, these three members "acknowledged small {Farmers
Group} options positions held by customers of their firms,
but stated that such would not affect their ability to render
a fair decision."
   The three people were named to a pool of six from which
actual arbitrators of the Farmers Group claims would be
selected, the minutes show. But because of PaineWebber's
persistent complaints, the three committee members in
question recused themselves and were replaced by neutral
members of the exchange's Board of Governors. Mr. Uchimoto
says no one with a financial interest has considered the
actual merits of the case.
   So far, the stock exchange has resisted all efforts to
take the arbitration claim outside its walls. Its lawyers
have filed a motion to dismiss PaineWebber's lawsuit.
   Joel Greenberg, a Susquehanna managing director, contends
that PaineWebber and its allies are simply using their deep
pockets to wear down the stock exchange through litigation.
"To spend so much money and try to get it taken away from the
exchange is ludicrous," he says.
   Neuberger and Bear Stearns won't comment except to say
that, unlike PaineWebber, they were trading in Farmers Group
stock options only for customers, not for their own accounts.
   Marc L. Berman, general counsel for O'Connor &amp; Associates,
won't discuss specifics of the case but says he fears there
would be a lasting impact on securities arbitration. Granting
the PaineWebber faction's request for an outside arbitrator,
he says, would forever change the way exchanges' member firms
settle their conflicts: "It would foster a situation where
any time there was an internal dispute between members there
would be unnecessary litigation."
   Constantine Katsoris, a securities specialist at Fordham
Law School and an arbitrator, says the case "breaks new
ground. If the judge were to rule in PaineWebber's favor, it
would set a precedent in member-to-member arbitration, and I
think it would breed lawsuits."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Americas:
   Argentina Tries Cosmetic Surgery on a Sagging Economy
   ----
   By Tovo Maria Solo
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUENOS AIRES -- Argentina's newspapers are full of
surprises these days.
   First President Carlos Saul Menem offered to mediate the
crisis in the Middle East; next he proposed to supervise
talks between Cuba and Spain on their current brouhaha and
all this following his recent announcement that by 1995
Argentina would join the ranks of the world's 20 -- no five
-- wealthiest countries.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the headlines are nothing compared with the tabloid
illustrations. Picture this: Presidential Adviser Maria Julia
Alsogaray, the Argentine equivalent perhaps of Elizabeth Dole
(or maybe Jeane Kirkpatrick), a paradigm of Argentine
conservatism, currently charged with the sale of the
state-owned phone company, a woman who traded on a schoolmarm
image of tailored suits, sober blouses fastened severely at
the collar with cameo pins, and Miss Grundy shoes; Maria
Julia Alsogaray suddenly appears full-blown on the cover of a
sensationalist magazine, clad only in a fur stole]
   However Ms. Alsogaray may explain her decision to unveil,
her choice of furs has left her husband in a peculiar
position. He is an ecologist and director of the Fundacion
Vida Silvestre, Argentina's oldest and most respected
wildlife and conservation society. But Ms. Alsogaray
apparently enjoys President Menem's full support. Among other
things, her actions wiped reports of Mr. Menem's marital
disputes right off the front page.
   The confident optimism that led Ms. Alsogaray to exhibit
her middle-aged body in poses typical of Playboy cheesecake
seems to have come from her recent success in allegedly
selling off Entel, the public telephone company. That sale
has been billed as one of the masterworks of the Menem
administration's steps to salvage the Argentine economy. But
"the new Maria Julia," like the administration she
represents, seems in danger of falling for her own press
releases and airbrushed photos rather than facing the
unvarnished reality.
   In fact, the privatization of Entel appears to offer more
benefits to the buyer than to the nation. Under the terms of
Ms. Alsogaray's sale, the Argentine government guarantees the
buyer of Entel an annual income of 16% of Entel's net worth
-- in U.S. dollars. Ms. Alsogaray's team brushed over the
fact that government payments could run easily up to one
billion dollars a year, and has focused instead on the
savings that the sale of Entel presumably means for the
government -- up to $700 million a year in operating costs --
and on Ms. Alsogaray's image as the businesswoman of the
year.
   The recent rush of privatizations has been presented to
the press and to the public as major achievements, difficult
but vital to bring economic stability to Argentina. However,
some of these operations more resemble corporate raids than
stockholders' sales. Both Aerolineas Argentinas and Entel are
being sold for a fraction of their net worth. The sales price
of the first was little more than the cost of two of the
fleet's Boeings. The cost of the second, Ms. Alsogaray's
baby, was less than a third of the estimated value of its
assets (although the 16% guaranteed income is based on the
assets, not on the sales price).
   But finalization of the Entel deal has been stalled, in
part because Ms. Alsogaray had evidently overlooked the fact
that part of the telephone system was already private,
belonging to the Eriksson Co., for she included Eriksson's
property in those sold with Entel. Now the government is in
the peculiar -- and costly -- situation of having to
nationalize a private telephone company in order to give it
away. Even though the government boasts that it is bringing
in private-sector know-how and encouraging competition by
selling Entel in two parts (one to AT&amp;T and to the Spanish
National Telephone Co.) these two are only management
companies, contracted out by the banks who have bought out
Entel.
   As far as competition goes, under the new system,
telephone users don't get any choice as far as their
management goes; it's assigned geographically. When Eriksson
operated, there was at least an element of competition on the
Argentine telephone scene. Argentines will now be served by
two monopolies -- owned not by telephone companies, but by
financial groups.
   The sale of Aerolineas Argentinas followed a similar
pattern. After disqualifying the leading foreign competition
(Varig and Alitalia), on the grounds that any airline that
already flies in and out of Argentina might find some
Aerolinea Argentinas flights superfluous and eliminate them,
the government declared an Argentine holding company the
winner of the bids to purchase its major airline. The winners
also own Austral, the only other Argentine airline.
   Like Eriksson, Austral was once a private enterprise that
was nationalized, recapitalized by government, and then sold
(at a loss) to its current owners. So the privatization has
effectively turned two airlines into one, eliminated the
competition that once existed, and presented stockholders
with partners who have no experience in airline management.
   The sale of state-owned businesses is supposed to increase
efficient service and to end mismanagement. This is hardly
likely to occur if the state enterprises go from being
indebted public monopolies to becoming the private monopolies
of bankers. By preserving the monopolies and by guaranteeing
incomes that eliminate any incentives to improve services,
the privatizations are institutionalizing the same
inefficiencies that bedeviled the public sector.
   Yet another example of political "trick photography" is
the recent sale of 6,200 miles of inner-city roads. These are
not maintenance contracts, but outright sales that mean some
40-odd tollbooths will be erected on the inner-city beltways
of Argentina; not exactly a boon for through traffic; not
exactly efficient financially for drivers to pay off the
purchase cost of the same roads when they already paid for
the construction through tax levies; and not exactly a
catalyst for competition, since the options on freeways is
limited, and the same companies bought up most of the
roadways anyway.
   If you look carefully, the recent privatizations appear to
be designed to refill state coffers fast, roll over external
debt and make the country eligible for new loans, not to
improve public-sector management or services. Like the
pictures of the New Maria Julia, the government's economic
measures have been presented just a bit out of focus, and
with the wrinkles brushed over.
   ---
   Ms. Solo is an architect and a consultant to the World
Bank.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   In Friday's Americas column it was incorrectly stated that
AT&amp;T was negotiating with a Spanish company to buy
Argentina's phone system. The U.S. company that has been
involved in those negotiations is Bell Atlantic.
   (WSJ Sept. 4, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sports:
   Forkball for Dodgers: Costs Up, Gate Off
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The squeeze play is on at Dodger Stadium.
   Not on the field, but in the glassed-in Dodger offices
looking out on the jewel of a park from the stands beyond
third base.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dodgers face the possibility of a second straight fall
in attendance, and owner Peter O'Malley must balance that
against swelling team salaries -- his single biggest cost, as
it is for most baseball teams.
   Worrying about Mr. O'Malley's 1990 profit is like fretting
that Babe Ruth might bash only 50 home runs. The Dodgers have
more season ticket holders than the whole crowd at an average
major-league game. That means an interest-bearing $17 million
cushion even before opening day. By some estimates, even with
slowing turnstiles and a $22 million team payroll that is
baseball's sixth largest, the Dodgers could still earn a tidy
$6 million before taxes, perhaps trailing only a New York
Yankee machine oiled by a unique cable-TV pact.
   Management Prof. Gerald Scully, author of "The Business of
Major League Baseball," lists the Dodgers as the game's top
moneymaker of the 1980s -- and owner of a 25% pretax profit
margin in 1982 that could well be a record for any sport. "I
doubt seriously you could buy the franchise if you wrote them
a check for $250 million," he says.
   In everything from profit to stadium maintenance, says
Milwaukee Brewers owner Allan H. Selig, "I think the Dodgers
are the prototype of how a franchise should be run." So Mr.
O'Malley's defense against his squeeze play gets special
attention among the 25 other major league teams.
   At the heart of the O'Malley strategy is an effort to
increase production of young players from its system of
minor-league farm clubs, which can replace million-dollar
players with guys making the $100,000 minimum. He has potent
marketing tools as well. Like his father, the late Walter
O'Malley, a flamboyant character who boldly moved a
prosperous franchise to this then-uncharted baseball
territory in 1958, son Peter makes a religion of wooing fans
with low-priced tickets and ingenious stadium promotions.
   The biggest boost would be a late-season pennant drive to
restore Dodger Stadium as a field of dreams. Attendance in
the 1980s thrived on two world championships and four Western
Division titles -- baseball's top performance -- and the
popularity of such stars as Steve Garvey, Steve Sax, Fernando
Valenzuela and Orel Hershiser. And after a lackluster early
season, fans see in the second-place team's recent move on
Cincinnati the glimmer of another miracle like its Cinderella
World Series win in 1988.
   But the Dodgers have had difficulties growing and keeping
their own stars recently. "Winning in '88 was the worst thing
that could have happened to the Dodgers," says Ken Gurnick,
who covers the Dodgers for The National, a sports newspaper.
He believes the success of the '88 team, short on
farm-developed players, masked faults in amateur-player
drafting that had long been a Dodger strength.
   Over the past few years, the Dodgers have tried to win by
acquiring such expensive major league talent as Eddie Murray
($2.5 million a year) and Kirk Gibson, Hubie Brooks, Juan
Samuel and Alfredo Griffin ($1 million-plus each). Mr.
O'Malley, though, predicts an end to what he calls "the
interruption in the pipeline" from the farms.
   A highly paid professional staff works for the Dodger
owner, one of only a few in baseball who also serve as team
president. "I don't have to be an expert on taxes,
split-fingered fastballs or labor relations with our ushers.
That talent is all available," says the 52-year-old Mr.
O'Malley, whose flesh-tone eyeglass frames symbolize his
aversion to glitz.
   His presence pervades the team's marketing to fans. Cable
and broadcast income has risen sharply, but people in the
stands still provide the bulk of revenue for the Dodgers and
most other teams. One estimate puts Dodger game receipts,
concessions and parking -- a big item for the O'Malley-owned
stadium -- at more than $40 million this year, about twice
its broadcasting revenue.
   And at this meticulously maintained park, price-conscious
Dodger marketers figure they compete in an environment that
pits their product against Disneyland or the beach. Mr.
O'Malley points proudly to a study rating a family outing
here as the cheapest in baseball -- fully $20 below either
Yankee or Met games.
   His devotion to cheap tickets shows up after season's end,
when prices generally rise only if the "worst-case scenario"
for next year indicates a loss at the old amounts. Last year,
the price of every seat went up -- to $9 for a box. Despite
huge waiting lists for season tickets in past years, Mr.
O'Malley won't sell over 27,000 for fear of squeezing out the
average fan.
   Fans here get baseball's most elaborate promotional push,
usually tied to a traditional theme -- this year the team is
celebrating its 100th anniversary in the National League.
Along with cap nights and the like, the team has offered six
"commemorative pin" giveaways this year, as well as
baseball-card events at which fans collect 1,100 cards in all
-- one for every Dodger whose picture could be found. One
thing the fans don't get is billboards. Gesturing to the
field outside his office, Mr. O'Malley calls it "the most
under-signed stadium in the nation, maybe the world,"
claiming he leaves "a million dollars a year on the table" to
keep it that way.
   Mr. O'Malley, who studied economics at the University of
Pennsylvania's Wharton School, for a time ran a struggling
Dodger farm team. "You learn a lot in seventh place," he
says, "a lot more than you learn in first place."
   But he's been on top plenty since becoming the Dodger
chief in 1970 -- thanks largely to the prodigious farm
system. That minor-league contribution was most obvious in
1982. The team, reigning world champions, was made up mainly
of popular, home-grown stars and drew a record 3.6 million
fans. Also contributing was the phenomenon of
"Fernandomania," which swelled attendance at Dodger Stadium
each time the charismatic Mexican-born Mr. Valenzuela took
the mound in this heavily Latino city.
   The current crew, though, is mainly an expensive patchwork
of journeymen stitched together by general manager Fred
Claire. Formerly the Dodger publicity chief, Mr. Claire got
his new job after 18-year-veteran Al Campanis opined in a
1987 network TV interview that blacks lacked natural ability
to be field managers -- a view particularly embarrassing to
the team that broke baseball's "color line" 40 years earlier.
An early Claire find was Kirk Gibson, formerly of Detroit,
who led the Dodgers to the '88 world championship and is best
remembered for limping to the plate injured to snatch the
first game from heavily favored Oakland with a dramatic
ninth-inning home run.
   Poor showings by other newly acquired players knocked the
team from contention in 1989, and the Dodgers were devastated
early this year by the loss of star pitcher Orel Hershiser to
arm surgery.
   Mr. O'Malley says faith in the farms -- and in a Dominican
Republic academy that is the envy of other teams -- remain
the Dodger "cornerstone." The newest Dodger called up,
much-heralded shortstop Jose Offerman, is a product of
Dominican baseball-diamond mines, as is rookie pitching
sensation Ramon Martinez, who has picked up some of the slack
left by Mr. Hershiser's absence. Minor-league operations
director Charlie Blaney swears "things are bright down on the
farm," where his teams now have baseball's best record. He
believes farm-bred players may be starting at every position
for the Dodgers in three years.
   Robert Graziano, the Dodger financial vice president,
banks on it. "If you have a strong farm system, you can bring
players up with relatively low salaries," he says. Still,
rebuilding means trouble, too, if fans must wait for a
winner. "We're concerned about the season ticket holders
after two losing years, especially if you have to raise the
prices on them," he says. Some in the Dodger organization
expect a few higher-paid Dodger players to be dropped next
year -- meaning 13-year manager Tom Lasorda will have to
break in several rookie starters. But that could spare fans a
ticket price rise.
   Whatever decisions are made, Peter O'Malley expects to
make them.
   The team isn't for sale; he doesn't even counter the
several serious offers he gets for the club each year. But he
suspects corporate ownership, in general, is baseball's
future, as only big companies that can use the promotional
value the teams offer will be able to absorb the low return
on investment of the average franchise. Mr. O'Malley, who
isn't sure if any of his children would want to take over
eventually, says one thing he wouldn't miss about the team is
what he calls baseball's biggest problem: "the total
inability of the two sides to figure out a way to coexist
peacefully" in player-management negotiations.
   For now, though, he still has fun. The game is "his whole
life," says Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent. "He lives,
eats and breathes baseball."
   In the stadium president's box, Mr. O'Malley chats with
VIP guests about his "hobby" -- globetrotting on behalf of
the game. "The next decade will be the decade of the passport
in baseball," he says, expecting the U.S. to see many more
foreign players in the future. The 1992 Olympics should
provide a special boost. His international efforts could give
the Dodgers a long-term edge in recruiting foreign talent.
   But will Los Angeles fans -- known as an impatient lot --
rebel if the farm system doesn't produce a winner soon?
"We're never going to know, because it won't happen," Mr.
O'Malley answers, swearing he'll even go into the red to buy
talent if he must. "We'll do whatever it takes to win."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cathay Pacific Profit
   Rose 4.4% in 1st Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4C
</SO>
<CO>
   H.CPA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Cathay Pacific Airways said first-half profit
rose 4.4%, but the airline warned that the Persian Gulf
crisis will likely hurt results for the rest of the year.
   The Hong Kong-based airline said profit rose to 1.42
billion Hong Kong dollars (US$182.7 million), or 49.5 Hong
Kong cents a share, from HK$1.36 billion, or 47.6 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 13% to HK$9.36 billion
from HK$8.26 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cathay's board proposed keeping its interim dividend at
10.5 cents.
   D.A. Gledhill, the group's chairman, said results were
hurt by the colony' slowdown in tourism and labor shortages.
He said second-half results are expected to be hurt by higher
energy costs and a likely fall in demand for passenger and
cargo services. That could lead to the full-year profit
dropping below last year's HK$3.32 billion, he said.
   Virtually the entire rise in first-half earnings was
accounted for by a lower tax bill compared with the same
period a year earlier, as operating costs were inflated by
higher expenses for personnel and fuel. On a pretax basis,
profit was virtually unchanged at HK$1.6 billion from HK$1.59
billion.
   The group was particularly hard-hit by a sixfold rise in
net finance charges to HK$154 million from HK$25 million, as
weak bond markets resulted in a lower return on its invested
funds.
   Cathay said it suffered marginally lower load factors for
both passengers and cargo, although its flight capacity rose
briskly because of four aircraft acquired in the first six
months, which brought its total fleet to 40 aircraft.
   While the airline carried 14% more passengers and 6% more
cargo than a year ago, these gains were offset by higher
operating costs, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big Board Program Trades
   Soar to 13.9% of Volume
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Program trading soared to 13.9% of New York
Stock Exchange volume, or 20.5 million shares a day, in the
week ended Aug. 17 -- the third-heaviest program volume so
far this year.
   That was up from 7.8% of average daily Big Board volume
the prior week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In its regular tally of the computer-aided trading
strategies, the exchange said "buy" programs accounted for
8.7 million shares of program volume and "sell" programs for
11.8 million, during a week in which the Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell 71.78 points, or 2.6%.
   The Aug. 17 week included the expiration of stock options
and stock-index options. The only heavier program-trading
weeks this year both included the market's quarterly "triple
witching" days, in which stock-index futures also expire in
addition to options. Those were the week ended March 16 (when
programs accounted for 16.5% of volume) and the week ended
June 15 (22.3%).
   Biggest program traders for the week ended Aug. 17,
accounting for 72% of the total, were Morgan Stanley Group
Inc. (30.2 million shares), PaineWebber Group Inc. (19.2
million), Susquehanna Investment Group (10.2 million),
General Electric Co.'s Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co. (9.5 million)
and CS First Boston Inc.'s First Boston Corp. (4.8 million).
   Kidder's volume was less than in past weeks, when its
activity allowed it to regain its rank as No. 1 program
trader on the exchange.
   Program trading is the purchase or sale of a group of from
15 to as many as hundreds of different stocks valued at at
least $1 million. Its most popular form, stock-index
arbitrage, involves multistock trades with offsetting trades
in futures and options. For the latest week, Morgan,
Susquehanna and Kidder accounted for 66% of all index
arbitrage volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900831-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900831-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/31/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP J.TOS J.MIS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Collateralized Mortgage Securities Corp. -- $300 million
of real estate mortgage investment conduit, or Remic,
mortgage securities offered by First Boston Corp. The
offering, through a special trust called CMSC 1990-5, is
backed by Ginnie Mae's 9 1/2% securities.
   Residential Funding Corp. -- $200 million of Remic
mortgage securities offered in eight classes by UBS
Securities Inc. The offering, Residential Funding Mortgage
Securities I Inc. 1990-10, is backed by 30-year whole loans.
Coupons were set at 8 1/2% on classes for which details were
available.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Republic of Italy (Sovereign) -- $1 billion of Eurobonds
due March 1, 1999, coupon 9 5/8%, issue price 99.85 to yield
9.63%, via J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Bonds fungible with
outstanding $1 billion issue of same terms. Fees 0.325%.
   Toshiba America Inc. (Japanese parent) -- 10 billion yen
of Eurobonds due Sept. 14, 1995, 7% coupon, 100.58 issue
price, via lead underwriter Nomura International PLC. Backed
by "keepwell" agreement from parent Toshiba Corp. Commissions
1.875.
   Baproven (Venezuela) -- 200 million deutsche marks of 11
1/8% Eurobonds due Oct. 5, 1995, issue priced par 11.11%, via
Bankers Trust G.m.b.H. Guaranteed by Petroleos de Venezuela.
Noncallable. Commissions total 2 1/2 points.
   Misawa Homes (Japan) -- 150 million marks of bonds with
equity-purchase warrants, coupon fixed at 5 1/4% due Sept.
27, 1994, priced at par, via Nomura Bank. Guaranteed by Tokai
Bank. Final terms fixed Sept. 5. Commissions 2 1/4.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
