<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It's California, So They'd Allow
   Passengers to Vote for the Pilots
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   California is trying to wing it, and the airline
industry's feathers are ruffled.
   Some Sacramento legislators, fed up with sky-high
intrastate air fares, are piloting a bill to create a
state-owned airline called Golden State Air. Opponents,
though, have a less flattering name for the carrier:
Califlot.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill should send taxpayers flying into a rage, says
Roger Cohen of the Washington-based Air Transport
Association. The airline industry trade group figures that
even a small fleet of 10 leased aircraft would cost $60
million.
   That's enough, Mr. Cohen volunteers somewhat gratuitously,
to fly all 120 state legislators "round trip, at the
highest-cost fare, between Sacramento and Los Angeles, every
day, 365 days a year, until the year 2000."
   While the ATA is officially neutral on the bill -- it
doesn't want to appear to be discouraging competition --
airline executives laugh up their sleeves about it. Mr.
Cohen, who says he's worn "a continual smile on my face since
this thing came up," even ordered from promoters a T-shirt
with a cartoon of the state animal soaring through West Coast
skies; the caption: "Smash the Fare] Ride the Bear."
   Taken as a joke early on, the state airline proposal
surprised many by easily clearing the senate appropriations
committee yesterday and winging toward the senate floor.
"We've touched the hearts of a new American feeling about how
uncompetitive the markets really are," says the bill's
sponsor, Sen. Art Torres, (D., Los Angeles). California skies
are dominated by USAir, American, United and Delta, all of
which have raised fares sharply in the few years since the
takeover of Pacific Southwest Airlines (by USAir) and AirCal
(by American).
   Sen. Torres, who sees Golden State Air as no more
socialistic than a public bus company, says travelers have
been outraged since the disappearance of the $99 San
Francisco-Los Angeles round-trip fares that PSA and AirCal
used to offer. While discount tickets are available at $145,
full fare is now $372.
   But Golden State Air is still a long way from takeoff.
Even Sen. Ed Davis (R., Northridge) -- a harsh airline critic
who remembers PSA and AirCal as "elegant, superlative and fun
to ride on" -- says he'd never vote for a state airline. "The
worst private airline is still better than the best state-run
one," he says. "It would be just as efficient as state-run
government."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wrong Reaction to Israeli Gunman
   ----
   By Steven Emerson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Hours after an Israeli gunman went mad and mowed down a
group of Arabs on Sunday, human-rights activists and American
commentators publicly charged the government of Israel with
"responsibility for and complicity with the killings of
Palestinians." Why? The Israeli government had already
arrested the disturbed man and already begun to investigate
the matter. Because, as one commentator said, "Israel has
encouraged this by creating a climate of hate and violence."
Some Palestinian leaders went further: They charged that the
killings were a premeditated act of murder by Israel. The
American media uncritically repeated these charges. The U.N.
will likely convene in the next few days to ram through a
resolution accusing Israel.
   The attack on Israel is part of a trend. Lately, American
journalists, commentators, and political activists with
ideological agendas have begun ascribing collective national
guilt as the culprit for acts of violence carried out in
society. In fact, a more honest test of a society's values
and conscience would be to examine how it reacts to such
violence. Does it act swiftly to condemn the violence? Does
it ignore it? Or does it revel in the violence? The Sunday
murders are a case in point. They provide a critical basis to
examine how Arab society (and the U.S. media) reacted to
similar acts of violence against Jews.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Israel, there was instant, unanimous condemnation of
the killings. Within minutes after news of the killings was
broadcast, Israeli leaders -- from the entire political
spectrum -- bitterly condemned the killings and expressed
their sympathies to the Palestinians. There was no
equivocation or excuses. Israeli citizens expressed their
shock, horror and revulsion at the killings. The Israeli
reaction was similar to the massive demonstration of 400,000
that came in response to the Phalangist massacre of
Palestinians at Sabra and Shatila in 1982.
   The Arab world's reaction to the murder of innocent
Israelis has been very different. In 1985, when an Egyptian
soldier on active duty shot to death seven Israeli tourists,
including four children, in the Sinai, many Egyptians and
Palestinians celebrated the deaths of the Israelis. The
killer, who subsequently died under mysterious circumstances
in an Egyptian prison, has since become a folk hero in Egypt
and the Arab world, enshrined in Arab mythology. Last year,
when 15 Israelis and one American were killed when a
fundamentalist Palestinian caused an Israeli bus to crash in
a ravine, many Palestinians openly justified the killings;
some even rejoiced.
   Not only have Palestinians routinely celebrated the
killings of Israelis. They have consistently subscribed to
conspiracies, including their charge that the violent deaths
of Palestinians are part of a deliberate Israeli plot to kill
all Palestinians. This conspiratorial accusation, not
insignificantly, is similar to the way the "intifada" may
have started. After a traffic accident in Gaza in December
1987 in which four Palestinians were killed, Palestinians
immediately charged that the traffic accident was a
deliberate act of premeditated murder by the Israeli
government. In fact, it was just a traffic accident.
   While Palestinian exaggerations, conspiracies and
distortions may be understandable given the difficult
circumstances under which the Palestinians live, the U.S.
media and human-rights organizations have a responsibility
not to report them blindly. When Palestinian schoolchildren
several years ago claimed they were being poisoned by Israel,
the accusation was uncritically broadcast all over the world.
Later a team of international scientists determined that
there was no poisoning whatsoever. The children at best were
suffering from some form of mass hysteria, and at worst were
being manipulated by their parents.
   The response of the media and human-rights organizations
in the U.S. to the killings of innocent Israelis by Arabs has
been just as skewed. When terrorists opened fire on an
Israeli tour bus outside Cairo and killed nine Israelis, why
didn't human-rights activists and commentators charge that
the event was fostered by the climate of hate against Jews in
Egypt? Palestinian leaders openly justified the killings.
Instead, the U.S. media focused on the apologies issued by
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak to foster the notion that
the attack was an "abberation" in Egypt's attitude toward
Israelis.
   Whether the attack was an abberation is, in fact,
debatable. An examination of broadcasts and publications in
Egypt in the weeks after the killings indicates, however,
that some Egyptians approved of the killings. Yet, at the
same time, the Egyptian government forcefully condemned the
attack. (In Egypt, the semi-controlled press has been bashing
Israel and Jews for years now, routinely comparing Jews to
Nazis and endorsing the worst conspiratorial accusations
against Jews from the notorious anti-Semitic forgery, the
Protocols of the Elders of Zion.)
   Perhaps even worse is how human-rights organizations and
the U.S. media treat the killings of Arabs by Arabs: There is
virtually no coverage or criticism. Two weeks ago, Egyptian
police opened fire on "fundamentalists" southwest of Cairo,
killing 14 Egyptians. The massacre was ignored by nearly all
American newspapers and television networks. The Associated
Press ran a small three-paragraph story -- but quoted only
the version offered by the Egyptian police, who alleged they
were provoked. The media's indifference to inter-Arab
killings is similar to the media's racism in generally
ignoring killings by American blacks against fellow blacks
while at the same time hyping killings of whites by blacks.
   In the days to come, there will be the predictable orgy of
Israel-bashing by the media, human-rights organizations and
American supporters of the Palestinians. We will hear that
Israel's soul has been poisoned, that it is responsible for
the killings on Sunday.
   Ultimately, the true test of a nation's soul is how it
reacts in the face of such violence. France reacted with
widespread popular revulsion at the desecration of Jewish
cemeteries earlier this month. Israel has moved swiftly and
appropriately. If only the Arab world and the Palestinians
would react similarly.
   ---
   Mr. Emerson, a Washington-based writer, is the co-author
of "The Fall of Pan Am 103: Inside the Lockerbie
Investigation" (G.P. Putnam's Sons).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, May 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 5/16% high, 8 3/16% low, 8 3/16% near
closing bid, 8 1/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.125% 15 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 179
days; 8% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.225%
30 days; 8.20% 60 days; 8.20% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.81% two
months; 7.84% three months; 7.99% six months; 8.25% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.20% one month; 8.30% three months;
8.40% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.09% 30 days; 8.07% 60 days; 8.07%
90 days; 8.06% 120 days; 8.05% 150 days; 8% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 5/16% - 8 3/16% one month; 8
3/8% - 8 1/4% two months; 8 7/16% - 8 5/16% three months; 8
1/2% - 8 3/8% four months; 8 9/16% - 8 7/ 16% five months; 8
9/16% - 8 7/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 5/16% one month;
8 7/16% three months; 8 9/16% six months; 8 13/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.75%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, May 21, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.74%, 13 weeks; 7.79%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.40%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.32%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.90%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.85%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   DAVID N. MARTIN agreed in principle to become chairman of
Fahlgren &amp; Swink, a Parkersburg, W. Va.-based ad unit of
Lintas:USA. He will continue as chairman of Hawley Martin
Partners, which last week agreed to be acquired by Lintas.
Yesterday's advertising column incorrectly reported that
Hawley Martin and Fahlgren &amp; Swink were merging and misstated
the headquarters for Fahlgren &amp; Swink. The story also
incorrectly identified Cincinnati Bell as a client of
Fahlgren &amp; Swink.
   (See: "Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising: Outdoor Ad
Sellers Seek Return of Packaged Goods to Billboards" -- WSJ
May 21, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Detroit Edison Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   DTE
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT EDISON Co. said it will redeem 200,000 shares of
its $2.75 series preference stock pursuant to provisions of a
sinking fund for this security. Certificates for the shares,
to be selected through random drawing, will be redeemed July
15 at $25 a share, with payment to be made on or after that
date. All shares redeemed will be canceled and will have the
status of authorized but unissued shares, the utility said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Student Loan Marketing Association
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SLM
</CO>
<LP>
   STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION (Washington) -- Timothy
G. Greene was named executive vice president and general
counsel of this operator of a secondary market in educational
loans. Mr. Greene, 51 years old, a Dallas lawyer who was
Sallie Mae's first general counsel, will succeed Ronald F.
Hunt, 47, who will begin a law practice in North Carolina in
midsummer. Among the challenges Mr. Greene will face is a
legal battle with commercial banks over Sallie Mae's right to
originate student loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP UIS FNM GE FORGN G.CBK F
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                        CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unisys Corp. -- $300 million of credit-sensitive notes,
due July 1, 1997, priced at par to yield 10.30%. The notes
offer bondholders protection in the form of coupon increases
that are triggered when the the company's credit rating is
downgraded by one full category. The noncallable notes were
priced at a spread of 150 basis points above the Treasury's
seven-year note. Rated Baa-3 by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the issue will
be sold through underwriters led by Bear Stearns &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                        MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

   Alabama Housing Finance Authority -- $55 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, GNMA collateralized
home mortgage revenue bond program, 1990 Series B, due April
1 and Oct. 1, 1992-2002, 2010, 2021 and 2022, repriced by a
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to lower some yields by five to 10
basis points. The bonds are now priced to yield from 6.40% in
1992 to 7.90% in 2022, changed from a yield of 6.50% in 1992
to 7.95% in 2022. Current interest serial bonds are now
priced at par to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 7.25% in 2002,
changed from priced at par to yield from 6.50% in 1992 to
7.35% in 2002. There are $7.74 million of 7.80% term bonds
priced at par in 2010, changed from 7.85% at par due Oct. 1,
2010. There are $14.5 million of 7.60% term bonds priced at
par due Oct. 1, 2021, which are unchanged. There are $27.41
million of 7.90% term bonds priced at par in 2022, changed
from 7.95% issues at par, due Oct. 1, 2022. The bonds are
rated triple-A by S&amp;P. Interest on the bonds will be treated
as a preference item in calculating the Federal alternative
minimum tax that may be imposed on certain investors.

                      MORTGAGE-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in 10 classes by Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. The offering, Series 1990-69, is backed by
Fannie Mae 9 1/2% securities.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $200 million of
Remic mortgage securities, offered in five classes by B.T.
Securities, the securities unit of Bankers Trust New York
Corp. The offering, Series 1990-70, is backed by
principal-only securities from Fannie Mae strips offerings.
That collateral consists of $130 million (face amount) of
principalonly strips from Fannie Mae's strips trust 11, which
is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities, and $70 million of
principal only strips from Fannie Mae's trust 58 strips deal,
which is backed by 9 1/2% securities.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Export-Import bank (Japan) -- $200 million of 9 1/2%
Eurobonds due June 29, 2000, priced at 101 1/2 to yield
9.63%, via IBJ International Ltd.
   General Electric Capital Corp. (U.S) -- 100 million
Canadian dollars of 13% Eurobonds due June 18, 1992, priced
at 101 1/2, via Bankers Trust International.
   European Investment Bank (agency) -- 125 million European
currency units of 10% fungible Eurobonds due February 14,
1997, via Nikko Securities Ltd. Fungible with an existing Ecu
1 billion issue.
   World Bank (agency) -- 30 billion yen of 6 7/8% Eurobonds
due June 11, 1997, priced at 101 3/8 to yield 6.92% less
fees, via LTCB International. Fees 1 5/8.
   Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (Austria) -- 150 million
Swiss francs of 7 1/4% public bonds due June 29, 2005, priced
at 101, via Swiss Bank Corp. Guarantee by the Republic of
Austria. Call from June 29, 2000 at 101 1/2, declining by 1/2
point per year.
   Swedish Export Credit (Sweden) -- 300 million Swedish
kronor of 13 5/8% bonds due June 21, 1993, priced at 101.20
to yield 13.70% less fees, via Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken.
Fees 1 3/8.
   Commerzbank Overseas Finance NV (W. German parent) -- 150
billion of 12 5/8% Eurobonds priced at 101.4 to yield 12.70%c
less fees, via Banco di Roma. Guaranteed by Commerzbank AG.
Fees 1 5/8.
   Interfinance Credit National (French parent) -- 500
million French francs of 10 1/4% Eurobonds due May 21, 1993,
priced at 101 3/8, via Credit Commercial de France. Fungible
with a 500 million franc issue outstanding. Guaranteed by
Credit National.
   Ford Capital BV (U.S. parent) -- 150 million pounds of 13
3/8% Eurobonds due June 12, 1997, priced at 101 5/8, via JP
Morgan Securities Ltd. Offered at a fixed price of par.
Guaranteed by Ford Motor Co., the parent company.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications

   COMMERZBANK OVERSEAS FINANCE N.V. offered 150 billion lira
of 12 5/8% Eurobonds priced at 101.4 to yield 12.70% less
fees. In yesterday's edition the denomination of the
Eurobonds was omitted.
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Valero Natural Gas Partners
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VLP WGL
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN ANTONIO, Texas -- Valero Natural Gas Partners Limited
Partnership, a natural gas transmission concern, said it
agreed to supply as much as 33 million cubic feet of natural
gas a day, or about 12 billion cubic feet annually, at market
prices during a 10-year period to Washington Gas Light Co., a
utility based in the District of Columbia that serves
customers in Washington, Maryland and Virginia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                            Week Ended:
                                        May 18,     May 11,
                                         1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a .... 8.20        8.26
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) .. 8.29        8.37
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b ......... 8.16        8.20
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b .............. 8.29        8.39
   Treasury bills (one year)-c ......... 8.24        8.36
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ....... 8.60        8.73
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ........ 8.67        8.79
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c ......... 8.68        8.81
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c .......... 8.64        8.80
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, May 16, 1990
and Wednesday May 9, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for constant
maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Recalls Vehicles
   Produced in 1987 by Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Chrysler Corp. is recalling part of American
Motors' 1987 production of Jeep Cherokees, Comanchees and
Wagoneers to replace overheating catalytic converters, the
Environmental Protection Agency said.
   The vehicles have 2.5-liter, fuel-injected engines built
before Oct. 16, 1986. The EPA said that 11,056 of these
models were produced but that some owners already have had
new converters installed under the vehicle-emission warranty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler will notify vehicle owners of the repair, which
will be free. The EPA discovered the problem during routine
testing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Detriot Edison Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS DTE
</CO>
<LP>
   DETROIT EDISON Co. (Detroit) -- William S. Orser, 45 years
old, was elected senior vice president responsible for
nuclear generation of this utility company. He was vice
president of nuclear generation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ruff Stirs Up
   New Recipes
   For Wealth
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Nervous about the volatile stock market and
fed up with the languishing price of gold?
   Get off your duff and start your own business on the side.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Buy and sell mortgages. Persuade your friends and
relatives to join a discount buying service. Buy foreclosed
properties. Rehabilitate and sell old homes.
   And protect your assets from lawsuits by setting up a
"family trust" on the Isle of Man, a tax haven in the Irish
Sea. The cost: $18,000.
   That's some of the advice 1,500 investors heard here last
week at Howard Ruff's 1990 national convention, entitled "How
to Grow Rich Before You Grow Old." Mr. Ruff, the newsletter
editor and former goldbug, holds one of the largest annual
conferences for individual investors.
   But those recommendations are open to plenty of skepticism
from professionals in real estate and money management. They
think many of the part-time business suggestions take too
much time and work and are too risky for retirees and other
individual investors.
   "If the pros are getting hurt, individuals should be leery
of getting into real estate on a part-time basis now," says
Harry D. Hartnett, director of research at Kenneth Leventhal
&amp; Co., an accounting firm that specializes in real estate.
   As for the foreign trust on the Isle of Man, Michael
Stolper, a San Diego consultant who selects money managers
for wealthy clients, says the device may make it harder for
people to collect on a lawsuit. But it won't guarantee that a
judgment won't be paid, he says.
   Mr. Ruff built up a large following in the early 1970s,
advising people to buy gold and stockpile food in order to
survive the approaching hard times. His book, "How to Prosper
in the Coming Bad Years," was a best seller, and
subscriptions to his Ruff Times newsletter soared. But the
bad times never came, and more recently Mr. Ruff has been
mostly out of the limelight.
   Today, he publishes six newsletters and has a middle-class
constituency to whom he sells an ever-expanding number of
services and products. Those with a $1,500 lifetime
subscription to Ruff Times got into last week's conference
free. Others forked over $350 ($450 for a couple) to listen
to Mr. Ruff's entrepreneurial ideas, as well as other
speakers' thoughts on stocks, gold, coins, mutual funds,
options, politics, living trusts and asset protection.
   Mr. Ruff left no doubt where he sees the most promise. "No
one ever made any real money following the advice of
financial newsletters," he says. "Today we are moving to
liquid stock markets that are impossible for the individual
investor to guess." As for gold, Mr. Ruff says he's a "bear."
   With the part-time businesses, however, "people can
control their income instead of investing in something they
can't control, like the stock market or the price of gold."
   Mr. Ruff's Jefferson Institute in Springville, Utah,
offers several courses in how to start these various
businesses. Fees run as high as $5,000 to $6,500 for three to
five days of training. The institute, Mr. Ruff says, is his
main profit center.
   Buying and selling mortgages "at a discount" will be one
of the major business opportunities for individual investors
in the 1990s, he says. This works most often when a person
has sold a home and has to take back a second mortgage from
the buyer. Often the person would rather have cash than a
second mortgage. An individual investor can step in and offer
to buy the loan for cash at a discount. Then, depending on
negotiating skills, the investor can sell the loan to someone
else, pocketing the difference.
   John Eichel, real estate analyst for Bailard Biehl &amp;
Kaiser, a San Mateo, Calif., money-management firm, says he
thinks the process is "too complicated" for the average
individual investor and has too many downside risks. "I
wouldn't do this unless I was a real estate broker or
attorney," he says. "It takes a tremendous amount of time and
work to check out the people who hold the loan, the property
it's secured by, and make the other due diligence checks." He
adds: "Nothing is as easy as they make it sound."
   Many people at the conference seemed to realize that sales
pitches were interspersed among the financial advice. "After
attending a session, you come out saying, `This is it. This
is the thing for me,'" says a businessman from Yreka, Calif.,
who declined to give his name. "But you've got to remember,
these speakers are super salesmen. You have to keep a hold on
your wallet."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lee Data Seeks Name Change
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LEDA IISLF
</CO>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- Lee Data Corp. said it will ask
shareholders in July to approve a change in the company's
name to Apertus Technologies.
   Lee Data said Apertus Technologies was formed after the
company sold its commercial and international business to IIS
Inc. last March. IIS will continue using the Lee Data name.
IIS is a subsidiary of I.I.S. Intelligent Information Systems
of Israel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The maker of computer hardware and software products and
systems said it will continue to trade under the ticker
symbol LEDA until further notice.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   West Gold Mines'
   Growth in Output
   Seen Nearing End
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- After several years of heady expansion, growth
in Western gold-mining production is coming to an end,
according to a study of gold-mining companies.
   Western gold output grew by 72% in the 1980s to a record
1,653 metric tons last year, says the report by Gold Fields
Mineral Services Ltd., a research joint venture of Newmont
Mining Corp., Gold Fields of South Africa and Renison
Goldfields Consolidated, an Australian mining company. A
metric ton is 2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the decade, North American output rose to 418
metric tons in 1989, compared with 82 tons in 1980; Latin
American mines produced 229 tons last year against 92 tons in
1980. Australian companies mined 197 tons in 1989 compared
with 17 tons 10 years ago. South African mine production,
however, fell to 608 tons from 675 tons at the beginning of
the '80s.
   A weak gold price, rising costs and a tax on gold-mining
profits in Australia will curb expansion during the 1990s,
according to the report.
   But the East bloc, which raised sales to 296 tons last
year from 263 tons, will "continue to be a major source of
supply" because the Soviet Union needs foreign exchange.
Nevertheless, mining difficulties in the Soviet Union are
likely to keep annual production of 300 tons virtually
static, says the author of the study, Stewart Murray.
   Following a surge in demand in Asia and Italy, however,
jewelry manufacturers bought about 96% of newly mined Western
gold last year, says the report.
   That consumption dipped when gold soared in the final
quarter last year, but has risen again following the renewed
price depression this year. Asian and Middle Eastern hoarders
are also buying more gold, the report says.
   The gold price failed to respond to the report's
optimistic conclusions, however, because disenchanted Western
investors are still sellers. Such was the disappointment of
European investors, for example, that they sold approximately
15 tons of coins last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Smith Corona Names
   William D. Henderson
   To President's Post
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SCO
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW CANAAN, Conn. -- Smith Corona Corp. named William D.
Henderson president and chief operating officer, a newly
created post, effective July 1.
   Mr. Henderson, 43 years old, was previously executive
officer and group vice president at Hanson Industries, the
U.S. unit of London-based Hanson PLC, which spun off the
maker of electronic typewriters, word processors and office
supplies last summer and retains about a 48% interest in
Smith Corona.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although Mr. Henderson had been a Hanson executive, a
Smith Corona spokesman said the appointment to the new post
wasn't dictated by Hanson. He pointed out that Mr. Henderson
and Smith Corona Chairman Lee Thompson have been close
friends and worked together for a number of years. The
appointment "made sense," the spokesman said. He said the
company had been looking for a president since it went public
last year.
   Smith Corona has had some difficulties since its initial
public offering in July, and recently reported a 51% drop in
fiscal-third quarter net income, reflecting slow sales of
higher priced products and pricing competition from Asia. It
also had some layoffs last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Federal Home Loan Bank of New York
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (New York) -- Mark
Broxmeyer, 41 years old, was named public-interest director
of this financing and banking services concern, to complete
an unexpired four-year term through Dec. 31. He is a general
partner of Fairfield Properties, a Commack, N.Y., owner and
manager of commercial and residential property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES IBM MMM GE HWP MRK JAPAN WNEWS SPP DOW HPC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   IRS REGULATIONS on pension plans promise headaches for
major employers.
   After more than three years of deliberation, the IRS has
finally published what it hails as "simplified" rules for
assuring that pension and profit-sharing plans don't
discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees. But
they "are not the panacea everyone hoped they would be," says
Frederick Rumack of Buck Consultants. The 401(a)(4) rules, as
they are known, "don't give us much opportunity to design
plans without going through hoops," he asserts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most major companies, especially those with
defined-benefit plans, will have to either cut the total
value of their packages or raise benefits to lower-paid
workers. Or the companies could submit to some complex annual
tests that they would probably fail, requiring changes
anyway, particularly in how pensions are integrated with
Social Security benefits. Smaller companies -- without an
army of consultants and actuaries to call on -- probably will
try to comply by adopting a so-called "safe harbor" rule that
sets out a supposedly easy route to compliance.
   Such an election, though, could lower the tax-qualified
benefits top earners would receive, Mr. Rumack says.
                                                                                                       

   ENJOY MEMORIAL DAY] It's the last long weekend until Labor
Day.
   With July 4 falling on a Wednesday this year, just about
every company will be braving through Independence Day week
by trying to maintain normal operations that Monday and
Tuesday and then again the following Thursday and Friday. If
you dream of a five-day weekend, forget it, unless you plan
on using vacation days, which many are doing at Westinghouse
Electric Corp.
   Proler International Inc. anticipates some workers will
break away early July 3. But it hopes they'll return July 5
rejuvenated from the mid-week break. Raytheon Co. suspects
some may try to extend the holiday by calling in sick. But it
says absenteeism would be worse if the holiday fell on a
Tuesday or Thursday. Still, few companies want to make
Independence Day a Monday holiday. "Are you kidding?"
Dennison Manufacturing Co. asks.
                                                                                                       

   IBM SCORES top marks for its human-resource policies.
   In a survey sponsored by the computer maker -- though the
participants didn't know it -- human-resource executives at
142 companies rated International Business Machines Corp.
among the leaders in every personnel area assessed. No other
company came close. In all, the survey by consultant Towers
Perrin asked the executives to name leaders in 18 individual
categories, including compensation and recruiting, and four
overall classifications: effectiveness, internationality,
leadership and innovation.
   IBM was cited by at least 5% to 10% of the respondents,
depending on the question, in 17 of the individual
categories. Leaders in health education weren't identified
because there were too few of them. IBM also was listed as a
leader in the four overall characteristics. Only Minnesota
Mining &amp; Manufacturing Co. also was cited in the four overall
groups. It was among the leaders in 12 of the individual
categories.
   General Electric Co., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Merck &amp; Co.
also ranked high for their policies.
                                                                                                       

   THE SURVEY and a companion poll in Japan show managers in
both countries give top priority to executive development and
recruiting. But a third major concern of the Americans is
compensation; for the Japanese, it's work-force planning.
                                                                                                       

   GOLDEN PARACHUTES float over big companies; 43% of them
protect executives in the event of a hostile takeover,
consultant Towers Perrin says. But just 26% of midsized firms
offer the coverage, though their size may make them more
vulnerable.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS TRAVELERS spend less, despite rising travel
costs. Consultant Runzheimer International puts outlays at
$6,250 a year, off 7.1% from 1988, because travelers
consolidate trips and hunt for discounts.
                                                                                                       

   DON'T BLAME leveraged buy-outs. Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. says there's no link between the increased number of
firms going private and the rise in the number of pension
plans terminated to recover excess assets.
                                                                                                       

   ENVIRONMENTAL CHIEFS get broader exposure at many
companies.
   Scott Paper Co. creates the post of senior vice president
for environmental affairs to "raise the visibility of
environmental issues within the corporation." A forestry
manager, Stephen Conway, gets the job. Dow Chemical Co. picks
David Buzzelli, a chemical engineer who headed its Canadian
operations, to fill its new environment, health and safety
vice presidency. Hercules Inc. hires Marshall Steinberg, a
toxicologist, as its latest environment watcher.
   But finding executives for the top posts can be a daunting
challenge, says recruiter Paul McCartney of Paul R. Ray &amp; Co.
"It's a needle-in-the-haystack hunt to find someone with both
the understanding of environmental issues and enough industry
experience to help the company," he says.
   Chevron Corp. concurs "very few people could come up
through the ranks because the jobs didn't exist."
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: College seniors think they are so well
prepared for their first jobs they will have to endure few
clerical or "gofer" duties, CareerVision Information Centers
says. . . . New Trier High School in Winnetka, Ill., stages
"How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" with women
as bosses and men as secretaries, but it moves the setting to
2059 to make it believable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Whittaker Credit Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WKR
</CO>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Whittaker Corp. said it has commitments
from several banks for a new, $140 million credit facility to
replace debt remaining from a recapitalization it implemented
last June.
   Whittaker, a maker of high-technology equipment, said the
new facility gives the company the choice of borrowing at
prime or other rates if they are more favorable. The facility
should be in place within 30 days, Whittaker said. Security
Pacific National Bank, based here, is the lead bank.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whittaker borrowed $360 million for the recapitalization
after rejecting a $47.50-a-share unsolicited takeover bid
from a closely held investment concern in December 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos --
   Chrysler:
   Incentive
   Is No Dodge
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- When is a guaranteed rebate not
guaranteed? When the money is paid to the dealer, instead of
directly to consumers.
   Chrysler Corp. has quietly put a $500 factory-to-dealer
incentive on its stretch minivans. But Chrysler says the move
won't trigger payments to consumers who recently bought the
vehicles, because the incentive money is being paid to
dealers instead of directly to consumers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler recently pledged that customers who bought a 1990
minivan between April 1 and Sept. 30 will get the amount of
any consumer rebate offered on the vehicle during the
six-month period. The pledge was designed to counter the
sharp drop in minivan sales after January, when Chrysler put
its first-ever rebates on the minivans. The idea was to keep
consumers from waiting for possible new rebates -- which
Chrysler said it didn't expect to offer-before buying.
   However, a Chrysler spokesman said yesterday that the
guarantee doesn't apply to factory-to-dealer incentives. The
reason: Dealers can use the money for advertising and other
promotional programs, at their discretion, instead of for
lowering the sticker price.
   The question is: Will these new incentives spark
resentment among people who bought their minivans in recent
weeks, thinking that they would get reimbursed for any rebate
that Chrysler added to the vehicle later. Not so, says Edward
Barwick, a Chrysler-Plymouth dealer in Napa, Calif. "They are
two totally different programs," he explains. "This is not a
rebate. This is dealer cash for each unit we sell."
   That difference, though, might be lost on some consumers.
"At the absolute least, it's going to cause ill will," says
Ronald Glantz, a veteran auto-industry analyst with Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. in San Francisco. The more publicity
that the dealer incentives get, he explains, the greater the
resentment will be among buyers.
   Officially, Chrysler is declining to provide any details
on the stretch-minivan dealer incentives.
   "We haven't announced any {consumer} rebates on minivans,"
the Chrysler spokesman maintained. "If we do, {the rebate
guarantee} certainly will be honored."
   Just the same, many dealers are expected to use the
factory money to reduce the hefty price of the three Chrysler
long-wheelbase minivans: the Dodge Grand Caravan, Plymouth
Grand Voyager and Chrysler Town and Country. "It just allows
us to sell them for that much less," said Brian Belair,
general manager of Freeway Dodge in Bloomington, Minn., where
the average stretch minivan sells for about $18,500.
   The stretch minivan was hotly received when introduced in
the fall of 1986, three years after the No. 3 car maker in
the U.S. came out with its landmark standard minivan.
However, the popularity of the stretch version has slipped
slightly in the current model year; it accounts for 41% of
all Chrysler minivans, down from 42.7% in the 1989 model
year.
   The new factory-to-dealer incentive doesn't apply to the
standard-sized minivans. So far this model year, Chrysler has
sold 96,234 stretch minivans and 136,636 standard minivans.
   Chrysler's first-time $1,000 rebate on all its minivans in
January boosted sales to 64,000 vehicles, more than double
the normal monthly sales rate. But sales plunged to fewer
than 20,000 vehicles in February after the rebate expired.
   The Chrysler minivan, while still the dominant player in
the minivan market, now faces new competition from such
products as Toyota Motor Corp.'s Previa and General Motors
Corp.'s new plastic-bodied minivans.
   Chrysler will meet this new competition by giving its
minivan a sleeker exterior and also refining the vehicle's
interior for the 1991 model year. In the meantime, the car
maker is fighting to retain robust sales of its single
most-important product -- which is where the new
factory-to-dealer incentives come in.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HUD's Monroe Gets Post
   In S&amp;L Bailout Agency
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Peter Monroe, an official with the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, was appointed to
a top position in the savings-and-loan bailout effort.
   As expected, the Oversight Board of the Resolution Trust
Corp. appointed Mr. Monroe, 46 years old, to be the board's
president, effective June 11. The Oversight Board sets policy
and oversees the actions of the RTC, which sells and
liquidates insolvent S&amp;Ls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The post was a position of some controversy in the early
months of the bailout, which began last August, when the
several agencies with a role in the S&amp;L sales disputed lines
of authority. Mr. Monroe will succeed William Taylor, a
Federal Reserve official, who was in the job temporarily. Mr.
Taylor is expected to take over as chairman of the RTC, which
is lower in the bailout hierarchy, when the current chairman,
William Seidman, resigns.
   Mr. Monroe has been the general deputy assistant secretary
for housing for one year, and before that was president of
Rutenberg Commercial Developers, Clearwater, Fla.
   The Oversight Board includes Treasury Secretary Nicholas
Brady, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, and
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Jack Kemp. The board
also includes Philip Jackson, a former Federal Reserve
governor, and Robert Larson, president of Taubman Co., a real
estate development concern in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Output
   Fell 0.3% for Week
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
decreased 0.3% last week to 1,955,000 from 1,960,000 tons the
previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute said.
   Last week's ouput rose 2.5% from the 1,908,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 87.0% of its capability last week,
compared with 87.2% the previous week and 89.0% a year
earlier.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                                 Net tons     Capability
                                 produced    utilization
                                                                                                       

 Week to May 19 .............   1,955,000        87.0
 Week to May 12 .............   1,960,000        87.2
 Year to date ...............  38,026,000        85.4
 Year earlier to date .......  39,689,000        89.8
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Considers 2 Loans to China
   That Could Set Off Protests in Congress
   ----
   By Greg Hitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank is considering two loans to
China that congressional leaders say could set off a new
round of protest over Beijing's human-rights policy and
endanger support for the Third World lending institution.
   The loans -- for a $300 million forestry project and a
$150 million transportation project -- are scheduled for
consideration May 29. Approval of either of the measures,
less than a year after the military crackdown in Tiananmen
Square, would seriously lessen the chances for passage of
legislation needed to replenish the bank's soft-loan window,
bank supporters say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D.,
Texas) said he favors holding up a bill authorizing a $3.2
billion contribution to the bank's International Development
Association, which makes no-interest loans to the world's
poorest countries, including China.
   A separate bill appropriating the money likely won't be
blocked but would face a difficult time in Congress.
   "If the World Bank proceeds, it will weaken its position
on the Hill," said Rep. Matthew McHugh (D., N.Y.), a member
of the Appropriations Committee who supports the bank. "A
realistic assessment of the politics here is that those loans
will make our job much more difficult."
   World Bank lending to China was halted last year after the
Tiananmen Square incident, but resumed this spring when the
U.S. indicated it would support measures that target basic
human needs.
   Three loans totaling $140 million have gone toward
earthquake assistance, job training and rural development.
   U.S. policy is to support loans for "the poorest and most
vulnerable people in China," said John Niehuss, deputy
assistant Treasury secretary for international policy.
   Acting on that policy, the administration opposed the
transportation loan when it was up for consideration earlier
this spring, organizing enough opposition among the Group of
Seven major industrial nations that it wasn't formally put
before the bank's board of directors.
   U.S. opposition continues on that project, although the
G-7 coalition appears to have fractured somewhat, enhancing
the loan's chances of approval, congressional and World Bank
sources say.
   The administration position is less clear on the forestry
project. In recent briefings on Capitol Hill, the
administration indicated it might support the measure because
an argument can be made that it creates jobs.
   That view isn't widely shared on Capitol Hill, where
dissatisfaction lingers about President Bush's stance toward
China. Approval of either loan would almost certainly upset
the bank's political base in Congress.
   In particular, liberal Democrats, who make up the bank's
primary backers in Congress, would face the choice of either
sticking with it or opposing it to express displeasure with
China's human-rights policy. California's Nancy Pelosi is one
liberal Democrat who has already made up her mind.
   "If those loans go through, it would say that one year
after Tiananmen Square, it didn't make a difference," said
Rep. Pelosi, adding that expanded World Bank lending could
prompt other countries to resume bilateral aid to China.
"Those loans will be subject to very strong scrutiny. They're
going to have a fight."
   Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell criticized
resumption of World Bank lending to China earlier this year.
The Maine Democrat has called for a tougher U.S. policy. "Our
moral stance has been compromised," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Lithuania: Morality vs. Pragmatism
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   I was so dismayed at the results of your public surveys on
Lithuania (page one, April 19). The U.S. public seems to
think that supporting Mikhail Gorbachev is more important
than the rights of the Lithuanian people to
self-determination and that U.S. support of Lithuania would
be some kind of interference in Soviet domestic affairs.
   This confusion can be cleared up by an understanding of
Russian history. Conservatives sometimes call the U.S.S.R.
the Soviet empire because the Soviet Union is indeed a
colonial empire, the same as Czarist Russia in all but name,
and the last surviving such empire in the world. Just like
the British and the French empires, it acquired much of its
territory by military conquest during the 100 years from the
late 18th century to the late 19th.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the era of decolonization in the 1950s and 1960s
there was a general public consensus that empires had to be
dissolved because most colonies had the right to
independence. But partly because that movement was originally
leftist inspired, everyone forgot about the Soviet empire.
   It is time to recognize the necessity of decolonization.
Not because we want to "cause trouble for Gorbachev," but
because there is a moral obligation for the West, including
the U.S., to support freedom and independence for the captive
nationalities of the "Prison of nations."
   Eiketsu Hirose
   Livonia, Mich.
   ---
   Congratulations on the thorough and objective reporting of
the situation and activities in Lithuania. Your excellent
report was perhaps lacking only in some historic perspective
to help alleviate the "tradition of xenophobia" of the
American people by revisiting the events of the holocaust in
Ukraine in the mid-1920s, when some 10 million Ukrainian
peasants were starved to death by our onetime ally, Josef
Stalin, because of their resistance to agricultural
collectivization. This was accomplished by cutting off
supplies to the region and by a blockade not too dissimilar
to what is now being implemented by our "entrusted" future
business partner Mikhail Gorbachev. Several of the Ukraine
blockade masterminds and Stalin's henchmen, including Lazar
Kaganovich, still reside in Moscow on relatively comfortable
pensions.
   Ivars Reimanis
   Phoenix, Ariz.
   ---
   I fear that the current Lithuanian course of action could
derail the reforms taking place and could give Soviet
hardliners the chance to retake power. Lithuania, unlike the
Warsaw Pact countries, is actually a part of the Soviet
Union; our administration disavows so because of the way it
came about.
   Lithuania was an independent, sovereign, self-governing
country until it was invaded and conquered by the Soviet
Union in 1940, and subsequently annexed. Today it forms a
substantial part of the Soviet Union's western frontier, and
is probably indispensable to the Soviets' national-security
strategy, at least for a while. The difference and extreme
delicacy of this situation might be better seen with a
convenient analogy.
   Hawaii was an independent, sovereign, self-governing
country until it was invaded and conquered by the U.S. in
1893, and subsequently annexed. Today it forms a substantial
part of our western frontier and is indispensable to our
national security. If native Hawaiians organized a Congress,
proclaimed their independence, seceded from the union, and
called loudly upon the world for recognition and support,
what would our reaction be? What options would we have? I
think you see the point.
   A more promising course of action for the Lithuanians
would be to back down for now, be a "good little state" for
two or three years, until the political and economic reforms
are on a firmer footing.
   Randall P. Shook
   Boiling Springs, N.C.
   ---
   I will not believe that 61% of Americans would rather
maintain friendly ties with the murderous U.S.S.R. than
support freedom for Lithuania. Something must have gone wrong
with the poll. I have not found a single person who agrees.
   Americans who wave the flag and celebrate our Constitution
and the anniversary of our freedom should at least prefer to
support freedom for the people of Lithuania, whose bondage
the U.S. has never recognized. Those same Americans should at
least question friendship with a nation that is guilty of
murdering millions of its own and other people, and that has
antagonized and opposed the U.S. for more than 40 years. This
poll, coming on the heels of Soviet admission of guilt for
the Katyn Forest massacre, reveals much about changing
American values.
   A nation that can find nothing worth fighting for is
doomed.
   Clement R. Coggin
   Ocean Springs, Miss.
   ---
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   BankAmerica Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAC PWJ WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   BANKAMERICA Corp. (San Francisco) -- Martin Stein,
executive vice president and chief information officer at
PaineWebber Inc., was named an executive vice president of
this bank holding company and head of its BankAmerica Systems
Engineering unit, succeeding Michael Simmons, who resigned
last month. In addition, Eric Von Pingel, director of the
real estate appraisal department, was named a senior vice
president of the company's principal Bank of America
subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Rectifier,
   Siliconix Settle Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IRF SILIQ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- International Rectifier Corp. and
Siliconix Inc. said they reached agreement on
patent-infringement litigation concerning International
Rectifier's power-transistor technology.
   Under terms of the accord, Siloconix, of Santa Clara,
Calif., will pay International Rectifier $12 million over a
two-year period and will acquire a royalty-bearing license
under the litigated patents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Siliconix filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
Federal bankruptcy code April 10 after a U.S. district court
held valid all five of International Rectifier's patents on
the power-transistor technology. Implementation of the
agreement is subject to approval of the bankruptcy court.
   Siliconix supplies advanced semiconductor products.
International Rectifier supplies power semiconductors and
other products. The litigation had been pending since 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Whose Nudes?: The Search for Ms. Maples
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufmann
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Attention Marla Maples: Playboy would like to
see more of you. Not to put too fine a point on it, Marla,
Playboy would like to photograph you nude. So would
Penthouse. And come to think of it, add High Society to the
list.
   It is unending, the search for truth, justice and the
celebrity nude photograph. And as Gary Cole, photography
editor of Playboy, has learned through the years, it's often
easier to scope out truth and justice than a famous -- or
notorious -- woman sans culottes. But there are ways, there
are ways.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Cole favors the direct approach: phoning the
celebrity's agent and pleading his case. "Marla Maples's
agent said he would communicate our interest in her," said
Mr. Cole, who views Donald Trump's supposed girlfriend as "an
obvious Playboy type." "We've pursued a variety of other
contacts to communicate our interest in her," he added.
   According to Mr. Cole, such matters frequently hinge on
the attitude of the intermediary. If the go-between is
enthusiastic or has the confidence of the celebrity at just
the right moment, it could make a difference. "My experience
has taught me to keep pursuing even if someone says no," said
Mr. Cole, "because on another day the answer might be
different."
   So it proved with Jessica Hahn, secretary and inamorata of
PTL ministry head Jim Bakker. "It was a case of Jessica being
hounded the way Marla was," said Mr. Cole. "It was difficult
to get our voice heard amidst all the shouting. Ms. Hahn's
first lawyer wasn't buying Playboy's blandishments, but when
the former secretary changed counsel, Playboy found a more
sympathetic ear. "We could have a conversation with him,"
said Mr. Cole. "Jessica was predisposed to do it all along
and once we were able to tell our story and what we wanted to
do, it all started to fall into place."
   Singer LaToya Jackson, a desirable subject because of the
public's fascination with her brother Michael, was a tougher
sell. Initially, neither Ms. Jackson nor her manager evinced
interest in Playboy's proposition, "but I got a nice rapport
going with the manager and he and I talked several times over
the course of months," said Mr. Cole. "I kept suggesting it
and he kind of warmed to it even though LaToya was reluctant.
She was modest and she wasn't sure she could get in front of
the camera without her clothes."
   To allay Ms. Jackson's concerns, Mr. Cole sent her
examples of previous Playboy layouts of Raquel Welch and
Marilyn Monroe, "those in the upper echelon of celebrity
status," he explained. "And she felt if they did it she could
do it."
   Actresses unwilling to pose for fear of looking like a
bimbo in limbo, have disrobed to help promote their latest
movie. As a star in training, Kim Basinger sat for Playboy in
connection with "Never Say Never Again." Nastassia Kinski
with "Exposed," Rae Dawn Chong with "Quest for Fire" and
Sonia Braga with "Gabriela." Pia Zadora displayed her charms
for Penthouse when she starred in "The Lonely Lady."
   According to Ms. Maples's agent, Chuck Jones, Marla has no
intention of accepting Playboy's offer. "We're not promoting
anything with Marla," he said. "She's not promoting a movie
or a book. That's not to say she'd do a nude layout in
Playboy under any circumstances. She has strict standards."
   When a celebrity has strict standards, magazines do have
other options. One such option is prayer. Editors pray that
nude photos of their quarry (taken in days of more relaxed
standards) are lying in a photographer's file. Then they pray
that the photographer unearths the glossies, has the proper
releases and doesn't first call a competing publication.
   "It doesn't require a lot of work on our part to get such
pictures," said Jane Homlish, special assistant to Penthouse
founder and editor Bob Guccione. "Photographers know we can
afford to pay more than the other magazines," she added,
declining to give exact dollar amounts.
   "If photos are around, we'd be among the one or two
magazines to have a photographer knocking on our door," said
Gloria Leonard, publisher of High Society.
   "If anyone's got a nude picture of Marla Maples somewhere
in a file we could pretty much depend on their finding us,"
said Playboy's Mr. Cole.
   So it would seem. A photographer with provocative photos
of Donna Rice offered them to Playboy when the would-be model
was linked with presidential hopeful Gary Hart. Several years
ago, when a photographer went to see "Desperately Seeking
Susan" and recognized the film's star, Madonna, as one of his
nude subjects, he telephoned Playboy. Ditto the photographer
who shot the infamous series of pictures starring Vanessa
Williams. (The photos subsequently found their way to
Penthouse because Playboy editor Hugh Hefner reportedly
didn't want to be the guy responsible for bringing down the
first black Miss America.) A photographer with photos of
Vanna White in sheer black-and-white lingerie made the shots
available to High Society. (Playboy also ran provocative
shots of the Wheel of Fortune hostess.) And recently, Playboy
got a call from the photographer's assistant on the Marilyn
Monroe calendar shoot, proffering a picture he'd snapped of
the late star.
   When there is a dearth of photographers dialing for
dollars, the magazines try other avenues. Ms. Leonard tells
of a man in Baltimore whose avocation is hunting down photos
of well-known women in various stages of undress. Movie
projection operators, she says, often tip off the magazine to
good material, as do devoted readers. "There are people all
over who will see something on cable or in a European
magazine. A lot of celebrities will do layouts over there but
not here," said Ms. Leonard, whose magazine has paid as much
as $20,000 for a photo.
   Playboy also relies on readers' eternal vigilance. One
subscriber called, saying he'd spotted an enticing photo of
soap star Susan Lucci somewhere and advised the magazine to
investigate the matter further. Another reader was watching
when actress Sally Kirkland lost her top on a talk show, and
captured the moment for Playboy on videocassette.
   Former boyfriends are another source. Not too long ago,
the former beau of B-52 member Cindy Wilson called Playboy
with 10-year-old nude photos of the singer. "I said that
first we'd have to find out who owned the copyright," said
Playboy's assistant photography editor, Patty Beaudet.
"That's an important question."
   There's another important question: How do the magazines
square their desire to boost sales with the pain they might
be inflicting on the unsuspecting subject of a nude layout?
   "The way you have to look at these things is if someone
posed for pictures and signed a release as a mature adult,
she'd have to think at some point a photographer might want
to sell the pictures," said Penthouse's Ms. Homlish. "If
later the model changed her mind it shouldn't be our fault."
   For its part, High Society won't run shots without a
release "unless it's a public person in a public place," said
Ms. Leonard. Playboy said it won't run pictures of ANYONE
unaware that photos were being taken. "It's a question of
taste and legality," said Playboy's film editor, Bruce
Williamson, who's been offered more than his share of photos
shot on the beach or through a peephole.
   While Mr. Cole and Ms. Leonard doubt the existence of nude
Marla Maples photos -- if such pictures existed they surely
would have surfaced by now goes the thinking -- Penthouse has
not abandoned hope. "I wouldn't be surprised if something was
out there," said Ms. Homlish stoutly.
   Meanwhile, Manhattan photographer Andrew Unangst is
hitting himself over the head with a tripod. Several months
ago, Marla Maples came into his studios to pose for some test
shots, "and I didn't have time to take them. I would have
been offered up in the thousands for a nude of Marla," said
Mr. Unangst, acknowledging that Ms. Maples didn't quite seem
the sort of girl who'd pose nude. "It would have been like
winning the lottery. I could have bought an apartment in
Trump Tower."
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman is a New York free-lance writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ STK T UIS
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN TELEPHONE &amp; TELEGRAPH Co. (New York) -- Standard
&amp; Poor's Corp. said it affirmed its ratings on $11.1 billion
of debt issued by this telecommunications concern and two of
its units. The rating concern affirmed its double-A rating on
AT&amp;T's senior unsecured debt, which accounted for most of the
$11.1 billion, and single-A-1-plus on commercial paper; and
single-A-1-plus on commercial paper issued by AT&amp;T Capital
Corp. and AT&amp;T Credit Corp. S&amp;P's move came almost a month
after Moody's Investors Service Inc. upgraded its rating on
$9.2 billion of AT&amp;T's senior debt to double-A-3 from
single-A-1. Even after the upgrade, Moody's rating on AT&amp;T's
senior debt remains slightly lower than S&amp;P's, which has held
steady at double-A since it was downgraded because of the
1984 breakup of the Bell System; before the breakup, S&amp;P
rated AT&amp;T triple-A. In its affirmation, which came after an
annual review, S&amp;P said financial support for AT&amp;T's credit
is expected to strengthen in the near term to mid-term, as
earnings and cash flow improve. But it also noted that
leverage has increased in the past two years, and that
further investments in the financial sector may weaken AT&amp;T's
balance sheet in the near term.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   GRUMMAN Corp. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered its
ratings on about $510 million of this Bethpage, N.Y.,
concern's senior debt and preferred stock. The ratings firm
reduced its rating on senior debt to triple-B-minus from
triple-B and on subordinated debt and preferred stock to
double-B-plus from triple-B-minus. S&amp;P said the downgrades
reflect "Grumman's weakening competitive position and
continued fairly aggressive debt usage within the context of
deteriorating overall defense industry demand prospects."
Grumman, principally a manufacturer of military aircraft,
declined to comment. S&amp;P said there is "increasing pressure
on Grumman to secure new defense-electronics and
aircraft-remanufacturing business to bolster future
performance. This will become increasingly difficult in a
period of declining military procurement."
   ---
   STORAGE TECHNOLOGY Corp. -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.
said it raised the rating on the Louisville, Colo., company's
13.5% senior debentures to Ba2 from Ba3, affecting about $243
million in debt. The rating concern said it believes the
maker of data-storage devices will report improved results
from sales of its automated cartridge library systems, which
allow dozens of tape cartridges to be accessed quickly.
   ---
   UNISYS Corp. -- Standard &amp; Poors Corp. said it affirmed
its ratings on approximately $4.9 billion of this company's
debt and preferred stock, including its triple-B rating on
senior debt. S&amp;P said the Blue Bell, Pa., computer maker has
experienced an erosion of its balance sheet, but that recent
restructurings should return the company to profitability in
the near term. Still, S&amp;P noted, Unisys's debt-to-capital is
high and its future is uncertain. For those reasons, S&amp;P
said, there is a potential for ratings downgrades.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of Boston Corp. Disbands Division
   Specializing in Leveraged Buy-Out Loans
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of Boston Corp., one of the leading bank
lenders for leveraged buy-outs, has quietly disbanded a
division that specialized in such transactions.
   While Bank of Boston has profited in the past from
leveraged transactions, the outlook is cloudier for some of
the recent deals it has helped finance, such as the
acquisitions of G. Heileman Brewing Co., Friendly Ice Cream
and Prime Computer Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The action, which bank spokesmen described as part of an
ongoing reorganization, underlines a growing wariness by
banks toward leveraged buy-outs. Many banks have recently
taken a more conservative approach to these loans -- partly
because of concerns that a slowing economy could spell
trouble for highly leveraged companies, but also because of
pressure from federal regulators and worried investors.
   Peter Manning, Bank of Boston's chief financial officer,
stressed that the bank intends to continue making loans for
so-called highly leveraged transactions, despite the
dissolution of the bank's acquisition-finance division. The
division, which included about 16 officers, made leveraged
buy-out loans to midsized companies that didn't fall into the
bailiwick of the bank's specialized-loan divisions.
   Those specialized divisions will continue to seek
acquisition loans in industries that the bank has
traditionally served, such as cable television, Mr. Manning
said.
   But Mr. Manning acknowledged that the bank's decision last
fall to tighten its criteria for highly leveraged
transactions, had left the acquisition-finance division with
"a thinner net" for landing deals. For example, the bank now
insists on keeping no more than $50 million of any individual
loan, selling off the remaining amount. Previously, the bank
would keep as much as $75 million of a loan.
   Some leveraged buy-out specialists say that, while many
banks have become more conservative about leveraged buy-out
lending, the pattern is particularly marked at Bank of
Boston. The company, in its first quarter earnings report,
noted that it made no new commitments for financing of highly
leveraged transactions during the period. Partly as a result,
the bank's portfolio of highly leveraged transaction
financings shrank to $4.8 billion at March 31 from $5.3
billion at Dec. 31. But the smaller total still represents
one of the biggest portfolios in the nation -- especially as
a proportion of the bank's total assets of $37 billion.
   The acquisition-finance division's officers, as well as
its assets, have been reassigned to other lending divisions.
Gail Long, who had headed the acquisition-finance division,
has since been put in charge of the larger national division,
handling corporate loans outside New England, a spokesman
said.
   Some of the assets from the acquisition-finance division
were placed in the bank's loan-workout division, the
spokesman said. But he and Mr. Manning insisted that the
proportion of troubled loans wasn't notably high, and that
the quality of the portfolio wasn't a reason for the decision
to disband the division. The division in previous years has
produced strong profits for the company, Mr. Manning said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Surging Technology Stocks Dazzle Analysts, Investors
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ ASTA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Technology stocks are on a tear.
   Ever since technology companies started reporting
quarterly earnings last month that beat analysts'
expectations, the stocks have rocketed to highs that have
dazzled traders and investors. Indeed, a few analysts are
starting to wonder if technology issues -- computer, software
and semiconductor stocks -- aren't pointing to a further
rally in the stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   By any account, the rally in certain technology stocks has
been astonishing. Compaq Computer Corp. closed at $121.375 a
share yesterday, up $2.75, for a gain of 22% this month
alone. Digital Equipment Corp. closed at $90.625 yesterday,
up $1.375, for a gain on the month of 9.2%. International
Business Machines Corp., once a laggard trading in the low
$90s, added another $1.625 yesterday to close at $117, up
7.3% this month.
   The computer-industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index is up 18.8% this year, while the overall index is up
only 0.98%.
   The surge in technology issues underscores the point that
1990 is shaping up as a year for growth stocks: issues that
can grow earnings faster than the overall pace of corporate
profits. But technology stocks weren't always romanced by
investors. Late last year, they were dumped.
   Back then, investors thought U.S. demand for new computers
would be sluggish, and they were afraid of
product-development problems at various companies. Compaq
traded below $80 last December.
   But the most recent round of earnings reports showed that
companies such as Compaq are finding strong demand for
computers outside the U.S. Compaq said in its first-quarter
report that international sales made up more than half of its
revenue for the first time.
   Barbara Isgur, vice president at Needham &amp; Co., says the
earnings of computer companies are in a bullish phase. Demand
from Europe should continue, while U.S. corporations are
updating their systems at a faster pace. "Corporations can't
afford to sit still," says Ms. Isgur. They "have to keep pace
with what's acceptable" in terms of computing power.
   Compaq reported first-quarter earnings of $2.13 a share,
about three cents higher than the most-bullish analyst
estimates. Now analysts are boosting their latest estimates
for Compaq and other technology issues. Estimates for Compaq
have been revised upward to $9.31 share for 1990 from $9.11
four months ago, according to the Institutional Brokers
Estimate System, which compiles analysts' forecasts. Analysts
have hiked their 1990 earnings estimates for
personal-computer maker AST Research Inc. to $2.58 a share
from $1.98 four months ago.
   "We see an ebullient market where it's expectations of
earnings rather than asset values driving" stock prices, says
John C. Bogle, Jr., an analyst at State Street Bank and Trust
Co.
   While many growth-stock investors piled into technology
shares months ago, the most recent run in the stocks has been
fueled by so-called value investors. These money managers
roam through thousands of stocks in search of companies whose
shares, by various value benchmarks, are cheaper than the
overall market.
   For the first quarter, these value investors were faced
with the grim choice of bank shares and stocks of some
commodity producers, both considered risky bets when it comes
to earnings. But lately, technology stocks have been popping
up on value investors' computers that search the markets for
cheap stocks.
   Compaq stock, for example, is selling at about 13 times
the computer maker's 1990 earnings forecast, compared with a
price-earnings multiple of about 16 on the Standard &amp; Poor's
500-stock index. "As a value manager, you very rarely get a
chance to buy growth stocks at current multiples," says David
Dreman, president of Dreman Value Management L.P., which owns
about 1.7 million shares of Compaq. Mr. Dreman has 15% of his
$4 billion stock portfolio plunked down in technology issues.
   Now comes the caveat. Technology stocks go down as fast as
they go up. Mr. Bogle says one reason why technology stocks
are trading at a cheaper value than the overall market is
that they are known to be risky. Says Needham's Ms. Isgur:
"There's a hair-trigger in this sector, and that won't
change. It is inevitable that every high technology company
will hit some kind of snag, and in a fair percentage of the
cases it is a four-quarter snag. Investors don't want to hang
around while the problem works out."
   Jack Solomon, technical analyst at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.,
warns that the stock market looks "frothy" with stocks like
Compaq adding $2 to $3 every day. Still, the romance of high
tech is hard to resist, he says. "When you get technology
stocks going, it infuses the ticker tape with excitement,
attracting the traders and the public," he says. Fast-moving
technology issues "broaden the participation and interest in
the stock market like few other groups can," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDA Clears Bacteria's Use
   To Treat Bladder Cancer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   F.INM
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration approved
use of a type of live bacteria to treat bladder cancer.
   Manufactured by Connaught Laboratories Ltd., of
Willowdale, Ontario, the drug will be distributed in the U.S.
under the brand name Theracys.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bacteria, Bacillus Calmette Guerin Live, already are
manufactured by several U.S. companies -- including Quad
Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Indianapolis, and Organon Inc. of
West Orange, N.J. -- for treating tuberculosis. But the drug
also has been found helpful in treating a type of cancer that
affects approximately 10,000 people.
   Under the treatment, the bacteria are inserted into the
bladder through a catheter, inflaming the bladder and causing
it to expel cancer cells.
   Connaught, a unit of France-based Pasteur Merieux Serums &amp;
Vaccins, is the first company to receive U.S. approval for
this use of the bacteria. Neither Connaught nor its parent is
publicly traded in the U.S.
   A spokesman for the company's U.S. distributor, Connaught
Laboratories Inc., of Swiftwater, Pa., said the drug would be
available in approximately three months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Luxembourg Clears BCCI
   In Money-Laundering Case
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Luxembourg banking authorities said they found no grounds
for taking legal action against BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg)
S.A., the parent of Bank of Credit &amp; Commerce International,
which pleaded guilty in January to money laundering in the
U.S.
   Luxembourg officials appointed a panel of magistrates to
study the matter shortly after the bank pleaded guilty in
Tampa, Fla., to charges that it had obscured the origins of
more than $14 million of drug money. Though the legal case
didn't directly involve the Luxembourg holding company, it
created embarrassing publicity for Luxembourg, which has long
sought to dispel the notion that its bank-secrecy laws
provide cover for money launderers and other financial
criminals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yves Mersch, director of Luxembourg's Treasury Ministry,
said in a telephone interview that the magistrates and
government officials concluded that the U.S. court case
reflected the actions of "individuals at a branch {of BCCI}
and not a policy which would have been made in Luxembourg."
   In addition, he said, only people -- not companies -- have
legal liability under Luxembourg law, and BCCI officials in
the grand duchy weren't charged with any offenses in the
Florida case.
   After BCCI's guilty plea was announced, Mr. Mersch said,
Luxembourg officials told the holding company that they
expected it to stop using the grand duchy as its legal
headquarters for its world-wide network, which is managed by
officials in London and elsewhere. BCCI's current
restructuring program appears to satisfy Luxembourg's demand,
Mr. Mersch said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   News Corp. Unit
   To Sell Lippincott
   To Dutch Concern
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS N.WOK PCI T.TOC U.REE U.PSO N.ELS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Harper Collins, a book-publishing affiliate of
News Corp., agreed to sell health-care publisher J.B.
Lippincott Co. to an Amsterdam publisher for more than $250
million.
   Harper Collins put the unit up for sale in mid-April,
seeking to cut debt and focus itself more sharply on book
publishing. Analysts had estimated that Philadelphia-based
Lippincott, which publishes newsletters, journals and books
on medical topics, might fetch $200 million to as much as
$250 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Six bidders vied for Lippincott; the winner was a New York
subsidiary of Wolters Kluwer N.V., which currently owns
medical publishers Raven Press and Aspen Publishers.
   Harper declined to disclose the other bidders. But people
in the industry said that Paramount Communications Inc., the
entertainment company here; Toronto publisher Thomson Corp.;
Britain's Reed International PLC and Pearson PLC; and
Elsevier N.V. of the Netherlands all bid for Lippincott.
   Of the transaction's terms, a spokesman for Harper did say
that "we think it's a good price" at 19 times to 20 times
annual earnings. Revenue at Lippincott approaches $100
million, industry analysts estimate.
   Harper Collins publishes books on general subjects; it
also produces texts for high schools and colleges and,
through its Zondervan unit, books on religious topics.
   Lippincott, founded in 1792, publishes materials for
medicine, dentistry, nursing and other health-care fields.
The company's Drug Facts &amp; Comparisons provides U.S.
pharmacists with data about drugs.
   News Corp., the media giant controlled by the investor
Rupert Murdoch, has been building a publishing group over the
past few years. It acquired Harper &amp; Row for $293 million in
April 1987, Zondervan in August 1988, the 60% it didn't own
of British Publisher William Collins in January 1989, and
Scott Foresman for $407 million last November.
   Wolters Kluwer has nearly 100 companies in its fold,
employing more than 8,000 in Europe and the U.S. The company
earned $75 million on $1 billion of sales in 1989.
   The companies signed a definitive agreement; they expect
to close the transaction, subject to clearance by regulators,
by June 29.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Soybean and Corn Futures Decline on Outlook
   For Drier Weather and Weaker Soviet Demand
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Soybean and corn futures prices fell yesterday on
forecasts of warmer, drier weather across many midwestern
growing regions this week and concerns about weak export
demand from the Soviet Union.
   Futures prices rallied last week on fears that rain-soaked
fields were delaying planting to such an extent that crop
yields could be reduced in many areas. But government and
private weather forecasts released late Friday made it clear
that farmers in most midwestern states would benefit from
fair weather this week and most of next.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Overall, it's going to be drier and warmer, with highs in
the 70s and 80s across much of the heartland" through next
week, said Charles Notis, a principal in Freese-Notis Weather
Inc., in Des Moines, Iowa.
   The concern about the heavy rains of recent weeks tended
to obscure the importance of replenishing subsoil moisture in
many growing regions, analysts said. New grain hybrids also
allow farmers to get crops in the field much later than in
decades past and still reap average to above-average yields
at harvest time. Analysts noted that during 1978 and 1981,
wet spring weather hampered planting in many areas, but
hardly made a dent in yields.
   The stock market rally also has been sucking speculative
money out of the grain trading pits in recent days that might
have helped support futures prices, said Steven Freed, a
futures analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Chicago.
   Soybean futures for July delivery fell 10.25 cents to
close at $6.1050 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. July
corn futures dropped 5.25 cents to close at $2.77 a bushel.
   The outlook for an increase in export sales to the Soviet
Union in coming months is becoming dimmer. Pravda and other
Soviet newspapers carried reports over the weekend and
yesterday about a ministerial meeting at which speakers were
sharply critical of the country's heavy reliance on foreign
grain imports and the amount of scarce hard currency devoted
to grain imports over the past year, analysts said.
   The Soviet Union needs grain imports "like a drug addict
does his needle," said one speaker at the meeting, according
to wire service reports.
   The implication of this latest salvo aimed at the Soviet
Union's stumbling economic policy is that, with such internal
demand for hard currency, the Soviets aren't likely to be
spending nearly as much on grain imports in coming months.
   Some analysts are less concerned about future orders than
they are about the likelihood that current bills will be
paid. Western trade specialists estimate that the Soviets are
about $1 billion in arrears on payments to foreign grain
trading firms, including $250 million owed U.S. trading
firms. European Community companies are owed as much as $350
million, Japanese trading firms are owed $200 million and
Canadian companies are owed $200 million, analysts said.
   News on the diplomatic front also weighed on grain futures
prices. Secretary of State James Baker indicated after his
most recent trip to Moscow that the U.S. still hasn't decided
whether to grant most-favored-nation status to the Soviet
Union -- a step that would be expected to lead to new export
credits extended to the Soviets, analysts said.
   Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev is scheduled to visit
the U.S. beginning May 30 for a summit meeting with President
Bush, and many analysts had assumed that most-favored-nation
status would have been assured by this point.
   Another cloud over exports concerns China's trade status
with the U.S. Its most-favored-nation status expires early
next month. Sen. George Mitchell, (D., Maine), Senate
majority leader, said the tepid Bush administration response
to China's murderous quelling of student revolt a year ago is
a failure, and he called for an end to China's preferential
trade treatment.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum prices fell on little news except
continuing worries over an apparent oversupply of crude oil.
U.S. petroleum refiners reduced their field postings for West
Texas Intermediate, the benchmark crude, by 50 cents a barrel
to $17.50. In futures trading, prices of both gasoline and
crude oil crumbled. June and July contracts for unleaded
gasoline were down more than one cent a gallon on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The Merc contract for June delivery
crude declined 50 cents a barrel to $18.26. Some weakness in
that contract had been expected because it ceases trading
after today. But the July contract also fell, by 38 cents a
barrel to $19.04. Separate announcements by oil ministers of
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates that they are
abiding by terms of the recent production agreement of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries had negligible
impact on the market. Saudi Arabia is believed to be reducing
output to near the level of its quota of 5.4 million barrels
a day, but oil analysts said there isn't yet any evidence of
cutbacks by other OPEC overproducers. On the contrary, said
Nauman Barakat, a Shearson Lehman Hutton first vice
president, "OPEC output in May could show a slight increase
over April, and that would be very negative for the market."

   COPPER: Futures prices eased as the Peruvian labor
situation improved and supplies of the metal became more
ample. The soonest-to-expire May contract ended with a loss
of 1.70 cents a pound at $1.1990. The premium of May over
July narrowed by 0.30 cent a pound because July was off 1.40
cents to $1.1345. The premium of the London Metal Exchange's
cash position over its three-months delivery also narrowed
somewhat. Copper inventories in warehouses of New York's
Commodity Exchange rose by 1,174 tons to 8,455 tons. Analysts
expect the London Metal Exchange today to announce an
increase in copper inventories of 2,000 to 6,000 tons. In
Peru, workers at the Southern Peru Copper Corp.'s two mines
and a smelter postponed until June 5 a strike that was
scheduled to begin yesterday. A spokesman for Southern Peru
Copper in New York said the action was taken "in anticipation
of a voluntary raise {the company} will be making on June 4."
Separately, analysts said that most of the workers at
Centromin Corp., Peru's state-owned mining company, who went
out on strike a week ago, returned yesterday, although some
remained out.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices failed to hold an early advance and
ended lower despite further unrest in the Ivory Coast, the
world's leading cocoa grower. The July contract finished with
a loss of $31 a metric ton at $1,446 after trading as high as
$1,485. The initial strength was attributed to news reports
that the police in Abidjan, the nation's capital, had gone on
strike over working conditions and pay. However, military
police took over and the strike soon ended, reports said.
Later, it was reported that dock workers, who were also
unhappy over pay and working conditions, had postponed a
scheduled strike until June 5. One analyst observed that the
string of labor problems in the Ivory Coast lost their impact
because the government had quickly moved to end each dispute.
"The government met the demands of the army recruits last
week and now of the police. It is expected they'll do the
same with the dock workers, and prevent those problems from
getting worse," said the analyst. Also important, he added,
is that "for all the furor, the harvesting, transportation
and shipment of cocoa hasn't been affected yet."
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: The soonest-to-expire July contract rose its daily
limit of two cents a pound, to 78.13 cents, because supplies
of immediately available cotton are tight. Other deliveries
gained by smaller amounts, ranging to slightly over one cent
a pound. Fundamentally, the advance was triggered by reduced
supplies of desirable types of cotton for shipment during the
summer. Such cotton would meet industrial needs prior to the
arrival of cotton from the 1990-91 crop, which begins its
season on Aug. 1, said Ernest Simon, cotton specialist for
Prudential-Bache Securities, New York. Buying was widespread,
with demand coming from computer-guided funds, speculators,
and "local" traders, who deal for their own accounts, Mr.
Simon said. Buying interest accelerated as the July
contract's price advance rose above 76.80 cents and then 77
cents, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Stanley Arkin Solo Practice to End
   As He Joins Chadbourne &amp; Parke
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LATAM KRI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Stanley S. Arkin, the brash trial lawyer who made his name
as a defense attorney in insider-trading cases, is abandoning
his small practice to join the New York law firm of
Chadbourne &amp; Parke.
   Mr. Arkin's decision to join the 251-lawyer firm after
being on his own for 21 years reflects the growing pressures
on small firm practitioners, particularly in the
criminal-defense arena where Mr. Arkin has become as
well-known as many of his clients. It also reflects large
firms' increased interest in handling such work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Ten years ago the large so-called silk-stocking firms
wouldn't dirty their fingers on criminal cases," says Plato
Cacheris, a criminal-defense lawyer with the six-lawyer
Washington, D.C., firm of Cacheris &amp; Towey. "Now the large
firms have decided it's remunerative to retain those cases."
   In part, that change in attitude stems from the
government's increased emphasis on prosecuting
securities-related crimes, as well as other white-collar
cases. Conservative law firms can still spurn the "dirtier"
drug or organized-crime cases while cashing in on
white-collar criminal-defense work.
   Chadbourne &amp; Parke had been looking for a litigator with a
white-collar defense background since it discovered two years
ago that the firm "had to turn down matters because we didn't
have that kind of expertise," says Jerome C. Katz, a partner
with the firm.
   Mr. Arkin, 52 years old, came to prominence in the field
in the late 1970s when he represented a financial printer
named Vincent Chiarella, who was accused of trading on
information he garnered while assembling tender-offer
documents. Mr. Arkin took the case to the U.S. Supreme Court,
where the conviction was reversed. In a ruling that has made
it more difficult for the government to pursue such cases,
the court limited the definition of who can be guilty of
insider trading.
   Since then, Mr. Arkin has represented a wide range of
clients, including Richard Wigton, the Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.
executive who faced insider-trading charges that were later
dropped by federal prosecutors, and D. Ronald Yagoda, the
head trader at Marcus Schloss &amp; Co. who was acquitted of
insider trading as part of the so-called "Yuppie Five" case.
Currently, he is representing entertainer Johnny Carson and
Simon &amp; Schuster chief executive officer Richard Snyder in
their respective matrimonial cases.
   Despite Mr. Arkin's strong reputation, some defense
lawyers have said he and the Chadbourne firm make an odd
match. Chadbourne is considered somewhat stodgy, preferring
to do its work quietly and stay out of the public eye. Mr.
Arkin, in contrast, is widely available to reporters and has
generated controversy for the aggressive public stands he has
taken on behalf of his clients.
   Mr. Katz says that the firm doesn't expect Mr. Arkin to
abandon his somewhat unorthodox style. "We don't want him to
tone down. We want to let Stanley Arkin be Stanley Arkin. We
do not intend for him to change his style or his personality
to suit us," Mr. Katz says.
   At Chadbourne, Mr. Arkin will specialize in criminal and
regulatory investigations and prosecutions, as well as
complex civil and matrimonial matters and corporate internal
investigations. Mr. Arkin, along with his two partners and
two associates, will join the Chadbourne firm effective July
1.
   Mr. Arkin says that as his cases have grown more
complicated so has the need for the kind of resources and
back up that a large firm offers. "You cannot handle a huge
litigation in a small firm and service other clients," he
says. "A trial kills your practice, it takes so much time."
   Mr. Arkin says that being at a large firm will also ease
the pressures of having to generate and service his clients
while serving as the office manager as well. He won't be
suffering financially. People familiar with the situation say
Mr. Arkin will earn at least $1 million in his first year at
the firm. Mr. Arkin says he received no financial guarantees
and that his income will reflect the profits of the entire
firm. For the fiscal year ended Dec. 31, Chadbourne had gross
revenue of $95 million and profit per partner of $505,000,
according to people familiar with the firm's revenue.
   Some defense lawyers working at small firms say they
prefer the collegiality and independence of their practices.
"My experience at a large firm wasn't unpleasant but I prefer
the unstructured existence of a small firm," says Mr.
Cacheris. "You get less involved in administrative matters
and firm meetings, which I find boring."
   Mr. Arkin, who admits to some anxiety about the move, says
he weighed the benefits and drawbacks of joining a large firm
and decided that he wanted to develop himself "as an adviser
as opposed to a guerilla-warfare team leader."
   ---
   NORIEGA'S LAWYERS are likely to have their fees paid by
the U.S.
   At a hearing in Miami before U.S. District Judge William
M. Hoeveler, federal prosecutors said the government agreed
to pay the fees, adding that U.S. officials want to see
deposed Panamanian strongman Manuel Noriega receive a fair
trial.
   In late April, Mr. Noriega's defense team, led by Frank
Rubino, asked the court to be allowed to withdraw from the
drug-racketeering case. They complained that the U.S. had
stopped the flow of their fees by freezing Mr. Noriega's
assets.
   The tentative agreement stems from Mr. Noriega's decision
to sign an affidavit stating he will reimburse the government
for his lawyers' fees if and when his assets are unfrozen.
Moreover, a provision in the Criminal Justice Act concerning
"complex" cases involving court-appointed lawyers will allow
Judge Hoeveler to award higher-than-normal fees.
   Judge Hoeveler set a Thursday hearing to rule on the
agreement and to determine what a reasonable fee might be for
Mr. Noriega's defense team.
   ---
   NEWS REPORTER must give testimony in criminal trial,
Florida court rules.
   The Florida Supreme Court ruled that a newspaper reporter
can be compelled to provide a pretrial interview, known as a
deposition, in a criminal trial about events witnessed while
working on a story.
   The decision, handed down unanimously last week, creates a
narrow exception to Florida court rulings that protected
reporters in many circumstances from divulging the source of
their information or the content of unpublished work.
   In this case, Miami Herald reporter Joel Achenbach
witnessed a drug search in 1986 while working on a story
about Miami International Airport. Police, using a drug
profile, singled out a suspect on a public concourse,
searched his luggage and found four kilograms of cocaine. The
subsequent account in the Herald's Tropic Sunday Magazine
differed slightly from what police said about whether the
suspect, a Cuban, was fluent enough in English to consent to
the search.
   When the Dade County public defender's office subpoenaed
Mr. Achenbach for a deposition, lawyers for the Herald, a
unit of Knight-Ridder Inc., argued that reporters have an
"across-the-board" qualified privilege against compelled
disclosure. The privilege can only be overcome, the paper
argued, if it can be proved that the information is relevant,
that it can be obtained no other way and that there is a
compelling interest in its disclosure.
   But five Florida Supreme Court justices ruled that no
First Amendment privilege exists when reporters are asked to
testify only about "eyewitness observations."
   "Ordinary citizens would not be excused from testifying as
to what they observe, and the First Amendment should not be
interpreted to make journalists' testimony privileged simply
because they made their observations while on duty as a
reporter," five of six justices ruled. A sixth justice
concurred with the result but argued that First Amendment
considerations should be weighed against society's interest
in compelling disclosure on a case-by-case basis.
   The decision is in line with similar rulings in Maryland,
New York and Texas. Herald lawyers complained that it forces
reporters to become participants in events rather than
independent observers.
   "I just think it puts the press in the wrong role," said
Sanford L. Bohrer, a Herald First Amendment lawyer.
   ---
   RASTAFARIAN PRISONERS can't be required to cut their hair,
court says.
   A federal appeals court in New York affirmed a lower court
decision that prevents state correctional authorities from
requiring haircuts of prisoners who adhere to Rastafarianism,
a religion that forbids followers to cut or comb their hair.
But the court refused to require the state to provide a
special diet for the Rastafarians, to permit them to wear
their religious headgear or to allow them to congregate for
prayer in the absence of clergy from outside the prison.
   The prisoners, represented by Prisoners' Legal Services of
New York, argued that prohibiting informal group prayer and
requiring new Rastafarian inmates to have their hair cut for
photographs violated their First Amendment right to free
exercise of religion. Ruling in favor of the prisoners on the
haircut issue but not on group prayer, the court said it
balanced the prisoners' constitutional rights against the
security needs and administrative requirements of the prison.
   The Rastafarians also contended that because New York
state makes allowances to Muslim and Jewish prisoners for
religious headgear and special diets, the state violated
their rights to equal protection under the Constitution. But
the court said the Rastafarians hadn't adequately defined
their dietary needs and that Jewish yarmulkes and Muslim
kufis were smaller than the Rastafarian religious hats --
called tams -- and posed less of a security threat.
   Robert Selcov, a lawyer for the prisoners, criticized the
decision for relying on "extremely fine differences" between
individual religions and particular religious practices. But
he said that by not requiring haircuts of the Rastafarians,
the opinion "shows that the federal courts are not totally
turning their backs on prison inmates' constitutional
rights."
   The New York attorney general's office hasn't yet decided
whether it will seek U.S. Supreme Court review on the haircut
issue.
   ---
   Glenn Ruffenach and Edward Felsenthal contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Organogenesis Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ORG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ORGANOGENESIS Inc. (Cambridge, Mass.) -- William J. Hopke,
vice president and treasurer of Dominion Capital Inc., and
Neil P. Ramsey, a general partner of International Asset
Management Fund, were named directors of this biotechnology
concern. The appointments increase board membership to seven.
As previously reported, Dominion Capital and International
Asset Management were two primary investors in a $4.5 million
privately placed common stock and warrant offering by
Organogenesis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<LP>
   Clothes Call
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time was when jackets and ties were a must
   To be properly attired;
   Now even the better places have signs:
   "Shoes and Shirts Required."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Rotten Review
                                                                                                       

   With "All the world is a stage,"
   The Bard tied himself to a tether,
   Because the world, in scene after scene,
   Cannot get its act together.
   -- Joshua Adams.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Baker Hughes to Sell Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   BHI DI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Baker Hughes Inc. said it agreed to sell its
Hughes diamond drill bit business to Dresser Industries Inc.
of Dallas. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The diamond drill bit business had revenue of about $18
million in fiscal 1989. The transaction is subject to
approval of the Justice Department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PFE AKZOY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Common Drug May Help
   To Keep Arteries Clear
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   THE BUILDUP in arteries of fatty deposits that can cause
heart attacks may be blocked by a commonly prescribed drug.
   New studies are producing tantalizing hints that the drug
nifedipine prevents atherosclerosis, the clogging of arteries
that nourish the heart with oxygen-rich blood. The drug is
used to treat high blood pressure and angina, chest pains
associated with coronary heart disease. Nifedipine is one of
a class of drugs, called calcium channel blockers, that keep
arteries and veins open by impeding the flow of calcium into
muscle cells that surround blood vessels.
   Some scientists believe calcium also is involved in the
formation of fatty deposits. Scientists at Vanderbilt
University tested this idea in rabbits genetically
predisposed to atherosclerosis by feeding them a
cholesterol-rich diet. After four months, rabbits given the
drug had clear arteries, while the arteries of those denied
the drug became plugged.
   Because of this and other animal studies, researchers at
Johns Hopkins Hospital recently compared nifedipine's effect
with a placebo in preventing plaque formation in 144 patients
who had undergone bypass surgery to replace obstructed
arteries. After a year, the new arteries were clear of
deposits in 52% of patients given a placebo, while 67% of
those taking nifedipine were deposit-free.
   Doctors at Hannover Medical School in Hannover, West
Germany, just produced similar findings in a three-year study
of 435 patients with mild angina. Their finding, published in
the British medical journal the Lancet, found that the
drug-treated group had 28% fewer new artery obstructions than
those in the group taking a placebo.
   Nifedipine is sold under the brand name Procardia by
Pfizer Inc. A spokesman for the company said it is planning
further tests.
                                                                                                       

   Lyme Disease Protein
   Signals Early Detection
                                                                                                       

   THE DISCOVERY of a gene is holding promise of a better
method for detecting Lyme disease.
   Lyme disease is a potentially serious arthritis-like
ailment caused by a bacteria borne by certain tiny ticks.
Incidence of the disease, identified in 1975, is on the rise,
and outbreaks are especially common starting about this time
of year. Roughly half of the people bitten by the
bacteria-bearing tick develop the problem, but detecting it
is difficult because of its vague early symptoms, such as
fatigue and headaches, and because diagnostic tests are
imprecise.
   An accurate test is crucial because the bacteria can be
eradicated, but only if treated early with antibiotics.
Current tests detect the presence of antibodies produced by
the body to fight off the bacteria, but many people produce
too little antibody to be measured by the tests.
   Rance LeFebvre and Guey-Chuen Perng at the University of
California at Davis and Russell C. Johnson at the University
of Minnesota say they found a gene that produces a protein
common to many forms of the bacteria. The researchers say
they can detect minuscule amounts of antibody stimulated by
the protein.
   A U.S. subsidiary of Akzo N.V. of the Netherlands has
acquired the rights to develop a commercial diagnostic test
and also a vaccine that might protect people against the
bacterial infection.
                                                                                                       

   Zeroing In on Genes
   Linked to Alzheimer's
                                                                                                       

   SCIENTISTS SAY they have located a gene involved in
causing a type of Alzheimer's disease that strikes late, at
about 69 years of age.
   The new finding by researchers at Duke University greatly
buttresses claims that the degenerative brain disorder can be
inherited. The discovery, which hasn't been published,
suggests that two different genes are associated with
Alzheimer's disease. In 1987, researchers at Massachusetts
General Hospital reported uncovering the first gene, but
their finding became controversial when studies by the Duke
group and others couldn't replicate it in other families.
   Scientists now believe they have solved the problem: Many
people in the Duke study had inherited a different gene for
Alzheimer's. The gene located in the Massachusetts study
seems to predispose people to a form of the disease that hits
people early, in their 40s or 50s. That gene was traced to
chromosome 21, one of the 23 chromosomes in the nucleus of
every cell that contains all the human genes.
   The Duke researchers, led by Allen Roses, say their gene
is on chromosome 19. Neither set of researchers has found the
gene itself, but instead they have identified a gene marker
that is located near it.
   Scientists are now racing to duplicate the two reports and
isolate the exact genes, but the search is hindered by the
difficulty in finding families with multiple cases of the
disease, says P. Michael Coneally, a geneticist at Indiana
University, Indianapolis, who is gathering information on
such families under a government grant.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   THE CENTERS for Disease Control says a state-by-state
telephone survey in 1988 found that the percentage of people
who claimed to know their cholesterol level ranged from 40%
in New Mexico to 58% in Maine. . . . Scientists at the
University of Oklahoma's department of otorhinolaryngology
say they have identified proteins produced by cells in the
inner ear in response to stress. The scientists say the
proteins protect the ear against noise and other potentially
damaging shocks and may provide clues to preventing some
types of hearing loss.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korean Trade With U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea's trade surplus with the
U.S. shrank by 64% in 1989, while its trade deficit with
Japan widened by 18%, according to a report by the Bank of
Korea.
   The central bank said the country's trade surplus with the
U.S. amounted to $6.1 billion in 1989, a sharp drop from
$10.5 billion a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweden's Current Account Gap
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- The deficit on Sweden's current account, or
balance of payments, widened to 3.3 billion kronor ($548.1
million) in March from a deficit of 600 million kronor a year
earlier, the Riksbank, Sweden's central bank, said.
   The gap on the current account, which includes traded
items, services and transfers, grew from the 3.1
billion-krona deficit recorded in February, the Riksbank
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the 12 months through March, the current account
deficit widened to 40.3 billion kronor from a deficit of 13
billion kronor a year earlier.
   March's trade surplus rose to 3.3 billion kronor from 1.7
billion kronor in February, and was up from a 2.6
billion-krona surplus in March 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Huntway Partners L.P.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   HUNTWAY PARTNERS L.P. said, as expected, it will make a
first-quarter distribution to its preference unit holders
after obtaining a capital infusion and restructuring the
partnership's bank loan. As previously reported, Huntway, a
Valencia, Calif., refiner of asphalt and petroleum products,
declared a distribution of 34.5 cents a unit, payable May 30
to preference units of record May 15. Huntway said it
completed a $5 million private placement of 625,000 newly
issued preference units at $8 each to an affiliate of its
general partner. The sale increased Huntway's preference
units outstanding to about 6.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consilium to Report
   Earnings Surged 80%
   In Fiscal 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSIM DEC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -- Consilium Inc. expects to report
that net income for the fiscal second quarter ended April 31
surged 80%, indicating that profit for the period totaled
about $1.38 million, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer Mark Finkel said.
   Consilium makes computer software designed to help
manufacturers manage their production processes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Finkel said the company's per-share earnings are
expected to be in line with analysts' estimates of 19 to 20
cents. In the year-ago quarter, Consilium earned $766,000, or
14 cents a share. Consilium has about 6.9 million shares
outstanding, compared with 5.3 million a year earlier.
   Mr. Finkel projected revenue for the quarter of more than
$8 million, up 38% from $5.8 million a year earlier.
   Mr. Finkel said sales of the company's main software
product, WorkStream, are booming, particularly overseas.
International sales accounted for about 25% of the company's
second-quarter revenue, he said.
   He said the company is targeting new markets, particularly
the defense and aerospace markets. Mr. Finkel said the
company may actually benefit from the declines in defense
spending that is expected in coming years as a result of the
collapse of Eastern Europe's communist regimes.
   "It will be an increasingly difficult business for defense
companies and they'll need to control costs," he said. "Our
products help do just that."
   Mr. Finkel said the company has a new product in
development with Digital Equipment Corp. targeted for
manufacturers of such items as consumer electronics and
automotive parts. The product, expected to be on the market
late this year, could provide Consilium with a significant
boost in sales, Mr. Finkel said.
   He said the company doesn't have any debt. It had equity
at the end of its fiscal first quarter of $24.7 million. For
its full fiscal year, Mr. Finkel said the company expects
revenue of about $32 million, about 40% above year-ago
levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mitchell Energy Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MND ORX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE WOODLANDS, Texas -- Mitchell Energy &amp; Development
Corp. said it paid Oryx Energy Co., Dallas, $7.5 million for
interests in 44 producing wells and approximately 7,000 acres
of leases in northern Texas.
   Mitchell, an oil and natural gas and real estate concern,
said the purchase gives it working interests ranging from 25%
to 100%. It will operate all but three of the 44 wells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Colombian Ex-Rebel Seeks Presidency
   ---
   M-19 Leader Navarro Tries
   To Survive Bloody Race
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   BOGOTA, Colombia -- Antonio Navarro is on the run again.
   For much of his adult life, Mr. Navarro, as one of the
leaders of the M-19 guerrilla group, ran for cover from
Colombia's authorities. Now, the 42-year-old Mr. Navarro is
running for president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   M-19's decision earlier this year to lay down its arms and
fight with ballots rather than bullets is seen by many here
as a sign that peace can be achieved in violence-torn
Colombia. Never Colombia's most radical guerrilla group, M-19
is now seeking a place for itself in the country's political
landscape as a non-Communist left-wing player and hopes to
convince other guerrilla groups to follow its example.
   But sitting in his Bogota campaign headquarters, clad in a
bullet-proof vest and surrounded by machine gun-toting
security guards, Mr. Navarro says it was a lot easier being a
guerrilla than a candidate.
   "More candidates have been killed in the past few months
than guerrilla chiefs," he says. So what prompted M-19 to
switch from fighting Colombia's institutions to trying to run
them? "It's crazy," he acknowledges. "But we Colombians are
crazy people."
   Mr. Navarro's presence in the elections next Sunday speaks
volumes about Colombia's craziness. He was only picked as
M-19's candidate after the guerrilla group's charismatic
leader, Carlos Pizarro, was gunned down by an assassin on a
commercial flight while en route to a campaign appearance --
the third Colombian presidential candidate to be killed in
nine months.
   Mr. Navarro is no stranger to violence either. He lost his
left leg when a grenade was thrown at him in 1985 at a time
when he was seeking to negotiate a truce between M-19 and the
government. The grenade attack occured as Mr. Navarro was
resting after being mysteriously kidnapped and just as
mysteriously freed by a still-unidentified group. After
nearly dying, Mr. Navarro underwent long months of therapy in
Cuba and Mexico, where he remained in exile until last year.
   Attacks and kidnapping were M-19's stock in trade too --
though it mixed these with attention-getting stunts such as
the 1974 robbery of the sword and spurs of freedom fighter
Simon Bolivar or Robin Hood-style raids on supermarkets to
distribute food to the poor.
   The group is best known for its 1985 assault on Bogota's
Palace of Justice that ended in tragedy when at least 95
people, including the country's chief justice, died during
the 26-hour battle. M-19 also stormed the Dominican Republic
Embassy in 1980 and held 14 foreign ambassadors hostage for
two months until huge ransoms were paid. And in 1987, M-19
kidnapped conservative politician Alvaro Gomez, who today is
running for president against his former captors.
   To M-19 officials and sympathizers, this symbolizes the
new spirit of democracy and dialogue, rather than violence,
that is in the air. "If we only had successes, we'd be in
power," Mr. Navarro acknowledges.
   "There are no perspectives for bearded people descending
from the mountains and occupying Bolivar Square," the name of
the main square in most Colombian cities, he adds. "We have
to recognize that today that's not possible. We have to
represent the broadest interest of society. Today, what
society wants is peace."
   For M-19, the end of 16 years of guerrilla warfare came at
an emotional ceremony in March in the mountain rebel campsite
of Santo Domingo, 200 miles southwest of Bogota. "For
Colombia and for peace, lay down your arms," an M-19 officer
ordered, and one by one, the guerrillas placed their weapons,
draped in red, yellow and blue M-19 flags on a table, in
return for amnesty. The next day, more than 400 guerrillas
burned their camouflage uniforms, changed into civilian
clothes and rode down the mountains in buses.
   Today, M-19 is urging other guerrilla groups to follow
their example and offering to act as an intermediary in
negotiations. Three guerrilla and peasant self-defense groups
have indicated willingness to join the peace process, but
several other Marxist guerrilla groups are still fighting and
disrupting the electoral process. That includes the
4,000-strong Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the
radical 1,500-strong National Liberation Army, which claims
responsibility for a recent wave of assassinations and
kidnappings.
   So strongly in favor of peace is M-19 that it even urges
the government to give up its 10-month old war on drugs and
make a deal with the drug lords, who initiated another wave
of deadly bombings after the government turned down their
offers to get out of the business in return for the
government rescinding an extradition treaty with the U.S.
   The way Mr. Navarro sees it, Colombia is being asked to
make all the efforts in the war on drugs and pay the violent
price of the extradition treaty while drug-consuming
countries do little to curb the problem. "The war is here,
people are dying, while Americans are happily consuming
cocaine," says Mr. Navarro. "We can't keep doing what the
State Department wants."
   Many Colombians, including conservatives, subscribe to
M-19's view, arguing that the cocaine cartels' bombs are just
as criminal as M-19's violence and kidnappings, for which the
group was pardoned. But government officials retort that
political crimes are different under Colombian law from the
common criminal actions of narcotic traffickers.
   Although M-19's position on drugs differs radically from
the government's, officials say the fact it is voicing it is
a victory for Colombian democracy and the peace process.
"M-19 gave up its violent ways, but its politics are the same
as before," says Rafel Pardo, who negotiated the peace accord
with M-19. "That's what the peace process is all about. We're
not asking them to give up their ideas."
   Mr. Navarro and many independent analysts see a strong
possibility for M-19 filling a political void on the left
that could break the traditional bipartisan nature of
Colombian politics, in which the Liberal and Conservative
parties take the lion's share of the vote. But so far, Mr.
Navarro, who looks uncomfortable in a suit and tie and
bullet-proof vest, hasn't been able to take much advantage of
democracy. With three candidates already killed, the campaign
has been largely limited to television addresses and small
meetings with selected individuals under heavy security.
   "We were in clandestinity for 16 years, and now we're
leading a clandestine campaign," jokes Rosenberg Pabon,
M-19's campaign manager. Adds Mr. Navarro, pointing to his
retinue of security guards, "I'm a prisoner candidate. The
only difference with the past is that before they hunted me
and now they protect me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Applebee's Receives
   Feelers for Purchase
   Of All or Part of Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APPB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Applebee's International Inc. said it
received "unsolicited contacts" from parties interested in
acquiring "all or a substantial portion" of the company.
   The restaurant franchiser didn't identify who had made the
overtures, but said "no merger or sale negotiations are under
way."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Applebee's
shares jumped $1.75 to close at $18.50.
   The company has some 4,705,000 shares outstanding, giving
it a value of about $87 million at yesterday's closing price.
   Applebee's said it retained the securities firm Piper,
Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc. to help it "in evaluating long-term
corporate strategy, including these unsolicited contacts, and
in determining whether any changes in strategy would be
desirable to enhance stockholder value." Piper Jaffray is a
unit of Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Inc.
   At the close of the latest quarter, Applebee's had 19
company-owned restaurants and 104 franchise restaurants.
First-quarter earnings, helped by a $296,000 tax credit, were
$735,000, or 16 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier
loss of $363,000, or 12 cents a share, on fewer shares
outstanding. Revenue, including franchise income and sales
from company restaurants, rose 39% to $8.8 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Cable Pays Its Way
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   In "Broadcasters Want Cable to Pay for Airing Their
Shows," March 29, you wrote that "cable systems have blithely
pulled down the satellite signals beamed by broadcasters and
retransmitted the fare . . . without paying a dime for it."
In fact, the cable industry paid more than $200 million in
copyright fees for carrying satellite and other distant
broadcast signals last year. The broadcasting industry widely
advertises itself as "free TV." When local stations do
transmit their signals over the air for "free," local cable
systems carry the local signals without charge. In 1974, the
Supreme Court recognized that cable serves only as an antenna
for these local signals, and it rejected an antenna tax.
   Paul Glist
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fluor Unit Receives Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FLR HOC
</CO>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Fluor Corp. said its Fluor Daniel Inc.
unit was awarded a $19 million contract by Navajo Refining
Co., a unit of Dallas-based Holly Corp., to provide
engineering, procurement and construction services to expand
Navajo's Artesia, N.M., refinery.
   The project, for which engineering is under way, will
increase the refinery's gasoline production to 60,000 barrels
a day from 40,000 barrels. Fluor is an engineering,
construction and technical services company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kirschner Medical Award
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   KMDC
</CO>
<LP>
   TIMONIUM, Md. -- Kirschner Medical Corp. said an American
Arbitration Association panel awarded it $1.2 million in its
dispute with a former supplier.
   The proceeding began with a complaint by the supplier, ALM
Equipment Hospitaliers S.A. of France. The arbitration panel
last summer decided that ALM had unfairly breached an
agreement to supply Kirschner with surgical lights.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cooper Industries Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CBE ROK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Cooper Industries Inc. said it acquired the
Rockwell Industrial Tools unit of Rockwell International
Corp. of Pittsburgh. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Rockwell Industrial makes industrial air tools for a
number of industries, including automotive, shipbuilding and
power plant construction. Cooper is a diversified electronic
products manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citizens Utilities Sets
   Agreement to Acquire
   Louisiana Gas Utility
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CITUA LGS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- Citizens Utilities Co. said it signed a
definitive agreement to acquire Louisiana General Services
Inc., a Harvey, La., natural-gas utility, in a deal valued at
approximately $125 million.
   Under the terms of the agreement, each of Louisiana
General's approximately 5.3 million shares outstanding will
be converted into 0.6719 of a share of Citizens Series B
stock, which closed in national over-the-counter trading at
$34 each, down $2. In New York Stock Exchange composite
trading, Louisiana General shares closed at $20.25, up $3.125
each.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citizens is a utilities concern dominated by the
telecommunications properties -- mostly cellular and paging
companies -- it acquired in recent years. The acquistion of
Louisiana General will restore its profile in the gas
business, said Ishier Jacobson, Citizens chief executive
officer. Citizens owns gas operations in Colorado and
Arizona.
   "We were once much bigger in gas," proportionate to other
Citizens businesses, said Mr. Jacobson. "We'd like to
increase that share again. And of course, we're maintaining
our diversification."
   Mr. Jacobson said the merger wasn't sought by Louisiana
General, but emerged through social discussions between a
Citizen board member and a Louisiana General board member.
James W. Swenson, Louisiana General's chairman, president and
chief executive, said he was "absolutley happy" with the
arrangement.
   Louisiana General reported income of $9.7 million on
revenue of $152.9 million for the year ended March 31, 1990.
For 1989, Citizens posted profit of $88.7 million on revenue
of $338.7 million.
   Analysts said the deal makes sense, though it bucks
Citizens' recent acquisition pattern. "I see Citizens as the
equivalent of a mutual fund of regulated utilities," said
Bert Kramer of PaineWebber Group Inc. "From that point of
view, gas makes as much sense as anything else."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR TAXES J.ORT JAPAN AOC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST GERMANS SLASH PRICES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   East German shops slashed prices on everything from
televisions to sportswear yesterday in a move to compete with
a flood of Western products.
   The government announced the price cuts just six weeks
before East Germany is to implement a free market and merge
its economy with West Germany. In East Berlin, lines of
consumers formed outside clothing, furniture and electronic
stores as new prices went into effect.
   The East German Commerce and Tourism Ministry said the
cuts would average about 60% on a variety of consumer goods,
according to the government news agency ADN. Television
prices dropped from about $1,818 to about $780.
   "Reductions, reductions, super bargains]" read shop window
slogans in a striking show of salesmanship for the former
communist country.
                                                                                                       

   GREECE CLEANS HOUSE
                                                                                                       

   The Greek government said some 100,000 part-time state
employees would be fired this month, casualties of the new
administration's drive to cut public spending. Prime Minister
Constantine Mitsotakis said any minister or administrator who
abused the part-time-contract system would be dismissed.
Handing out part-time state jobs has long been used as a way
of rewarding political supporters. "It is necessary to end
this disgrace in which the state hires someone for five days
and he stays for five years," the prime minister said.
                                                                                                       

   ENDING EC'S DOUBLE TAXATION
                                                                                                       

   The European Community's commissioner for tax affairs
reaffirmed the goal of eliminating by the end of 1992 the
double taxes some European companies pay. Commissioner
Christiane Scrivener said companies wishing to trade with
other member states shouldn't be penalized at the expense of
companies working just within their own countries. From Jan.
1, 1993, Mrs. Scrivener said, all customs and fiscal controls
at EC borders would start to disappear.
                                                                                                       

   JOINT VENTURE FOR JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   Orient Corp., a Japanese consumer-finance company, and
Combined Insurance Co. of America are planning a joint
venture in Japan, Orient said. The two companies will offer
insurance products that currently aren't available in Japan
such as hospitalization insurance. Orient will use its
nationwide network of consumer-loan outlets to sell the
products, a spokesman said. Chicago-based Combined is the
largest unit in terms of sales of Aon Corp., a holding
company of five U.S. insurance firms. The new venture is to
be half-owned by each parent.
                                                                                                       

   CRIME IN MOSCOW
                                                                                                       

   Moscow's police are finding it more difficult to control
citizens since Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev began his
reforms and have seen crime rise by 40% in the past year, a
police official said. "The whole climate has become more
tolerant . . . and that has led to more crime and
disturbances of the peace," said Nikolai Myrikov, Moscow's
deputy head of police, during a visit to the Netherlands to
learn about the workings of Dutch police. Mr. Myrikov said
the overall crime rate in Moscow rose by 40% in the past
year.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA AND ALCOHOL ADS
                                                                                                       

   Australian Sen. Janet Powell, a member of the minority
Democrat Party, plans to introduce legislation in parliament
to effect a ban on alcohol advertising. She said the
Australian Medical Association was pushing for such a ban and
said people were worried by alcohol-driven domestic violence
and teen-age drinking. "I reject the notion that to properly
identify as an Australian you have to be a beer-guzzling
male," she said. The senator's proposal was denounced
yesterday by the chief of Carlton &amp; United Breweries. Pat
Stone said the move was "a desperate ploy to gain attention
at a time . . . of economic chaos."
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREA'S EXPORT PROBLEM
                                                                                                       

   South Korea suffers from a rising rate of defects in its
export products.
   The Ministry of Trade and Industry reported that, of the
275 export items subject to government examination for
quality, 5.3% were found to be defective during the first
quarter of this year. The figure contrasts sharply with a 3%
rate in 1988 and a 4.2% rate in 1989.
   A ministry official attributed the rising defect rate to
poor workmanship, deriving from deteriorating worker morale.
Growing labor disputes in recent years have lowered labor
productivity and damaged the quality of products, he said.
   The government is now uncertain about reducing the number
of export items for examination, as had been planned. The
worry is that such a reduction would further damage the
quality of export products, the official added.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Sir Hardy Amies, said to be Queen Elizabeth II's favorite
couturier, told a British magazine that his royal client
"grumbles about our prices, drops hints and things, but she
has been told . . . that those are the prices." He also said
the queen often ignores his clothing advice. "She listens . .
. then goes off and wears shabby shoes because they're
comfortable." . . . The Soviet legislature granted President
Mikhail S. Gorbachev a big pay raise, according to the news
agency Tass. The agency said the legislature set Mr.
Gorbachev's monthly pay at 4,000 rubles -- $6,480 at the
official exchange rate -- more than twice what he is now
reported to be earning.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Handy &amp; Harman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HNH
</CO>
<LP>
   HANDY &amp; HARMAN (New York) -- Keith N. Johnson, 53 years
old, was named vice president of corporate development, a new
post at the specialty and precious-metals company. Mr.
Johnson was previously corporate manager of strategic
planning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Music: Turning Gershwin Into Liszt
   ----
   By Barrymore Laurence Scherer
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   At 75, Earl Wild, the perpetually youthful doyen of
American virtuoso pianists, remains a formidable improviser
in the tradition of the great keyboard showmen of the 18th
and 19th centuries, able to take a given theme and fly with
it.
   Yet though Mr. Wild is most often identified as a
preeminent interpreter of Franz Liszt, he also is a leading
exponent of George Gershwin's music. In fact, he was one of
the earliest pianists to champion Gershwin in regular concert
circles: Apart from including the Piano Concerto in F in his
active repertoire (where it remains today), he played the
solo in Toscanini's first NBC Symphony "Rhapsody in Blue" in
1942.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Listening to his latest recording, "Earl Wild Plays His
Transcriptions of Gershwin" (Chesky Records), one cannot but
acknowledge it inevitable that Mr. Wild finally should
combine his passions for Liszt, Gershwin and improvisation.
   Included are an extended "Fantasy on `Porgy and Bess' "
(written in 1976), "Seven Virtuoso Etudes on Gershwin Songs"
(which he wrote in the 1950s) and the brand new
"Improvisation in the Form of a Theme and Three Variations on
`Someone to Watch Over Me,'" which he performs for the first
time on this album. You think Lisztian Gershwin an
impossibility? You ain't heard nothin' yet.
   Call them serious fun, call them sorcery, these pieces are
not merely astonishing for their cleverness, and for the
technical challenges they present -- they are amusing.
Indeed, according to Mr. Wild, amusement is precisely what he
intended. "I was thinking recently that so much music written
today is dead serious -- and deadly," he observes by
telephone from his home in Worthington, Ohio. "These
transcriptions are supposed to make you smile, but not at the
expense of the music."
   Certainly Mr. Wild's transcriptions amuse because of the
startling and ultimately successful juxtaposition of idioms
that appear incompatible at first: On one hand you have the
informal, slinky curvature of Gershwin's melodies, redolent
of Broadway, of Art Deco penthouses and smoke-filled
nightclubs. On the other you have the dazzling, romantic
vocabulary of the 19th-century European virtuoso, with
cascades of crimson passage work, elaborate counterpoint and
even symphonic textures. Above all, these transcriptions
resound with a full-bodied piano timbre leagues away from the
Tin-Pan Alley simplicity of Gershwin's own "Song Book"
arrangements.
   Although the art of transcription only recently has begun
to regain its former reputation as a viable form of musical
expression -- due in great measure to Mr. Wild's performances
-- in their day, virtuoso fantasies, potpourris and concert
paraphrases by Liszt and other pianists flooded the
marketplace.
   Flashy but sometimes highly ingenious, opera
transcriptions were the gaslit equivalent of crossover, based
on melodies that even people who had never been inside an
opera house knew from barrel organs, piano albums, music
boxes and street bands. Of course Liszt wasn't the only
virtuoso who made them, but comparison of, say, his
"Rigoletto" and "Norma" fantasies with rival works by
Sigismund Thalberg, Henri Herz and Michael Glinka shows how
brilliantly Liszt not only decorated the chosen themes with
all manner of titivating embellishment, but used the original
thematic material for further development that the composers
themselves might well have been hard pressed to conceive of
on their own. Likewise Mr. Wild, in seeking to entertain, has
striven to be worthy of the original material. "Gershwin's
melodies are perfect," he says. "They lend themselves to this
kind of elaboration because of their enormous popularity:
Everyone knows the tunes, so you can recognize them while
enjoying the decorations."
   However, the difference between his sophisticated wit and
conventional high jinks of the P.D.Q. Bach kind lies in their
relative craftsmanship. Where the latter are merely jokes
that have limited musical appeal once the humor wears off,
Mr. Wild's transcriptions, like Liszt's, enhance the original
themes without debasing them, and stand on their own as music
because of their creativity.
   Although some might regard them as original compositions,
Mr. Wild feels it pretentious to do so, except in the case of
his "Variations on `Someone to Watch Over Me,'" which
contains sufficient original material to warrant the dignity.
   He recalls that the idea for this piece presented itself
at the end of a day spent teaching the Bach Partita in
C-minor and the C-minor Fugue from the Well-Tempered Clavier,
book one. "You get rather groggy after the whole day teaching
the same two pieces, and when I got home I sat down and
started to play both of the main tango rhythms -- just to
relax. While I was doing that, `Someone to Watch Over Me'
popped into my mind. I played it in counterpoint on top of
them -- and it worked. Then I thought I had better add some
variations to this set of ideas. So I devised the barcarolle,
imagining myself in a gondola floating past an Italian
singing school."
   The result -- a tune detective's delight -- pits
Gershwin's melody against phrases of "O sole mio" and "The
Carnival of Venice," as well as snatches of "Pagliacci,"
"Tosca" and "Gianni Schicchi."
   To be sure, Mr. Wild does occasionally go out on an
interpretive limb.
   His version of "Lady Be Good" slows down the up-tempo
tune, endowing it with a rich blue melancholy. "I was
picturing this plump Georgia peach walking down the main
street of a southern town, swaying sexily in the sultry
breeze."
   Imbued with the transcriber's urge by his own teacher,
Egon Petri, Mr. Wild has been making fanciful piano
arrangements for years, turning his re-creative hand to
everything from Buxtehude chorale preludes to Shaker hymns,
and limited only by the demands of his concert career. "If I
didn't have to practice so much," he admits, "I'd be writing
music by the ream." At the moment he's considering a Stephen
Foster project. "Foster's own song accompaniments are
dreadful, but the melodies offer wonderful possibilities for
elaboration, especially `Camptown Races.' You know, if that
had been a Russian tune, Tchaikovsky would have snapped it
up."
   ---
   Mr. Scherer is a free-lance music critic based in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Sen. Mitchell's Position on Proposed Ban
   On Assault Weapons Remains a Mystery
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- As the Senate prepares to consider a
proposed ban on domestic manufacture of military-style
assault weapons for civilian use, one senator is
conspicuously silent amid the debate: Majority Leader George
Mitchell.
   As is usually the case in gun-control debates, the
proposed assault-gun ban generally is dividing Congress along
regional and partisan lines. Democrats from the Northeast and
Midwest -- including Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
Joseph Biden of Delaware and Sen. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio
-- support a ban; they cite use of such weapons by drug
traffickers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Republicans from the West and South -- such as Sen. Strom
Thurmond of South Carolina -- side with the National Rifle
Association and other gun-lobby groups in opposing the ban;
they argue that the term "assault weapon" is poorly defined
in the legislation.
   But these dividing lines are far from absolute. The
assault-weapon legislation was drafted by Sen. Dennis
DeConcini (D., Ariz.), a longstanding NRA supporter from the
Southwest. Sen. DeConcini says he acted only after failing to
get the NRA to draft language it could accept on the issue.
   Then there's Sen. Mitchell. The assault-weapon issue puts
the Maine Democrat in an especially awkward bind. As majority
leader, he helped Sen. Biden move the larger crime bill,
which includes the proposed assault-gun ban, through the
slow-moving Senate. But as a legislator who represents a
considerable number of Maine sportsmen, he once boasted to
constituents that he had a "perfect voting record on issues
of concern to the NRA" until he voted to ban plastic guns in
1987.
   Sen. Mitchell's position on the assault-gun ban is
something of a mystery. According to spokeswoman Diane
Dewhirst, the majority leader hasn't issued any statements
either on Sen. DeConcini's proposal or on a more restrictive
ban proposed by Sen. Metzenbaum. (Despite repeated efforts
yesterday to reach him, Sen. Mitchell himself wasn't
available for comment.)
   Neither Sen. DeConcini nor Sen. Metzenbaum seems unhappy
about this apparent neglect. Indeed, both praise the majority
leader for assisting their efforts. Sen. DeConcini says he's
grateful Sen. Mitchell got the crime bill to the floor; Sen.
Metzenbaum says Sen. Mitchell will bring the Ohio senator's
more restrictive proposal to the Senate floor as an
amendment.
   But neither senator is able to guess how Sen. Mitchell
will vote on the gun issue. "I don't know where he stands,"
says Sen. DeConcini. "I'm not sure how he's going to vote,"
offers Sen. Metzenbaum. The gun lobby is similarly in the
dark. "I don't think the senator has made up his mind,"
offers NRA lobbyist James Baker. "How Sen. Mitchell comes
down is not something that I can predict."
   Mr. Baker said he hadn't personally lobbied Sen. Mitchell
on the issue, but added: "I can assure you that Sportsman's
Alliance of Maine has." According to Mr. Baker, that group is
"adamantly opposed" to the assault-weapon ban. Spokesmen for
the group, based in Augusta, couldn't be reached for comment.
   Gail Hoffman, legislative director for Handgun Control
Inc., a group that lobbies for gun control, says she spoke to
Sen. Mitchell in January about the assault-weapons ban. "I
think he found things that we had to say interesting," she
says. "But he was very noncommittal."
   One reason for Sen. Mitchell's silence may be genuine
ambivalence. "I don't believe in gun control," Sen. Mitchell
told the Calais, Maine, Advertiser during a 1988 campaign
swing.
   But after the senator failed to support the NRA on plastic
guns in 1987, the NRA sent out a mailing to its members in
Maine saying Mr. Mitchell had been fooled by a "media lie" on
plastic guns. The charge angered Mr. Mitchell, who told the
Maine newspaper that the NRA had made him a target of a
"campaign of misinformation."
   Then again, Sen. Mitchell's silence may just be the latest
demonstration that discretion is the better part of valor.
"Mitchell is not buffaloed by them more than anyone else is,"
says Sen. DeConcini, "but you don't just blow the NRA away as
some kind of kooks or something."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consolidated Edison
   Mulls Debt Financing
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   ED
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Consolidated Edison Co. of New York said it is
contemplating financings of at least $300 million of debt in
1990.
   Raymond J. McCann, executive vice president and chief
financial officer, said at the annual meeting that the
utility expects financings of another $500 million in 1991.
The financings would be used to refund maturing long-term
debt and to help fund the utility's expanded construction
fund, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCann said the availability of tax-exempt financing
is tightening and that Con Ed anticipates the new issues will
be a mix of taxable and tax-exempt debt. The plan is subject
to approval by New York's Public Service Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Coke's Rocky MagiCan Promo Looks
   Like It Could Use a Magician or Two
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   KO
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Coca-Cola Co., in what is rapidly becoming a
public-relations headache for the soft-drink giant, is
struggling to get its $100 million "MagiCans" promotion on
track.
   Problems with a prize-delivery mechanism in the cans,
which contain millions of dollars in cash and prizes,
prompted the company last week to temporarily halt
distribution of the MagiCans. Coke is now planning new
advertising to better educate consumers about how the cans
are supposed to work. And the company has been talking with
government health officials to assure them that the cans pose
no risks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One person involved in Coke's plans said the
decision-making process last Friday was like a roller
coaster, with Coke marketers deciding at one point to proceed
with the promotion, then hours later to postpone it.
   "The MagiCans have been very disruptive," said a
soft-drink industry executive familiar with the internal
turmoil. "They have been taking up so much of their time."
   A Coke spokesman yesterday said the company has decided to
proceed with distributing the cans and had "come up with a
method of assuring there are no malfunctioning MagiCans." He
acknowledged, however, that some MagiCans already on store
shelves may still have some defects.
   Perhaps most troublesome to Coke is that the problems are
snagging what it has called its biggest promotion ever -- the
lottery-like distribution of prizes in some 750,000 MagiCans.
The cans are the core of a $100 million summer promotion for
flagship Coca-Cola Classic, which includes commercials with
vocal group New Kids on the Block and giveaways at fountain
outlets.
   The MagiCans seem like ordinary cans of Coke, although
they don't include the soft drink. When a buyer pops the top,
a device is supposed to rise through the opening in the can
and display a curled-up legal tender or a scroll of paper,
redeemable for prizes.
   Acknowledging the problems, Coke projects that fewer than
1% of all the cans will malfunction. Since Coke began
distributing the cans May 7, the company says there have been
18 complaints from consumers regarding mechanical problems
with the prize-delivery mechanism.
   Sometimes people had trouble removing the prize from the
cans. In one case, the liquid inside was drunk by an
11-year-old Massachusetts boy who wasn't aware of the
promotion.
   It was that case that prompted health officials in
Massachusetts to analyze the liquid in the can. In addition
to the water, "the material found in there was toxic" but at
levels too low to be harmful, said a spokesman in the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health. He said the toxic
materials appear to have come from an adhesive used to attach
the prize-delivery device to the can. "From a health
perspective, this is not a problem," he said.
   In order to determine which mechanisms have broken inside
the cans, Coca-Cola people have been shaking the MagiCans in
recent days, listening for rattles. A clunker is called a
"floater" because the broken mechanism floats inside the can.
   Meanwhile, Coke is planning new advertising, urging
consumers to "take a good look" at a can of Coca-Cola
Classic. Besides warning people not to drink from a MagiCan,
the ad describes the difference between a working MagiCan and
one that's broken.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<LP>
   Preston Townley, Conference Board president, to the
Montreal Board of Trade on April 11:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   When we plan meetings, we have waiting lists of executives
ready to extol their successes. But good failures are hard to
come by. . . . In fact, I can just about guarantee anyone in
this audience a keynote speaking engagement if you are
willing to tell how you fell on your face with your marketing
plan last year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Milan: The Machine That Makes Italy Run
   ----
   By Nicholas King
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   Milan -- "Esattamente come a Napoli." This was the cab
driver's most venomous and emphatic description of the welter
of parked cars abandoned across a busy street. "Just like
Naples." I thought for a moment he would say New York, for
New York is what you think of when you go to Milan.
   Here is a vast gray city, its streets habitually torn up,
and those not torn up are blocked by the debris of
construction sites. It is the country's political dynamo, its
center of money, fashion, enterprise and communication, the
machine that makes all Italy revolve, as the Milanese say.
The weather is rainy, hot or dirty, bitter cold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Milan is a cultural obstacle course too. Contestants are
very often taken up with the chase for tickets to La Scala,
but the artistic life in general is carried on at a high
pitch. The restaurants are always full and there is seldom a
room free in a hotel. It's May, travel agents say, or it's
November, as though everyone was supposed to know what was
going on. A symbol of the city's energy is the great central
railroad station, which throws out lines all over southern
Europe. The station is an enormous pile of granite and
marble, bulging with muscular horses and men and sheathed in
semi-Roman vaulting. It was built in the year II of the
fascist regime, a date once carved on the entablature of the
building. But not so very long ago it was chisled away in
favor of 1931 in the year of Jesus Christ.
   The station is layered in two great concourses, the ticket
windows at street level and the tracks 40 feet up staircases
that, although mitigated by escalators, still are a trial for
passengers with awkward or heavy luggage. It nevertheless is
a splendid sight to glimpse, at the top, the serried
signboards proclaiming the great destinations -- Venice,
Bologna, Mantua, Ferrara, Genoa, Turin.
   Passengers and their freight make most of the noise. There
are no screams or hisses from the locomotives waiting
powerfully under the glass and iron-girded roof. And when the
trains move, they move noiselessly. On one track stands the
silver Settebello, the train for Rome. An American mother is
climbing aboard to visit her daughter, halfway through a year
at a pensione in Florence, as surely her own mother had
visited her 40 years before.
   For all its aggressive salience, the station goes soft
when it faces the city. It has an unfinished feeling,
heightened by a circle of ragged park, with its battered
grass and jumble of masonry and stray dogs. The place is
strangely isolated with few station hotels and a long, ugly
colonnaded avenue, very Mussolinian in feeling, its principal
access to the maelstrom of the city.
   Despite its ancient monuments such as the Basilica of St.
Ambrose, or the palaces and churches of the Renaissance,
Milan exudes a 19th-century air. Manzoni, Stendhal, the
Austrian archdukes and Risorgimento figures such as Cavour
and Victor Emmanuele are its ghosts. It is easy to see the
broughams and phaetons and their smart horses and coachmen at
the port-cochere of the Scala or prancing through the quarter
of Montenapoleone.
   The Milanese are still very elegant in their rich, dark
clothes. But the atmosphere is one of business, and business
is the soul of change. In one of the most fashionable
restaurants the current scene powerfully reflects it.
   There is the refectory table of Japanese businessmen.
There are the sex kittens on the banquettes in sapphires and
miniskirts. There are the male customers in leather jackets
and gold chains. The service is hasty and the food is well on
its way downhill.
   We ask a waiter to call a taxi as we end our meal and
battle our way out against the surge of the next sitting. At
the front door a youth blocks our path. He is wearing a light
gray sweatshirt with the words "Dress for Success" stamped
across his chest.
   Who are you and why are you wearing that? I gasp out in
exasperation. I am the driver of the taxi you ordered, comes
the wholly reasonable and yet for some reason astonishing
reply.
   ---
   Mr. King is director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raytheon Wins
   Army Contract
   Of $414 Million
   ---
   Ground-Control Equipment
   For Italy Would Help
   Firm Prevent Layoffs
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Gary Putka
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   RTN EUROP ROK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a move intended to prevent layoffs at
Raytheon Co.'s missile-making operations, the Army awarded
the firm a $414 million contract to supply certain
ground-control equipment to Italy.
   The unusual contract calls for the U.S to buy support
equipment for 20 planned Patriot ground-to-air missile
systems in Italy -- even though the Italian government hasn't
yet appropriated funds for the missiles the equipment is
meant to be used with. The ground equipment is manufactured
at the same Raytheon facilities in Andover, Mass., where the
company builds Patriot missiles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since the Army has proposed phasing out purchases of the
missiles during the next few years, Raytheon has pushed hard
to win U.S. approval of the contract involving Italy. Without
the Army contract, Raytheon has said it would be forced to
lay off hundreds of workers.
   In response to questions, a spokesman for the Army's
missile command said that one of the major reasons for
signing the contract was to prevent disruptions or layoffs at
Raytheon's missile-making operations. Senior Army acquisition
officials previously used similar arguments to defend the
Italian contract, and the company itself has used such
arguments to garner congressional support to pay for the
ground-control equipment.
   The Pentagon's decision capped another successful lobbying
effort by Raytheon, one of the few major defense contractors
that has avoided layoffs from defense belt-tightening. The
company had said that approximately 1,200 of the 6,000
workers at its Andover plant could have received pink slips
during the next few years unless the Italian project was
funded. Some Andover production lines building Patriot
equipment for U.S. air defense needs would have stopped
working in 1991.
   "This helps stabilize our production capabilities as we
look forward to future international sales," said a Raytheon
spokesman.
   Raytheon plans to license production of the missiles in
Italy by an Italian consortium. Without the Army's approval
of funding for the ground equipment, however, the roughly $5
billion project in Italy would have collapsed.
   The U.S. and Italy signed a memorandum of understanding
about the Patriot systems two years ago, but Italy still
hasn't provided final funding for any of the planned missile
purchases.
   The Army said 1984 was the last time it approved such a
contract to supply ground-control equipment for U.S.-made
missiles to a foreign country. That contract involved the
West German military.
   A person familiar with the Patriot negotiations said part
of the Pentagon's decision to pay for the ground equipment
was based on fears that Raytheon would raise prices for the
equipment for Italy purchased by the U.S if Andover
production lines had to be closed down and later reopened.
   Late last month, the Pentagon rescinded an earlier
decision to cut procurement of Hawk missiles, also made at
Andover, saving another 850 Raytheon jobs.
   In other contract actions, Rockwell International Corp.
received a $10.8 million Air Force contract for B-1B
electronic test equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Broken Trust:
   How a Private Banker
   Cost Wealthy Clients
   As Much as $50 Million
   ---
   At Manufacturers Hanover,
   Geneva Official Exploited
   Secrecy, Sloppy Controls
   ---
   Phacos Denies Fraud Charges
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MHC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENEVA -- Constantin Phacos was an unusual success story
in the secretive, fast-money business of international
private banking.
   The slight, shy banker, who sometimes stutters when
nervous, had assembled an enviable stable of wealthy, mostly
Greek clients particularly attracted to the enormous returns
Mr. Phacos boasted from trading foreign currencies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Manufacturers Hanover Corp., anxious to become a major
player in this business, recruited Mr. Phacos in 1986 in what
seemed to have been a coup. But it was actually the first in
a series of errors that could cost the U.S. bank as much as
$50 million, making it potentially one of the largest
bank-fraud cases ever.
   Last October, the 38-year-old Mr. Phacos was rousted out
of bed and charged by the Swiss government with embezzlement,
forgery and misappropriation of client funds. Manufacturers
says roughly 80 client accounts were apparently looted in
what it calls "an enormously complicated and sophisticated
scheme with indications of outside collusion."
   The bank, which refuses to discuss the matter further,
took a $50 million charge against earnings last November to
cover client losses and the costs of an investigation.
   Swiss authorities decline to discuss the charges against
Mr. Phacos, who remains in jail facing a minimum of three
years in prison if convicted, his lawyer says. The attorney,
Henri-Philippe Sambuc, concedes that his client acted
improperly in some respects but insists the money was simply
lost trading foreign currencies for clients. The attorney
says more than 160 clients were affected.
   Interviews with people familiar with the Geneva branch and
internal documents obtained by this newspaper indicate that
whatever the outcome of Mr. Phacos's case, the Geneva scandal
is as much the result of sloppy internal controls at
Manufacturers as it is the product of a rogue employee.
   As early as 1987, for example, the bank's outside auditor,
Peat Marwick Mitchell &amp; Co., said that correction of
shortcomings in the Geneva branch's internal controls was "a
matter of urgency." A spokesman for what is now KPMG Peat
Marwick declined to comment.
   Though Manufacturers declined several requests for
interviews, the company provided a brief statement asserting,
among other things, that "every warning flag was heeded" by
the bank. "We made changes in our Swiss operations each step
along the way, but, quite obviously, the measures we took
didn't succeed in preventing the fraud or uncovering it until
it had resulted in a major loss."
   Manufacturers' Geneva debacle is in part a result of the
risks of private banking, or catering to the financial needs
of wealthy clients, which has become one of the most
lucrative and fastest growing fields in consumer banking.
Switzerland in particular is a favored locale for
private-banking operations because of the country's laws
protecting customers' privacy.
   But wealthy individuals' passion for secrecy can give bank
auditors and officials nightmares if they don't take extra
precautions. Many of Mr. Phacos's clients, for example, left
explicit instructions that they not be sent monthly
statements or confirmation notices on trades.
   Many wealthy individuals bar such written communication in
order to hide assets from relatives or others in their home
nations, banking industry executives say. Communication is
done only by phone or in person, and should the client let
such monitoring functions lapse, the potential for abuse is
large.
   The Geneva embarrassment is especially galling for
Manufacturers Hanover in light of the progress it has made
shedding its image as the weak sister of the big New York
banks. In recent years, the nation's ninth-largest bank has
slimmed down, gotten a grip on its problem loans, boosted
liquidity and rebuilt capital. The banking company recently
had its debt rating raised by two major agencies at a time
many banks are being downgraded.
   But the private-banking scandal is one of three breakdowns
in controls suffered by Manufacturers in little more than a
year. Unauthorized trading in Canadian government securities
by a bond salesman last year cost Manufacturers $14 million,
and two junior officers in the stock transfer department were
dismissed in January 1989 following the theft of $1 million
of stock.
   Manufacturers says it has now reviewed all its security
controls world-wide, and it is severely punishing employees
who violate procedures.
   Manufacturers opened its small Geneva office in 1985 as a
two-officer operation: one manager, one account executive and
two clerical workers. Forced by Swiss rules to hire locally,
Manufacturers soon turned to Mr. Phacos, who had a large
client pool and who, until recently, had worked for the
Geneva branch of Israel Discount Bank &amp; Trust Co. Although he
is a Greek national, Mr. Phacos had been able to work for
several years in Switzerland because both his ex-wife and
wife are Swiss citizens.
   At Manufacturers, Mr. Phacos performed a variety of money
management services for clients, but he was known in
particular for trading foreign currencies. According to
clients, he promised unusually high returns and, for a time,
seemed to deliver. In one spectacular two-week period, Mr.
Phacos boasted of achieving a 30% return for customers, one
former client says.
   Word-of-mouth about such trading results brought Mr.
Phacos a stream of new clients, including his father-in-law.
   Mr. Phacos, who declined to be interviewed, drove a new
Mercedes, lived in a fashionable Geneva neighborhood and flew
first-class on vacations. His wife, Karen, who owns a
boutique in Geneva, says her husband is "a family man. He
barbecues on weekends, drives the kids to school, gardens and
does the grocery shopping on weekends." She wouldn't discuss
the case against her husband.
   Mr. Phacos's direct superior, Emile G. Marshi, a
silver-haired veteran banker, showed a disinclination for
paperwork and oversight, spending most of his time soliciting
corporate lending business and engaging in other
fee-generating activity, people familiar with the office say.
   Mr. Marshi has been indicted in the Phacos affair on
charges of financial mismanagement, but he hasn't been
jailed. Following a complaint in 1987 from superiors that he
get more control over the paperwork in his office, Mr. Marshi
responded that "the account documentation has poisoned our
life here. All the staff has been working flat out for nearly
a month, giving up their lunch breaks and staying late to the
detriment of our more important work." Reached by telephone,
Mr. Marshi declined to comment on the case.
   In fact, as internal documents show, there were
record-keeping problems and other irregularities associated
with monitoring Mr. Phacos from the time he arrived there in
1986.
   Managers at Manufacturers' Zurich branch, which oversaw
many aspects of the Geneva office, first complained in 1986
that, in its foreign currency trades, the Geneva branch was
ignoring bank rules on margin requirements, or the amount of
cash or securities needed to serve as collateral on such
trades.
   Peat Marwick noted as far back as 1987 that the Geneva
branch had insufficient documentation of its customers'
accounts. At one point, the branch's files were so sketchy
that only the account officer, Mr. Phacos, knew the
identities of the depositors.
   "The files on Geneva clients need to be completed as soon
as possible," states a 1987 memo prepared by Peat Marwick.
"The most important single aspect to be documented is the
identity of each banking client; a simple statement that the
account officer concerned knows such identity is not
adequate."
   But little seems to have been done to correct these
situations. In the first six months of 1988, for example, the
Geneva branch executed 6,000 foreign exchange trades, a
blistering pace for such a small office, industry executives
say. Cash and securities in numerous client accounts were
being pledged as collateral for the trades of other
customers, a highly unusual practice, according to industry
executives.
   Mr. Marshi responded in 1988 to criticism from Zurich on
the handling of foreign exchange trades in a tart memo: "In
other words, your {sic} are calling me a liar. What do you
know of my business here?" In another memo on the same topic,
he wrote: "It does seem strange that after your neglect for
over a year on margins, you are now showing such zeal."
   The Geneva branch suffered from loose controls in other
ways. To guard against fraud with "hold-mail" accounts, or
those in which the client refuses to receive written
communication from the bank, banks typically require two
employees' signatures for transactions over a certain value.
As a further protection against conspiracies, the two
signatories are always in separate departments reporting to
different bosses. Lastly, for transactions requested over the
telephone, the most dangerous type of money or securities
transfer, banks usually assign a third person to call the
client back to verify the instructions, using a codeword.
   But at Manufacturers' Geneva office, some of these
safeguards were lacking, people familiar with the situation
say. One such "hold-mail" client asserts, for example, that
his signature was forged on forms giving Mr. Phacos total
discretion to trade his account. Peter Ioannides, a Greek
businessman, says bank investigators showed him a piece of
paper allegedly signed by him authorizing Mr. Phacos's
trading. "I immediately recognized that it wasn't my
signature," says Mr. Ioannides. "I didn't give them
permission to play the markets or anything."
   In late 1988, Manufacturers Hanover shut down all
foreign-exchange trading in Switzerland after the Zurich
branch -- not Mr. Phacos -- suffered a $3.4 million loss from
unauthorized trading.
   Not long afterwards, in March 1989, Mr. Marshi left
Manufacturers in a dispute over controls, according to the
bank.
   Shortly before leaving, Mr. Marshi received a bonus of
125,000 Swiss francs, or about $86,000, according to bank
memos. (The bonus would have been even larger except for a
$13 million loss suffered by the bank on a loan to Gatoil
S.A., an oil broker introduced to the bank by Mr. Marshi.)
   Mr. Phacos's star continued to rise after Mr. Marshi's
departure. In April 1989, he was promoted to vice president
from assistant vice president. According to clients, Mr.
Phacos boasted to them that he had surpassed management's
expectations for his performance.
   But six months later, he was in trouble. In October of
last year, a client called requesting account balance
information while Mr. Phacos was on vacation in the U.S. At
that point, a clerk approached Francois Herve, the new branch
manager, and told him that she had been instructed by Mr.
Phacos before he left to provide the customer with an account
balance far greater than the one shown by bank records.
   Mr. Phacos was immediately called back to Switzerland, and
a swarm of Manufacturers accountants and lawyers from New
York descended on Geneva.
   At this same time, Nickolas A. Trechas, a Greek shipping
executive who had $1.2 million in his account at the
Manufacturers Geneva branch, made a routine checkup call to
the branch. Unable to reach Mr. Phacos and suspecting that
his conversation was being taped, Mr. Trechas left Athens for
Geneva that morning without even shaving. By the time he got
there, Mr. Phacos was in jail, and Mr. Trechas's seven-digit
account was overdrawn by $20,000.
   For months after Mr. Phacos's arrest, Mr. Trechas's and
other customer accounts were frozen pending the
investigation, and only recently has the bank begun releasing
funds.
   Recalling his first meeting with a banker investigating
the matter, Mr. Trechas says, "They asked me how I got my
money to the bank. Was it in a suitcase? How much did I know
about what was going on inside the branch? They were treating
me like I was accused of something]"
   Mr. Trechas, who still hasn't gotten his money back,
laments, "I have been soaked. This is changing my whole
philosophy. I don't know who to trust."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Japanese Back View That Surpluses
   At Home Benefit the Global Economy
   ----
   By Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- With the potential for a global capital shortage
looming, many Japanese are embracing the notion that Japan's
huge external surpluses are essential to the world's economic
health.
   That view, until recently political anathema in the face
of grinding trade frictions between Japan and other
countries, suddenly is gaining acceptance among economists,
bankers and industrialists in Japan. They say that the cash
Japan accumulates through its persistent current-account
surpluses can be used to help fund the huge cost of unifying
Germany, rebuilding Eastern Europe and covering chronically
large U.S. budget deficits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The current account measures a nation's net income from
trade, services and investment. In the year ended last March
31, Japan's current-account surplus was $53.5 billion, down
from $77.3 billion a year earlier.
   To be sure, most government officials here remain publicly
skeptical that the rest of the world suddenly will come to
accept Japan's persistent current-account surpluses.
Politicians in Washington and Brussels, where the European
Community has its headquarters, still campaign loudly for
Japan to trim its trade surplus, and officials here insist
reduction remains a goal.
   "Our policy of trying to reduce the surplus is still
there," says one government official. "The policy has not
changed yet," he adds, though he notes the subject might come
up after the conclusion of ongoing structural economic talks
with the U.S. and the July summit of the seven major
industrialized countries in Houston.
   "The adjustment process is expected to go on," a senior
official of the Bank of Japan says. But, he adds, "at the
same time we are expected to provide the world with capital,
with savings."
   That expectation, officials say, was endorsed by the
publication last month of an economic outlook by the
International Monetary Fund that contained a section
suggesting the world might not want to reduce Japan's
surpluses too quickly as credit gets scarce in Europe and the
U.S. Japanese officials quickly subscribed to that view,
hoping that other governments will see the logic of allowing
Japan to become something of a financial anchor to the world,
providing a stable source of capital at a time when demand
for money is expected to be huge.
   Bush administration officials say the U.S. is still eager
to get Japan to reduce its trade surplus, which has become a
glaring symbol for those in Congress and the administration
who believe Japanese trading practices are unfair.
   But a smaller trade surplus also would mean the Japanese
would have less money to lend the U.S. And at a time when
U.S. savings are still low and estimates of the budget
deficit are rising, that could lead to higher interest rates.
"There is a certain Jekyll and Hyde reaction," one
administration official said. "We want their savings to
finance things, but we don't want the trade surplus."
   Ideally, the U.S. government would like to boost U.S.
savings, cut the budget deficit, and reduce the nation's
dependence on foreign capital. But until that happens,
Japanese capital could prove critical in keeping interest
rates down. "Better American capital than Japanese capital,"
says economist Lawrence Summers of Harvard University, "but
better Japanese capital than no capital."
   The most pressing need for cash is in Europe. West
Germany, which like Japan is the beneficiary of persistent
current-account surpluses, has been the biggest supplier of
funds to the Continent for years. Last year, its surplus
amounted to about 90 billion marks ($54.62 billion), or about
4.5% of the country's total economic output.
   But the cost of reunifying East Germany and West Germany,
a process that will start this year, is expected to cost as
much as 95 billion marks. Although finance officials in Bonn
have said they hope to raise that amount domestically, their
efforts will soak up much of the surplus capital that
normally flows from West Germany.
   That means other European countries, accustomed to German
capital, will have to look elsewhere for investment. Money
will be especially scarce because of the ambitious
development plans of many newly capitalist Eastern European
nations.
   "If the supply of capital from Japan were to disappear,
there would be problems in connection with Eastern Europe,"
says Takunori Kobayashi, an analyst at Daiwa Securities Co.'s
research arm. Adds Keikichi Honda, the chief economist and a
director of Bank of Tokyo: "The world after 1991 will be
entering a new phase of international economy where savings
is needed; someone has to provide the money, and it certainly
can't be the U.S."
   Indeed, many Japanese economists argue that the U.S.
itself is ever-hungrier for Japanese money. With the U.S.
federal government saying it now faces an unplanned budget
shortfall of $150 billion or more, the Treasury is going to
be raising a lot of money through bond auctions. Japanese
investors, as usual, are expected to be among the biggest
buyers.
   The prospect of slaking a mighty thirst for money in the
U.S. and Europe has fueled talk that Japan will be encouraged
to sustain its surpluses. "People are saying, `Gee whiz,
let's have a second think about it, especially if there's
going to be such a capital shortage in the world,'" says Paul
A. Summerville, an economist at Jardine Fleming Securities
Co. "But that's very difficult to translate into something
that's politically palatable."
   Besides, notes Richard Koo, an economist at the research
unit of Nomura Securities Co., the capital surpluses
accumulating in Japan don't belong to the government, but to
private companies. "Even if they were asked to recirculate
the surplus to Eastern Europe, the companies won't do it
unless they find anything beneficial in it for themselves."
   For now, the idea remains confined to the academic realm.
In January, for the first time in six years, Japan's current
account slipped into deficit, largely because of shrinking
trade surpluses and a heavy outflow of money related to
services. The closest the government has come to endorsing
the idea of surpluses is to empanel a group from the Economic
Planning Agency to study the potential optimal level of
Japan's surpluses.
   ---
   Masayoshi Kanabayashi contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cypress Countersues
   After Patent Lawsuit
   By Advanced Micro
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CY AMD
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Cypress Semiconductor Corp. filed a
countersuit against Advanced Micro Devices Inc., alleging
that Advanced Micro attempted to monopolize a key
computer-chip market through "fraud, deceit, breach of
contract and baseless litigation."
   The claim, in which Cypress is seeking in excess of $30
million in damages, was in response to an August 1988
patent-infringement suit by Advanced Micro against Cypress
and several other chip makers, covering certain specialty
chips known as programmable logic devices, used in laptop
computers, among other products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cypress previously denied the charge and asserted that the
patents at issue were invalid and, in any event, covered by a
1983 license agreement between Cypress and Monolithic
Memories Inc., which Advanced Micro acquired in 1988.
   The Cypress counterclaim, filed here in federal court,
alleges that Advanced Micro's acquisition of Monolithic
Memories was part of a plan to obtain Cypress technology and
monopolize the market in violation of state and federal
antitrust law. Cypress also alleges that Monolithic Memories
defrauded it as part of the earlier exchange because
Monolithic Memories knew that the patent rights it purported
to license were being challenged in court.
   Cypress, which has been the target of some 20 lawsuits
over the past seven years and has settled them all, said the
counterclaim was "the first time Cypress has gone on the
legal offensive."
   "I got a bag of worthless patents, and they got $10
million," said T.J. Rodgers, president and chief executive
officer of Cypress, noting that Monolithic Memories received
Cypress stock as part of the 1983 transaction. "I want my
chips back, and I want my technology back and I want
damages."
   Advanced Micro, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., called the
countersuit "the standard response of a patent infringer" and
termed the fraud claim "bizarre."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Emerald Homes Limited Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS EHP VER
</CO>
<LP>
   EMERALD HOMES Limited Partnership (Phoenix, Ariz.) --
Lewis J. Wright, 63 years old, who has run his own real
estate company since he resigned last year as vice chairman
of Western Savings, was elected president and chief executive
officer of this home builder, succeeding Philip J. Polich,
41, who has been elected chairman of Emerald Homes Inc., its
managing general partner. Mr. Polich last week was also named
president of Verit Industries, a Phoenix-based real estate
concern, which owns 23.5% of Emerald Homes L.P.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Girard Partners L.P.
   Still Seeks to Oust
   Pic `N' Save Board
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   PICN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LA JOLLA, Calif. -- An investor group led by David H.
Batchelder said it hasn't abandoned its efforts to oust the
board of Pic 'N' Save Corp. and questioned the sincerity of
the company's plan to put itself up for sale.
   The group, Girard Partners L.P., said it won't participate
in Pic 'N' Save's auction because "it makes unnecessary
demands on potential bidders" and "isn't designed to attract
broad participation."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pic 'N' Save fired back that its financial advisers have
already begun contacting potential buyers from a list of more
than 100 companies, individuals and other entities. The
company also extended the bid deadline to July 15 from June
20.
   Pic 'N' Save, a Dominguez, Calif., retailer of close-out
merchandise, said Friday it would provide nonpublic
information to buyers who sign a confidentiality agreement
with several standstill provisions. Girard said the
conditions were "unacceptable."
   Pic 'N' Save countered that its financial advisers offered
during the weekend to make "significant concessions" to
Girard to induce the group to participate in the auction.
Specifically, Pic 'N' Save offered to permit Girard to resume
its solicitation of consents and proxies for its board
nominees after July 15 if no bidder emerges. If a bidder does
come forth, the date would be pushed back to Jan. 1 to permit
negotiation of a sale agreement, a company spokesman said.
   Girard holds a 6.7% stake in Pic 'N' Save and has been
soliciting consents from shareholders to install five of its
nominees on the company's seven-member board. One of the
group's nominees is a former Pic 'N' Save executive who holds
a 4% stake. If the group succeeds, it has said it would buy
the company or auction it off to the highest bidder.
   In national over-the-counter trading, Pic 'N' Save slid
$1.25 a share, to $12.625, on turnover of more than one
million shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   All in the Family
   ----
   By Donna Rifkind
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<LP>
   At the beginning of Sue Miller's second novel, "Family
Pictures" (Harper &amp; Row, 389 pages, $19.95), the blurred
memory of a birthday party triggers a flood of painful
recollections. The time is the early 1960s; the place, a
bustling household in the exclusive Hyde Park neighborhood
near the University of Chicago. Nina Eberhardt is recalling
her brother Mack's 14th birthday, when she and her siblings
are singing as the cake is brought in. The song stops, and
her autistic brother, Randall, speaks: "Happy birthday, dear
Mackie." Yet Nina's mother insists that she's got it wrong:
Randall never spoke after the age of four, and Nina has
merely appropriated the story to suit her own psychological
needs. "But that's the way it is in a family, isn't it?" Nina
asks. "The stories get passed around, polished, embellished."
   The stories that are passed around in "Family Pictures"
are told in four different voices: Nina takes turns with
Mack, her mother and her psychiatrist father in describing
the catastrophes that punctuate the family's 40-year history.
The chief crisis is Randall's autism, which drives Lainie
Eberhardt to produce three more children, Nina, Mary and
Sarah. David Eberhardt's mocking nicknames for his youngest
daughters -- "the last straws," "the pitchers of health" --
expose his bitter knowledge that the girls were conceived to
"make up" for Randall's illness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The strain of caring for Randall, whom Lainie refuses to
send to an institution, eventually shatters her marriage: In
1964, when Nina is 12, David moves out of the house. Lainie
falls apart after he leaves and is able to focus only on
Randall, leaving the other children to fend for themselves.
In desperation Mack takes charge, and somehow, liberated from
their father's constant angry criticisms, "a kind of peace
and freedom" freshens the house's suffocating atmosphere.
   Eventually, as Randall takes on the outward
characteristics of adulthood, he becomes too difficult for
Lainie to manage alone. The day comes when he unintentionally
pushes Lainie hard enough to knock her unconscious. After
recovering, she reluctantly agrees to send him to a school in
Connecticut. Lainie and David have a reconciliation soon
after Randall leaves, and David moves back into the house.
   But all is not yet well. Randall's departure triggers a
rebellion in both Mack and Nina; as Nina admits, "there was
suddenly room for Mack and me to go crazy, to be as mad, as
bad, as we wanted. . . . Or it could have been just that it
was the sixties and there was a perfect congruence between
the time -- which heaped its praise on acting out -- and our
lives." Mack drops out of his senior year at Harvard and
allows himself, despite his parents' protests, to be sent to
Vietnam. Meanwhile Nina, who is still in high school, has an
affair with an older man, mistakenly believes she is
pregnant, and runs away to Columbus, Ohio, where she stays
for a week before shamefacedly returning home.
   The later life of the family is related in fits and
starts: Mack returns from Vietnam, is married and divorced
twice, becomes a co-owner of a Chicago bar; Nina graduates
from the University of Chicago, becomes a photographer, gets
married, suffers a miscarriage. When Randall dies suddenly in
an accident at school, the family reunites briefly for his
funeral. Then, finally freed from mutual responsibility for
Randall, Lainie and David break apart again, this time for
good. In time, David marries a family friend with whom he had
long ago had an affair.
   Looking at a family portrait at the book's conclusion,
Nina reflects that "it was really a portrait of a kind of
reckless courage, a testament to the great loving
carelessness at the heart of every family's life, even ours.
That each child represented such risk, such blind daring on
its parents' parts -- such possibility for anguish and pain
-- that each one's existence was a kind of miracle."
   "Family Pictures" itself represents a kind of blind
daring. In Ms. Miller's first novel, "The Good Mother"
(1986), the story of a custody battle was narrated
singlehandedly and schematically by the "good mother"
herself. The new book has no less than four points of view,
constant shifts in time and setting, and an altogether finer
texture. But while Ms. Miller shows herself to have
sufficient control over her complicated material, and even to
be capable of some lovely moments, certain built-in
limitations seem to have gotten the better of her.
   For one thing, Randall, the character who is responsible
for shaping everyone else's behavior, never seems to have
much of a physical presence. He is described as "an awkward
little machine," "a trusting, cheerful pet," but aside from a
few indications that he resembles Mack we never really get a
sense of what Randall looks like. Long before he dies, he
seems more like a troubling ghost than an actual person, as
if the family were reacting to the idea of Randall rather
than to the human being himself.
   This is not to suggest that it is easy to offer a vivid
portrait of an autistic person; of course it is not. Yet
Randall isn't the only one in the book who seems to lack
definition. Except for Lainie, who seems to have real flesh
and blood, the other characters are sketched rather
halfheartedly. Ms. Miller digs a little way into the depths
of each person and then stops -- for the simple reason that
in going further she risks turning the narrative into
melodrama. Ms. Miller's novel is an honest, sensitive and in
many ways very gifted performance. But her reluctance to
round out her characters' hearts and minds makes "Family
Pictures" an ultimately unsatisfying venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kidder to Resume Program Trading
   For Own Account After Six-Month Halt
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   GE BSC MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., once the biggest
program trader on Wall Street, ended a six-month pullback
from the practice. The action is the latest sign that the
furor over computer-driven trading strategies continues to
wane.
   Kidder, a unit of General Electric Co., was one of six
major brokerage firms that last fall stopped doing
stock-index arbitrage for their own accounts, amid a public
outcry against program trading. Kidder said it resumed the
activity after "extensive conversations" with the New York
Stock Exchange and its own brokers and clients.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Index arbitrage involves rapid-fire trades of big baskets
of stocks with offsetting trades of stock-index futures and
options. It is the most common and controversial form of
program trading. Critics have blamed such computer-driven
trading for big market swings, including the 1987
stock-market crash and the market's sharp plunge Oct. 13.
   Kidder is the second big Wall Street firm to resume index
arbitrage for its own account. Bear Stearns Cos. announced a
similar resumption last December. In the Big Board's latest
weekly statistics, Bear Stearns was the most active Wall
Street program trader -- with an average 2.1 million shares a
day traded in program-trading strategies, almost all of it
involving index arbitrage for its own account. (Kidder was
the fifth-biggest program trader; most of its trades were
index arbitrage for customers.)
   Kidder's decision reflects both the big brokerage firm's
quest for profits -- the firm had a net loss of $23 million
last year -- as well as a reluctance on the part of the Big
Board to take an overly aggressive stand against program
trading. While the Big Board has publicly cautioned brokerage
firms about disruptive program-trading activity, it hasn't
been as forceful as program-trading critics would like.
   Indeed, with overall trading volume on the Big Board off
about 15% from last year's pace, traders are happy for any
volume they can get -- even from program trading.
   A Big Board "blue-ribbon panel" on program trading and
stock-market volatility has been meeting for about five
months, but hasn't yet issued recommendations. Because the
panel isn't expected to recommend a major crackdown on
program trading, brokerage firms apparently don't fear a
backlash from the Big Board if they plunge back into program
activity.
   Letters and phone calls from many of Kidder's 1,400
brokers helped spur Kidder's program pullback last October,
after the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 190 points
Oct. 13.
   Charles Sheehan, Kidder's managing director in charge of
retail sales, said that two months ago he asked about 100 of
the firm's top-producing brokers about their current views on
program trading, and "close to 90%" of those responding
supported a resumption of program trading by Kidder. "I think
they understand what we're trying to do is position Kidder as
a leader in developing modern portfolio management
techniques," Mr. Sheehan said.
   In March, Kidder lost its head of customer program
trading, Joseph R. Schmuckler, who joined Nomura Securities
Co. to help Nomura's planned plunge into program trading.
   Thomas F. Ryan, Kidder's executive managing director in
charge of stock trading, said the firm would take a
"controlled, responsible approach" to index arbitrage. "We're
willing to bend over here" to avoid disrupting the markets,
he said.
   Kidder said that in its index arbitrage trading, it would
at all times sell stocks only on "upticks" (when a stock is
rising), and buy only on "downticks." This approach is meant
to avoid accelerating a market move already under way. Kidder
also said it would make data on its index arbitrage activity
available not only to the Big Board but to "other interested
parties."
   A prominent program-trading critic was disturbed by
Kidder's move.
   "These guys aren't helping the financial markets; there's
no way in the world it could help the small investors," said
Charles Wohlstetter, chairman of Contel Corp., a Big
Board-listed company. Mr. Wohlstetter has sharply criticized
the exchange for its program-trading stance and has led a
loose confederation of chief executives campaigning against
program trading in Washington.
   At Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., the nation's biggest brokerage
firm, a spokesman yesterday said, "We continue not to do
index arbitrage for ourselves or for clients," and that there
aren't any plans for resuming the activity.
   ---
   Craig Torres contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gannett Adopts Anti-Takeover Measure
   As Foundation Plans to Sell 10% Stake
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   VIA GCI PCI CCB KRI NWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gannett Co. adopted special anti-takeover measures amid
speculation the company could be put into play by the Gannett
Foundation's decision to sell its 10% stake in the
broadcasting and media giant.
   Although no clear bidder has surfaced for the stake, the
largest block of Gannett stock, the foundation has said it
has "numerous expressions of interest" from potential buyers.
It declined to identify the interested parties.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As reported, the foundation hired Salomon Brothers Inc. to
negotiate the possible sale of its 15.9 million shares of
Gannett stock. Gannett Co.'s former chairman Allen H.
Neuharth, who is now chairman of the foundation, said he
prefers to sell the stock to the company or to an employee
stock option plan. However, he said Salomon Brothers will
explore expressions of interest "from other potential
buyers."
   John J. Curley, chairman, president and chief executive of
Gannett Co., said in a statement that the plan isn't in
response to any specific takeover offer "and the board is not
aware of any such effort." He added that the company's aim is
to "protect stockholders in the event of an unsolicited
attempt to acquire the company through abusive takeover
tactics which the board believes are not in the best interest
of stockholders."
   Among companies said by Wall Street investment bankers to
be potential buyers of the Gannett stake are Paramount
Communications Inc., Capital Cities/ABC Inc. and Viacom
International Inc. Paramount and Viacom said they don't
comment on such speculation, and Capital Cities executives
couldn't be reached for comment. Paramount, for its part, has
plenty of cash on hand, but is unlikely to do anything
unfriendly. Analysts familiar with the company say it would
be far more likely to favor a friendly merger with a company
such as Gannett rather than a purchase that would dilute
earnings and add debt. Paramount is also considered a
potential white knight for Gannett should an unfriendly
bidder emerge.
   People familiar with Capital Cities, meanwhile, say the
company isn't likely to pay a hefty price for an acquisition
at present. What's more, Gannett's ownership of broadcast
properties would present regulatory problems.
   Many of the largest newspaper-oriented media companies
that might be natural buyers are expected to keep their
distance. Knight-Ridder Co., for example, has said it isn't
interested. John Morton, an analyst at Lynch Jones &amp; Ryan,
said he doubts any major newspaper company will be a
purchaser of the Gannett Foundation stake because of
fraternal reasons. "Newspapers, as competitive as they are,
have collegial, fraternal feelings toward each other," said
Mr. Morton. "Plus very few companies with the media interests
are in the position to buy the whole company, and they
wouldn't want the 10% if they couldn't have the whole
company."
   Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. has also been rumored as a
potential bidder. But the company is strapped with debt, and
has said it won't be embarking on any new acquisitions for
now. Martin Singerman, head of News America Publishing, the
News Corp. unit, said, "I have never heard Rupert {Murdoch}
express any interest in Gannett stock and it's highly
unlikely we will have interest in the future."
   Analysts have said Gannett Co., the nation's largest
newspaper publisher, would be a difficult and costly takeover
target. But several analysts said the announcement by Gannett
yesterday of a stock-purchase rights plan only heightens
speculation that the media company is preparing for a
takeover. "The plan gives the company ammunition to deal with
whatever situation comes up," said Bruce Thorp, a newspaper
analyst for Provident National Bank. "Putting the plan in
place will get people excited about what could happen with
the block of stock."
   The Gannett board voted to give holders a dividend
distribution of one preferred share purchase right on each
share of Gannett common outstanding. As is common in such
plans, the proposal effectively gives shareholders the right
to buy shares at half price in the event of a takeover
attempt. The distribution of rights will be made on June 8 to
stockholders of record on that date. Each right will entitle
stockholders to buy 1/200th of a share of a new series of
junior participating preferred stock at an exercise price of
$150.
   The plan would take effect upon acquisition of a 15%
interest in the company, although directors have the
authority to reduce the threshold to not less than 10%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Budget Surplus
   By U.S. in April
   Was at Record
   ---
   Personal Tax Receipts Cited;
   Surge Was Insufficient
   To Meet Deficit Target
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Against the grim backdrop surrounding budget
negotiations between Congress and the Bush administration,
the Treasury offered a snippet of good news yesterday: A
record gush of individual income-tax receipts in April gave
the U.S. a record budget surplus during the month.
   But even the $42.52 billion surplus, larger than many
analysts expected, won't be nearly enough to bring the
deficit to the $100 billion target set by the Gramm-Rudman
law for fiscal 1990 -- or even below last year's $152 billion
gap, many analysts said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Exceeding the Gramm-Rudman requirements, even by the tens
of billions of dollars now projected, won't bring any
sanctions. The budget process for fiscal 1990, which ends
Oct. 30, is past the point where automatic spending cuts kick
in. But the huge difference between the target and the actual
deficit -- not to mention the likelihood that the deficit
will widen rather than narrow this year -- would emphasize
the failure of that legislation, and of the government budget
efforts in general, to stanch the flow of red ink.
   Still, the numbers suggest that the severe shortfall in
corporate tax receipts this year, stemming from the slowing
economy, hasn't spread to individual income taxes. In April,
receipts from personal income taxes reached $74.38 billion,
surpassing the $68.53 billion collected last April.
   April is a key time to measure individual income taxes,
because the filing deadline for individual taxes falls in the
middle of the month. Because of the deadline, the Treasury
always finishes the month with a bulge of receipts. A quirk
of the calendar also helped enlarge the surplus. The
government pushed into March about $4.5 billion of military
salaries and other payments that were due April 1, which fell
on a Sunday.
   Given all those special factors, Mark Melcher, director of
Washington research at Prudential-Bache Securities, said he
doesn't think the big April surplus "is necessarily great
news."
   April's surplus followed a record monthly deficit in March
of $53.34 billion and narrowed the budget gap for the first
seven months of the fiscal year to $108.34 billion. That
compared with a deficit of $86.98 billion during the
comparable period in fiscal 1989.
   If the Treasury doesn't do any better than it did in the
final five months of fiscal 1989 -- and few economists think
it will -- the fiscal 1990 deficit will exceed $170 billion,
Mr. Melcher said.
   This year, as costs of the government's thrift bailout
program have grown, interest rates have risen and corporate
tax receipts have trailed expectations; private analysts and
even Bush administration officials have steadily enlarged
their estimates of the 1990 budget deficit.
   Adding to the gloomy fiscal outlook is that a good chunk
of the saving-and-loan industry's massive bailout costs
aren't reflected in the budget.
   The Congressional Budget Office now believes the deficit
will reach between $170 billion and $203 billion for fiscal
1990. "Tax collections during the month of April and early
May fell short of our estimates by $15 billion," said Paul
Van der Water, a CBO analyst.
   Kathleen Stephansen, senior economist at Donaldson, Lufkin
&amp; Jenrette, while surprised by the size April's surplus, said
she saw nothing in yesterday's report to change her opinion
that the budget deficit will reach $190 billion this year,
almost twice as much as the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction
law mandates.
   Overall, government receipts totaled $139.62 billion last
month, compared with $128.89 billion in April 1989. At the
same time, the government spent $97.11 billion last month,
compared with $88.32 billion in April 1989. The surplus in
April 1989 was $40.57 billion.
   More than $16.5 billion of the outlays last month were
interest payments on the federal debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Has Concerns
   Over Japan's Resolve
   On Trade Initiative
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. is concerned about the strength of
Japan's commitment to the Structural Impediments Initiative
talks, said Charles Dallara, Treasury assistant secretary for
international affairs.
   Senior U.S. and Japanese officials this week meet in
Hawaii to resume the SII talks, a year-long dialogue designed
to break down barriers to a bilateral economic relationship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's some growing concern about the apparent
willingness of the Japanese government to move forward and
make the final SII report a successful report," said Mr.
Dallara, one of the co-heads of the U.S. delegation to
Hawaii. "There are signs of some hesitation and reluctance on
their part."
   The U.S. and Japan on April 5 concluded an interim report
on the SII that both sides heralded as a great success. As
part of that report, Japan agreed to open up its retailing
system, boost public works spending, loosen its clubby
business practices, and strengthen antitrust legislation and
patent protection. Tokyo also said it would relax restrictive
land-use policies and restraints on foreign investment.
   The U.S. promised to encourage savings, improve education,
expand research and development, promote exports and cut the
federal deficit. The April 5 interim agreement, which is
expected to lead to a final SII report in July, was important
to ensuring that Japan avoided being named an unfair trader
under this year's Super 301 determination announced at the
end of April. Super 301 is a tough provision of the 1988
Trade Act that requires the administration to designate
unfair traders whose practices harm U.S. exporters'
prospects.
   The U.S., just a few weeks after letting Japan off the
hook, is now particularly concerned about the issue of
savings and investment. Japan needs "to boost infrastructure
investment," a senior Treasury official explained. There are
also continuing problems with close "keiretsu" links between
Japanese companies, which can promote anticompetitive
business practices and preferential group trade.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rohr May Buy Back Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RHR
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHULA VISTA, Calif. -- Rohr Industries Inc. said it might
buy back as many as 300,000 common shares.
   The maker of aircraft-engine parts said it was considering
the purchases, to be made from time to time, because the
company believes its stock to be a good investment at the
current price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rohr's stock closed yesterday at $21.375, up 87.5 cents a
share, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   The company may use the repurchased stock for its
employee-stock ownership plan or for other general purposes,
it said. Rohr currently has about 17.8 million shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Ashton-Tate Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TATE
</CO>
<LP>
   ASHTON-TATE Corp. (Torrance, Calif.) -- David R. Proctor,
formerly Asia Pacific software products director at
International Business Machines Corp., was named vice
president and general manager, data base division, at this
software company, succeeding Floyd Bradley, who held the post
on an interim basis and remains vice president and general
manager, Europe. Joseph F. Brilando, vice president,
corporate marketing and strategy, resigned to become a
consultant; the post is to be left vacant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Any Wonder Medical Premiums Are Anything but Shrinking?
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   If you want one reason why medical costs are a health
hazard to American business, consider preliminary figures
from the 1989 A. Foster Higgins &amp; Co. benefits survey:
   For companies of more than 5,000 employees, psychiatric
and "substance-abuse" benefits rose 47% last year, to $297 a
head.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among all employers offering such benefits, costs
increased 18% in 1989, to $244 per worker, after having
jumped 27% in 1988.
   Typically, this type of claim is made by only 1% of the
work force, according to John Erb, a Foster Higgins managing
consultant. (Others say 4% to 5%.) And in most cases, it is
made not for the worker's own care, but for a dependent --
usually an adolescent. Often these treatments involve
extended and/or repeated hospital stays; one 1988 calculation
put the average billing for an offspring's admission at
$18,000.
   The usual tale of medical benefits-runamok dwells on the
role of expensive technology and heroic measures to save the
desperately ill. That is not the case here. Rather, the most
rapidly rising element of health-insurance costs is a
function of changing social conventions, commercialism and
law.
   Total admissions to mental facilities rose to 1.8 million
in 1987, from 1.3 million in 1969. The biggest surge has been
at private, for-profit centers, in which referring doctors
sometimes have a stake. According to Ron Manderscheid of the
National Institute of Mental Health, their number and patient
load have grown threefold over the past two decades.
   Industry data confirm that trend plus nearly as swift a
rise of psychiatric units of general hospitals. A big reason:
third-party reimbursement for this type of care is not
limited under the Diagnosis-Related Group schedules that now
apply to most of medicine. Meanwhile, state, county and
Veterans Administration facilities -- traditional caretakers
to most of the mentally ill -- continued in the 1980s to
unload thousands of patients, typically shrinking 20% to 25%.
At the present rate, they will handle within a few years only
a minority of this trade. The fast-growing market in alcohol-
and drug-abuse recovery programs is already a largely private
one.
   With dwindling public provision a given, the rise of
mainstream, commercial treatment of the psyche is seen either
as a blessing or a racket. Mr. Manderscheid's National
Institute advocates vastly expanding access to mental
treatment, and he credits the gains in patronage of private
facilities not only to public-sector patient shifts but to
the baby-boom generation reaching an age range in which
schizophrenia and depression commonly are found, to greater
cultural acceptance of care and to widened insurance
coverage.
   But critics contend mental units market themselves in
response to voguish social and personal problems (eating
disorders, sexual abuse, "co-dependency") and have become
dumping grounds for adolescents (average stay: 42.3 days)
whose parents want nothing more to do with them. The
percentage of private psychiatric hospital admissions going
to those under age 18 has tripled since 1970, to 20.5% by
1986.
   On the balance sheets of U.S. businesses, the indemnity
burden of these trends is equally striking. Steep cost growth
continues despite new resolve to limit coverage. Bigger
employers tend to be most exposed because they have union
contracts tying their hands. Also, according to Mr. Erb of
Foster Higgins, smaller companies are more likely to be
enrolled in insurance plans whose managers are alert to the
potential for abuse.
   Meanwhile, says Mr. Erb, psych shops grow more aggressive
at marketing, coming up with "creative ways of providing
treatment that may or may not be effective." One recent twist
he cites is the admission of multiple family members in order
to deal with the apparent problems of one of them.
   The preponderance of dependent cases means that one step
business has taken to minimize the risk of costly coverage --
drug screening of applicants before hiring -- has only
miminal insurance impact, because you can't test the spouse
or kids.
   Employers are turning to exclusive-provider arrangements
for mental treatment, with the contractor having an incentive
to hold costs down by curbing casual use of treatment or
steering patients to less-expensive out-patient care or to
cheaper help than $120-an-hour psychiatrists. Some pennywise
thinking in this area can backfire on business, says Mr. Erb,
a former emergency-room registered nurse himself. He argues
that resistance to reimbursing outpatient therapy in the
1970s may have helped to spur the boom in private
hospitalization. Likewise, he says, unwillingness today to
pay for weeks-long addiction-rehabilitation stays in favor of
weekend "detox" might be foolish if, as he suspects, only the
lengthier programs work.
   Few dispute that mental-health programs can have positive
effect. Although U.S. business appears to suffer
internationally from their costs (the president's
Competitiveness Council is trying to find good global data),
Japan, which masks its psychological troubles, is beset with
an increasing suicide rate among younger men. Still, some
evidence supports the criticism of trendiness here. Foster
Higgins finds, for example, that employee benefits paid for
these services are 50% higher on the West Coast than in the
north-central U.S. Could maladies vary that much?
   As Mr. Erb observes, not long ago two large markets in
American medicine lay beyond the reach of the non-affluent --
psychotherapy and cosmetic surgery. In more recent years,
thanks to mandates in nearly half the states that health
insurers cover the mind, only beauty therapy remains a
strictly out-of-pocket expense. Another burden of modern life
had been made institutional instead of individual.
   A sense that the tide is turning pervaded last week's
meeting of the American Psychiatric Association in New York,
reports suggest. Since at least 1975 the field has been
growing faster than the population, but the assembled shrinks
groused that it was getting harder to keep patients in a less
subsidized environment.
   Another straw in the wind is the financial trouble of
Charter Medical Corp., the largest of the psychiatric
hospital chains. High leverage is causing much of the
distress, but the company also blames a tighter leash by
insurance carriers.
   Surely it's time for fiscal restraint. Certainly those
trying to plug effective cost-controls into
universal-health-coverage schemes should analyze this
picture. They may find that it shows mental-health
responsibilities, like much of wellness, are best handled
close to home.
   ---
                Mental Health Mania
                                                                                                       

   Per employee costs of psychiatric and substance-abuse
benefits in U.S.
                                                                                                       

                    1987      $163
                    1988       207
                    1989*      244
                                                                                                       

   Source: Foster Higgins
   *Preliminary figure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Novell Says Big Holders
   Killed Merger With Lotus
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Novell Inc. confirmed today that big stockholders derailed
its proposed merger with Lotus Development Corp.
   Stock in Novell, based in Provo, Utah, rose sharply to
$42, up $1.875, in heavy national over-the-counter trading.
Shares in Lotus Development, based in Cambridge, Mass., fell
$1 apiece to $33.75, also in heavy over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Raymond Noorda, Novell's chairman, said he believed the
two companies, which both make software for personal
computers, would have made a good match, but that the deal
fell through when Lotus rejected a plea to give Novell equal
representation on the board of the combined company.
   Though Mr. Noorda stressed that he believes the software
industry is entering a period of consolidation, he said he
wasn't shopping the company around. "We're not looking for
merger partners at this time," he said.
   Mr. Noorda also said that despite the collapse of the deal
with Lotus, he expects the two companies to cooperate on a
range of business activities. "Some positive things will
happen between the two companies," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   BOF CG FNB
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arctco Inc., proposed initial public offering of 3.2
million common shares, of which 1.6 million will be offered
by the company and 1.6 million by holders, via PaineWebber
Inc., Dain Bosworth Inc. and Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Bank of San Francisco Holding Co., offering of 1,111,837
class A common shares, of which one million is to be sold by
the company and the balance by a holder, via PaineWebber.
                                                                                                       

   Columbia Gas System Inc., shelf offering of up to $100
million of debentures.
                                                                                                       

   The Federated States of Micronesia, shelf offering of up
to $300 million of medium-term notes, via Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   First Chicago Corp., shelf offering of $800 million in
debt securities and warrants.
                                                                                                       

   Orthopedic Services Inc., initial public offering of
2,250,000 common shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and
Paribas Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Chemed Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CHEMED Corp. (Cincinnati) -- Paul E. Barkman, president of
Chemed's DuBois International Inc. unit; James A. Cunningham,
director of First Boston Corp.; and Judi K. O'Steen, vice
president/finance and treasurer of Omnicare Inc. were elected
directors of this health-care chemicals company, filling
three vacancies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hudson General Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HGC
</CO>
<LP>
   HUDSON GENERAL Corp. (Great Neck, N.Y.) -- Paul R.
Pollack, previously senior vice president of this aviation
services company, was named executive vice president,
operations, and chief operating officer. Raymond J. Rieder,
previously vice president, marketing, was named senior vice
president and chief marketing officer. Michael Rubin,
previously vice president, finance, and chief financial
officer, was named executive vice president, finance and
administration, and chief financial officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Officials
   Agree to Push
   Cleaner Gasoline
   ---
   Measure Affects Nine Areas
   And Is Expected to Gain
   Approval on the Floor
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   ADM ARC RCM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Rejecting a multimillion dollar oil-industry
lobbying effort, key House lawmakers agreed on provisions
that would require the use of cleaner gasoline in the
nation's nine smoggiest areas.
   The American Petroleum Institute, the main trade group for
the major oil companies, immediately blasted the accord as
"inflexible and possibly unworkable" and said it would
continue to seek changes. But the industry faces an uphill
battle. The compromise, which is similar to provisions in the
clean-air legislation approved by the Senate last month, is
expected to win approval on the House floor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The House began debating clean-air legislation yesterday,
and leaders expect the measure to be approved before the
Memorial Day recess.
   Besides requiring millions of Americans to begin using
more expensive, less polluting fuel, the measure would mean a
boon for companies like Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. and the
Arco Chemical Co. unit of Atlantic Richfield Co. that make
additives used to clean up gasoline. Commerce committee staff
members said the compromise could raise the cost of fuel in
those areas as much as five cents a gallon.
   Negotiators also settled on provisions aimed at reducing
air pollution in national parks, tightening enforcement and
strengthening the investigation of accidental emissions from
chemical plants. There already was substantial agreement in
the House on tailpipe-emission curbs, acid-rain controls and
toxic-emission releases from industrial facilities, among
other major issues. The bill is expected to impose about $20
billion a year in costs to industry.
   Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell (D.,
Mich.) said, "In terms of writing a strong, workable piece of
national environmental legislation, the overwhelming majority
of the work has been done."
   Among issues still unresolved are whether to require the
production and sale of cars that run on non-gasoline fuels in
the nine smoggiest areas and whether to speed up the
phase-out of chlorofluorocarbons and other chemicals that
deplete the Earth's protective ozone layer. Both amendments
are strongly supported by environmentalists, but oppposed by
industry and are expected to be hard fought on the floor.
Among other complaints, the auto industry has argued that
there wouldn't be a market for non-gasoline fueled cars.
   Rep. Norman Lent (R., N.Y.), the chief GOP sponsor of the
Bush administration's clean-air bill, warned that approval of
those provisions and another that would provide aid to
workers put out of work by the legislation could make the
measure unacceptable to the White House. The president
originally proposed requiring the production of non-gasoline
fueled cars, but the administration has since backed away
from the provision.
   The reformulated gasoline provisions are based on an
amendment sponsored by Rep. Bill Richardson (D., N.M.) and
Rep. Edward Madigan (R., Ill.). In an interview yesterday,
Rep. Richardson called the compromise "a major environmental
initiative that both cleans up the air and, I think, makes
the oil companies serious about reformulated gasoline."
   Although major oil companies have pushed reformulated
gasoline in an effort to head off requirements for cleaner,
non-gasoline fuels such as methanol, they have vigorously
opposed the Richardson approach. In a massive advertising
campaign, they contended that the original measure would go
too far in telling them how to produce fuel, would raise
costs to consumers and wouldn't clean up smog.
   Under the compromise, special gasoline would have to be
sold in the New York metropolitan area, the Hartford-New
Haven, Conn., area, Los Angeles, Houston, Milwaukee, San
Diego, Chicago, Baltimore and Philadelphia. Other areas that
don't meet federal health guidelines for smog could elect to
join the program, although the Environmental Protection
Agency could delay a city's ability to join if doing so
causes a gasoline supply problem.
   The fuel would have to yield specific environmental
benefits. For 1992 and 1993, the legislation would spell out
the fuel's oxygen and benzene content, among other
requirements.
   Then, emissions of smog-producing and toxic chemicals
would have to be cut 15% in 1994, 20% in 1997 and 25% in
2000, compared with today's gasoline. The legislation spells
out a formula for producing the gasoline for each of these
years, but the oil companies wouldn't have to adhere to the
formula unless it was shown to yield benefits even greater
than those required by the legislation.
   Regardless of whether they rely on the legislation's
formula, the oil firms probably would clean up gasoline in
part by increasing the use of oxygenate additives such as
ethanol and methyl tertiary-butyl ether, which is made from
methanol. Archer-Daniels-Midland is a large producer of
ethanol, while Arco Chemical is a major producer of MTBE.
   The accord on cleaning up national parks would require the
EPA to identify and regulate the source of haze in western
national parks within two years. The government also would
have to conduct studies of certain western power plants to
trace their emissions. In addition, there are provisions
designed to increase the pollution protection given to some
relatively new parks, including some in Alaska.
   "For more than a decade our spectacular parks and scenic
vistas have been hounded by man-made pollution," said Rep.
Ron Wyden (D. Ore.), the sponsor of the original park
amendment. "Now we have a chance to reverse this damage."
   Separately, the House Ways and Means Committee is seeking
to propose an amendment that would remove or modify some of
the fees in the clean-air legislation. Some Commerce
Committee lawmakers contend this effort could threaten
significant portions of the measure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Welfare for Millionaire Farmers
   ----
   By James Bovard
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Federal farm policy is founded upon two delusions: that
farmers are needy and that farmers are a vanishing species.
In reality, the average full-time farmer is a millionaire and
the number of full-time farmers has significantly increased
since 1980. The U.S. has appeared to be suffering from a
"farm crisis" primarily because part-time farmers are being
counted as full-timers.
   Agriculture Department statistics state that the total
number of farmers shrank from 2,440,000 in 1980 to 2,197,000
in 1988 -- an apparent decrease of 243,000 farmers. This is a
statistical illusion -- caused by an absurd definition of who
is a "farmer." According to the Agriculture Department,
anyone who sells more than $1,000 in agricultural commodities
-- the equivalent of 250 bushels of wheat or one horse -- is
a farmer. But these aren't commercial farmers: These are
gentlemen farmers, hobby farmers and tax farmers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And it is hobby farming, not commercial farming, that is
shrinking: Most of the apparent decrease in the number of
farmers in the 1980s occurred among farmers selling less than
$10,000 in agricultural commodities a year. These farmers
received the vast majority of their income from off-farm work
and who listed some occupation other than farming as their
"primary occupation in the 1987 Census of Agriculture.
   Many agriculture economists agree that a viable full-time
farm grosses at least $100,000 a year from the sale of
agricultural commodities. In 1980 there were 271,000 farmers
with sales above $100,000; by 1988 there were 323,000 farmers
in this class. These farmers perennially collect between 80%
and 90% of all farm income.
   Some farm-aid advocates argue that farmers who gross
between $40,000 and $99,999 ought also to be counted as
full-time farmers. But this is unrealistic: A farmer can
raise $40,000 in corn in only seven weeks. Many of the
farmers in the $40,000-$99,999 category spend much of the
year doing something else.
   In 1988 a bad drought occurred, and the public was given
the impression that farmers were having a terrible year. The
Agriculture Department later publicly declared that the
average farmer's income in 1988 was $21,300 -- even though
department officials recognize that this figure is a largely
meaningless average of full-time and part-time farmers'
income. In reality, the average full-timer farmer in 1988
reaped an income of $168,000. (The average U.S. family income
was $38,608 in 1988.) Even the part-time farmers in the
$40,000-$99,999 class earned incomes higher than the national
average: $39,931 (most of which came from off-farm earnings).
   The huge financial gap between farmers and non-farmers
becomes even more stark when considering net worth. The
Census Bureau concluded in 1986 that the median net worth of
American households was $78,734, and that the mean net worth
of American households was $32,677. In contrast, the average
full time farmer is a millionaire, worth, after deducting
debt, $1,016,000 as of Dec. 31, 1988. Even part-time farmers
are far wealthier than average American families: Farmers in
the $40,000-$99,999 sales class have an average net worth of
$426,487.
   Since farm aid is distributed not according to farmers'
need, but according to farmers' output, it inevitably fails
to achieve its stated purpose of preserving the small family
farm. To him that hath, shall be given. In 1988, the largest
farmers each received more than 100 times as much from the
federal government as the smallest farmers. With these
revenues, big farmers are able to buy out their smaller
neighbors.
   If the same means tests were applied to farmers that are
applied to other recipients of federal handouts, virtually no
full-time farmer would qualify. In the 1988 drought act
Congress imposed a "means test" on additional aid. Farmers
with gross sales of more than $2 million a year were denied
eligibility for drought relief. A farmer with gross revenues
of $2 million probably has a net worth far above $2 million.
   Some congressmen, including Reps. Dick Armey (R., Texas)
and Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.), have proposed extending this
principle. They are advocating ending federal handouts to
farmers who earn more than $100,000. While this proposal is
laudable, it will likely have little effect. The history of
farm programs is a history of the ingenious evasion of
payment limitations.
   The government supposedly imposes a limit of $50,000 per
farmer already. The General Accounting Office has repeatedly
found that this limit is ignored, because farmers are
permitted to subdivide their farms and shuffle titles among
family members -- which is why Congress decreed in 1987 that
no farmer could receive more than three separate $50,000
payments. Congress then eviscerated the limit by exempting
handouts from certain farm programs from any limit
whatsoever. If Rep. Armey's $100,000 limit becomes law,
Congress will again drive super-tractor size loopholes
through it.
   The government has a choice between subsidizing rich
farmers or inefficient farmers. A $100,000 income limit would
encourage more people to enter small-time farming, and so
impair the efficiency of American agriculture. And each
inefficient farmer that the government keeps on the land
makes it more difficult for efficient farmers to gain an
honest living in the marketplace.
   During the 1980s, taxpayers and consumers shelled out an
unnecessary $260 billion to support America's farmers. Farm
programs cost the Treasury roughly $20 billion a year. They
cost the consumer an additional $10 billion in higher food
prices -- equivalent to over $80,000 for each full-time
farmer. And there is nothing to show for these outlays except
idled acres, polluted groundwater, and richer farmers.
   Congress is in the process of drafting a new five-year
farm bill. Both the Bush administration and congressional
farm leaders seem basically content with current programs and
appear resolved to perpetuate the gravy train. Still, there
remains some possibility that urban members of Congress will
lead a revolt against the new farm bill.
   There is nothing that federal agricultural programs can do
that markets cannot do better -- except provide unearned
handouts to farmers. The only sound question to ask about
farm programs is: How can we most easily get rid of them?
   ---
   Mr. Bovard is a Cato Institute analyst and the author of
"The Farm Fiasco" (ICS Press, 1989).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Federal Rules on Hydroelectric Plants
   Supersede State Policies, Justices Say
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SYY
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruled that state water
policies must take a back seat to federal regulation of
hydroelectric plants.
   The 9-0 decision was a setback for state attempts to set
minimum water-flow levels for rivers and streams affected by
federally licensed hydroelectric plants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In an opinion written by Associate Justice Sandra Day
O'Connor, the high court declined a suggestion by California
that it reconsider a 44-year-old decision. That 1946 decision
said that in a clash between state and federal regulations
over water flow, state authority is limited to water for
irrigation or municipal use.
   The court ruled in a dispute over the minimum water flow
required for Rock Creek, a tributary of the American River
located near Placerville, Calif., between Sacramento and the
Sierra Nevada. In granting a license for a hydroelectric
plant on Rock Creek in 1983, the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission established minimum levels for the flow of water
that must remain in the creek. But a California state agency
proposed higher minimum flow rates in 1987, causing the
operators of the power plant to appeal to the FERC; the
commission said its own order should be enforced.
   Last June, a federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled
that FERC's policies pre-empted state law. Yesterday, the
high court affirmed the appeals court ruling.
   In a friend-of-the-court brief supporting California, 43
other states warned that if the appeals court ruling were
allowed to stand, it would "fundamentally alter state control
of water resources and will eviscerate comprehensive state
regulatory systems for allocating water."(California vs.
FERC)
   For the second time since the court term began in October,
the justices didn't grant review of any new cases yesterday,
the latest sign that the justices have cut back significantly
on the number of cases they are deciding.
   Although the pattern has been apparent for months, the
reason for the reduction in the number of cases to be decided
remains a mystery. The court has offered no official
explanation, and individual justices say there is no
concerted effort to grant review to fewer cases.
   The justices have completed oral arguments for their
current term, which will end in June or July. Cases granted
one-hour hearings in recent weeks will be argued in the next
term that begins Oct. 1. The justices have allocated 44 hours
of argument in October and November, but so far they have
filled only 26 hours. In comparison, at this time a year ago
they had filled 47 hours for the next term. There are only a
few weeks remaining in which they can add to the October and
November calendar.
                                                                                                       

   State Liquor Regulations
                                                                                                       

   The high court upheld North Dakota's regulation of liquor
that is purchased by the Defense Department for sale at two
military bases in the state. In an opinion written by
Associate Justice John Paul Stevens III, the high court
rejected the federal government's challenge that the state
regulations interfere with federal operations.
   North Dakota requires monthly reports of liquor brought
into the state from other states. It also requires that
liquor distillers in other states attach special
identification labels on liquor they sell to military bases
in North Dakota.
   The federal government challenged the regulations after
numerous distillers either refused to ship to North Dakota
military bases or raised their prices. A federal appeals
court in St. Louis ruled that the regulations discriminated
against out-of-state distillers.
   Yesterday, the high court, splintered into three separate
opinions, upheld the monthly reporting requirement, 9-0. The
justices also upheld the labeling regulation, but the vote
was 5-4, with Associate Justices William J. Brennan Jr.,
Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun and Anthony M. Kennedy
dissenting. (North Dakota vs. U.S.)
                                                                                                       

   Court in Brief
                                                                                                       

   In other action yesterday, the high court:
   -- Ruled, 9-0, that a husband and wife who are members of
the Mormon Church can't take a federal tax deduction for
funds they transferred to their sons who served as unpaid
Mormon missionaries. In an opinion written by Justice
O'Connor, the court said the funds weren't donated for the
church's use and can't be treated as charitable deductions.
(Davis vs. U.S.)
   -- Ruled, 9-0, that federal courts may order defendants to
make restitution only for crimes for which they were
convicted. In an opinion written by Justice Marshall, the
court rejected the Justice Department's argument that federal
law allows restitution orders for crimes with which a
defendant is charged, but not convicted. (Hughey vs. U.S.)
   -- Upheld, by a 9-0 vote, a 1984 federal law that requires
people convicted of federal misdemeanors to pay a $25 fine
for each count into a Crime Victims Fund that is used to
compensate victims of crimes. In an opinion written by
Justice Marshall, the court rejected an argument that the
1984 law is a means of raising federal revenue that, under
the Constitution, had to originate in the House of
Representatives, rather than in the Senate. (U.S. vs.
Munoz-Flores).
   -- Let stand a federal court order issued in January 1989
that permanently bars Operation Rescue from blocking access
to and from abortion clinics in New York. There are similar
court orders against the anti-abortion group in a number of
cities; Operation Rescue has appealed them all, but with
little success thus far. (Terry vs. New York State National
Organization for Women)
   -- Let stand a ruling by a federal appeals court in Denver
that an employer can't avoid liability for religious
discrimination in hiring by offering to accommodate an
applicant's beliefs after the applicant has complained to the
state discrimination agency. The appeals court reinstated a
lawsuit by an American Indian who used peyote in Native
American Church rituals. He was denied a truck driver's job
by Nobel-Sysco Foods Services Co., a Sysco Corp. unit.
(Nobel-Sysco Foods Services vs. Toledo)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England Unit Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB J.BOT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. said it has reached
final agreement with the Bank of Tokyo Ltd. on the sale of
its BancNewEngland Leasing Group.
   Under terms of the accord, Bank of Tokyo will buy
approximately $500 million of BancNewEngland's portfolio
assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bank of New England had previously stated that it would
receive a premium of $92.5 million for the assets. But a BNE
spokesman said the premium amount "has been downsized
somewhat." The new figure wasn't disclosed.
   The bank said the sale virtually completes its asset sales
program, with the exception of affiliate banks in Maine and
Rhode Island.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   NOW's Use of RICO Against Attacks by Groups
   On Abortion Clinics Stirs Debate on Law's Intent
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The abortion battle has spawned a legal
debate: Can the National Organization for Women sue Operation
Rescue under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations law?
   The two opposing groups are locked in a legal battle that
has financially imperiled Operation Rescue, an organization
of anti-abortion activists who direct their efforts at
abortion clinics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're making every effort to hit them in the pocketbook,"
says Patricia Ireland, NOW's executive vice president. "We
know ourselves that it's hard to organize when you don't have
money."
   NOW's use of RICO against Operation Rescue in large
measure has crippled fund-raising efforts and has forced the
group to lay off 20 of its 23 paid staff members, to move out
of its offices in Binghamton, N.Y., into smaller quarters and
to curtail activities substantially. During a two-day period
last week Operation Rescue raised only $200 in contributions.
   "People have nowhere to send their money without fear the
government will seize the money, and so they don't send it,"
says Robert Jewitt, Operation Rescue's national media
coordinator. "A lot of the activities that we planned can't
go on."
   The legal activity is rekindling controversy about the
1970 RICO law, which was aimed at organized crime but which
has been extended into business cases. NOW argues that
Operation Rescue members are acting like racketeers, trying
to frighten pregnant women and health workers away from
abortion clinics.
   "There's a lot of questions whether this law was designed
for this sort of thing," says John Decker of the DePaul
University College of Law. "Congress had in mind putting
together an instrument to use against conventional organized
crime -- the mob. This is clearly a very creative and very
unconventional use of legislation that wasn't designed for
political use."
   In the legal battle, Operation Rescue has been fined
$150,000 in New York, and other anti-abortion groups have
been fined $350,000 in the state. In another setback for
Operation Rescue, the Supreme Court yesterday let stand a
federal judge's order, based on a NOW suit citing Civil
War-era laws, that forbids the group's members from blocking
women trying to enter New York-area abortion clinics.
   "They have made it very difficult for us," Randall Terry,
Operation Rescue's founder, says of the NOW suits. "But they
cannot understand that we have authority and power even if we
don't have money. We have moral absolutes we're willing to
fight by and die by if necessary, and we have courage."
   Last week, a day after the Supreme Court declined to lift
a state court injunction keeping protesters away from clinics
in Georgia, five Operation Rescue members bound themselves
together with bicycle locks inside the Atlanta Surgicenter.
   Some believe the struggle between NOW and Operation Rescue
represents a deep cultural dispute. "These are two groups
that live in fundamentally different worlds and hardly ever
encounter each other," says Faye Ginsburg, an anthropologist
at New York University who has studied both the women's
movement and the evangelical movement. "One group sees
abortion as a symbol of the decadence of the world. The other
sees abortion as fundamental to women being able to achieve
opportunity and to control their lives."
   Mr. Terry describes NOW as "a radical fringe group with a
very liberal socialist agenda." He adds: "We believe in God
and the precious sanctity of each human life and they believe
in a sordid, base lifestyle that includes the murder of their
offspring."
   Molly Yard, the leader of NOW, says that Mr. Terry's
forces are "instructing their children to bite our people on
the legs and forming flying wedges." She has urged members of
NOW to increase their vigilance at abortion clinics.
   "They have every right to picket and say what they
believe, but they have no right to close down a legitimate
business," Ms. Yard says. "We won't fight them physically,
but we will be at the clinics to keep them open."
   NOW says use of the RICO law is appropriate because
Operation Rescue is engaged in extortion, the use of force or
threats of force to deprive others of a valuable right.
Operation Rescue leaders deny the charges.
   "The traditional use of this {law} is in cases where
someone is deprived of a property right, like in blackmail,"
says Ms. Ireland, NOW's legal strategist. "But the thing of
value can be an intangible right, like the right to obtain
medical services at an abortion clinic, or the right of a
clinic to do business."
   Several judges have agreed with her, and NOW has won
contempt-of-court judgments stemming from its racketeering
and other suits. In Congress, the House Judiciary Committee
is working on an overhaul of RICO that would restrict the
reach of the statute, but discussions have reached an
impasse.
   Some legal experts say they are uneasy with how broadly
RICO has been applied, particularly in cases involving
abortion protesters. "Whatever you can say about these
demonstrators, they're not racketeers," says Alan Dershowitz
of the Harvard Law School. "They're not doing it for a
financial motive. The idea that you can terrorize protesters
with the threat of bankruptcy is an attack on democracy."
   G. Robert Blakey, the Notre Dame Law School professor who
drafted RICO, argues the law has broad legitimate
application. "The statute applies to anyone -- with a white
collar, a blue collar or no collar at all," he says. "It's
not for mobsters only."
   But Mr. Blakey believes RICO is being used not to
vindicate the rights of clinics as much as to chill the
rights of demonstrators. "Unfortunately, RICO is being used
as a political tool and people are being brought in not for
doing something unlawful on the picket line but because they
have a certain viewpoint," he says. "These two sides in this
death struggle have grabbed this statute and are pulling it
down with them."
   Rep. Rick Boucher (D., Va.), a principal figure in the
congressional negotiations on RICO, says, "A search for the
original intent of this law is vain and probably not very
relevant."
   The abortion-rights movement hasn't prevailed in all its
battles against anti-abortion activists. The American Life
League defeated a RICO suit by Planned Parenthood, NOW and
others in Pennsylvania when it argued that neither the league
nor Judie Brown, the group's president, was at a 1988 protest
in Philadelphia.
   Joseph Scheidler, president of the Pro Life Action League,
an ally of Operation Rescue, has filed a $5 million
defamation-of-character suit against NOW, Ms. Yard and Ms.
Ireland. "This is a grudge battle," says Mr. Scheidler, who
says his battles with NOW and others have cost him $90,000 in
legal fees. "It's their ideology against ours. We're not
going to give up and they're not going to give up."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pricor Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PRCO
</CO>
<LP>
   PRICOR Inc. (Murfreesboro, Tenn.) -- Amy S. Harrison was
named to the new position of vice chairman and Stephen H.
Norris was named president and chief operating officer of
this provider of correctional and detention services. Ms.
Harrison had been executive vice president of the company's
Advocate Schools subsidiary. Mr. Norris had been commissioner
of the Tennessee Department of Corrections. He succeeds Gil
R. Walker, who resigned. The company also named William J.
Ballard to fill the vacant position of treasurer and chief
financial officer. Mr. Ballard had been executive vice
president of Rodgers Business Interests Ltd. in Nashville.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Use Treasury Securities to Cap S&amp;L Debt
   ----
   By William V. Roth Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Perhaps the most significant and least appreciated fact of
the savings and loan disaster is that the size of the
taxpayers' bill -- whether it be $50 billion or $250 billion
-- will depend on the government's ability to sell the assets
of the failed thrifts.
   Astronomical figures for the cost of the bailout, which
grab the headlines in the face of the uncertainty that
surrounds this endeavor, may even be on the low side. What is
often overlooked is that the principal sum is a net figure,
the difference between government liabilities (what it must
pay insured depositors) and government receipts (what it
collects from the sale of assets). Thus a price tag of $50
billion is an estimate that the government will pay out that
much more than it receives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government has yet to demonstrate its ability to sell
repossessed assets. In fact, some may even question whether
it has ever demonstrated the desire to sell such assets. That
is why the attitude of L. William Seidman, chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Resolution Trust
Corporation, is so refreshing. He has made it clear he is
ready to deal now.
   Of course, the market is very depressed. Congress made the
thrifts and their assets very unattractive to buy. For the
most part, the government will have to sell the thrifts'
assets to help pay off insured depositors. While performing
assets may go for a fair return, who will buy that vast sea
of bad assets, which Mr. Seidman refers to as "opportunity"
assets? He has correctly characterized the sale of illiquid
"opportunity" assets as "where our game will ultimately be
won or lost."
   I am greatly concerned that there will not be a market for
these bad assets at a price that will generate necessary
returns to hold taxpayer burdens in line with government
projections. If, for example, the government has to pay out
$450 billion to insured depositors, then it must collect $400
billion for the assets in order to hold losses to $50
billion, as originally estimated in the S&amp;L legislation.
   Mr. Seidman states: "If a property doesn't sell, it
probably will be because we're asking too much and we'll have
to reduce our price." But if we collect only $300 billion for
the assets, the taxpayer is on the hook for $150 billion, not
just $50 billion. The taxpayer, of course, foots the bill for
the losses.
   If we continue on this path, the assets probably will not
sell at the price necessary to limit taxpayer's liability to
$50 billion. Then, whatever the ultimate loss, the government
will issue Treasury securities to raise the cash to pay off
insured depositors and the taxpayer will pay billions in
interest and principal.
   But wait] It doesn't have to be that expensive. If the
interest were offered to asset purchasers as a guarantee of
income rather than to purchasers of Treasury securities, the
worst that could happen is a wash and the best is that the
principal payment would be saved.
   My idea would work like this: Suppose that the RTC assets
(real estate assets, in this example) had to be sold for $400
billion, close to book value, to keep the taxpayer loss down
to $50 billion. But the market is depressed and the fair
market value today for all the assets is, let us say, only
$300 billion. The government would sell RTC assets coupled
with a special Treasury security in an amount to bridge the
gap between the low selling price of the asset and its
"necessary" value to keep taxpayer losses down. In this
example, the special securities issued would total $100
billion, the difference between $400 billion and $300
billion.
   The purchasers of the asset and the special security would
have several options. They could hold both, sell both, or
part with one. The holders of the security would receive
interest payments for 20 years regardless of the value of the
connected asset. At maturity, if the asset had appreciated to
at least the necessary value, the government would not be
obligated to pay anything. If the asset had depreciated, the
government would pay the principal in full, as it would on a
mature Treasury security. If the asset had appreciated some,
but not up to necessary value, the government would pay the
difference between its actual value and the necessary value.
   How would its actual value be established? Any sale of the
asset at or above the necessary value during the 20-year
period should absolve the government of paying the principal
on the security. If no such sale occurred, then any
arm's-length sale within the three years preceding maturity
would be conclusive. Absent such a sale, the holder of the
security who believed that the government owed money to him
could establish that fact by requesting, at his expense, a
government appraisal of the value of the connected asset. If
would not be necessary for the security holder to own the
connected asset.
   In my opinion, the occasions for government payment would
be rare. If some skeptics do not share my faith in rising RTC
asset values (now very depressed) or in the march of
inflation, the 20-year period could be extended to 30 or even
40 years. Extensions of time would provide greater assurance
against the payment of principal but would require
commensurate interest payments over a longer period.
   The purchasers of the asset and security package from the
RTC would be getting a fair value -- an asset guaranteed by
the government to rise in value and, in addition, interest
payments for a period of years. The purchaser would have
complete freedom to sell all or part of his investment. The
government would obtain the necessary cash to pay off
depositors now while also profiting from the appreciation of
assets it has sold.
   Most important, the government would be able to raise the
money to cover the shortfall the RTC is now experiencing
without, in all likelihood, having to pay it back. Since this
shortfall may well be in the hundreds of billions of dollars,
my proposal would save that amount over the costs of
traditional government financing.
   I have written to the RTC Oversight Board to suggest that
the board do some creative thinking to "make a market" for
RTC assets. The members' response, while thoughtful,
basically rested on the belief that there currently exists a
healthy market for RTC assets. Recent news stories show that
belief may be crumbling. Moreover, there appears to be some
skepticism regarding the wisdom of any enhancements,
primarily due to the negative reactions to the December 1988
Federal Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corporation deals.
   The RTC has set asset sales for the next few months. My
guess is that if the assets, particularly the real estate
assets, are sold at all, they will go for distressed prices.
And nothing very creative is planned to save the taxpayer.
Mr. Seidman has been quoted as saying that if there is no
sale at lower prices, then "we scratch our heads."
   It is not uncommon for the seller of an apartment or
office building to guarantee the buyer a year or two of full
occupancy when the buyer has doubts about near-term prospects
but confidence in the more distant future. Such enhancements
are not giveaways, but simply a private-sector method for
creating a market. We need to do the same.
   ---
   Sen. Roth (R., Del.) is a member of the Banking Committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Corporate Experience Bolsters Small Firm in Big Ways
   ---
   Wall Exploited Idle Assets in Turning
   International Medication Around
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CITY OF INDUSTRY, Calif. -- Big-company executives who
yearn to become entrepreneurs often worry about the
transition. Has life in the corporate bureaucracy ruined them
for meeting the radically different demands of a small
business?
   But Randall J. Wall found his corporate experience
directly helped him bolster a small company, even though the
transition was often tough. A former executive with
Bristol-Myers Co., now Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., Mr. Wall and
a group of investors bought International Medication Systems
Ltd., a medical products concern, in August 1988. "It was a
company that could benefit from senior managers out of
Fortune 500 companies," says the 43-year-old executive, now
president of International Medication.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among other assets, International Medication had invented
the right product at the right time: a needle with a plastic
sheath to prevent the accidental punctures that health-care
workers fear in this era of acquired immune deficiency
syndrome.
   But there were management problems. The family-owned
company hadn't bothered to devise a plan for manufacturing
and marketing the patented needle, called Stick-Gard. So it
sat on the company's drawing board for almost four years.
   The new owners also say they had to spend an unanticipated
$10 million in addition to the $50 million purchase price to
improve manufacturing and record-keeping. The company built
new manufacturing rooms, complete with a computerized system
to control the environment. It adopted a better
product-sterilization process. It hired a consultant to
develop new training programs for employees. And it installed
a security-alarm system to allay Drug Enforcement
Administration concerns about potential break-ins, as the
company makes controlled substances such as morphine, in
addition to its drug-delivery systems and pharmaceutical
equipment.
   "These were all things we'd planned to do over three to
four years, and we had to do them in a 12-month period," Mr.
Wall says.
   The company also needed to repair some damaged customer
relations. "They went through some problems filling orders,"
says Louis Soars, product manager for VHA Supply Co., Irving,
Texas, which purchases medical products for about 840
hospitals. International Medication responded by setting
aside hundreds of thousands of dollars of backup inventory.
"Since then, I've had no complaints," Mr. Soars says.
   Besides making these improvements, the new management team
of executives, culled from big health-care companies,
approached strategy and marketing in methodical corporate
style. "As a family-run company, there was no large-scale
coordination, and they weren't used to prioritizing products"
to emphasize the most lucrative ones, Mr. Wall says.
   With limited staff and money, the new management
discontinued about 30% of International Medication's product
line, to focus on promoting products that had more profit
potential. "We had to look at what products would increase
sales and gain visibility for the company," Mr. Wall says.
   Because of the AIDS crisis, the new team decided that
Stick-Gard offered the most mileage of any of its products.
About 12 health-care workers in the U.S. are reported to have
contracted the AIDS virus through punctures by contaminated
needles. In March, Veronica Prego, a New York doctor, settled
for an undisclosed sum her $175 million lawsuit against New
York City's Kings County Hospital. The physician claimed she
had acquired AIDS through an accidental needle puncture.
Also, as many as 300 medical workers die each year from
hepatitis they acquired on the job.
   Such alarming statistics help market Stick-Gard,
particularly as the safety needle costs about 45 cents and
regular needles cost only three cents. The company's print
advertisements blare: "Your choice . . . 800,000 reported
needle sticks. Or Stick-Gard Safety Needle." International
Medication says its product is competitively priced, because
it "eliminates administrative costs associated with needle
stick injury." Testing a worker for diseases after an
accidental puncture can cost as much as $1,000, the company
says.
   International Medication launched a direct-mail campaign
to 6,700 hospitals and clinics in March to try to sell
Stick-Gard. The company hadn't used direct mail before, but
"We knew our 29 sales representatives couldn't cover that
many hospitals," Mr. Wall says.
   To date, the company has received inquiries from more than
900 medical institutions for the product; this is a 13%
response rate, compared with the 3.5% such a mailing usually
generates. Mr. Wall expanded the marketing team to six people
from two, and boosted marketing expenses about 25%. In true
big-company style, the concern designed glossy new product
catalogs, which include previously unexploited corporate
trivia such as: "I.M.S. was honored to have had our Min-I-Jet
prefilled syringe on board the Space Shuttle Discovery Flight
51-D, in April 1985."
   Customers have noticed the changes. At SunHealth Corp., a
Charlotte, N.C.-based hospital network, "We've had a contract
with IMS for several years, and I think we're encouraged that
they seem to be more responsive to the needs of the
marketplace," Ken Mitchell, senior director, materials
services, says. "We definitely see that with the Stick-Gard
product."
   Financial results are already showing improvement, too.
International Medication says it expects sales of about $38
million this year, a 20% increase from 1988. It predicts
operating profit of about $6.5 million this year, up 10% from
1988.
   Mr. Wall caught the entrepreneurial bug while working to
turn flagging operations around at a Bristol-Myers unit. So
he and five senior managers defected from the subsidiary to
buy International Medication. After an auto accident, the
company's founder, Robert Ogle, had turned the management
over to family members, who later decided to sell the
concern. "It was time to take the corporate experience and
put it into something entrepreneurial," Mr. Wall says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Jumps on Amex
   And Big Board
   ---
   Varity Corp., Texas Air Led
   Volume for the Month
   As Trading Set Records
   ----
   By Robert Daniels
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest for the month ended May 15
climbed to records on the New York Stock Exchange, which
posted a 4.9% rise, and the American Stock Exchange, up 2%.
   Varity Corp., the Toronto manufacturer of farm equipment
and automobile parts, led the Big Board short volumes with
13,145,035 uncovered short shares. Texas Air Corp., the
Houston airline holding company, continued to lead the Amex,
this time with 8,547,761 shorted shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Big Board reported that short interest outstanding on
the May 15 settlement date climbed to 644,549,698 shares from
613,933,904 shares at mid-April. On the Amex, short volume
reached 71,997,960 shares from an adjusted 70,555,710 shares
a month earlier. The latest figures reflect trades through
May 8.
   At mid-May 1989, short interest on the Big Board was
528,669,482 shares, indicating a 21% rise, while volume on
the American exchange was 43,706,386, a 64% jump.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio rose to 4.61 from last month's 4.19. The
ratio is the number of trading days at the exchange's average
daily trading volume that would be required to convert the
total short interest position.
   Some analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has
weakened in value as an indicator because options and other
products can be used to hedge short positions.
   Two bellwether issues on the Big Board were little
changed. Volume in International Business Machines Corp., the
Armonk, N.Y., computer company, dropped less than 1% to
4,020,829 shares from 4,053,955 shares, while New York oil
giant Exxon Corp.'s short volume eased 1.1% to 5,519,394
shares from 5,581,248 shares.
   The adjacent tables show the Big Board and Amex issues in
which a short interest position of at least 100,000 shares
existed at mid-May or in which the short position had changed
by at least 50,000 shares since mid-April (see accompanying
tables -- WSJ May 22, 1990).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mobil Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MOB
</CO>
<LP>
   MOBIL CORP. (New York) -- Effective Sept. 1, Jack E.
Crawford, 58-year-old vice president of Mobil Chemical Co.
and general manager of the Petrochemicals division, becomes
vice president of research, engineering and environmental
affairs at Mobil Oil Corp. and president of Mobil Research &amp;
Development Corp. Mr. Crawford succeeds Joseph V. D'Ambrisi,
62, who retires Nov. 1 after 40 years. Succeeding Mr.
Crawford is Jerry G. Griffith, 58, who currently is vice
president of engineering at Mobil Research &amp; Development.
Edward F. Kondis, 50, who currently is vice president for
natural gas at Mobil's Exploration and Producing division,
succeeds Mr. Griffith.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HealthVest Reports
   $116.8 Million Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HVT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- HealthVest said it had a net loss of
$116.8 million, or $10.57 a share, for 1989 and said that its
auditor expressed substantial doubts about the real estate
trust's ability to continue as a going concern.
   HealthVest said its year-end loss included a $127.4
million write-down of assets, most of which were related to
troubles at Healthcare International Inc., a deeply troubled
hospital management that leases many of its properties. In
1988, HealthVest had net income of $24 million, or $2.06 a
share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the year fell about 5% to $51.2 million from
$53.7 million.
   In its letter to HealthVest trustees and shareholders,
Price Waterhouse noted that HealthVest was spun off from
Healthcare International in 1986 and that HealthVest
purchased some real estate from Healthcare at prices based on
Healthcare's expected operating results, rather than based on
"arms-length negotiations."
   Because Healthcare began to run short of cash last year
and began to miss mortgage and interest payments to
HealthVest, the real estate investment trust had to reduce
the value of some assets, the auditor said.
   Healthcare's liquidity bind also has resulted in a cash
crunch at HealthVest, putting it in default of its senior
debt agreements. Because Healthcare's ability to meet its
current and future obligations to HealthVest isn't clear, the
auditor said that the trust might not be able to continue to
operate.
   HealthVest stock fell 12.5 cents yesterday to close at $3
a share in American Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Marx's Progress
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   Yet more news on the outgoing Marxist tide. Formerly
Marxist South Yemen prepared over the weekend for its union
with capitalist North Yemen by knocking down statues of Lenin
and Marx in public squares. Building facades also lost such
embedded exhortations as, "No voice can be louder than the
voice of the Party." Meanwhile, across the ocean, a
"democracy flotilla" of 34 boats set sail from Key West to
Cuba. As they steamed six miles from Cuba's shore, a pleasure
boat elsewhere in the Florida Straits came upon two Cubans
fleeing Castro's paradise on an inner-tube raft. They were
turned over to U.S. immigration authorities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Tobacco Companies' Sponsorships
   Of Motor Sports Face Scrutiny
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   UPJ WNEWS AEGSY F.EUC FREST U.QAI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Does the televised Winston Cup car race count as
advertising? How about the Camel Supercross motorcycle race,
aired on ESPN?
   For legislators attempting to crack down on tobacco
advertising, the answer is an unqualified yes. And now, at
least one legislator is taking on the televised car, bike and
truck races as part of a crusade to curb tobacco advertising.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rep. Thomas A. Luken (D., Ohio), an outspoken tobacco
gadfly and a sponsor of a bill restricting tobacco
advertising, plans to launch an investigation into the
televised races today, an aide says. In letters being sent to
the three major networks and ESPN, among others, Mr. Luken
asks for details of their financial relationships with
tobacco companies, in order "to understand the extent to
which television sports events are in fact sponsored by
tobacco companies."
   Tobacco foes have long complained about tobacco companies'
sports sponsorships, saying the sponsorships are in fact
back-door tactics to circumvent a 20-year-old television ad
ban. Tobacco ads on scoreboards and billboards in stadiums
are frequent targets of legislators and other anti-tobacco
activists.
   But the critics' complaints so far have had only marginal
results, which may be why they are turning to motor sports.
Televised motor races are far more obvious in flaunting their
sponsors, whose names tend to be plastered across racing
cars, helmets, and everything else in camera view. According
to the House subcommittee on transportation and hazardous
materials, of which Mr. Luken is chairman, a Camel logo was
visible 30% of the time on the ESPN-aired Camel Supercross,
an indoor motorcycle race. The Marlboro logo was shown 49% of
the time during the 1989 Marlboro Grand Prix, according to
Mr. Luken's letter.
   "This isn't just a baseball stadium where you occasionally
see something. This is serious business. It's a matter of
degree," says Benjamin Cohen, the Luken aide. He notes that
car races frequently include a camera stationed inside one of
the race cars, and that a tobacco logo often appears on the
dashboard. "These things don't happen by chance," he says.
"They happen because people are signing contracts and paying
money."
   Mr. Luken's initiative comes at a time when public
sentiment has clearly turned against smoking. A powerful
tobacco lobby was unable to prevent Congress last year from
outlawing smoking on most domestic airline flights. More than
a dozen bills limiting tobacco in some way are pending on
Capitol Hill right now, including Mr. Luken's initiative,
which would ban all sports sponsorships and allow only
all-text print ads for tobacco products. Next month, Rep.
Henry Waxman (D., Calif) is expected to introduce yet another
bill, this time one incorporating parts of the various bills
already pending.
   Tobacco companies, for their part, contend that sponsoring
televised races and race cars isn't advertising at all. "It's
promotion of our product, just like the Virginia Slims Tennis
Tournament is," says a spokeswoman for Philip Morris, maker
of Marlboro, among other brands. She adds that "there is no
agreement" with the networks under which they are required to
show the company's logo during races -- although when the
logo is plastered all over the car and its driver, it would
be difficult not to show it.
   In fact, the spokeswoman says, during the Indy 500, Philip
Morris didn't allow an ABC camera in a car with a Marlboro
logo on the dashboard. "We didn't want the camera to be
focused on the logo," she says. "The law is that there is no
television advertising, and we adhere to the law."
   At NBC, Richard Gitter, vice president of standards and
practices, says that tobacco sponsorships of motor races
"isn't advertising that is the kind of advertising
contemplated -- and barred -- by the Federal Cigarette
Labeling and Advertising Act." Mr. Gitter declined comment on
the letter, as he hadn't received it.
   Another recipient of the letter is to be Charles Mancuso,
president of SRO/Pace Promotions, a Lombard, Ill., firm that
produces motor sports events, including the Camel Supercross.
Mr. Mancuso declined comment on the letter, which he also
hadn't received. He added that he didn't know of any
relationship between the tobacco companies and the networks
that air their races.
   ---
   Chiat Shop Buy-Out
                                                                                                       

   Chiat/Day/Mojo said it plans to sell a majority interest
of its San Francisco office to a group of employees at the
office, including its president and chief executive, Fred
Goldberg.
   Chiat/Day said it was selling the interest because Mr.
Goldberg and other managers "wanted the opportunity to own
their own business and sought the chance to acquire the
agency."
   Los Angeles-based Chiat/Day will retain an minority
interest in the shop, although it said the San Francisco
management group plans to fully own the operation in the
future. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The San Francisco employees will give the agency an as-yet
unannounced new name. It will continue to serve most of
Chiat/Day's San Francisco clients, which include Atari and
Celestial Seasonings. The office has billings of about $110
million.
   Chiat/Day said it hopes to move three clients that it
picked up with its merger with Mojo -- Qantas, Australian
Tourist Commission and Koala Springs -- to its Los Angeles
office.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   HILL HOLLIDAY: Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, Mich., awarded its
Motrin IB painkiller account to Hill, Holliday, Connors,
Cosmopulos's New York office. Susan Smith, managing director
of the shop's New York operations, said the account will bill
$30 million this year. Ms. Smith said the win represented the
office's largest account victory ever. Upjohn introduced
Motrin IB last summer with ads created by Avrett, Free &amp;
Ginsberg, New York.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Ira Matathia was named president and chief
executive officer of Chiat/Day/Mojo's Canadian agency in
Toronto. Mr. Matathia was previously senior vice president
and director of client services.
                                                                                                       

   WCRS: Robin Wight was named chairman of London agency
WCRS, a unit of Eurocom WCRS Della Femina Ball. Mr. Wight
will continue in his position as joint chairman of EWDB.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Genetics Institute,
   Japanese Drug Maker
   Set Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GENI J.YMP
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Genetics Institute Inc. said it agreed
to form a joint venture with Japan's Yamanouchi
Pharmaceutical Co. to develop Genetics Institute's
bone-growth promoters and other drugs.
   The pact represents a potentially broad alliance between
the companies that will give Genetics Institute a new source
of funds and a channel to the Japanese pharmaceutical market
for a number of its products that are in early stages of
development. Genetics Institute will share with Yamanouchi
some of the potential profits from the drugs but will retain
North American marketing rights to them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Development of the bone-growth factors is expected to
cost as much as $100 million, most of which will be funded by
the partnership" over the next several years, said Garen
Bohlin, Genetics Institute's executive vice president. He
declined to say precisely how much of the funding would be
provided by each company. The drugs, which aren't expected to
reach the U.S. market before the mid-1990s, are being
developed to treat orthopedic, dental and other bone
disorders.
   The 50-50 joint venture will own rights to the drugs,
Genetics Institute said. The companies will share the
venture's proceeds from their sales of the drugs or from
sales by third parties that license rights to the drugs from
the venture. Genetics Institute, however, will retain not
only North American marketing rights but also world-wide
manufacturing rights to the drugs.
   The joint venture also will have the right of first
refusal to develop and commercialize other drugs in Japan
that are now being researched at Genetics Institute, Mr.
Bohlin said. He declined to identify the drugs involved, but
added that they "could span any of the areas we're working
in, but aren't quite as broad as everything in our pipeline."
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Genetics
Institute closed at $38, up $1.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gerber Products to Sell Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GEB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FREMONT, Mich. -- Gerber Products Co. said it agreed to
sell its child-care subsidiary to a private investment
partnership.
   The baby-food concern didn't disclose terms of the planned
sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gerber Children's Centers Inc. operates 115 centers in 12
states, and manages four others for other employers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Besieged Incumbents
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   This may be the year voters start throwing out some House
Members. Recently, over 98% of incumbents have won by
erecting a fortress-like system of advantages that ward off
challengers. That fortress may finally be showing a few
cracks. In Democratic primaries in Pennsylvania and West
Virginia this month, underfinanced challengers almost
defeated two entrenched incumbents by running against
Congress.
   Political analyst Charles Cook says national polls by both
parties show voters have soured on Congress even more than
usual. That's why the recent primary results have so shaken
Capitol Hill. In West Virginia, 14-year incumbent Nick Joe
Rahall won only 56.7% of the vote against 75-year-old Ken
Hechler. Mr. Hechler had served in Congress in the early
1970s, but this time he was able to run only a modest,
grass-roots campaign. His major issues were Congressman
Rahall's support for a Congressional pay raise and the
arrogance of Washington.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those were also the major themes of Robert Burkley, an
unknown, small-town lawyer who held Pennsylvania Rep. John P.
Murtha, the powerful head of the Defense Appropriations
subcommittee, to only 51% of the vote. Mr. Murtha is
considered enough of a Washington power broker that he once
ran on the slogan "John P. Murtha -- the `P' is for Power."
   Mr. Burkley attacked the incumbent for being one of only
48 Members to support a 51% pay raise last year and for
refusing to support Congressional ethics reform. Mr. Burkley
also supported a limit on Congressional terms, and says that
struck a chord with voters.
   Still, Mr. Burkley was able to raise only $40,000 for his
campaign, and he collected only $1,250 from PACs. Rep. Murtha
spent at least $500,000, much of it on TV ads featuring Lee
Iacocca and actor E.G. Marshall. He also blanketed the
district with three taxpayer-paid junk-mail pieces. Mr.
Burkley was able to get free media coverage by carrying a
cardboard likeness of the incumbent and offering a $1,000
reward to anyone who could get Mr. Murtha to debate him.
   Two elections don't make a trend, but incumbent
close-calls this early in the primary season are highly
unusual. Mr. Burkley told us the Congressional pay raise and
the general anti-Congress mood will be powerful issues for
challengers this fall. When the pay raise passed,
Congressional leaders of both parties signed a "nonaggression
pact" designed to avoid using the issue in the 1990 campaign
and to punish challengers who did.
   The near-success of Messr. Heckler and Burkley make it
likely that this Beltway attempt to smother campaign debate
will be routinely ignored. We supported a pay raise for
Congress to get an increase for executive-branch senior
managers and federal judges, who were yoked to Congress on
this vote. But for voters the issue has become a powerful
symbol for all that is wrong with the institution. The most
popular antidote among voters is some kind of limit on
Congressional terms.
   The usual arsenal of incumbents -- franked mail,
gerrymandering, bloated staffs and incumbent-addicted PACs --
may not be enough to return another carbon-copy House to
office this November.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Taiwan's Index Drops 4th Time in a Row to Low
   For 15 Months; Equities Off in Frankfurt, Tokyo
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST JAPAN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Taiwan shares declined sharply for the fourth consecutive
session Monday, as the market's bearish sentiment persisted.
   Frankfurt share prices slid on continuing worries about
the planned monetary and economic union of the two Germanys.
In Tokyo, stocks finished lower in light trading, as the
yen's weakness and lower bond prices discouraged buying
interest. London equities firmed in lackluster trading,
pushed higher by strength in stock-index futures contracts
and markups.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Taipei, traders said that investors have lost their
confidence and that further drops in share prices are
possible. A trader said no one knows where the bottom is. The
weighted index, which tumbled 510.21 points Friday, fell
424.07, or 5.72%, to finish at 6992.89, the lowest closing
level since Feb. 27, 1989, when the index ended at 6885.51.
   Trading volume, including stocks and mutual funds, was
about 962.5 million shares valued at 71.36 billion New Taiwan
dollars (US$2.62 billion), compared with 997.9 million shares
valued at NT$72.61 billion Friday. The market was closed
Saturday because of a typhoon.
   The market opened firmer because of Taiwan President Lee
Teng Hui's inauguration speech Sunday, calling for an end to
four decades of hostilities with the rival Communist
government in Beijing. The market expected that a changed
policy toward China would bring Taiwan manufacturers more
trade opportunities.
   The reports stimulated buying and drove the market up more
than 160 points in the first 15 minutes. But this strength
ebbed, after investors showed little interest in buying at
highs. The market tone turned weak and dropped rapidly at the
close.
   "Investors are now in a panic, and selling becomes the
only direction," Hsu Daw Yi, vice president of Core Pacific
Securities Co., said. "Volatility is expected to continue."
He blamed the recent market weakness on shaky confidence and
concerns about capital outflow. The market has plunged
1576.66 points, or 18.4%, since last Wednesday.
   In Frankfurt, the equities market also was sapped by the
soft West German bond and bond futures markets, which opened
lower and remained weak. The weighted DAX Index, compiled at
the close, fell 32.41 points, or 1.76%, to 1811.18. The
narrower FAZ Index, calculated at midday, was down 16.45
points to 771.70.
   The DAX is near the 1800 lower end of the trading range
forecast for the second quarter, which previously had a
projected high point of about 2000. The index's historical
high was set March 30 at 1968.55; the low on Jan. 28, 1988,
at 931.18.
   The market continued to be whipped by investor reactions
to developments in monetary unification. Worries were cited
that the opposition Social Democrats may try to change the
substance or timing of the reunification plan. And there is
concern about the weakness of the West German senior
coalition partner, the Christian Democrats, after the party's
setback in two state elections last week.
   A market rumor Monday had Bundesbank President Karl Otto
Poehl resigning soon, but the central bank denied this.
   Price declines were spread across the board, paced by blue
chips such as Daimler-Benz, the diversified automotive giant,
which ended down 16 marks ($9.71) at 807 marks. Auto maker
BMW slipped 12 to 571, Volkswagen was down 9 at 579, and
Porsche fell 39 to 1,120.
   Deutsche Bank fell 14.50 to 761, Commerzbank was off 20 at
277, and Dresdner Bank edged 5.5 lower to 25.
   Positive news didn't help Viag, an energy, chemical and
aluminum concern. Despite a 14% rise in first-quarter profit
and the promise of higher 1990 earnings, its stock fell 6 to
408.
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues lost 248.67
points to close at 31765.05, but was up from the intraday low
of 31605.33. The index shed 47.88 points Friday.
   At midmorning in Tokyo Tuesday, the Nikkei index was up
41.86 points to 31806.91.
   On Monday, investors' participation slowed because of
discouraging moves lower by the yen. The Nikkei index also
was pushed down Monday in light rounds of futures-related
arbitrage selling, traders said.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all first
section issues, which lost 10.97 points Friday, was down
17.44 at 2370.82.
   First section volume was estimated at 350 million shares,
down from 481 million shares Friday, and off 38% from 923
million the previous Monday. Trading volume has shrunk day by
day since the Nikkei index climbed above 32000 last Monday,
signifying a recovery of one-third of its accumulated loss
between the record high of 38915 posted Dec. 29 and the low
of 28002 on April 2.
   Traders said investors were unable to decide which stocks
to buy, as few attractively priced stocks were left after the
recent recovery of stock prices. They also attributed the
recent sluggish trading to the major brokerage houses' annual
personnel changes that occurred last week.
   Daifuku, which predicted Friday that its pretax profit
will increase 47% in fiscal 1990, rose as high as 2,220 yen
($14.51) before closing at 2,170, up 40.
   Environment-related stocks, such as pollution-control
equipment makers, were bought actively for their strong
earnings outlooks, traders said. Ebara was up 130 at 2,130,
and Daikin gained 30 to 1,910.
   Nikon rose 50 to 1,550 on expectations of improved annual
profit, traders said.
   Speculative shares continued strong advances. Honshu
Paper, which surged 220 on Friday, added 20 to close at
2,600, down from the midday high of 2,730.
   Investors took profits on pharmaceuticals, which had risen
sharply late last week. Mochida fell 130 to 3,860.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index gained 13.0 points to close at 2282.1, at its intraday
high and significantly above its midday low of 2261.3. The FT
30-share index closed up 17.5 points at 1810.8. Volume was a
thin 316.2 million shares, down from 594.8 million on Friday.
   London shares largely ignored Britain's provisional money
supply figures for April, which exceeded forecasts, as bank
lending shrank. Traders said Wall Street gains late in
London's session helped boost shares.
   Associated British Foods gained 2 pence to 390 pence
($6.59), after it posted a 20% jump in pretax profit for the
year ended March 31, in line with expectations.
   Carlton Communications plunged 25% to 515, despite an
interim report that pretax profit rose 54% to #64.9 million
($109.7 million), though profit-taking was cited.
Profit-taking battered other issues. Reuters dropped 17 to
#11.26, and the property concern Hammerson lost 11 pence to
714.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Stockholm and
Milan, and lower in Paris, Zurich, Brussels and Amsterdam.
South African gold stocks closed higher.
   Equities closed lower in Sydney and Wellington, and higher
in Manila, Singapore and Seoul, and were mixed in Hong Kong.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                  % This
                           May 18      May 17       Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. ..................    326.4       326.6      + 0.4
 Britain ...............    672.6       677.0      - 6.7
 Canada ................    387.5       386.7      -10.4
 Japan .................   1342.2      1348.6      -18.9
 France ................    586.9       584.4      + 3.5
 Germany ...............    298.4       294.6      + 4.6
 Hong Kong .............   2184.2      2181.1      + 4.2
 Switzerland ...........    215.3       214.5      - 2.5
 Australia .............    298.4       299.6      - 9.9

   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CARLTON COMMUNICATIONS shares declined 25 pence to 515
pence Monday in trading on London's stock exchange. The
decline was misstated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Great American Communications:
   Offering of Chiquita Shares
   Results in 2nd-Period Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GACC CQB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Great American Communications Co., Cincinnati, said it has
completed the public offering of its remaining 5.2 million
shares of Chiquita Brands International Inc., resulting in a
second-quarter gain.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Chiquita shares were unchanged at $20.50. In national
over-the-counter trading, Great American closed at $6.25 a
share, down 25 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Great American sold two million shares to Chiquita in
early April. As a result of the two transactions, Great
American said it received about $135 million and will post a
$45 million pretax gain. In the year-ago second quarter,
Great American had a loss of $23.6 million, including profit
from discontinued operations of $2.2 million, on revenue of
$83.9 million.
   The owner and operator of radio and television stations
said proceeds of the sale will be used for the repayment of
bank debt and working capital.
   Both Great American and Chiquita are units of American
Financial Corp., a closely held financial-services concern.
   Chiquita announced the public offering of 6,183,468 shares
of common stock at $20.125 each, of which 3,710,081 shares
are being offered in the U.S. and 2,473,387 abroad. Of the
total, one million shares are being offered by Chiquita and
the remainder by Great American.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Gain
   24.77 Points,
   Hit Record
   ---
   Bond Prices Finish
   With Slight Increase;
   Dollar Mostly Higher
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors, concluding that interest rates have
stabilized for the time being, pushed stock prices higher but
nudged bonds up only a little.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 24.77 points to a
record 2844.68 in active trading. Long-term bond prices rose
an eighth of a point, or $1.25 for each $1,000 of face
amount. The dollar ended mostly higher after profit-taking
trimmed gains made during the morning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said investors' fears of higher interest rates
and inflation seem to have abated in the past few days. "We
think interest rates have peaked, and the market suspects the
same thing," said James Solloway, chief economist at Argus
Research. Among other things, lower bond yields makes stocks
more attractive.
   Mr. Solloway said he expects bond yields to fall to 8% or
lower by September, which should benefit such interest-rate
sensitive businesses as well-run thrifts and utilities,
including the regional Bell operating companies.
   The perception that inflation is less of a problem was
helped by expectations for two economic reports this week.
The first, on Thursday, is predicted to show a weaker
first-quarter economy than first indicated. The second, on
Friday, is expected to show a slowdown in the growth of
personal income last month from March.
   Leading the stock market higher yesterday were technology
issues -- viewed as undervalued and poised for new growth --
and consumer stocks, which tend to do better when inflation
slows.
   The rally took a while to get started. Stocks opened
unenthusiastically because bond prices were down somewhat.
"When bond prices got even and started moving ahead a little
bit, stocks overreacted, and that seemed to give the green
light to institutional money managers," said A.C. Moore,
research director at Argus.
   Bond prices retreated in the morning because of a rumor
that the federal budget surplus in April, the prime
tax-collection month, was smaller than forecast. The surplus
actually turned out higher than expected, but the news failed
to spark more than a mild move higher.
   The rebound in stocks also was helped by the dollar's
solid gains against the mark early in the day. Peter Canelo,
chief market strategist at Bear Stearns, suggested investors
may be starting to pay a little less attention to bonds and
more to the dollar.
   "The dollar appears to be coming back from lows in the
past few days," Mr. Canelo said, "and that should help bonds,
but stocks already are responding favorably." Stocks held
most of their gains even after profit-taking trimmed the
dollar's advance.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in active trading. Volume rose to 166.3
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
advancing issues swamped decliners 997 to 538.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices gained slightly. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond dipped to 8.68%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.6626 marks and 153.72 yen, compared
with 1.6477 marks and 153 yen Friday. But the dollar fell
against the British pound.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Stop START
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   As Secretary of State James Baker left for Moscow last
week, he suggested that if he didn't reach a new arms
agreement, it wouldn't be because he lacked flexibility. He
was right, the U.S. seems to have made all the concessions.
It's too bad he didn't get anything for them.
   In particular, Mr. Baker came back with nothing on
conventional arms in Europe; White House national security
adviser Brent Scowcroft declared Saturday that the Soviets
"are now stonewalling" the whole issue. So not a word about
those 40,000 Soviet tanks. Nothing on the 380,000 Red Army
troops in East Germany, soon to be part of West Germany. Yet
the removal of those forces and destruction of the armaments
were supposed to be the major goals of U.S. policy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rolling the Red Army out of Eastern Europe was supposed to
be the historic achievement to redeem official American
silence about Lithuania. The Moscow preliminaries seem to
give Mr. Gorbachev a blank check to keep cranking up the heat
on Lithuania and the other Baltics. And the Russians can
continue to insist, as they did to Mr. Baker, that a united
Germany can never, ever be part of NATO, despite the clear
wishes of even most East Germans.
   For his part, George Bush seems uncertain about Mr.
Baker's claim of "real accomplishments." At first on
Saturday, the President gave the results in Moscow "a mixed
review," but since then has called it "a major step forward."
Maybe his opinion will change again after he sees the fine
print. He has to remember that the details will be
scrutinized by the Democratic Senate, perhaps one looking for
its chance to get to his right on foreign policy.
   Laying aside the geopolitical stakes in Eastern Europe,
the big U.S. objective in START has been to limit the
first-strike potential of the huge Soviet land-based missile
force. Under the Baker deal, the Soviets agree to cut by half
the number of their huge SS-18 missiles, each of which has 10
highly accurate warheads. But the U.S. has dropped its
earlier demand that the Soviets not test the 154 remaining
missiles; this means it can and will modernize the force to
make up for what it lost. Meanwhile, the Soviets have also
refused any limits on SS-24s and SS-25s, their
impossible-to-verify land-based mobile missiles. The U.S. has
no land-based mobile missiles -- none. The Soviet
first-strike advantage remains intact.
   Meanwhile, the American advantage in high-tech cruise
missiles has been badly eroded. This is our best new
defensive weapon, highly accurate; when armed with
conventional warheads it can destroy invading tanks without
blowing up everything nearby. The U.S. agreed to the Soviet
demand for a range limit of 375 miles on air-launched
cruises, so they'll no longer be available for long-range
missions.
   Mr. Baker also agreed to limit sea-launched cruises in a
side-letter said to be "nonbinding." But when was a U.S.
arms-control promise ever "nonbinding?" The U.S. is still
abiding by SALT II a decade after the Senate refused to
ratify it. The deal does allow 880 sea-launched cruises, more
than the Navy currently intends to deploy, and there is
supposed to be some special treatment for a new non-nuclear
cruise missile known as "Tacit Rainbow." But experience warns
that when arms control targets a class of weapons it erodes
the economics, and the budget process moves in for the kill.
Putting sea-cruises into a side agreement without
verification clearly means that the U.S. will be limited, but
the Soviets won't.
   Meanwhile, the Backfire bomber, an issue that has
bedeviled all arms talks for years, is described as a
"detail" to be worked out. Along with the SS-18 and mobile
missiles. This is silly.
   The chemical-arms accord isn't any more reassuring. To
begin with, how do we know the size of the chemical
stockpiles the Russians are supposed to cut? And how can we
take their word on a new treaty, when they're still saying
the mysterious explosion and murderous outbreak of anthrax at
Sverdlovsk in 1979 was caused by contaminated meat? Did
Secretary Baker renounce the longstanding U.S. position that
Sverdlovsk was an arms-plant accident showing that the
Soviets violated an existing treaty calling for destruction
of biological weapons, just as the new treaty calls for
destruction of chemical weapons?
   What the U.S. gets for these concessions, apparently, is a
feeling of reassurance that Mikhail Gorbachev will continue
to hold power in the Soviet Union. His economy's a shambles.
His former allies in East Europe want his troops out. Mr.
Gorbachev is the one who should be dying to make the
concessions; instead he seems to own the Bush administration.
The U.S. is committed to him not only regardless of his
policy in the Baltics, but also regardless of the strategic
balance.
   President Bush no doubt wants a pleasant summit with Mr.
Gorbachev next week, but in fact no treaty has been concluded
so far. And as President Bush ponders what his Secretary of
State brought back from Moscow, he should also reflect on the
fates of presidents who too eagerly signed arms accords in
the 1970s. If Jimmy Carter signed this deal, he'd be hooted
out of town.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Michiganders Are
   Crazy About Morels
   In the North Woods
   ---
   This Champignonship Season
   Collectors Are Looking
   Under Every Elm Tree
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BOYNE CITY, Mich. -- About 140 people clutching paper Ace
Hardware bags are gathered around a police car parked in the
woods. Suddenly, the siren wails and the crowd scatters. Stan
Boris, an imposing 220-pounder with a Smith Brothers beard,
sprints down a dirt road like Carl Lewis.
   After a couple of hundred yards, the 38-year-old woodsman
veers off and heads up a steep hill. He spots his prey and
begins flinging it into his bag. "One, two, three, four," Mr.
Boris calls out. "Come on, mushrooms]"
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Boris is competing in the National Mushroom Hunting
Championship, a contest he has won 10 times. He is looking
for mushrooms, but not just any mushrooms. And obviously, he
has a knack for spotting fungus on the cluttered forest
floor.
   This contest, now 30 years old, is but part of the morel
madness that grips Michigan's north woods each May. The
little town of Mesick, home of the Mushroom Bar and the
Mushroom Cap Motel, has an annual parade and crowns Miss
Mesick Mushroom.
   "Welcome Fungus Finders," says the sign at the Veterans of
Foreign Wars post here in Boyne City. As many as half a
million people go mushrooming in the Wolverine state. Surely,
this must rival the mushroom hunters in Southwestern France
who have been known to call in sick so they can go out
hunting cepes.
   The morel of this story (the word actually is pronounced
mo-REL, and the thing itself looks like a sponge on a stalk)
has a nutty (some say meat-like) taste that a fancy
restaurant might gladly pay $25 a pound for. Morels are a
versatile delicacy. They can be marinated, fried or sauteed.
They are good in soups, stuffings, omelets. If you like
morels. This year's special "Mushroom Edition" of the
Charlevoix County Press here says you can even serve them
with ice cream: Ergo, a recipe for a morel sundae.
   Morels are hard to come by, though they tend to grow wild
at the base of certain trees. Some years, when the weather
isn't warm and moist, just a few of them will appear. But
when conditions are right, morels are bountiful, popping up
here and there, seemingly overnight. "They fly out of the
ground," says Gerald Boron, a member of the mushroom-hunting
club in Lewiston, Mich., which has 130 members and a waiting
list to get in.
   Every May, a caravan led by a fire engine rolls through
Boyne City to kick off the national championship. Contestants
go to a secret location picked by the Boyne Valley Lions
Club, which runs the contest.
   The two-day championship -- one is tempted to say
champignonship -- has separate categories for men and women,
residents and nonresidents, and a grand champion category for
repeat winners. The top prize is just $125, but there is also
a heap of local prestige to be had.
   The contest allows pickers to count both true morels and a
cousin, known as "early morels." Eating them makes some
people sick.
   Several pickers have won more than once, but nobody
approaches Mr. Boris, who, at the age of 15, first won in
1967. Indeed, Mr. Boris has been so dominant that rumors
recur that he stashes mushrooms in the woods or has
confederates who contribute to his harvest. Such talk riles
Mr. Boris, who lives in the town of Charlevoix. "I guess
anytime somebody's better than somebody else, people are
going to wonder how you do it," he says.
   On the first day of the 1990 competition, Mr. Boris took
the lead, with 103 mushrooms, two more than anyone else and
dozens more than most pickers. As an eyewitness can attest,
Mr. Boris picked every one himself, often finding caches of
morels that others passed right by.
   Like all top pickers, Mr. Boris can spot a mushroom at 30
feet that is barely peeking through a bed of leaves. "I don't
look at my feet," he explains as he crashes through brush.
"That's why I fall a lot."
   Mr. Boris faltered the second day of the contest. He found
but two mushrooms and lost by just one morel in the resident
men's competition. (His son Aaron fared better in a different
category. A member of his high-school track team, Aaron
covers ground quickly. He snapped up 26 mushrooms on the
second day. His two-day total of 92 won him first prize.)
   Michigan makes the most of its morels, but the mushrooms
are found elsewhere in North America, and other states have
their own festivals. Washington has its mycological
societies. The morel is the official mushroom of Minnesota.
   Most morels sold in stores and restaurants in this country
have lately come from the Pacific Northwest. The Michigan
harvest is unreliable because the weather doesn't always
cooperate. "We really cannot depend on the local morel,"
laments Milos Cihelka, chef and partner in the Golden
Mushroom restaurant in suburban Detroit, which buys 3,000
pounds of morels a year. It's a pity, he says, because
"Michigan morels taste sweeter, better than the West Coast
morels."
   A skilled picker can make a fast buck. John Bearden, who
lives in East Jordan, Mich., has earned as much as $4,500 in
a fecund month. "We pay our taxes out of it every year," says
the 46-year-old Mr. Bearden. "The kids usually get a bike."
Mr. Bearden, who works in an auto-parts factory, does his
hunting after work and from "daylight to dark" on weekends,
he says. He drops 10 or 15 pounds every May from all the
walking.
   Expert pickers head for certain trees to find what they
are looking for. Mr. Bearden, for example, scans the base of
ash trees for white morels. Morels were prolific in the
Midwest during the epidemic of Dutch elm disease, beginning
in the 1960s. For reasons not fully understood, the mushrooms
flourish when the bark falls off a dead elm.
   Certain natural disturbances are also a boon to the morel.
Pickers in Oregon have reaped monster harvests in areas that
have been devastated by forest fires or that have recently
been logged. "A veritable morel garden" was reported after
Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980, according to the book "A
Morel Hunter's Companion."
   People tried unsuccessfully for many years to cultivate
morels commercially. The feat was finally achieved in the
mid-'80s by Neogen Corp., a small Michigan company, which
developed a technology for duplicating the wild environment
of the morel. The key was recreating certain air flows,
temperatures and soil conditions that cause the fungus to
fruit.
   A subsidiary of Domino's Pizza Inc. was licensed to use
the Neogen system in North America. The concern, Morel
Mountain Co., produced its first commercial crop, 100 pounds
in all, just a few weeks ago. Within four to five months,
Morel Mountain predicts, production will reach 2,000 pounds a
week. But morels are a bit upscale for Domino's, which has no
plans to put them on pizzas; the crop will be sold to
specialty stores and restaurants.
   And don't expect morels to put the prosaic supermarket
mushroom out of business. Many people find the nut-like
flavor just a bit too strong, and prefer the common
cultivated variety you can grow in a dark closet. "I enjoy
getting out in the woods and picking morels, but I just don't
particularly care to eat them," says Todd Sorenson, a Boyne
Valley Lions Club member who helped select the site for the
national championship. "If I want mushrooms, I go down to the
store."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Bank Approves
   $96.7 Million in Loans
   For Projects in India
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank and its affiliate, the
International Development Association, approved $96.7 million
in loans to India for health centers and population-control
projects in rural areas.
   In other actions, the IDA cleared a $16.1 million credit
to Bolivia to help finance and expand closely held
manufacturing enterprises, and a $14 million loan to Western
Samoa to rebuild roads damaged by a cyclone that hit the
Pacific island nation in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credits, including most of the financing for the
projects in India, will be interest-free except for small
administrative fees. The World Bank will provide $10 million
of the loans to India at a variable interest rate, currently
7.75% a year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Putting Latest Nikkei-Index Play to Test
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN PWJ BKCO EUROP SB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   To hear some brokers tell it, it's time for a strategy
tune-up for playing one of the most popular new investments
to come out of Wall Street in several years.
   But what they're proposing may not be a smart move.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investments are eight warrants, traded on the American
Stock Exchange, that allow investors to bet on the Japanese
stock market. Since the first were issued in January and
February of this year, the warrants have at times accounted
for as much as 40% of the Amex's daily volume.
   Six are put warrants, which pay off in dollars if the
Nikkei index of 225 Tokyo stocks falls below specified levels
before the warrants expire in nearly three years. There are
also two call warrants, which pay off if the Nikkei is above
specified levels three years hence.
   Now, with the Japanese stock market up nearly 10% since
this past winter's plunge, some brokers are encouraging
investors who purchased the put warrants when they were first
offered to sell them. To replace them, these brokers say,
investors should buy new, lower-priced puts brought out by
PaineWebber Inc. and Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. in April. They urge
investors who are joining the warrant game for the first time
to do the same.
   The brokers' main argument is that the new warrants
provide more leverage than the older ones. That is, if the
Nikkei index drops, say, 30% from current levels, prices of
the new put warrants would shoot up roughly 130%, while the
first-issued warrants would gain only about 50%.
   Prices of the put warrants issued in January and February
zoomed 200% on the Nikkei's 25% decline. "The timing and
pricing of the put warrants that came out in January and
February was perfect," says Michael Schwartz, a vice
president and option strategist at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. in New
York.
   Despite the brokers' arguments, however, it isn't
necessarily wise to shun the older warrants for those more
recently issued. For one thing, the newer warrants are
cheaper only because the Nikkei's plunge made the specified
levels on which payouts are based about 20% lower than for
the older warrants. The Nikkei has to drop below that lower
level before there will be any money paid out at expiration.
The newer warrants are appealing mainly to investors who are
quite bearish on Japanese stocks.
   Moreover, the put warrants issued earlier are now selling
at a slight premium to their "intrinsic value." That simply
means the Nikkei already is at a level that would pay off
when the warrants expire -- which makes the older warrants a
bit of a bargain compared with the newer ones. (Calculating
intrinsic value exactly requires a formula, included in each
warrant's prospectus, that involves the current and future
payout levels of the Nikkei index, a divisor and either a
specified or current value of the Japanese yen in dollars.)
   The newer put warrants have no intrinsic value. They
simply provide the investor with nearly three years for the
Nikkei to decline and profit the warrant holder. The table
accompanying this article shows the intrinsic value for all
the Japanese put and call warrants currently trading, as well
as their market premium and the percentage by which the
Nikkei would have to move for the warrants' prices to double.
   Another consideration is leverage. If the Nikkei moves in
the wrong direction for the warrant holder, the decline in
the warrants' price can be several times the percentage
change in the index. Moreover, if the Nikkei hovers above the
specified level when the warrant's life runs out, the warrant
will expire worthless. Ditto for a call warrant based on an
index that's below the specified level at expiration.
   The table shows that if the Nikkei rallies 10% from its
current level, holders of the older put warrants would lose
less at expiration than holders of the newer, lower-priced
ones, who would see their entire investment wiped out.
However, another big plunge in the Nikkei gives the profit
advantage to the more highly leveraged newer put warrants.
   The two call warrants that came out last month are both
carrying premiums of more than 100% over their intrinsic
worth. The Nikkei would have to climb about 16% for
purchasers to break even at expiration, which makes the calls
a bad play for investors who believe the Japanese market is
going to rally over the next three years, counsels Mr.
Schwartz of Oppenheimer. Instead, he suggests buying shares
in a mutual fund, such as Japan Fund, and then buying
recently issued puts to protect that investment against a big
drop in the Japanese market.
   Investors who believe Japanese stocks aren't going
anywhere over the next three years might consider selling
short the new, low-priced calls, which have little intrinsic
value, and puts, which have none. That would require
borrowing the calls and puts to sell them, agreeing to buy
some later for replacement.
   Actually, the investor hopes to have to buy few, if any.
With this strategy, little movement in the Nikkei would cause
the warrants to expire worthless, or nearly so; that would
let the investor keep most of the proceeds from the warrants'
sale. Such a scheme, however, carries unlimited risk if the
Nikkei makes a very strong move either up or down.
   ---
             How the Nikkei Warrants Stack Up
                                                                                                       

   Investment characteristics as of May 18, when the Nikkei
225-stock average closed at 32013.72 and the value of the yen
was 153.00 to the dollar.
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

                                                  GAIN/LOSS
                                   PCT. NIKKEI    ROSE FELL
                      PREMIUM OF     MUST MOVE    IF NIKKEI
                    MARKET PRICE     TO DOUBLE    ---------
 INTRINSIC  MARKET  TO INTRINSIC  MARKET PRICE    ROSE FELL
 VALUE      PRICE          VALUE    OF WARRANT    10%  30%
                                                                                                       

 Denmark (Put)
                                                                                                       

  $7.57     $8.38           11%            21%   - 62%  48%
                                                                                                       

 Salomon (Jan. Put)
                                                                                                       

   6.61      7.13            8             17    - 69   78
                                                                                                       

 Salomon (Feb. Put)
                                                                                                       

   7.55      8.38           11             21    - 63   49
                                                                                                       

 Bankers (Put)*
                                                                                                       

  16.97     18.50            9             19    - 65   61
                                                                                                       

 PaineWebber (Put)
                                                                                                       

   0.00      2.50          N.A.            21    -100  142
                                                                                                       

 Eksport (Put)
                                                                                                       

   0.00      2.75          N.A.            22    -100  121
                                                                                                       

 PaineWebber (Call)*
                                                                                                       

   1.81      4.88          170             38    - 20 -100
                                                                                                       

 Salomon (Call)
                                                                                                       

   1.50      3.75          150             45    - 24 -100
                                                                                                       

   *Warrant uses whatever yen/dollar rate prevails at
expiration, so there is currency risk
                                                                                                       

   Note: The last three columns show the percent gain or loss
for the warrants at expiration for various levels of the
nikkei average
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NIKKEI PUT WARRANTS' potential gains in the event of a 30%
drop in the Nikkei index of 225 Tokyo stocks were understated
by 100 percentage points in a story and an accompanying table
in yesterday's edition because of a miscalculation. For
example, in the case of the Denmark put, the gain from the
May 18 level would be 148% (instead of 48%); in the case of
the newer PaineWebber put, the gain would be 242% (not 142%).
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kollmorgen Meeting
   Delayed as Judge Asks
   Pact With Vernitron
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   KOL X.VER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A Connecticut state court judge postponed
Kollmorgen Corp.'s annual meeting for a week, and ordered the
company and a dissident shareholder to try to resolve a
dispute involving control of the company.
   Superior Court Judge Nicholas A. Cioffi delayed until May
31, the Kollmorgen annual meeting for which Vernitron Corp.
has been soliciting proxies to gain control of the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Vernitron, a closely held motors and controls company
based in Deer Park, N.Y., has said it is prepared to offer
$15 a share for Kollmorgen if its proxy contest for control
of the board is successful.
   Kollmorgen, a Simsbury, Conn., maker of motors, controls
and electro-optical equipment, has been trying to fend off a
takeover attempt by Vernitron. The two companies are suing
each other over a collapsed merger agreement.
   The ruling by Judge Cioffi concerns litigation related to
Kollmorgen's issuance in March of convertible preferred stock
to an investor group that represents about 13.8% of
Kollmorgen's common shares outstanding.
   The judge asked each side to name a member of a special
masters committee to seek a resolution to the dispute over
the preferred shares, which Vernitron asserts were issued in
violation of previous court stand-still orders.
   Vernitron owns almost 6% of Kollmorgen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Qume Board Clears
   Offer of $86 Million
   From Buy-Out Group
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QUME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILPITAS, Calif. -- Qume Corp. said its board approved a
sweetened $86 million, or $7.25 a share, buy-out proposal
from a group including its chairman and chief executive
officer, David Lee, and Singapore-based Wearnes Technology
(Pte) Ltd.
   The offer compares with previous per-share offers from the
group of $6.50 and $6.75. The Lee group already holds about
22% of Qume's roughly 11.8 million common shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Qume, a computer-products maker, said the agreement is
subject to several conditions, including shareholder
approval, which is expected to be sought no later than
September. Qume said its investment banker, First Boston
Corp., is continuing to solicit other offers for the company.
   Separately, Qume reported net income for the fiscal-fourth
quarter ended Feb. 28 of $827,000, or seven cents a share,
compared with net of $2 million, or 17 cents a share, a year
earlier. Sales slipped 2.8% to $54.5 million from $56.1
million. The latest quarter included a $2 million operating
loss, which was more than offset by a $6.9 million gain from
the sale of stock of a Taiwanese subsidiary.
   For the fiscal year, Qume net rose 72% to $8.7 million, or
73 cents a share from $5 million, or 43 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue rose 21% to $222.3 million from $183.2
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Soviets, Fighting Image of Chernobyl,
   Push to Build Ultrasafe Nuclear Plants
   ----
   By Richard L. Hudson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   OBNINSK, U.S.S.R. -- A series of sonarlike pings
reverberate inside the white, concrete room. They signal an
experiment is under way at one of the world's biggest nuclear
test reactors.
   The scientists tending Fast Critical Assembly No. 2, at
this laboratory a few hours from Moscow, are experimenting to
find a safer, more-efficient way to arrange uranium fuel
inside a commercial nuclear-power reactor. Soon they'll start
tests on a really wild notion hatched in Moscow: a reactor
bathed in molten lead.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Will it work? "God knows]" laughs one laboratory engineer.
   The folks who brought you Chernobyl have a new mission: To
invent an ultrasafe nuclear power reactor. In laboratories
like this around the Soviet Union, scientists are
experimenting with a slew of possible new approaches to
nuclear safety. In the aftermath of the disastrous 1986
Chernobyl accident, many Soviet officials feel the only way
to repair the nuclear industry's tattered image is to leap
beyond existing technology and invent reactors that are safer
than Western models.
   "We need new thinking, new reactors and new philosophies,"
says Prof. Igor Slesarev, an official of Moscow's I.V.
Kurchatov Institute of Atomic Energy.
   Early results from this scientific brainstorming intrigue
Western physicists. "There are some interesting ideas coming
out of the Soviets," says Octave Du Temple, executive
director of the American Nuclear Society, an association of
U.S. nuclear engineers and officials. Washington hasn't yet
responded to Soviet proposals to collaborate on such
research, but the two countries' scientists are exchanging
information informally. "We've had more (nuclear) discussions
with the Soviets in the past two years than in the previous
30," says Mr. Du Temple.
   There's more than scientific curiosity at stake. A
world-wide search is under way for reactor designs that avoid
safety flaws such as those behind the world's three worst
nuclear accidents: at Britain's Windscale reactor in 1957; at
Three Mile Island in the U.S. in 1979; and at Chernobyl in
1986. Based on that not-so-fail-safe history, nuclear foes
contend that a truly safe reactor is impossible. But
atomic-industry supporters say improved safety could make
nuclear power an alternative to the oil and coal plants whose
emissions are implicated in theories of global warming.
   Though serious safety flaws remain in the construction and
operation of Soviet reactors, basic nuclear science has long
been one of Moscow's few technological strong points, partly
because of its kinship to nuclear-weapons research. Soviet
successes have included the first nuclear reactor in Europe
(the U.S. was first in the world); the first reactor designed
to produce electricity; and the first "tokamak," a machine
used in studies of nuclear fusion.
   Now, Soviet officials say they aim to design reactors at
least 100 times safer than today's, implying there would be a
one-in-10-million chance of an accident that spewed radiation
outside the plant, as happened at Chernobyl. Such a goal may
require abandoning much of the reactor technology of both
East and West.
   The problem, according to the Soviet analysis, is that
reactor safety today relies too much on fallible human
operators and complex safety equipment, and not enough on
making the reactor's basic design accident-proof. Most
reactors in East and West are just bundles of hot uranium
fuel cooled by water; the resulting steam turns a standard
electricity-making turbine. The Chernobyl accident stemmed
from a flawed design that, with operator mistakes, let the
reactor run out of control. At Three Mile Island, operator
mistakes let the coolant water drain and the reactor
overheat.
   One solution under study in Moscow entails building
reactors underground, possibly in natural, watertight rock
formations. There, the effects of any accident and of
radiation leakage would be minimized. And a buried reactor
would be sheltered from such hazards as plane crashes and
earthquakes. U.S. engineers rejected a similar idea as too
costly years ago; but Soviet scientists, drawing on
construction techniques developed in Soviet mining, think the
expenses may be exaggerated.
   A more-radical safety approach would use molten lead as a
reactor coolant. The idea isn't as far out as it might seem:
Already, in a few so-called "fast" reactors in the Soviet
Union, the U.S. and France, molten sodium metal is used as a
coolant. It works because the metal, though hot, is still
cooler than the reactor core. But it has a big problem of its
own: Sodium reacts violently with water or air. Sodium leaks
have already caused small explosions at Soviet and French
fast reactors.
   Lead would be safer, Soviet scientists argue. It doesn't
react violently. And it would be unlikely to leak out and
allow reactor overheating, says Prof. Victor Orlov, deputy
director of Moscow's Research and Development Institute of
Power Engineering. Any leak would quickly plug itself as the
escaping lead cooled and solidified, he says. Moscow already
powers some of its submarines with reactors cooled by a
mixture of molten lead and bismuth. Western nuclear subs are
water-cooled.
   There are drawbacks: Without safeguards, the hot lead
could gradually corrode its steel piping, or poison reactor
workers. But the idea intrigues U.S. engineers enough to
consider accepting a Soviet offer of collaboration. The lead
idea "certainly is credible," says James Laidler, engineering
research director at Argonne National Laboratory, a major
U.S. Energy Department laboratory.
   Despite the Soviet public's post-Chernobyl distaste for
nuclear power, Moscow already has about 150 scientists and
engineers studying the concept. After Chernobyl, "We have
very strong opposition to construction of a nuclear reactor.
We have no opposition to research on it," says Mikhail
Troyanov, director of the Obninsk research center.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latin American Fund Files
   For Initial Public Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An investment group filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission for the initial public offering of a
closed-end fund that will invest primarily in Mexico, Chile
and Brazil.
   The offering is for a minimum of four million shares, or
$60 million. A syndicate led by Salomon Inc. will underwrite
the offering. The fund, called the Latin American Investment
Fund Inc., will be jointly managed by Salomon Brothers Asset
Management Inc. and BEA Associates Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The fund will invest primarily in stocks listed on major
Latin American exchanges, but its managers will also be able
to invest in Latin American debt for trading or conversion
into equity investments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   H.H. Robertson
   Agrees to Buy Ceco
   For $150 Million
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   RHH X.CKO T.FCY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- H.H. Robertson Co., in a move that will
double its size, has agreed to buy closely held Ceco
Industries Inc. in a cash and stock transaction valued at
about $150 million.
   In a related move, Frontera S.A., a Swiss investment
company, has agreed to invest $40 million to help fund the
cash portion of the buy-out. In exchange, Frontera will
receive roughly 25%, or between 3.3 million and four million
shares of Robertson. After the transaction, Robertson, which
currently has about 6.5 million shares outstanding, will have
about 13.5 million to 14 million shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The move will make Robertson a $1 billion concern and open
new, but related, markets for the construction company. It
will also improve the cash-strapped Robertson's balance
sheet, enabling it to more readily secure bank financing.
Robertson said it expects to receive within a week a bank
financing commitment letter to fund continuing operations.
   Under terms of the transaction, Ceco, of Oakbrook Terrace,
Ill., will receive $15 million in cash plus between 3.4
million and 4.1 million shares of common stock, valued at
about $50 million. Ceco would own roughly 25% of the new
company. Robertson will also assume about $85 million of
Ceco's debt.
   The agreement will be presented to shareholders for their
approval in the third quarter. Robertson said its largest
shareholder, First City Financial Corp. with a 25% stake, has
agreed to support the buy-out. First City, of Vancouver,
British Columbia, is controlled by the Belzberg family.
   Robertson, struggling in the depressed construction
market, posted losses from 1985 to 1988 and has omitted its
dividend since 1985. Robertson expects to realize savings
from the combination by streamlining duplicate staffs and
operations.
   Ceco opens new markets not served by Robertson, including
overhead doors for residential and commercial markets and
side-hinged, wood and steel doors. Ceco is concentrated in
the U.S., but Robertson will undoubtedly begin selling those
products overseas, giving the company a broader international
product mix.
   Gregory Drahuschak, an analyst with Butcher &amp; Singer Inc.,
Pittsburgh, said the backing of Frontera may help Robertson
make inroads in Europe. "Traditionally business in Europe is
being done on the basis of who you know -- not necessarily
what you do," he said. It also gives Frontera's its first
major U.S. investment. The Swiss firm has been interested in
a friendly investment in the U.S. construction-materials
business.
   Wall Street had hoped Robertson would be a target of a
buy-out, following news last September that a shareholder
group including Douglas A. Kass was interested in buying
Robertson for $13 a share. Nothing came of the offer, but
since that time the Kass group has boosted its stake to
15.4%. Mr. Kass said he met with a Robertson representative
regarding the transaction, but didn't have any comment.
   Robert Kanters, an analyst with Legg Mason, Inc.,
Pittsburgh, said he believes the stock fell because Robertson
seems to be a less likely takeover target and investors know
little about Ceco's balance sheet.
   Jack Hatcher, chairman and chief executive officer of
Robertson, will retain those positions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reverse Exodus:
   Middle-Class Blacks
   Quit Northern Cities
   And Settle in the South
   ---
   Many Cite Isolation, Racism
   As Reasons for Moving
   To Places Like Atlanta
   ---
   A 3-Year-Old's Self-Esteem
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch and Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Justin L. Johnson had the name, the
credentials and the talent to write his own ticket in
Pittsburgh. The problem was that his hometown never felt like
home.
   He attended an elite local prep school and the University
of Chicago. After he graduated from Harvard Law School, he
returned to Pittsburgh, where both his father and uncle are
judges. The mayor appointed him to the civil service
commission. A local newspaper named him "one of 20 people to
watch" in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Mr. Johnson wasn't happy here. As a successful young
black with a privileged background, he saw himself caught
between two worlds: a white corporate establishment and a
struggling black working class. He felt isolated as the only
black lawyer at his firm. He felt guilty and frustrated when
he drove through poor black neighborhoods, and he believed
that residents there resented his champagne-colored Nissan
Maxima, his Brooks Brothers suits and silk ties. He had few
peers.
   So the 27-year-old Mr. Johnson moved to Atlanta, a city
with a thriving, self-assured black professional class. "I
had every advantage in Pittsburgh, but I really feel much
more comfortable here," he says over a steak dinner at a
downtown club, above the cooing of a jazz singer on stage.
"In Pittsburgh I was always in a white environment, and I had
the feeling of isolation. Down here, you see successful
blacks, and you feel a sense of well-being and pride."
   Mr. Johnson's move is part of a historical reversal:
Northern blacks are continuing to return to the South that
their parents or grandparents had fled in an exodus from
oppression and economic hardship.
   Since 1970, Atlanta, with its strong black political
leadership and high-profile black colleges, has become a
magnet for professional blacks in the North. Other Southern
cities, among them Birmingham, Ala., Little Rock, Ark., and
Raleigh, N.C., and even parts of the rural South, are also
attracting Northern blacks. For the first time in more than a
century, according to the Census Bureau, the proportion of
black Americans living in the South has risen; 56% of them
lived in the region in 1988, up from 52% in 1980.
   Northern cities with large populations of middle-class
black people, such as New York and Chicago, have experienced
no huge exodus. But census figures tell a different story in
other cities -- Milwaukee, Detroit, St. Louis, Buffalo,
Pittsburgh and San Francisco. The data show that more black
residents moved away than moved in during the 1980s, says
James Johnson, a geography professor at the University of
California at Los Angeles.
   For years, black residents of Northern cities have been
moving to the suburbs for better housing and to escape
inner-city crime and deprivation. Others have joined the
white migration to the Sun Belt for largely economic reasons.
But among black professionals already established in their
careers -- lawyers, executives, accountants, bankers and
others -- moving South seems often motivated by a desire to
become part of a larger community of successful black
residents with a richer cultural and social life than they
had experienced in the North.
   Few harbor any illusion that racism has disappeared in the
South, even in Atlanta. "Blacks have lost that sense of naive
dreaming that either the North or the South is perfect," says
Reagan Charles Wilson, a professor at the University of
Mississippi and author of the Encyclopedia of Southern
Culture. While few blacks may have been so naive, about 6.5
million blacks left the South to settle in Northern cities
between 1910 and 1970.
   To some black residents, racial tensions in the North seem
wider than before. Anne Maria Hardeman, an engineer and
artist who lived in Boston, still recalls the fear she
experienced in an incident in 1984 when she was jeered at,
called "nigger" and pushed to the ground by a group of whites
as she was walking through the parking lot at Fenway Park one
evening. "{White} people were walking on the sidewalk near
me. They just kept walking," says Ms. Hardeman, who has since
moved to San Jose, Calif.
   Edward Barnette, also from the Boston area, is in the
process of transferring to Atlanta for the sake of his
daughter. While in the Boston area, Mr. Barnette lived in a
spacious house on a six-acre lot in suburban Boston, earned a
six-figure salary for a large corporation, employed a nanny
for his three-year-old daughter, Camille. She has attended a
private suburban preschool, where she has been one of only a
handful of black children.
   When Mr. Barnette recently complimented Camille for an
accomplishment, she replied, "I'm not smart, Daddy. Don't say
I am." Mr. Barnette was stunned. He believes she had picked
up signals that she wasn't as intelligent as her white
classmates. "If all the people she comes in contact with are
white, she won't have an appreciation for her own people," he
says. "Camille is somewhat standoffish when she's around
black people. It absolutely crushes me."
   Eric Thompson quit his job last year at a Mellon Bank
office in Pittsburgh, where, he says, he was the only black
in a 60-employee division, and he took a job in Atlanta. The
29-year-old accountant previously had worked at Price
Waterhouse in Pittsburgh, where he was the only black among
300 employees, he says. (Price Waterhouse says there were
actually five blacks among 275 employees when Mr. Thompson
left in 1986.) Mr. Thompson says he visited many companies in
the area when he worked for Price Waterhouse, "and I never
saw any blacks. I saw one in Dayton, Ohio, and she was a
secretary."
   At Mellon, Mr. Thompson rarely joined his colleagues for
happy hours. For one thing, he doesn't drink. But he also
felt awkward as the only black customer in bars that played
country and Western or rock music. He prefers jazz.
   His evenings and weekends weren't much better. There isn't
much nightlife that appeals to black professionals in
Pittsburgh. One of the few nightclubs catering to them is 15
miles outside the city. Singles often have a hard time
finding one another.
   The soft-spoken Mr. Thompson would roam shopping malls by
himself to kill time. Or he would go to movies. "That was
prime time on my calendar," he says. Then there was midnight
bowling with a friend or two. But since he moved to Atlanta
last year, he has been so busy with jazz concerts, church
events and other activities that he hasn't been to the lanes.
   Before he moved to Atlanta, Mr. Thompson had to overcome
his childhood impressions of the South as hostile towards
blacks. Growing up in Washington, D.C., he saw televison
footage of blacks succumbing to husky sheriffs and
white-robed racists. Each summer, when his family drove
through rural Alabama to visit his grandparents, he saw
wooden, paint-flecked houses with tin roofs, shoeless
children sitting on dilapidated front porches and the swirl
of dust from dirt roads.
   "Every child after high school graduation wanted to go
North," recalls his mother, Vera Thompson, who grew up in
Beatrice, Ala., and moved to Washington after she married.
"They wanted freedom; they wanted a job. There was nothing
(in Beatrice) except work in the field."
   Mr. Thompson found a very different South when he walked
into the Coca-Cola Co. headquarters last year for a job
interview. His first impression: the throng of black
professionals in the building. During the interview, he asked
what positions high-ranking blacks filled. Back at Mellon, he
says, he was dismayed that blacks didn't work in
revenue-generating jobs. While Mellon can't provide numbers,
the bank says the notion that no blacks work in
revenue-producing jobs is absurd.
   In any case, Mr. Thompson says that at Coke "you see
blacks in positions where they have an effect on the bottom
line." And in Atlanta, there is comfort in numbers. The
city's black population has increased by 24%, to 605,000,
since 1980.
   At Coke, Mr. Thompson is one of six blacks in a 30-member
department, which also includes Hispanics and other
minorities. The corporate culture gets high marks all around;
the cafeteria, Mr. Thompson says, serves Southern food --
fried chicken and greens.
   Mr. Thompson met his girlfriend in the company's legal
department. He lives in a luxury apartment with a swimming
pool and tennis courts. Dressed in a dark suit, he sips
cranberry juice in Mr. V's, an elegant and very crowded
nightclub that attracts mostly black patrons. "I would have
had to be a pioneer in Pittsburgh to make a mark," he says
above the din of rhythm and blues music, "but in Atlanta,
there were some doors that were already wide open."
   Says Willie Thornton, an assistant professor at Emory
University, who recently moved to Atlanta after receiving a
Ph.D. in finance at Harvard University: "In Atlanta there is
a very visible black middle class. When someone sees you on
the street, you could be a city councilman just as easily as
a mugger. In Boston, people are less quick to think of you as
a professional."
   Some see a danger in the migration of black professionals
from Northern cities. "My greatest despair is to see those
who see racism and flee," says Harry Johnson, manager of
corporate communications at Polaroid Corp. in Cambridge,
Mass. "If Boston is as impoverished of black professionals as
they say, then we need them . . . to bring new ideas, new
commitment and passion."
   Lawyer Justin Johnson's decision to leave Pittsburgh
bewildered his father, state Judge Justin M. Johnson, who
felt the Johnson name would have opened many doors in
Pittsburgh. A lifelong Pittsburgh resident, Mr. Johnson never
felt he had to leave the city for a better life, and he
doesn't understand his son's captivation with Atlanta's
social scene.
   "I was brought up to understand that the greatest value
was in doing hard work and doing a good job, and if you got
pleasure, that was incidental," he says from his office, the
walls lined with family photos. "I can't imagine moving from
one community to the next because there's not a lot of people
from a particular group to have quality relaxation time."
   Nonetheless, he knows that times have changed. He has seen
pictures of his son laughing with friends on a boat in a
lake. Those experiences are important, he says, "but I never
had that."
   For his part, the younger Mr. Johnson, who works for
Alston &amp; Bird, one of Atlanta's largest law firms, knows he
is taking a professional risk. "When I came back to
Pittsburgh (from law school), there was all this good will I
could draw on," he says, "but the city still couldn't make me
happy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Brazil Fund, With Its Zigzag Performance,
   Is Just as Much a Bet on Politics as on a Market
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   BZF LATAM FBD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Do the lambada? Why bother when you can wind up equally
breathless by owning a few shares of Brazil Fund.
   Wild zigzags come with the territory for investors in this
two-year-old stock fund, which trades on the New York Stock
Exchange and invests in Brazilian companies. It offers a
reminder that investors ignore at their peril: Owning a
country fund is just as much a bet on politics as it is on
any particular stock market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In mid-March, Brazil froze bank accounts as part of an
all-out attack on inflation, officially estimated at 1,765%
last year. Lo and behold, inflation fell. The government puts
it at 3% for the 30 days through April 15, though some
analysts thought it was above 40%. Meanwhile Brazil Fund
shares are at 10 1/8, up from a low of 8 1/2 earlier this
year.
   Some investors "must believe the government's plan is
going to work," says Michael Porter, who follows publicly
traded investment funds for Smith Barney in New York. He
notes that the shares in Brazil Fund's portfolio now trade at
a modest four times last year's corporate earnings, and only
about half book value.
   Lest all this sound like an unbelievable bargain, Ed
Games, the fund's manager at Scudder, Stevens &amp; Clark in
Boston, points out that because of the stern economic
measures, it's highly unlikely that there will be any
earnings this year for the companies in the fund's portfolio.
Hence he isn't optimistic about any further dividend payouts
by Brazil Fund this year. The fund, sold to investors in
March 1988 for $12.50 a share, has paid a total of $3.99 a
share in dividends, including $3.07 Jan. 23 and 12 cents
March 30.
   For small investors, it's perplexing enough that the
shares of a publicly traded fund rarely match the portfolio
value -- generally known as the net asset value. And until
recently, Brazil Fund added to this quandary by sporting its
two different net asset values. One figure showed the effect
of a new one-time 8% wealth tax. But the tax was found
inapplicable to Brazil Fund, which now quotes a single net
asset value of $9.75 a share.
   At yesterday's close the shares were at a 3.8% premium to
the portfolio value. Sound tempting? Mr. Games notes that
during 1989 the fund shares typically sold at discounts of
30% to 55%. At year end, for example, Brazil Fund's net asset
value was $18.85 and the shares were 32% lower, at 12 7/8.
   Brazil Fund is a reasonable bet now because "a buyer of
the fund is getting a portfolio of undervalued assets," Mr.
Porter says. Last month the entire Brazilian market was
capitalized at about $17 billion; "Does that make sense when
IBM is capitalized at about $31 billion?" Mr. Porter asks.
Mr. Porter adds that a couple of years ago Mexico Fund was at
4 and now it is at 14 1/4. "Mexico took some of the same
steps that Brazil is trying today -- privatization, reducing
the public sector and controlling inflation," he says. But he
warns that Brazil's stock market is still "vulnerable to
further weakness."
   In 1989, Mr. Games says, Brazil Fund benefited from
spectacular earnings growth for the stocks in its portfolio.
The fund's net asset value rose 46% for the year -- to $18.85
share after subtracting the January 1990 distribution --
mostly from gains on investments. Mr. Games, who returned
from Brazil last week, says he saw signs that business is
picking up. Some companies will survive the transition better
than others, he says, but "on balance, there seems to be a
lot of confidence in the economy."
   ---
   Brazil Fund
   (NYSE; Symbol: BZF)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Brazilian stock fund
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 29, 1989:
   Net assets: $226.9 million; $18.85 a share vs. $154.9
million; $12.90 a share
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 71,331 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 12 million
   ---
   Fibreboard said its board rescinded an amendment to the
company's employee stock option plan that would have doubled
the plan's size.
   As previously reported, some shareholders were highly
critical of the amendment, which would have raised the number
of shares reserved for issuance to 700,000, or 18% of the
total now outstanding. But the amendment was narrowly
approved at Fibreboard's annual meeting by a vote of
1,080,791 to 1,035,540, with 213,454 shares abstaining.
   Lawrence C. Hart, chairman of the Concord, Calif., wood
products and insulation company, said "the board and
management don't want to expand the option program without
broader support from shareholders." Fibreboard said it would
"continue to evaluate the use of stock options and other
incentives." Donald Miller, a dissident shareholder, said the
decision was "appropriate" given that more than half the
shares voted no or abstained.
   -- Roger Lowenstein
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Baltimore Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   Utility Requests Rate Hike
   Of 12.1%, or $198 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BGE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baltimore Gas &amp; Electric Co., Baltimore, requested an
annual rate increase of 12.1% or $198 million in an
application filed with the Maryland Public Service
Commission.
   The increase requests includes $45 million, proposed as
the first part of a three-stage phase-in of revenues required
for the commercial operation of a second generating unit at
its Brandon Shores Power Plant. The plant is scheduled for
completion in June 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Two remaining phases are designed so customers won't pay
any more during 1991 than they would have under a traditional
single increase approach, the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   ABC, NBC Reveal Prime-Time Lineups
   For Fall Season; Extensive Cuts Made
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB GE
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The ABC and NBC networks announced their
prime-time schedules for next fall, and the lineups
underscored the recent, diverging fortunes of the two
broadcast rivals.
   ABC, on the rebound and riding on the success of the
oddball mystery "Twin Peaks," will introduce six new and
offbeat series to replace a slim four hours of its 22-hour
lineup. ABC also will pick up "Twin Peaks," the much-touted
trial series, as a full-fledged entry for next fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But NBC, the No. 1 network for five years but recently on
a surprising downslide, will fiddle more: over a dozen
current series will be canceled, and nine new shows will
replace a total six hours of prime-time fare. The new series
on NBC, which like ABC also is aiming for shows that are
fresh and unique, include a comedy featuring the rap-music
star The Fresh Prince.
   The television industry had been especially interested in
the fate of "Twin Peaks," the most talked-about new
television show of the year, because it is a barometer of
ABC's turnaround efforts and of ABC's willingness to try
daring and "different" programs.
   In picking up 13 new episodes of "Twin Peaks," which airs
its seventh and final trial episode this Wednesday, ABC will
move the series from its usual time slot on Thursdays to 10
p.m. EST on Saturdays, the lowest-viewing night of the week.
   "At first, I thought these {ABC} people must be nuts. It's
a risky move," said Betsy Frank, senior vice president at ad
agency Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising. But it makes sense, she
said: "Twin Peaks," from film director David Lynch, is a cult
hit among young viewers, who may give up videocassette
rentals to watch it on Saturdays.
   ABC's four hours of new shows include four half-hour
comedies. Airing at 8:30 p.m. on Tuesdays, just before the
No. 1 hit "Roseanne," will be "Baby Talk," based on the hit
movie "Look Who's Talking." "Going Places," about four young
TV-show writers, comes from producers Tom Miller and Bob
Boyett and will air at 9:30 on Fridays, filling out a
two-hour block of Miller-Boyett shows.
   The other two new comedies are "America's Funniest . . .
Part II," which will follow the new ABC hit, "America's
Funniest Home Videos," at 8:30 p.m. on Sunday nights; and
"Married People," about three generations of wedded couples
in a New York brownstone.
   The two new one-hour dramas on ABC, a unit of Capital
Cities/ABC Inc., include "Cop Rock," an unusual
cops-and-robbers musical from producer Steven Bochco. The
show will air at 10 p.m. on Wednesdays, along with the
returning Bochco show "Doogie Howser, M.D." The other
one-hour series, "Gabriel's Fire," considered the hottest
pilot in a crop of 30 at ABC, stars James Earl Jones as an
ex-convict turned investigator. That new series will take up
the slot recently inhabited by "Twin Peaks" -- Thursdays at
9.
   At NBC, a unit of General Electric Co., new shows will be
aimed at the weakest spots. They include Mondays from 8 to 9
p.m., when NBC will try the rapper "Fresh Prince of Bel Air"
and a spinoff of the movie "Ferris Bueller's Day Off"; and
Saturdays 8 to 9 p.m., when NBC will broadcast "Parenthood,"
from the people who produced the film of the same name, and
"Working It Out," about a couple of divorcees. NBC also will
replace the 7-to-9 p.m. Sunday block with "Hull St. High" and
"Signs of Life," a medical drama.
   To make room for the new shows, NBC canceled a plethora of
programs. They include comedies "A.L.F.," "My Two Dads,"
"227," and "The Hogan Family" (which has been picked up by
CBS Inc.); and dramas "Hardball," "Mancuso, FBI," and
"Baywatch," which was made by former NBC Chairman Grant
Tinker's production company.
   The No. 1 network also killed six midseason replacements,
including "Working Girl" and "A Family for Joe," starring
Robert Mitchum, but kept three: "Grand," "Wings" and "Carol &amp;
Company."
   ABC fared a bit better with midseason entries, keeping
five and yanking six. The keepers: "Twin Peaks," the two
video shows, "Coach" and "Father Dowling Mysteries." The
casualties: "The Marshall Chronicles," "Elvis," "Brewster
Place," "Capital News," "H.E.L.P." and "Sunset Beat."
   In setting the fall lineup, ABC Entertainment President
Robert Iger targeted lagging time slots, rather than impose a
wholesale revamping. ABC, which finished No. 2 in prime-time
ratings this past TV season, was the only one of the three
major networks to post marked improvement.
   CBS will announce its lineup later this month.
   ABC hopes to fix Sunday nights at 8:30 p.m. with the
follow-on video show; the entire Saturday night lineup, by
airing "Young Riders," "China Beach" and "Twin Peaks" and
canceling the two-hour mystery series that had "Columbo" and
"Kojak" revolving with two other series; and Wednesdays after
9 p.m., with "Married People" and "Cop Rock."
   To make room for all the new shows, ABC canceled a number
of programs. Among the new casualties: "Anything But Love,"
with Jamie Lee Curtis; the two-hour mystery wheel; "Mission:
Impossible"; and the Friday night comedy "Just the Ten of
Us."
   Two other current ABC series won't be on the fall lineup
but are expected to return later: "Head of the Class" and the
midseason program, "Equal Justice." ABC slated seven new
programs for midseason replacements that underscore its reach
for unusual fare. They include "The Company," about the CIA
and a husband-wife team of spies, and "My Life and Times,"
which has an 85-year-old man in the year 2035 reflecting on
the present.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nova Corp.
   To Sell Unit
   To Bayer AG
   ----
   By Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   NVA G.BAY I.EMT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nova Corp. of Alberta said it agreed to sell its rubber
operations to Bayer AG of West Germany for 1.25 billion
Canadian dollars (US$1.06 billion).
   The purchase price is at the high end of analysts'
expectations, but the sale of the assets isn't seen by all as
a good move.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the Calgary, Alberta, company announced it was
seeking buyers for the rubber operations, the investment
community was divided. Some analysts worried that the company
was getting rid of its crown jewel and a major source of cash
flow that wasn't dependent on the cyclical swings of the
petrochemical and pipeline industries, Nova's core
businesses. Others said they expected the sale to boost the
value of Nova's shares, which has languished in recent
months.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Nova closed up 50 cents a share to $7.375, well off its
52-week high of $9.50.
   The rubber division is part of Polysar Ltd. that Nova
acquired in 1988 for C$1.3 billion. Nova said it expects to
either break even or report a small gain on the sale.
   Nova acquired Polysar at the peak of the petrochemicals
cycle. The company's earnings took a dive and its share price
followed. Robert Hastings, an analyst with Richardson
Greenshields of Canada Ltd., said if Nova can pull a small
gain out of the sale of the rubber division, it will have
done all right.
   William G. Wilson, Nova's chief financial officer, said
Bayer will assume C$100 million of the rubber division's debt
and C$130 million in other liabilities.
   Analysts said the move is strategically important to Bayer
because it will give it a much bigger presence in the large
U.S. market. But they said the rubber division comes to Bayer
at a high price, particularly because of the current weakness
in the auto industry, a chief client to rubber products
makers.
   "Let's just say they didn't underpay; 1.3 times sales is a
very full price," said Alasdair Nisbet, a chemicals analyst
with London's UBS Phillips &amp; Drew.
   Nova's Mr. Wilson said Bayer was "prepared to pay that
strategic premium" for access to the North American market.
   The sale to Bayer has already raised the ire of at least
one other potential bidder. Enimont S.p.A. of Italy said it
was invited to bid for the Polysar division but was prevented
from doing so because of the announced sale. An Enimont
spokeswoman said the proposed sale to Bayer didn't respect
the bidding rules. She said bids were due yesterday, but the
announcement yesterday morning made the competitive bids
obsolete.
   Bayer, which has interests in chemicals, health care and
imaging technologies, said it "will maintain, and may expand"
Polysar's main facility in Sarnia, Ontario.
   Nova's rubber division is a leading producer of synthetic
rubber, primarily for the tire industry. It contributed C$812
million to Nova's 1989 sales of C$4.84 billion and expects
sales of C$900 million this year. The division has plants in
Canada, the U.S., Belgium and France with combined annual
capacity of about 530,000 tons. Bayer's rubber production
capacity totals only 150,000 tons a year.
   Bayer said it has had preliminary discussions with
officials of Investment Canada and will be submitting its
application to them in the near future. It hopes to close the
transaction this fall.
   Nova said it will use the proceeds from the sale to reduce
its debt. At the end of 1989, the company's long-term debt
stood at about C$3.8 billion.
   The rubber division was just one of several blocks of Nova
assets up for sale. The company put four small companies on
the block last June with a combined value of C$500 million
and has had little luck finding buyers. Nova said recently
that it is also considering a public offering of shares in
its affiliate, Husky Oil Ltd., a large oil and natural gas
producer that analysts value at C$1.5 billion.
   Analysts say the company is selling the assets in an
attempt to improve earnings. In the first quarter, Nova had
net income of C$36 million, or 11 Canadian cents a share, on
revenue of C$1.20 billion, compared with net of C$129
million, or 51 Canadian cents a share, on revenue of C$1.30
billion a year earlier.
   Mr. Hastings, the Richardson Greenshields analyst, said
the rubber division sale will definitely improve Nova's
earnings, and increase its ability to get financing. However,
he said the company is "a little bit more cyclical than they
were yesterday."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Marriott Corp.:
   Firm Signs Pact to Develop
   70 Nathan's Famous Outlets
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MHS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Marriott Corp. said in Washington that it signed a
licensing agreement to develop 70 Nathan's Famous Inc.
fast-food restaurant units over the next five years.
   The first two outlets are scheduled to open in New York's
La Guardia Airport and the Neshaminy Travel Plaza on the
Pennsylvania Turnpike within three months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Financial terms weren't disclosed, but Marriott said the
agreement gives the lodging and food services company
exclusive development rights to the Nathan's Famous concept
at airports, travel plazas and certain food service
operations in the U.S. and Canada.
   Marriott said that, in preparation for the contract, it
operated two Nathan's Famous test sites last year on the
Florida Turnpike.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Perry Drug Stores Inc.:
   Acquisition of 16 Outlets
   Operated by Revco Is Set
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PDS RDS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Perry Drug Stores Inc., Pontiac, Mich., said it agreed to
acquire 16 Detroit-area stores operated by Revco Drug Stores
Inc. of Twinsburg, Ohio. The price wasn't disclosed.
   Perry's purchase is part of a larger transaction, in which
Revco is selling 221 stores through Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
proceedings to Reliable Drug Stores Inc. of Indianapolis.
Sixteen of these stores in turn would be sold to Perry. The
entire deal requires bankruptcy court approval, which is
expected in June, Perry said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed acquisition supports Perry's strategy of
filling in existing markets and concentrating on Michigan,
said Jack A. Robinson, chairman and chief executive officer.
After the acquisition, Perry will operate 186 conventional
drugstores in Michigan and 23 in the Chicago area.
   Perry plans to open 20 stores in the current year and
expects to complete the divestiture of 14 A.L. Price
deep-discount stores by the end of this month.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Advance 24.77 Points;
   Some See Average Reaching 3000
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stocks started weak but ended strong, with the
Dow Jones Industrial Average blazing a trail into uncharted
territory. The industrial average posted its third new high
since last Monday.
   Some analysts say the average's current march won't end
until the index reaches 3000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I don't think we are at the end of our run," said Trude
Latimer, market strategist at Josephthal &amp; Co.
   She added that there doesn't appear to be any concerted
follow-through on the occasional bouts of profit-taking that
hit the market. Selling shaved nearly 12 points off the
average on Friday, and stock prices opened lower yesterday.
   But before long, stocks were rallying, led once again by
secondary issues.
   "Technically, we will probably stop short at 3000 {on the
average}," said Ms. Latimer, at which point the market may be
in for some more serious selling.
   The industrial average ended the day off its highs but
with a 24.77-point gain at 2844.68.
   The buying started in smaller issues, lifting the broader
market averages before spreading to the blue chips. The
broader market ended with slightly sharper gains. Standard &amp;
Poor's 500-Stock Index closed up 3.36 to 358.00, while the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 1.73 to 195.28.
The Dow Jones Equity Market Index gained 3.24 to 333.10.
   Peter Canelo, investment strategist at Bear Stearns, said
the strength among the broader market means stocks should be
able to sustain their current advance. "That breadth is
telling us that the next step for the market is higher," Mr.
Canelo said.
   Advancers led decliners, 997 to 538. New York Stock
Exchange volume totaled 166,280,000 shares, up from Friday's
162.5 million.
   Nova led the most active list with a 1/2-point gain to 7
3/8 on volume of 2.5 million shares. The company announced
that it is selling its rubber division to Bayer AG of West
Germany for about 1.25 billion Canadian dollars (US$1.06
billion). As part of the deal, Nova will be released from
about C$100 million of debt. It will use the cash proceeds to
further pay down debt. Nova said the transaction may result
in a modest gain.
   National Semiconductor was next on the list with a gain of
1/2 point to 8 1/4 on volume of nearly 2.4 million shares.
   Bank of Boston surged 1, or 7.7%, to 14. The stock gained
1/2 point on Friday after winning the bidding for $340
million in deposits of the failed MerchantsBank, a unit of
Merchant Capital. The award was seen by many bank analysts as
an endorsement of Bank of Boston's health by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.
   Investors have shunned New England banks or sold the
stocks short in the wake of widespread problems related to
the weakening real estate market there. Yesterday's news sent
short sellers into the market to buy stock with which to pay
back their loans, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   Homestead Financial jumped 5/8, or more than 31%, to 2
5/8. The company declined to comment on the stock's activity.
   Cable television stocks continued to advance. Analysts are
now saying that the industry may escape stringent legislative
regulation. Meanwhile, the industry's annual trade show began
yesterday in Atlanta. Time Warner, which has extensive cable
TV interests, was up 4 to 99 1/4. The stock gained 2 3/4 on
Friday.
   Louisiana General Services jumped 3 1/8 to 20 1/4 after
signing a stock swap merger agreement with Citizens
Utilities.
   Sotheby's fell 1 to 17 1/2, retracing some of the gains
made last week in advance of its spring series of
impressionist and modern art auctions.
   Geico added 2 1/8 to 152 5/8. Yesterday's "Heard on The
Street" column of this newspaper said Wall Street merger
specialists are speculating that investor Warren Buffett
might be preparing to sell his 44% stake in the personal line
insurer. The article gives Geico high marks as an investment,
and says any buyer of the Buffett stake probably would pay a
premium to the market price.
   Baltimore Gas &amp; Electric tumbled 1 1/4 to 29. The
company's board failed to raise the quarterly dividend rate
at a meeting on Friday. A Kidder Peabody analyst said the
utility's board usually votes on a dividend increase at its
May meeting.
   Monsanto slid 1 1/4 to 100 3/4, after dropping 1/2 on
Friday. The stock came under pressure last week after Goldman
Sachs downgraded its rating on the stock while First Boston
reiterated its "sell" rating. First Boston also cut earnings
estimates for the company. A trader who handled a large sell
order of Monsanto shares yesterday said the stock is still
feeling the repercussions of the analysts' moves.
   Technology stocks surged. International Business Machines
rose 1 5/8 to 117, Digital Equipment gained 1 3/8 to 90 5/8,
and Compaq Computer jumped 2 3/4 to 121 3/8. Motorola
advanced 1 1/2 to 78 1/8.
   Vishay Intertechnology was up 1 1/4 to 21 3/4. The company
has decided to make a "white knight" offer to acquire
Crystalate Holdings, Vishay's president and chief executive
officer, Felix Zandman, said. Crystalate called for Vishay's
aid in fending off an unsolicited offer by TT Group PLC.
   Interest rate-sensitive Federal Home Loan Mortgage added 2
1/4 to 71 3/4, while Federal National Mortgage added 3/4 to
40 1/4 in Big Board trading.
   On the American Stock Exchange, Cablevision System Class
A, which rose 2 1/4 points Friday, added 2 1/8 to 28 7/8.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 3.04
to 359.36. Volume totaled 12,360,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Troubled TV Guide Explores New Look
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS VIA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TV Guide, the crown jewel of Rupert Murdoch's magazine
empire, is going on the offensive to protect its franchise.
   Contending with declining circulation, stronger
competition and a tough advertising climate, the nation's
largest weekly magazine is tinkering with its look and
content, and even plans to test a 7-by-10 inch version that
could replace its signature digest size.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mounting troubles at TV Guide, where circulation has
slipped to 15.9 million from its 1978 peak of 20 million,
have spawned persistent rumors that the magazine is on the
block. News Corp., which acquired TV Guide two years ago when
it purchased Triangle Publications Inc. for $3 billion, says
it plans to sell some assets to reduce debt, but it
vehemently denies TV Guide is up for sale.
   In an unusual response to a report in yesterday's
Advertising Age that TV Guide is being shopped around, Mr.
Murdoch issued a statement offering to pay Ad Age publisher
Crain Communications Inc. $1 million if the story could be
verified and if Crain could bring forth anyone with whom News
Corp. has had discussions. Otherwise, he said, he expected
Crain to write News Corp. a check for a similar amount.
Spokesmen for Crain couldn't be reached for comment.
   Joseph Cece, TV Guide's president and publisher, says
losses in ad pages and circulation are being offset by higher
advertising rates and an increased cover price of 75 cents.
"We are still the most profitable magazine in the industry,"
he says.
   But changes are in the works. By the end of the year, Mr.
Cece says, TV Guide will test market the larger-size
prototype. To compete with guides produced directly for local
cable operators, TV Guide is expanding its production of
cable system-specific editions. And the magazine is pushing
advertising packages based on themed issues such as sports
and program awards.
   On the editorial front, TV Guide says it will step up
serious "watchdog" television reportage, which News Corp. had
de-emphasized after the acquisition in favor of more
celebrity-oriented coverage. Deadlines for covers have been
cut from about 40 days to about 14 days, allowing TV Guide to
compete for stories with other weeklies such as Time and
Newsweek. "The deadlines now allow us to be timely and hot,
such as when a show or star is peaking," says Joe Robinowitz,
editor of TV Guide's national section. "We have to be in sync
with America's interests."
   One of the biggest of those interests is cable television,
which now reaches more than 55% of U.S. television
households. Top executives of Murdoch Magazines are at the
National Cable Television Association annual convention in
Atlanta today to display research showing that TV Guide --
not newspaper listings or magazines distributed by cable
operators to their subscribers -- is what viewers reach for
when they head toward the TV set.
   At the cable show, TV Guide will have to share the
limelight with a persistent and growing competitor: TVSM
Inc., publisher of the monthly Cable Guide magazine. TVSM
executives held their own news conference yesterday to
announce they will combine the recently acquired TV
Entertainment magazine with the Cable Guide to create a
single magazine with a circulation totaling at least 9.5
million. Distributed almost entirely through cable system
operators, the new edition of Cable Guide will appear in
October in a full-size format rather than its current digest
size.
   TVSM also is attacking Mr. Murdoch's franchise on its own
turf, publishing a weekly TV listing magazine called TV Time.
Currently being tested in markets in California and Arizona,
TV Time will be rolled out to cable systems around the
country beginning in late 1990, according to TVSM Chairman
Mark Edmiston.
   TVSM's TV Time and Cable Guide pioneered the production of
system-specific editions, which provide readers a road map to
the exploding number of local broadcast and cable channels,
and not just the nationally distributed cable networks. TV
Guide is playing catch-up, only recently offering
system-specific editions on a limited basis at the urging of
cable operators, many of whom offer guide subscriptions to
their customers.
   In Phoenix, Ariz., TV Guide lost out to TVSM's TV Time for
distribution through the Times Mirror Co.'s Dimension Cable
Services system. But in Seattle, TV Guide won the contract to
be distributed to subscribers to the three Viacom Inc.
systems serving the Seattle-Tacoma area.
   "We told TV Guide we needed more specific listings and
space to list pay-per-view, and they came back with
customized editions," says Seth Morrison, Viacom's director
of marketing. "It shows Cece and TV Guide are meeting needs
in the cable industry."
   But TVSM is preparing TV Time for markets everywhere, and
Viacom's Mr. Morrison says that once the TV Guide contract is
up, he'll have to consider what TVSM has to offer. "The key
for us is a comprehensive weekly listing," he says. "We'll be
open to anyone offering a good service at a good price."
   Whatever heat TV Guide feels from competitors, it is still
the leading TV magazine and one of the most widely read
magazines anywhere. But the major advertising downturn that
has battered the entire magazine industry is now only
exasperating downward trends at the magazine. Advertising
pages in 1986 totaled 3,566; as of 1989, ad pages had fallen
9% to 3,255.
   TV Guide executives claim part of the page drop stems from
a decision in early 1989 to terminate a barter agreement with
TV stations that allowed them to promote shows in free ads.
But as of the first quarter of 1990, the bad news continued:
Ad pages dropped 10.1% from the same period in 1989.
Advertising pages for one of TV Guide's major categories,
cigarette advertising, is expected to drop 30% in 1990,
according to Mr. Cece.
   When News Corp. bought TV Guide, executives at Murdoch
Magazines envisioned that the magazine, because of its mass
audience, could be attractively packaged with Murdoch's other
magazines for national advertisers. But because of TV Guide's
odd page size and its relatively high ad page rate -- about
$113,000 -- Murdoch executives admit the idea has fizzled.
"We are too different from other Murdoch magazines," says Mr.
Cece.
   The Murdoch empire includes movie magazine Premiere, New
Woman, European Travel &amp; Life, and Automobile. "Cross media
buys are much easier said than done," says Leslie Hinton,
president of Murdoch Magazines.
   Instead, TV Guide is focusing on offering multi-issue
packages that target particular groups of readers. A sports
package offers ad pages in TV Guide's Super Bowl and World
Series issues; a family package offers ad pages in the Fall
Preview and children's programming issue. Rather than
discount ad rates, a common practice in pre-Murdoch days, TV
Guide is letting advertisers run a free page of coupons in
the magazine for a minimum number of ad pages purchased.
   News Corp. is also pushing links between TV Guide and the
company's increasingly successful Fox television network. Mr.
Cece said TV Guide is about to sign its first contract with a
major advertiser for pages in the magazine and commercial
time on the network. He declined to identify the advertiser,
but said other such deals are in the works.
   If advertisers haven't come running in droves, they are at
least impressed by the efforts of TV Guide's new regime. Ad
packages and cable specific editions are "all for reader
value, and that can translate into value to the advertisers,"
says Patricia Donnelly, vice president at ad agency Young &amp;
Rubicam.
   TV Guide has continued to fiddle with its editorial
content, adding an astrology column and a soap opera column
since the purchase by News Corp. The magazine continues to
favor celebrities for its covers, but increasingly is
returning to the kind of inside stories it carried in the
pre-Murdoch era; recent ones included "TV in Cuba," and "TV
Relives the Fall of Saigon."
   Some observers question whether editorial content makes as
much difference in the current competitive climate. "What the
consumer wants is information on what's on what channel at
what time, period," says Charles Elbaum, president of
Publishing Economics Inc., an industry consultant in New
York. "Most of the readership can go elsewhere for the
celebrity interviews that are in TV Guide."
   The decision on whether to change the size and format of
TV Guide won't be an easy one. Murdoch executives say a
larger format would allow the magazine to be more creative
graphically and might make the magazine easier to read. But
Mr. Cece says a larger format would definitely mean an
increase in cover price and the annual subscription rate, a
move that would almost certainly result in losses of paid
circulation. In 1988, when TV Guide raised its cover price to
75 cents from 60 cents, circulation fell off quickly.
   "Moving to a larger format could be a disaster," says Mr.
Elbaum, the publishing consultant. "TV Guide built its
franchise on its style and format and to go away from that,
they might as well start from scratch. Customer confusion
could be significant."
   ---
                 The Battling TV Magazines
                                                                                                       

                     How They Stack Up
                                                                                                       

                                          1989     % Change
                                          Level   From 1988
                                                                                                       

   Cable Guide (owned by TVSM Inc.)
                                                                                                       

   Ad Pages .........................     449.39    +16.8%
   Circulation ......................  7,744,357    - 0.8
                                                                                                       

   TV Entertainment (recently aquired by TVSM Inc.)
                                                                                                       

   Ad Pages .........................        269      N.A.*
   Circulation ......................  4,600,000      N.A.*
                                                                                                       

   TV Guide (owned by News Corp.)
                                                                                                       

   Ad Pages .........................   3,255.13    - 7.2%
   Circulation ...................... 15,867,750    - 2.7
                                                                                                       

   *Not available; magazine was launched in April 1989
   Sources: Publishers Information Bureau, The Cable Guide,
   Audit Bureau of Circulations
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Birmingham Steel Corp.:
   Melting Work Is Halted;
   Charge of $6.9 Million Set
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BIR
</CO>
<LP>
   Birmingham Steel Corp. said it was suspending indefinitely
its Norfolk steel melting operations, resulting in a
one-time, fourth-quarter charge of about $6.9 million, or 57
cents a share.
   The Birmingham, Ala., operator of mini-mills attributed
the shutdown to continued losses as well as high maintenance
and electric power costs. Birmingham said it would continue
to operate its Norfolk rolling mill by processing
semifinished steel billets supplied from other Birmingham
locations. The company said it didn't anticipate any
"material change" in steel shipments or any disruptions in
deliveries as a result of the suspension.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the fourth quarter ended June 30, Birmingham earned
$7.3 million, or 59 cents a share, on revenue of $119.8
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Investigating
   Commodity Sales
   To Iraq in Mid-80s
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   I.BNL MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Agriculture Department's inspector
general is looking into apparent cash rebates and other
irregularities in government-guaranteed commodity sales to
Iraq, as an offshoot of the $2 billion Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro scandal.
   Department officials who run the export credit-guarantee
program have reviewed U.S. commodity sales totaling $720
million to Iraq in the mid-1980s that allegedly were financed
with unauthorized letters of credit issued by the Italian
bank's Atlanta branch. The administrative review showed at
least two "potential problem areas," the department said
yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The inspector general's office has been asked to
investigate "after-sales services" said to have been sought
by Iraqi officials from U.S. exporters. Services appear to
have involved, among other things, providing cash rebates or
discounts to the Iraqi government, using favored Iraqi
shipping companies, and supplying truck parts or tires as
well as additional commodities, according to a department
report.
   "Iraq has identified several exporters who apparently
provided after-sales service," the report said.
   The inquiry will also focus on unusually high prices
commanded by exporters involved in the commodity sales. Iraq
paid sugar prices $15 to $40 a metric ton higher the
world-market price for sugar and at least $10 higher for rice
and corn, according to the report. The higher prices may have
reflected a perception among exporters that Iraq, which was
at war with Iran at the time, was "a high-risk market," the
report said.
   In some transactions, the report added, exporters
apparently violated a credit-guarantee program rule by
factoring part of the freight costs into the commodity
prices.
   The inspector general's office will also examine whether
the value of the commodity sales was properly reported when
export-credit guarantees were sought from the department's
Commodity Credit Corp.
   The corporation hasn't incurred any losses as a result of
the BNL affair, which is being investigated by a federal
grand jury in Atlanta as well as banking regulators. The
loans guaranteed by the corporation were part of a
"clandestine loan operation" in which BNL officials allegedly
booked more than $2 billion in unauthorized and unreported
loans to Iraq, the report said.
   A spokeswoman for Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter
said Iraq bought more than $4.5 billion in U.S. commodities
with Commodity Credit guarantees since 1983.
   The department's administrative review focused mostly on
Entrade Inc., a New York subsidiary of Enka Group, a Turkish
firm. The Internal Revenue Service alleged that a former
officer of BNL's Atlanta branch received a $289,960 kickback
from Entrade. The officer, in a suit filed last fall in
federal court in New York to block IRS seizure of his
residence and bank account, denied receiving any kickback.
Entrade has declined to comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Big GM Holder Backs Rise in Pensions
   For Executives, Rejects Smith for Board
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- One of General Motors Corp.'s largest
shareholders said it is voting for a controversial plan to
boost executive pensions but against the re-election of
retiring Chairman Roger B. Smith to GM's board.
   The California Public Employees Retirement System's
decision not to back Mr. Smith's re-election isn't
"necessarily an anti-Roger vote," said Richard Koppes,
general counsel for the system, which owns 6.2 million
shares, or just under 1% of GM common stock. "Retiring CEOs
should retire. They shouldn't be on the board."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That philosophy got an unusual and unexpected boost from
the recently retired chairman of Ford Motor Co. earlier this
year. Donald E. Petersen surprised industry watchers when he
announced he would renounce his board seat when he left Ford
on March 1. Mr. Petersen declared that he didn't want to be
looking over the shoulder of his successor, Harold A. Poling.
   Such a move is highly unusual for chief executives of
American companies, however. At GM, for example, it's
standard practice for the chairman to retire upon reaching
age 65, but remain on the board for five years after that.
Mr. Smith turns 65 on July 12, and his retirement is
scheduled for Aug. 1.
   GM will announce results of the votes on its pension plan
and on the election of directors at its annual meeting
Friday.
   Mr. Smith, who has presided over plenty of controversy
during nearly a decade at the helm of GM, seems destined to
leave the chairman's post on the same note. GM is proposing
to nearly double his pension, to about $1.2 million a year,
and that of some 3,350 other executives by including bonuses,
instead of base salary alone, in calculating pension
payments.
   GM said the company's directors had the power to enact the
increase without shareholder approval, but decided to put the
matter to a vote.
   The plan to boost executive pensions at a total cost of
$41.6 million a year has already proved divisive, attracting
backers and opponents from GM's largest shareholders. The
company argues that its executive pensions rank in the bottom
21% of major industrial corporations.
   Recently another large shareholder, the state of Michigan,
said it would vote its 8.8 million shares against the
pension-increase plan. It couldn't be determined yesterday
how Michigan voted on Mr. Smith's re-election to the board.
   The activist California pension fund earlier this year had
asked GM's directors to provide it with detailed information
on the process of selecting Mr. Smith's successor. More
recently, the fund had said it was leaning toward voting
against the pension increase. So the decision to vote for the
boost in pensions but against Mr. Smith's re-election as a
director is somewhat of a double surprise.
   Mr. Koppes said the California fund decided to back the
pension-plan provision to support Chairman-elect Robert C.
Stempel. "We hope that Stempel can turn this company around,"
Mr. Koppes said. "And we don't want to make GM less
competitive" in retaining executives.
   A GM spokesman said it wouldn't be appropriate to comment
on any of the voting. "Each individual shareholder reserves
the right to vote as they see fit," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Strengthens Against the Mark
   On Worry Over Costs of German Union
   ----
   By John Bader
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN EUROP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- News that West Germany's largest opposition
party is demanding changes in the recently signed state
treaty on German unification led to sharpened worry about the
costs of union and sent the dollar nearly 1 1/2 pfennigs
higher against the West German mark yesterday.
   The U.S. unit also rose against the yen and other
currencies on the market's perception that the Federal
Reserve won't act to reduce U.S. interest rates any time
soon, participants said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rejection by the West German Social Democratic Party, or
SPD, of the current version of the Germanys' treaty on
monetary, economic and social union was seen by participants
as a complicating factor in the unification process that once
again focused market attention on the costs of union. The
treaty was signed last Friday.
   SPD leader Hans-Jochen Vogel's statement that the party
can't accept the current treaty because it doesn't go far
enough in creating good jobs for East Germans -- or provide
protection for East German businesses -- aroused worry that a
more expensive package might have to be negotiated, leading
to greater inflationary pressure on the West German economy.
   The SPD theoretically could block parliamentary passage of
the treaty through its newly won majority in the upper house
of the West German parliament. However, the SPD decision was
seen in West Germany as merely signaling possible delays in
the unification, currently set for July 2. And Mr. Vogel's
language appeared to leave open the possibility that the
treaty could be approved as is, with additions to be worked
out.
   While participants didn't expect the SPD move to derail
unification, the news brought out underlying nervousness in
the market about the exact impact of unification on the West
German economy.
   "The market's apprehensive on reunification because no one
seems to know the costs, and when there's some news out on
that front, there's a reaction," said Radhika Govindrajan, a
vice president at Manufacturers Hanover Trust in New York.
   The mark's weakness yesterday was exacerbated by
widespread rumors in Europe that West German central bank
President Karl Otto Poehl was resigning. The rumors later
were strenuously denied by the Bundesbank, but the excuse to
sell marks had been provided and the West German unit didn't
regain its losses, traders said.
   Helping the dollar to its gains against the mark was
growing market confidence, based on events last week, that
U.S. authorities won't pull interest rates lower soon.
Matched sales in the domestic money market last Thursday and
Friday, when the Federal Funds rate stood below the Fed's
target of 8 1/4%, and a statement Friday by Richmond, Va.,
Fed President Robert Black favoring higher interest rates
have convinced the market that the Fed isn't in a mood to
ease borrowing costs.
   In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar was quoted
at 1.6626 marks, up from 1.6477 marks late Friday, and at
153.72 yen, up from 153 yen late Friday. Sterling was quoted
at $1.6875, down from $1.6900 late Friday.
   At midmorning Tuesday in Tokyo, the U.S. currency was
trading at 152.95 yen, down from Monday's Tokyo close of
153.25 yen. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.6665
marks.
   A rate cut by the Fed had been feared after recent U.S.
economic indicators suggested a slowing economy and subsiding
inflationary pressures.
   In that context, the dollar strengthened nearly
three-quarters of a yen against its Japanese counterpart,
helped by a belief that Japanese monetary authorities haven't
reacted effectively to signs of rising inflation, said Rick
Porter, a vice president and manager of corporate trading at
Westpac Corp. in New York.
   An appropriate response to rising inflationary pressures
would be an increase in the Japanese discount rate, a course
of action the Bank of Japan has so far balked at taking, Mr.
Porter said. The discount rate is the central bank's base
rate on loans to commercial banks.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $373.30 an ounce, down $1.40. Estimated
volume was a moderate 2.5 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at $372.75 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Carven:
   Rothschild Group May Buy
   Fashion and Perfume House
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group led by Baron Edmond de Rothschild's Paris holding
company is about to acquire a 60% stake in the Carven fashion
and perfume house, people familiar with the pending
transaction said.
   Carven is known for its Vetiver and Ma Griffe fragrances,
as well as scarves, ties and air hostess uniforms. The price
wasn't immediately available.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If completed, the acquisition would mark the baron's third
fashion investment during the past six months. Last year, his
Cie. Financiere Edmond de Rothschild acquired a 40% stake in
once-famous fashion house Jacques Fath. This year, the
holding company acquired 34% of Maud Frizon shoes.
   Carven's ties, watches, perfumes and scarves bring in
about 200 million francs ($36 million) in annual sales, half
from license fees. Unlike some aging houses, Carven still is
profitable, but the new owners hope to expand business
sharply. Carven's sales already are strong in Japan and South
Korea.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Jamaica Savings Bank:
   Concern Will Convert Itself
   To Stockholder Ownership
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   Jamaica Savings Bank, a Lynbrook, N.Y.-based mutual
savings bank, said it is converting to a stock savings bank
through a public offering of 16 million shares of common
stock.
   A mutual savings bank is privately held, basically owned
by its depositors. The new shares are being offered to
depositors, other customers and certain members of the
general public at prices in the range of $7.50 to $10 a
share. The mutual savings bank said the final price will be
set after the completion of the offering on June 21. Jamaica
Savings had deposits of $1.23 billion and retained earnings
of $197.1 million as of Dec. 31. Most of its offices are in
Queens County.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jamaica Savings said it is converting to a holding company
structure to expand into a wider range of financial services
that are limited by its current charter.
   The offering is being managed by Adams Cohen Securities
Inc., Great Neck, N.Y. The conversion is subject to approval
of depositors at a special meeting June 19.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- UAL Corp.:
   France Clears United Air
   For Chicago-Paris Flights
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP UAL
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   UAL Corp., Chicago, said the French government agreed to
allow its United Airlines unit to operate nonstop
Chicago-Paris flights, beginning Aug. 1.
   The company said the approval, coupled with an earlier
authorization from the U.S. Department of Transportation,
"clears the way for United to inaugurate service to its
second European city this summer." United began its first
flights to Europe last week, with service to Frankfurt, West
Germany. The Paris flights represent "another important step"
in the company's plan to expand its international service,
UAL said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- K mart Corp.:
   Retailer Posts 6.4% Increase
   In Fiscal 1st-Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   KM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   K mart Corp., citing an emphasis on lower shelf prices,
said net income for its first quarter ended May 2 increased
6.4% on a 16% rise in sales.
   The Troy, Mich., discount retailer said net income was
$100.1 million, or 50 cents a share, compared with the
year-earlier $94.1 million, or 47 cents a share. Sales rose
to $7.04 billion from $6.07 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings also reflect the inclusion of K mart's
recently acquired Pace Membership Warehouse stores, the
company said.
   K mart noted that net interest expense rose to $56.5
million from $33.2 million, primarily because of greater
short-term borrowing for high inventory levels, but also
partially related to the recent $322 million Pace
acquisition.
   The company said it is "encouraged by the improvement in
sales in the first quarter and in early May," and said it
anticipates "an improving trend in sales and earnings."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Procter &amp; Gamble
   Expects Strong
   Fiscal Results in '90
   ----
   By Alecia Swasy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C25
</SO>
<CO>
   PG
</CO>
<IN>
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Procter &amp; Gamble Co. said it expects fiscal
1990 results to be strong, with gains in the laundry, shampoo
and diaper categories.
   Edwin L. Artzt, chairman and chief executive officer, said
he expects that detergents will show a 15% gain in volume
sold, while shampoos and diapers will climb 12% and 10%
respectively. He wouldn't comment specifically about
earnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the fiscal year ended June 30, P&amp;G had net income of
$1.21 billion, or $7.12 a share, on sales of $21.4 billion.
   Speaking to financial analysts, Mr. Artzt said P&amp;G's
troubled food and beverage division should "substantially
improve." Specifically, he pointed out that P&amp;G has plans to
improve Crisco shortening and oil and Duncan Hines baking
mixes within a year.
   Citrus Hill orange juice remains a problem, he said,
noting that part of the trouble has been costs and marketing
missteps. "We've lost a bundle there and we don't have it
fixed yet," Mr. Artzt said. He likened the eventual
turnaround to P&amp;G's success in Japan: "We fixed that one and
we can fix this one," he said.
   The greatest uncertainty in the food division is P&amp;G's fat
substitute, olestra, which hasn't received Food and Drug
Administration approval. Mr. Artzt said P&amp;G narrowed the
scope of its petition to speed clearance. He declined to be
specific but officials noted the narrowing involves
concentrating on a couple products that would eventually
contain the substitute.
   Unlike Monsanto Co.'s Simplesse, which is made from egg
proteins, olestra is a more complicated blend that can be
used in hot and cold foods. Mr. Artzt said it will take "a
couple years" after the FDA approves the substitute until P&amp;G
factories can "start pumping it out." Simplesse recently won
FDA approval.
   "Simplesse is easy to do if you've got enough eggs," he
said.
   International expansion continues to be a priority. The
company is in discussions with joint-venture partners in
Eastern Europe and is trying to establish a Moscow office.
"We won't go rushing in," Mr. Artzt said. Two concerns he has
are finding sources of currency and the lack of an adequate
distribution system.
   In manufacturing, the executive predicted increased
capital spending to expand plant capacity around the world.
   In advertising, Mr. Artzt plans to focus more on
advertisments than promotions in the future because the
balance of spending has "gotten a little out of whack."
   One new ad campaign he showed analysts was for Hawaiian
Punch, which P&amp;G recently acquired. The campaign reintroduces
the familiar "Punchy" character.
   Analysts were generally upbeat about Mr. Artzt's remarks.
But they lamented the lack of detail in his forecasts. "P&amp;G
is philosophically bullish and financially vague," said
analyst Hugh Zurkuhlen of Salomon Brothers. "But there's an
internal confidence that wasn't there before."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Talman Home Federal S&amp;L:
   Thrift Agrees to Be Bought
   By Group for $100 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   TLMN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Talman Home Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Chicago,
said it reached a preliminary agreement to be acquired by a
private investor group for $10 a share, or $100 million, in
cash and notes.
   Under the agreement, Talman shareholders would receive $5
a share in cash, and senior subordinated notes of a newly
formed holding company, Talman Bancorp, that Talman valued at
$5 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investor group is led by Harrison I. Steans, who has
headed a number of Chicago-area bank-holding companies during
the past several years.
   The proposed sale was required by thrift-bailout
legislation passed by Congress last year that prohibited
thrifts from including non-earning assets such as "good will"
on balance sheets, said James Sherman, Talman's senior vice
president. In Talman's case, goodwill amounted to $562
million; subtracting it left Talman undercapitalized in the
view of federal regulators.
   The new owners are expected to retain Talman's current
management and to invest $300 million in Talman common stock
following the purchase.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDIC Sues 5 Officers
   Of a Defunct Thrift
   In Dallas; Losses Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Five former officers of the defunct Independent
American Savings Association were accused in a lawsuit of
approving questionable loans and other investments that
caused losses of about $50 million at the thrift.
   The lawsuit, filed Friday in Dallas federal court by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., names former Democratic
fund-raiser Thomas M. Gaubert and his brother, Jack R.
Gaubert, who were co-chairmen of Independent American.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also named in the suit are the thrift's former chief
executive officer, Tommy G. Lane of Arlington, Texas; former
president, Jerry G. Payne of Dallas; and former vice
president for finances, John W. Brophy, a Dallas accountant.
   The suit, which seeks $150 million in punitive damages in
addition to the $50 million in actual damages, accuses the
former officers of conspiring to defraud the thrift by
directing questionable loans to business associates and by
buying portions of nonperforming loans from other thrifts to
help conceal those thrifts' losses from regulators. Only two
of the loans in question were made while Thomas M. Gaubert
was co-chairman of Independent American. The two loans, which
allegedly caused losses of $2 million each, were made before
Mr. Gaubert relinquished control of the thrift in 1984 in an
agreement with federal regulators.
   The FDIC lawsuit is the latest filed in a spate of
litigation between Mr. Gaubert and federal thrift regulators.
Mr. Gaubert is suing the government in two courts for
personal losses he suffered in the government takeover of
Independent American, and he won acquittal in October 1988 on
loan-fraud charges related to an Iowa thrift. Mr. Gaubert's
attorney, Abbe David Lowell of Washington, D.C., said the
FDIC's new lawsuit is "retaliation" for his client's
lawsuits.
   "Like so many of the FDIC lawsuits, it promises in its
complaint more than it will ever produce in court," Mr.
Lowell said.
   Jack Gaubert's attorney, Robert M. Greenberg, said he
hadn't seen the suit and couldn't comment. The other
defendants couldn't be reached for comment.
   The suit was filed almost three years to the day after
federal thrift regulators placed Independent American in
receivership. The defunct thrift, which had $793.7 million in
assets, was later merged into Sunbelt Savings Association of
Dallas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL Unions
   Seeking to Hire
   Goldman, Sachs
   ---
   Effort Seen as an Attempt
   To Meet Aug. 9 Deadline
   For Buy-Out Financing
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Judith Valente
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Highlighting the slow progress of a proposed $4.38 billion
buy-out of United Airlines parent UAL Corp., a group of
unions is negotiating to hire Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. to help
obtain financing.
   The union group, which has a deadline of Aug. 9 to get the
financing, still hasn't found a new chief executive officer
to take UAL Chairman Stephen M. Wolf's place six weeks after
signing a merger agreement with the UAL board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Uncertainty over management has in turn held back efforts
to woo potential bank lenders. "Nothing can happen without a
management team," said one U.S. bank executive. Until now,
the financing effort has been led by Salomon Inc., one of the
pilots union's advisers.
   People familiar with the buy-out attempt say hiring
Goldman to work alongside Salomon is aimed at bolstering the
group's credibility among bankers who will have to decide
whether to lend roughly $4 billion in the face of regulatory
pressure on banks to avoid making loans to companies with
heavy debt.
   Wall Street analysts say the effort to obtain financing is
also complicated by the lack of a cash-equity contribution
from outside investors, the up-and-down nature of airline
profitability, and control by union leaders instead of
business executives.
   The group's contract to buy the airline will lapse if
financing isn't obtained within four months of an April 9
merger agreement with the UAL board. An earlier buy-out
effort collapsed in October because of an inability to obtain
financing.
   Hiring Goldman could also address another question that
has dogged the union group in its preliminary efforts --
namely, who is in charge? Neither the United pilots union nor
the machinists union has absolute control of the venture,
which also includes flight attendants and non-contract
employees. Some people who have dealt with the unions say
that has slowed the group's decision making.
   In addition to Salomon, the pilots union has been advised
by the mergers advisory boutique of Keilin &amp; Bloom, two
former employees of Lazard Freres &amp; Co. The machinists union
adviser is Brian Freeman.
   Some people familiar with the enterprise say they believe
Salomon, along with Keilin &amp; Bloom, suffered a loss of
credibility when the earlier buy-out collapsed. That buy-out
included the pilots, but not the machinists. Salomon "carries
baggage" from the earlier failure, said one person familiar
with the union effort.
   UAL's stock price has languished ever since the unions --
with the threat of a proxy fight by Coniston Partners, which
owns an 11.8% stake -- persuaded UAL's board to accept their
$201-a-share offer. UAL stock has fallen from $166.50 a share
on April 4 to as low as $150.375. It fell $1 a share to
$153.75 yesterday in composite New York Stock Exchange
trading.
   One recruitment difficulty the labor group has faced is
that the executive would likely have to give up a job without
being certain the unions can complete the purchase. Another
is that some executives might balk at a governance structure
giving power to union leaders, leaving the executive as a
hired hand.
   It isn't clear whether Goldman can do much to resolve
these difficulties. However, Goldman has had a higher profile
in the merger-advisory business in recent years than Salomon.
And it has ties to Japanese banks via an investment in
Goldman held by Sumitomo Bank &amp; Trust Co.
   An official of a major Japanese bank that considered
participating in the earlier buy-out effort said the bank is
"not at all excited" by the unions' current bid. He added
that bank executives who recommended participating in the
earlier labor-management bid lost face with their supervisors
when that bid collapsed and wreaked havoc on the financial
markets.
   Japanese banks, in general, "have doubts about the ability
of labor to run a company," the same official added. The
Japanese might look more favorably on the transaction, he
said, if it contained more equity and if the unions had a
management team in place.
   The union bid does include "sweat equity" in the form of
contract concessions said to be worth $2 billion over five
years. The unions have hired an executive search firm to help
find a successor to Mr. Wolf as chief executive.
   A number of names have surfaced as possible candidates,
including USAir Group Inc. Vice Chairman Randall Mailin and
Donald Carty, chief financial officer of AMR Corp, parent of
American Airlines. However, union representatives deny either
executive is in the running. Earlier talks with Richard
Ravitch, former chairman of the New York Metropolitan
Transportation Authority, broke down.
   A union spokesman issued a statement late yesterday
confirming that the labor group is talking with Goldman about
working with Salomon. "Those discussions are continuing. No
agreement has been reached," the statement said. A Goldman
spokesman declined comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph:
   Some Charges Are Reduced
   For Enhanced Fax Service
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., New York, said it cut
some charges for its enhanced facsimile service originating
from the U.S., effective immediately.
   The telecommunications company said it reduced the prices
largely in response to customers' requests to receive an
incentive for using the facsimile message service. The cuts
applying to the multiple-copy service increase in proportion
to the number of recipients. AT&amp;T also is giving a discount
on overall monthly use of the enhanced fax service, and
cutting prices 20% for faxes sent to Britain and Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T said there are four elements to the price cuts. For
the multiple service, the per-page charge drops in the U.S.
by as much as 33%, depending on the number of recipients. The
discounts apply if there are five or more recipients.
   AT&amp;T also is increasing by 50% the amount of information
that can be sent on its standard fax page, and will give a
quantity discount, based on total dollars of fax service a
month, of as much as 10%, in addition to the per-page
discount.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Clinical Lab Tests Targeted
   For More Federal Scrutiny
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a move designed to boost public
confidence in medical tests, the Department of Health and
Human Services proposed new rules to certify the quality of
the nation's clinical laboratories.
   But the American Medical Association immediately
complained that the proposed rules represent a new layer of
complex and unnecessary regulation that will drive up the
cost of medical care.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 63-page proposal published in the Federal Register
yesterday requires that most labs, including those in
doctors' offices, be federally certified. The proposal puts
labs into three categories, depending on the complexity of
the testing involved and the danger of the disease being
screened.
   "Complex and high-risk tests, such as Pap smears, or
simpler tests with some risk, such as cholesterol screening,
will be subject to federal quality and proficiency
standards," explained Gail Wilensky, administrator of the
Health Care Financing Administration, the HHS unit that
oversees Medicare and Medicaid. "Simple, low-risk tests will
be on a waiver list, and labs performing only these tests
will be exempt from regulation." These simple tests include
urine pregnancy tests and certain screening for sickle-cell
anemia and infectious mononucleosis.
   Dr. James Todd, the AMA's acting executive vice president,
said the new rules are "just going to drive up costs
unbelievably." He predicted that many doctors will abandon
providing lab services to their patients, a move that could
reduce services, particularly in rural areas.
   The rules were required by the Clinical Laboratory
Improvement Amendments of 1988, which Congress passed after
disclosures in The Wall Street Journal of frequent
inaccuracies in the results of Pap smears taken to check for
cervical cancer, which kills 6,000 women a year.
   When adopted, the new rules will cover more than 300,000
labs, a huge expansion of current federal regulations that
cover some 12,000 labs. All labs that aren't waived from
regulation will be inspected every two years by the HCFA.
Labs that fail to comply with federal standards for quality
control, personnel qualifications and proficiency testing
could lose their certificates and face civil penalties.
   Under the law, only labs that are certified or waived from
certification will be able to receive payments from Medicare
and Medicaid, the federal health programs for the elderly and
the poor that pay about 40% of the nation's clinical lab
costs.
   Dr. Todd complained that the proposals interpret the law
too rigidly. "The waiver process is complicated, and the
number of tests that can be waivered is relatively small," he
said. "They could have applied the law much more
conservatively than they have."
   The public has until Aug. 20 to comment on the proposals.
Mrs. Wilensky said the list of 28 tests subject to waiver was
compiled "after careful consultation with the Public Health
Service and a host of outside experts. Nonetheless, we are
eager to receive additional comments."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan:
   California Thrift Says U.S.
   Is Rescinding Certain Curbs
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VFED
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Valley Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, Van Nuys,
Calif., said federal thrift regulators agreed to rescind
certain operating restrictions as part of implementing the
troubled thrift's plan to restore its capital health.
   In January, the federal Office of Thrift Supervision
ordered Valley to halt all lending activities, among other
sanctions, because it failed to meet federal minimum capital
standards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Valley said a plan approved by the OTS on May 1, and
formally adopted recently by the Valley board, allows for
"limited" new lending. The January OTS order also banned
Valley from paying stock dividends and executive bonuses as
well as transacting business with affiliates without federal
clearance, restrictions which have also been lifted. The
order also required Valley to quit accepting uninsured
deposits, and the thrift said it continues to plan to reduce
them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greyhound Lines
   Hopes to Redeem
   Portion of Debt
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR X.GRE
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- In another effort to stave off a bankruptcy
filing, strikebound Greyhound Lines Inc. offered to redeem
about $225 million in face amount of debt for about $101.6
million in cash. But how the cash-strapped unit of GLI
Holding Co. will finance the offer remains uncertain.
   J. Michael Doyle, Greyhound senior vice president and
chief financial officer, said Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co., its
financial adviser in connection with the offering, has held
preliminary discussions with several parties but no source of
funding has been found. "The financing is not clear," said
Mr. Doyle. "With our company in our situation, it's pretty
tough."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The debt-burdened bus company has been battered by an
11-week-old strike by 9,400 employees represented by the
Amalgamated Transit Union. For the first quarter of this
year, Greyhound posted a $55.8 million loss on revenue of
$172.5 million. For the same period a year ago, Greyhound
lost $14.4 million on revenue of $223.5 million.
   Although the company has continued to operate with a
replacement work force, Mr. Doyle estimated that the strike
will ultimately cost Greyhound between $75 million and $100
million in lost revenue and additional costs for security,
legal fees and new driver training.
   If Greyhound can find funding for the tender offer, it
plans to offer $540 in cash for each $1,000 face value of its
13% senior notes due in 1995 and $275 in cash for each $1,000
face value for up to 85% of its 12.5% senior subordinated
notes due 1997. The company is seeking to redeem up to 85% of
each issue.
   The company said the offer is contingent upon a majority
of the face amount outstanding of each of the two debt issues
being tendered and upon the holders of a majority of the
outstanding notes consenting to the elimination of many of
the covenants of the old debt. Greyhound said the offer is
also contingent upon the company being able to raise an
undisclosed amount of money to "satisfy its immediate working
capital needs."
   Greyhound has already missed a $9.8 million interest
payment, due May 15, on the 13% notes.
   With those notes trading at deeply discounted levels in
recent weeks, bond analysts said the offer might be
attractive to holders who bought the notes at distressed
levels. Those who purchased the notes at par value, however,
may have a harder time accepting the tender offer.
   "They have to make the decision as to whether this is the
best they are going to get," said Ken Frankel, an analyst
with Drake Securities.
   "It's a very disappointing situation all around," said a
longtime institutional holder of the Greyhound bonds. "My
only regret is that I didn't sell out in December."
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   GREYHOUND LINES INC., a unit of Dallas-based GLI Holding
Co., offered to redeem about $191 million in face amount of
debt for about $86 million in cash. The figures were
incorrectly stated in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ May 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Junk Bond Rally Continues With Many Issues
   Posting Increases of Between 1/4 and 3/4 Point
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C23
</SO>
<CO>
   KR OI X.DEC RJR EUROP JAPAN UIS FRE FNM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors continued to bid up junk bond prices
yesterday, extending the high-yield rally into its third
week.
   Peter Karches, head of the high-yield department at Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co., said yesterday "was one of the more active
Mondays we've seen."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Most junk bonds ended between 1/4 and 3/4 point higher, or
up as much as $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
Earlier in the day, junk bond prices had been as much as 1
1/2 points higher, but some late profit-taking clipped the
advance.
   Junk bonds are high-yielding corporate bonds that have low
credit ratings or no credit ratings. Among the biggest
gainers yesterday were Kroger Co.'s 12 7/8% senior
subordinated debentures due in 1999, which climbed 1/2 point
to end at 103 1/2; Owens-Illinois Inc.'s 12 1/4% senior
subordinated notes due in 1996, which jumped 3/4 point to end
at 91 1/2; and Duracell Holdings Corp.'s zero-coupon bonds,
which rose one point to close at 64.
   RJR Nabisco Inc.'s pay-in-kind bonds, which pay interest
in the form of more securities instead of cash, were also
strong advancers. The food and tobacco giant's 14.07%
convertible pay-in-kind debentures due in 2009 climbed 1 3/8
point to 85 1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange, while the
14.07% exchangeable pay-in-kind debentures added 7/8 to close
at 71 7/8.
   Analysts attribute the junk bond market's firmer tone to
forecasts of stronger corporate profits in the second half of
the year, a sharp decline in new-issue volume and a stronger
stock market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 24.77
points to a new high of 2844.68.
   But despite a steady upward climb that has lasted for more
than two weeks, most analysts aren't ready to pronounce a
junk bond market rebound.
   "It's a little premature to say that we're at the
beginning of a lasting rally in the high-yield market," said
John Lonski, a senior economist at Moody's Investors Service
Inc. But he added, "on the basis of recent price performance,
the upturn cannot be denied, and at least you have to state
that the market appears to have stabilized." Mr. Lonski said
Moody's index of 200 high-yield bonds has posted an
impressive gain of about 1.8% so far this month. That's a big
change from February, when the index posted a negative total
return of 3.5%.
   Traders and investors note that prices of many issues were
quoted higher yesterday, but little trading actually took
place because of a scarcity of supply.
   "A few months ago, everyone wanted to sell but there were
not enough buyers. Now everyone wants to buy but there are
not enough sellers," said Kevin Mathews, a portfolio manager
at Van Kampen Merritt. He said bonds bid for yesterday will
eventually be acquired, but possibly at higher prices. "The
bidding may start on a bond at 95 and the trade may happen
later at 98 or 99. That happens many times."
   Yesterday's junk bond gains were impressive considering
that the broader bond market, which is led by the
trillion-dollar U.S. Treasury sector, was unchanged to just
modestly higher. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended
1/8 point higher, a gain of $1.25 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield eased slightly to 8.68% from
8.69%.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/8 point
higher. The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at a price
of 100 20/32, up from 100 16/32 on Friday. Ten-year notes
ended unchanged at a price of 100 27/32 to yield 8.73%.
   The market was quiet with many traders and analysts
looking ahead to the government's auction of new two-year
notes tomorrow and five-year, two-month notes on Thursday.
   In when-issued trading activity, the two-year notes were
quoted at a yield of 8.61%. The five-year, two-month notes
were quoted at a yield of 8.68%.
   The government sold $8.40 billion of three-month Treasury
bills yesterday at an average discount rate of 7.74% and
$8.43 billion of six-month bills at an average discount rate
of 7.79%. The rates were up from last week's auction, when
they were 7.67% and 7.68%, respectively.
   Here are auction details:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                              13-Week         26-Week

 Applications .......... $29,652,875,000   $26,159,170,000
 Accepted bids ......... $ 8,401,670,000   $ 8,425,335,000
 Accepted at low price               12%               46%
 Accepted noncompet'ly   $ 1,404,200,000   $ 1,125,740,000
 Average price (Rate)      98.044(7.74%)    96.040 (7.79%)
 High price (Rate) ...... 98.046 (7.73%)    96.055 (7.76%)
 Low price (Rate) ....... 98.041 (7.75%)    96.040 (7.79%)
 Coupon equivalent ......          8.00%             8.22%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated May 24. The 13-week bills mature
Aug. 23, and the 26-week bills mature Nov. 23.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   British government bonds, called gilts, resumed their
upward climb with some issues rising as much as 5/8 point.
   Sentiment in the gilt market has been bolstered in recent
sessions largely by expectations that Britain will enter the
European Monetary System's exchange rate mechanism in the
near future.
   Britain's 11 3/4% Treasury bond due 2003/2007 rose 18/32
to 101 5/32 to yield 11.56%, while the 12% note due 1995 was
up 19/32 to 99 14/32 to yield 12.14%.
   The Japanese government bond market ended weaker as the
value of the yen fell against the dollar. Traders said there
also was some selling as market participants made room for
the new 10-year Japanese government bonds expected to be
auctioned Tuesday.
   West German government bonds also ended lower as investors
continued to shy away from the market. The benchmark 10-year
notes fell 1/4 point to par.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals
                                                                                                       

   After retracing slim declines seen earlier in the session,
tax-exempt issues were narrowly mixed, with some issues
trading 1/8 to 1/4 point higher in late dealings.
   While tax-exempt issues have continued to move within
narrow ranges as expected, traders attribute some of the
small gains posted during the session to the April U.S.
budget statement, which was slightly stronger than expected.
   A record $42.52 billion surplus was seen in April.
Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report had
forecast a $38.6 billion surplus. Surpluses are generally
expected in April, when income tax returns are filed.
   In new-issue activity, a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. group priced
an issue of $55 million of Alabama Housing Finance
Authority's single-family mortgage revenue bonds.
   This week, more than $1.4 billion in new debt is expected
to be priced.
   In one of the largest deals, expected to generate a fair
amount of interest, a Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. group may price
$215 million of Battery Park City Authority revenue bonds
tomorrow.
   Proceeds from the bond sale, as much as $150 million,
would be turned over to New York City in a one-time transfer
of funds, said Chester Straub, corporate secretary for the
authority.
   Earlier this year, city officials had requested state
approval to receive the funds to help the city stave off
anticipated budget deficits.
   Among actively traded bonds, New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was up 1/8 point at 97 1/2
bid to yield 7.39%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   Investment-grade corporate bonds ended unchanged to
slightly higher.
   Among new issues, Unisys Corp. offered $300 million of
so-called credit sensitive notes priced to yield 10.30%.
   The notes offer a type of bondholder protection that
promises an increased coupon rate if the company's credit
rating is downgraded by one full ratings category. If the
company's credit rating is upgraded, the coupon rate is
lowered.
   According to underwriters at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., the
issue sold well.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities ended narrowly mixed after quiet
dealings.
   Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for
June delivery finished at 95 7/32, unchanged; 9 1/2%
securities were at 97 23/32, up 1/32; 10% securities were at
100 6/32, down 1/32; and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9
1/2% securities were at 97 9/32, up 2/32.
   In the mortgage derivative market, the Federal National
Mortgage Association issued a $300 million real estate
mortgage investment conduit backed by its 9 1/2% securities
through Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and a $200 million Remic
backed by principal-only strips outstanding through BT
Securities, the securities unit of Bankers Trust New York
Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Members Service Corp.:
   Chapter 11 Status Sought;
   Demand by IRS Is Blamed
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   MSCX
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Members Service Corp. said it filed for Chapter 11
protection from its creditors after the Internal Revenue
Service demanded full payment of more than $258,000 in
delinquent taxes.
   The company, which has holdings in telecommunications,
energy and financial services, said the filing was an effort
to "protect shareholders and employees and save the company."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Members Service said the funds sought by the agency
resulted from failure by the company to pay certain trust
fund taxes and may or may not include penalties and
interests. Leon Hooten, chairman and chief executive officer,
said the company agreed to pay the IRS $20,000 a month, but
the IRS accelerated payment. He said the company hadn't
missed any payments and was current with the debt.
   A spokesman for the IRS said the agency is prohibited by
law from disclosing taxpayer information to third parties,
without written consent of the taxpayer.
   In the court filing, Members Service listed assets of
almost $10 million, and combined secured and unsecured debt
at about $1 million. The IRS is listed as the company's
largest creditor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American General
   Defeats Board Slate
   Pushed by Torchmark
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AGC TMK WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- American General Corp. said it "decisively"
defeated an alternative slate of directors proposed by
Torchmark Corp. at its annual meeting, but beat back a
nonbinding resolution seeking its sale by just a 56% to 42%
margin.
   Although the victory was hollow -- since the big insurance
and financial-services concern had already decided to put
itself up for sale anyway -- an American General spokesman
said the final tally "indicates our decision was totally
irrespective of the vote."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some analysts have speculated that the company decided to
place itself on the auction block mostly because of a poor
showing in the May 2 proxy contest. But American General has
maintained that it decided to open itself to bidders to avoid
being forced into a sale to Torchmark at a depressed price.
As reported, Torchmark, a Birmingham, Ala., insurer, offered
$50 a share, or $6.3 billion, for American General, before
launching its proxy fight.
   American General said preliminary results indicate
shareholders voted 2-to-1 to approve the company's nominees.
The slate includes three new outside directors -- Brady F.
Carruth, president and chief executive of Gulf Coast Capital
Corp.; Richard J.V. Johnson, chairman and chief executive of
the Houston Chronicle Publishing Co.; and Robert E.
Smittcamp, president and chief executive of Lyons-Magnus Co.
-- and three American General officers, including Harold S.
Hook, chairman and chief executive; Michael J. Poulous,
president; and Henry S. Romaine, vice chairman.
   In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, American General closed at $49.125, unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- International Business Machines:
   Price Cuts Said Imminent
   In Personal Computer Line
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. will soon cut prices
on a wide range of its personal computer products, including
its popular Model 55SX, industry executives said. The Armonk,
N.Y.-based company also will unveil a personal computer
without a disk drive to its lineup, though not until autumn,
they said.
   IBM declined to comment on the price cuts, first reported
in PC Week, an industry weekly, as was the diskless computer.
But the executives said the cuts, which they didn't quantify,
will apply to most of IBM's PC lineup, except for products
unveiled recently: four versions of the high-end Model 80; an
entry-level version of the portable Model P70; two versions
of the Model 65SX; the education-oriented Model 25 286; and
several new peripherals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Regarding the diskless computer for use as part of a
computer network, an IBM spokeswoman noted that James
Cannavino, the executive who heads the personal systems
business, said last fall that IBM will produce such a machine
before the end of 1990. But she wouldn't specify a timetable
for the product.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ross Stores Inc.:
   Quarterly Profit Drops 53%;
   Inventory Woes Are Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROST
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ross Stores Inc., citing inventory and marketing problems,
said first-quarter profit declined 53%.
   For the 13 weeks ended May 5, the Newark, Calif.,
off-price apparel retailer reported net income of $1.6
million, or seven cents a share, compared with $3.4 million,
or 14 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 9% to $171
million from $155 million, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ross, which said it was "disappointed" by the results,
cited imbalances in the apparel mix in its stores prompted by
a late fourth-quarter attempt to control inventory by cutting
back receipts of early spring and basic merchandise. It added
that its marketing efforts didn't meet expectations, either.
   "The merchandise mix in our stores has returned to normal
seasonal proportions, and we are currently implementing
programs to strengthen our marketing," the company said.
   Ross had 161 stores at May 5, compared with 143 a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CLEANER GASOLINE would be required in the nine smoggiest
areas under a compromise reached by key House lawmakers, who
rejected a major lobbying effort by the oil industry. The
provisions are similar to those in the Senate's clean-air
bill. House leaders hope to gain approval for their clean-air
measure this week.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stocks resumed climbing on expectations of moderate
interest rates and inflation. The Dow Jones industrials rose
24.77, to a record 2844.68. Treasury bonds edged up, while
junk bonds rallied. The dollar was mixed.
                                                                                                       

   Technology shares have surged in recent weeks amid
better-than-expected quarterly earnings reports.
   ---
   United Air's unions are seeking Goldman Sachs's help to
obtain financing for their proposed $4.38 billion buy-out of
parent UAL. The unions also haven't found anyone to succeed
UAL Chairman Wolf.
   ---
   The United Auto Workers union plans to seek Japanese-style
job guarantees in contract talks with the Big Three U.S. car
makers this summer. The union also said it will push to give
auto workers more say in product design and factory
operations.
   ---
   The U.S. had a record budget surplus for April because of
a surge in individual income-tax receipts. But the $42.52
billion surplus won't be enough to bring the fiscal 1990
deficit down to the Gramm-Rudman target.
   ---
   Raytheon received a $414 million contract from the Army,
primarily to prevent layoffs at the company's missile-making
operations.
   ---
   One of GM's biggest holders plans to vote for higher
executive pensions but will oppose the re-election of
Chairman Roger Smith to the board.
   ---
   Japan is becoming less defensive about its huge trade
surpluses. Amid fears of a global credit crunch, Tokyo
officials say their reservoir of cash could help the world
economy.
   ---
   Nova Corp. of Alberta agreed to sell its rubber operations
to Bayer of West Germany for $1.06 billion. The purchase
price is at the high end of expectations, but some analysts
said the sale isn't a good move by Nova.
   ---
   The World Bank is considering two loans to China, which
could endanger U.S. congressional support for the Third World
lending institution.
   ---
   Short interest rose to records on the New York and
American stock exchanges for the month ended May 15. Borrowed
shares gained 4.9% on the Big Board and 2% on the Amex.
   ---
   Kidder Peabody resumed index arbitrage for its own account
after a voluntary six-month pullback. The move by Kidder,
once the biggest program traders on Wall Street, is the
latest sign that the furor over computer-driven trading is
waning.
   ---
   Gannett adopted special anti-takeover measures amid
speculation the media giant may become a target because of
the Gannett Foundation's decision to sell its 10% stake.
   ---
   Bank of Boston has disbanded a division that specialized
in leveraged buy-outs, reflecting a growing wariness toward
such loans. But the bank still plans to finance buy-outs.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 166,280,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2844.68, up 24.77; transportation 1180.83, up 3.55; utilities
214.22, off 0.57.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3331.14, up
6.57.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.09, off 0.24;
spot index 135.65, off 0.16.
   Dollar: 153.72 yen, up 0.72; 1.6626 marks, up 0.0149.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sundstrand Reaches
   Accord With SEC
   On Previous Review
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SNS
</CO>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   ROCKFORD, Ill. -- Sundstrand Corp. said it reached a
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a
previously disclosed review by the agency.
   Sundstrand said the SEC yesterday filed a complaint in
federal district court here, charging that the company's
financial reports for the 1980 through 1986 "failed to
include proper disclosure of the events that formed the basis
of previously resolved criminal actions against the company,
and that Sundstrand's financial accounting systems were
deficient during that period."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988, Sundstrand pleaded guilty to four counts of fraud
against the defense department and agreed to pay $115 million
in fines.
   While "neither admitting nor denying the SEC's charges,"
Sundstrand said it consented to the entry of a permanent
injunction that blocks it from violating securities law in
the future.
   Sundstrand said it also agreed to have a special committee
of independent directors "consider whether the matters in
connection with which Sundstrand pled guilty to criminal
charges had resulted in any violations of the federal
securities laws beyond those alleged in the SEC's complaint."
   The settlement, which remains subject to approval by the
court, concludes the SEC's investigation of Sundstrand, the
company said.
   Sundstrand said it settled with the SEC "in order to avoid
protracted and costly litigation over practices long since
discontinued," and added that the settlement will have "no
financial impact" on the firm.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- BSN S.A.:
   French Firm Plans to Sell
   Its Cookie Business in U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A17
</SO>
<CO>
   F.BSN
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   French food group BSN S.A. announced that it has put its
U.S. cookie units up for sale as part of its strategy of
focusing on high-growth markets in eastern Europe and Asia.
   The company said its Mother's and Salerno subsidiaries,
with combined annual revenue of about $200 million, claim
only 5.7% of the U.S. cookie market, and further expansion in
the largely saturated sector would have been too costly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BSN said "new perspectives are opening in the countries of
Eastern Europe and in regions of strong demographic growth
such as India and Asia . . . In order to take advantage of
this rapid expansion, BSN has decided to sell its U.S.
business."
   The French food group retains U.S. units in other product
categories, including yogurt maker Dannon Co. and Lea &amp;
Perrins, a producer of condiments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   ANTI-ISRAELI UNREST SWEPT the Mideast in protests over
workers' slayings.
   Israeli soldiers killed three Palestinians and wounded as
many as 95 others in clashes sparked by Sunday's massacre of
seven Arab laborers by an Israeli civilian near Tel Aviv.
Despite curfews imposed by the army, stone-throwing rioters
defied the troops in the occupied Gaza Strip and in Israel
itself. Hundreds of people were reported injured, including
10 tourists aboard a bus in Jordan who were attacked by a
Palestinian gunman. The violence was considered the fiercest
since the early days of the anti-Israeli uprising two years
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. said that it was disturbed by the violence in
Israel, and that the lack of a peace process in the Mideast
increases the likelihood of unrest.
   ---
   India's security forces opened fire on a crowd of about
100,000 Moslems bearing the body of a slain religious leader
in the disputed Kashmir region. At least 41 people were
killed and more than 200 injured, witnesses said. Government
officials blamed "unidentified militants" for the violence.
   ---
   A strike by pro-Moscow forces failed to win widespread
support in Estonia as many workers ignored a call to walk off
their jobs to protest the Baltic republic's secession drive.
In Lithuania, lawmakers drafted a new offer aimed at breaking
Vilnius's deadlock with Moscow over the republic's March 11
proclamation of independence.
                                                                                                       

   The Kremlin plans to double food prices as part of
economic-restructuring measures that are scheduled to begin
next year. A preliminary draft of the economic program,
obtained by the Associated Press, calls for a five-year
transition to a market economy.
   ---
   Foreign observers in Romania differed over whether
Sunday's first multiparty elections in 53 years were free of
fraud. Partial results showed interim President Iliescu
headed for a landslide victory, with his National Salvation
Front winning in parliamentary balloting. But some
irregularities were cited by a 60-member monitoring group.
   ---
   Prosecutors in Miami told a federal court judge that the
government agreed to pay for Noriega's defense against drug
charges. Separately, the U.S. attorneys acknowledged that the
deposed Panamanian leader received payments from U.S.
intelligence agencies, but disputed a defense figure of $11
million.
   ---
   Bush pledged to continue pushing for an accord with the
Soviet Union on a treaty to cut troops in Europe. The issue
wasn't resolved during Secretary of State Baker's
arms-control talks last week in Moscow. Gorbachev, meanwhile,
is sending arms experts to Washington this week to resume
pre-summit talks on long-range weapons.
   ---
   The Supreme Court let stand a federal court order issued
in 1989 that permanently bars the anti-abortion group
Operation Rescue from blocking access at abortion clinics in
New York City. The justices allowed a similar ban in Atlanta
last week, and there are such orders against the group in a
number of cities.
   ---
   A bipartisan congressional group found that 14 of El
Salvador's 15 top military officers, including the defense
minister, have commanded military units that committed
human-rights abuses. The report was released as the House
prepared to vote today on a plan to withhold 50% of U.S.
military aid to El Salvador.
   ---
   About 80 AIDS activists were arrested at the National
Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., during a protest
calling for more government research into the disease. The
demonstration came amid a host of fiscal and political
problems at the medical organization.
   ---
   HHS proposed rules to regulate the quality and accuracy of
medical tests performed in the nation's clinical
laboratories. The proposal, prompted by frequent inaccuracies
in Pap-smear results, requires that most labs, including
those in doctors' offices, be federally certified.
   ---
   West German Social Democrats urged changes in a newly
signed economic treaty with East Germany, a move that could
delay the merger of the two German economic systems by July
2. The main opposition party demanded negotiations with
Chancellor Kohl on modifications to the pact.
   ---
   Black youths in South Africa erected barricades in Thabong
township following a clash between protesters and police that
left at least seven blacks dead and about 40 injured. The
unrest came as Pretoria and the African National Congress
began studying plans for releasing political prisoners.
   ---
   North and South Yemen ratified a merger plan, and a formal
declaration of a single Yemeni state was set for today. The
combination of the pro-Western North with the socialist South
would create the most populous nation in the Arabian
peninsula.
   ---
   Gunmen in Colombia killed a senator who was closely allied
to presidential front-runner Cesar Gaviria. The Bogota
government blamed cocaine traffickers for the slaying in the
city of Medellin, saying the shooting was part of a wave of
violence that has flared before Sunday's nationwide
elections.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Baxter to Sell an IV Device
   That Uses Fewer Needles
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BAX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Baxter International Inc. said it will
market nationally a new medical intravenous-therapy device
designed to sharply reduce the number of needles used in
hospitals.
   The equipment is aimed at reducing accidental needle-stick
injuries that can transmit infectious diseases, such as
acquired immune deficiency syndrome and hepatitis, to
hospital workers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The device, called the InterLink IV Access System, is
currently being used by more than 30 hospitals and evaluated
by about 200 more, Baxter said. It includes a small, blunt
plastic tube, called a cannula, that forces medication
through a companion injection cap.
   The cannula replaces the traditional steel needle in
withdrawing drugs from vials or in administering medication
into an intravenous-administration set. While the cannula
can't be used to inject medication directly through the skin,
it replaces most of the needles used in IV therapy.
   The system "is a very interesting device. It is the first
IV-connecting device that eliminates a needle" and could be
used to replace needles in "a very high proportion" of cases,
said Janine Jagger, an assistant professor of neurosurgery at
the University of Virginia Medical School and an expert in
the problem of needle-stick injuries. "It's a very large step
forward" in increasing the safety of hospital workers, she
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Tribune Plans to Launch
   Chicagoland Cable Station
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Tribune Co., already the operator of the top
prime-time independent television channel in the nation, said
it will launch an 18-hour-a-day cable channel dubbed
Chicagoland on Jan. 1, 1991.
   The company said the news, sports and information channel
would draw on the resources of its locally top-billing
WGN-TV, its nationally top-billing WGN radio and its
Chicago-area leading newspaper, the Chicago Tribune.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Robert J. Gremillion, 35 years old, was named
vice-president and general manager of Chicagoland. Mr.
Gremillion, currently station manager of Tribune's New
Orleans independent WGNO-TV, said Tribune had committed
"several million dollars in capital and operating expenses"
to the project.
   Tribune has been pressing expansion into Chicago's growing
suburban market to offset the softening market for
metropolitan daily newspapers. The Chicago Tribune launched a
separate edition for a fast-growing suburban county last year
and Chicagoland will provide "extensive coverage of
surrounding suburban counties," according to James C. Dowdle,
president and chief executive officer of Tribune Broadcasting
Co.
   Chicagoland, a term coined and popularized by Tribune's
late chairman and publisher Col. Robert R. McCormick, will
also carry live telecasts of Tribune's baseball franchise,
the Chicago Cubs. Currently, WGN is barred from broadcasting
many games because of agreements with ESPN and CBS.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Researchers Say Bacteria
   May Cause Parkinson's
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAVIS, Calif. -- Researchers at the University of
California School of Medicine here said a bacteria commonly
found in the soil may be one of the causes of Parkinson's
disease.
   The researchers, using tests on mice and rats, said a
pathogenic strain of Nocardia asteroids, a common soil
organism, caused neurological signs that "appear to be
identical" to those shown by people with Parkinson's.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Parkinson's disease afflicts about a million Americans,
primarily those over age 55, and is characterized by limb
rigidity and head shaking. The research was reported last
week at the annual American Society for Microbiology meeting
in Anaheim, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BTR PLC:
   Firm Sets Purchase of Unit
   Of United Technologies
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BTR UTX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   BTR PLC, one of Britain's biggest industrial
conglomerates, said its Schlegal Corp. subsidiary will buy
Global Automotive Sealing Systems Group from United
Technologies Corp. for $200 million.
   The purchase follows BTR's defeat last month in its quest
for Norton Co., a Worcester, Mass.-based chemicals and
abrasives maker that decided to be acquired by French
glassmaker Cie. de Saint-Gobain S.A. in a friendly
transaction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Hartford, Conn., United Technologies said proceeds of
the sale will be used to reduce debt. The automotive sealing
systems business develops, manufactures and markets auto body
sealing products. It employs 4,100 people world-wide and had
sales of about $275 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Moog Inc.:
   Company Plans Buy-Back
   Of Up to 300,000 Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   MOGA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moog Inc. said its board authorized the buy-back of as
many as 200,000 shares of its Class A common and 100,000
shares of Class B common.
   The East Aurora, N.Y., maker of control parts and systems
said the purchased shares will be used in connection with
various employee benefit plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moog has 6.3 million shares of Class A common and 1.7
million shares of Class B outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Carolco Pictures Inc.:
   French Firm Takes Stake
   Of 5% Via Production Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   F.CLP CRC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Carolco Pictures Inc. said Canal Plus Productions, a
wholly owned unit of Canal Plus S.A., a French pay-television
concern, has taken a 5% stake in the Los Angeles-based
entertainment concern as part of a production agreement
between the two companies.
   Carolco said the Canal Plus unit will buy $30 million in
new Carolco Series B convertible preferred shares. The
preferred stock will be convertible into Carolco common at
$18.50 a share and will pay a yearly dividend of 5%. Canal
Plus also will receive a warrant to purchase 150,000 Carolco
shares at $18.50, Carolco said. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday, Carolco common shares closed at
$13, up 25 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies also announced their intention to form a new
joint venture to produce films. Canal Plus will appoint a
representative to join Carolco's board. The agreement follows
recent announcements by Canal Plus executives that the
company wants to broaden its fledgling film-production
business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Viag AG:
   West German Firm's Net
   For 1st Quarter Rose 14%
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.VIA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Viag AG, a West German energy and commodity concern, said
its first-quarter group net income climbed 14% to 74 million
marks ($44.9 million) from 65 million marks a year earlier,
as acquisitions offset lower earnings from Viag's core
aluminum and chemicals lines.
   Most of the increase stemmed from the first-time
consolidation of Kloeckner &amp; Co., a trading concern, and
Didier-Werke AG, a maker of industrial ceramics and
fire-resistant materials. Chemical and aluminum earnings fell
from an unusually high year-earlier level, mostly reflecting
the dollar's lower value and falling aluminum prices.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales jumped 68% to 4.48 billion marks from 2.67 billion
marks, but excluding the acquisitions, sales would have
fallen 5%.
   Full-year sales will nearly double to about 20 billion
marks from 10.43 billion marks in 1989, Chairman Werner Lamby
said. He didn't make a profit forecast.
   Viag revised its 1989 group profit to 265 million marks
from an initially reported 250 million marks; this represents
a 21% increase from 219 million marks in 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Journal Reporter Wins
   A John Hancock Award
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Johnnie L. Roberts, a reporter in The Wall
Street Journal's New York bureau, won a John Hancock Award
for Excellence in Business and Financial Journalism.
   Mr. Roberts was honored in the financial-business
newspapers and magazines category for two articles examining
how Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. collects and disseminates
information on the credit-worthiness of U.S. companies. The
awards, sponsored by John Hancock Financial Services, include
a $5,000 cash prize.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   L. Gordon Crovitz, assistant editor of The Wall Street
Journal's editorial page, was awarded a 1990 Gerald Loeb
award for editorials on alleged prosecutorial abuses of the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law. The
editorials recently also won a first place award for
commentary from the New York State Bar Association.
   The Loeb awards, which cite distinguished contributions to
public understanding of business and financial issues,
include a $1,000 cash prize. They were established in 1957 by
the late Gerald Loeb, a vice president of E.F. Hutton &amp; Co.,
and are administered by the John E. Anderson Graduate School
of Management at the University of California at Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Co op AG:
   Three Companies Mull Bid
   For Majority Stake in Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   G.COP Z.MET U.LRH G.ASK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Metro International AG, a Swiss-German retailing group,
said it is considering making a joint bid with two partners
for a majority stake in Co op AG -- a Frankfurt/Main, West
Germany-based food retailer.
   Metro's partners are Lonrho PLC, a London-based industrial
and trading conglomerate, and Asko Deutsche Kaufhaus AG, a
Saarbrucken, West Germany-based retailing concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Metro didn't disclose any details on the offer for Co op.
The three companies received financial information on Co op
last Thursday and now have to study the data before making
any further decision, Metro said.
   Metro's announcement essentially confirmed reports by
industry sources over the weekend that Metro and Lonrho are
preparing a joint offer for Co op.
   According to industry sources, Metro, Lonrho and Asko are
willing to pay 400 million marks ($147.4 million) for Co op,
including its debt of more than 500 million marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Belo Venture Starts Ads
   On Newspaper Readership
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BLC
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A.H. Belo Corp. said its Universal Belo
Productions joint venture has begun an advertising campaign
intended to help newspapers improve readership.
   The joint venture, created by the newspaper and television
concern and Universal Press Syndicate, will use characters
from Universal features like "Cathy," "Ziggy," "The Far Side"
and Dear Abby promoting newspapers through print, radio,
billboard and television ads.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Universal Belo spokesman said that newspapers will pay
between $3,000 and $100,000 to use the campaign, depending on
their circulation and the package of advertisements they buy.
   The joint venture between Belo and Universal, which also
is supposed to develop television features using the
Universal characters, led Universal to pull 26 popular
features, including Dear Abby, "Doonesbury" and "The Far
Side," from the Dallas Times Herald. The Times Herald,
Dallas's No. 2 newspaper, responded by suing Belo and its
Dallas Morning News for $33 million in state court, charging
contract interference and unfair competition.
   A jury, however, last week sided with Belo and the Dallas
Morning News, the market leader, concluding that they weren't
guilty of unfair competition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Is Postponing
   Closing St. Louis Plant
   To Fill Early Orders
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. is delaying for
seven weeks the planned closing of its St. Louis I assembly
plant to fill early orders for 1991 models.
   The St. Louis plant builds Chrysler's Dodge Daytona sports
car and Chrysler LeBaron coupe and convertible. It will be
the third plant Chrysler has closed in two years as the No. 3
U.S. auto maker attempts to bring its production capacity in
line with declining sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler permanently closed its Kenosha, Wis., plant at
the end of 1988. Earlier this year, Chrysler closed its aging
Jefferson Avenue assembly plant in Detroit, because of slow
sales of the Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon cars built
there. Chrysler is constructing a new plant, slated to begin
production in January 1992, next to the old Jefferson Avenue
plant.
   The company announced on Feb. 3 plans to close and
mothball St. Louis I, effective Sept. 21. Yesterday's
announcement postpones that closure to Nov. 9, providing
almost two month's extra work for some 2,300 hourly
employees. Chrysler builds minivans at a second St. Louis
plant that isn't affected by the closing.
   The company said extending production at the St. Louis I
facility minimizes disruption of output at the plants to
which it is moving Daytona and LeBaron. Retooling to add the
cars at Newark, Del., and Sterling Heights, Mich., will start
on Dec. 21.
   Sterling Heights, which gets Daytona, will resume
production the week of Jan. 14. Newark, which adds the
LeBaron coupe and convertible, will resume production the
week of Jan. 22.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Surveyed Economists See
   Expansion Through 1991
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The chances of recession have declined
within the past three months and the current business
expansion will break the postwar record for longevity,
according to a survey of business economists.
   Not only did 82% of the panel forecast no recession
through 1991, but two-thirds of the group foresaw no
recession at all during the next three years. If that
prediction were to materialize, the current expansion -- now
90 months -- would break the February 1961-December 1969
record for the longest postwar period of economic growth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The quarterly survey of 68 members of the National
Association of Business Economists reflects forecasts made in
April and May.
   Although there will be no recession, the economists say,
the outlook for 1990 is for slower economic growth than in
1989. They expect the economy to grow an inflation-adjusted
2% this year, compared with 3% in 1989. For 1991, they expect
growth of 2.4%.
   The outlook for inflation this year is slightly bleaker,
too. The panel is forecasting a 4.7% rise in the consumer
price index this year. In a winter survey, they projected a
4.2% inflation rate. In 1989, consumer prices rose 4.6%.
   The panel said its forecasters are significantly less
optimistic about growth and interest rates than the Bush
administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RTZ Unit Reaches Accord
   With United Steelworkers
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR U.RTZ AR PD
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   The United Steelworkers Union said it reached a labor
contract covering 2,000 workers at Kennecott Corp.'s Bingham
Canyon open-pit copper mine near Salt Lake City, Utah.
   Union officials said the details of the contract hadn't
yet been disclosed to the membership. But they noted the
three-year pact, which begins July 1, represents a more than
20% improvement over present wages. The present contract,
expiring June 30, lowered the wage rate for Kennecott workers
to about $10 an hour from roughly $13.75 prior to 1986 when
the concessionary pact took effect.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wayne Holland, a USW sub-district director, said the new
contract also provides for improvements in pension and
insurance coverage.
   Kennecott, based in Salt Lake City and a unit of
London-based RTZ Corp., declined to comment on the new pact.
   A spokesman for Asarco Inc., New York, said negotiations
with the union, which started a week ago, are continuing.
Asarco's contract also expires June 30.
   An official of Phelps Dodge Corp., Phoenix, said a
settlement hasn't yet been reached in talks with the union
affecting about 900 workers at one of the company's New
Mexico mines.
   Thomas Foster, vice president and controller, said the
company is offering "a significant increase" in employees'
benefits package. He estimated the company's offer at an
increase of 20% from the previous contract's total
compensation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Higher as Cable TV Stocks
   Lead Advance; Comcast Corp. Gains 1 1/4
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   MSFT NOVL LOTS ATCMA CCPI TCOMA TLMN QUME APPB AMGN CYTO
GPAR STII
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Utility and technology shares led the over-the-counter
market in a climb slightly brisker than the record-setting
Dow Jones industrials.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index gained 4.58 to 452.89, a 1.02%
advance, slightly outpacing the 0.9% move in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average. The Nasdaq utility index jumped 2.23% and
the Nasdaq 100 index of larger industrial issues, including
large technology companies, added 1.62%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Volume remained active at 169.6 million shares, though
down from 191.4 million Friday, which was the busiest this
year. Advancing shares again outpaced decliners, 1,138 to
820, as 195 stocks rose to new highs, more than triple
yesterday's new lows.
   "People are trying to get in on this move," said Robert C.
King, head of OTC trading in Atlanta for Robinson Humphrey.
The skeptical Mr. King said he continues to be surprised by
the strength of the Dow industrials, adding that he doesn't
expect the market to go much higher. OTC stock investing was
"solid, not frenzied," he said.
   William Rothe, managing director of OTC trading at Alex.
Brown &amp; Sons in Baltimore, said he thinks "all the players
are cautious. I think they'd pull back in a minute if adverse
news came out."
   Cable television shares gained favor as the industry
gathered this week in Atlanta for the National Cable
Television Association convention. Speculation that
regulatory threats will fade also circulated after this
newspaper reported yesterday that moves to slap strict new
regulations on the industry are losing momentum.
   Topping the day's most active list were
Tele-Communications class A shares, up 1 1/8 at 15 7/8 on 4.1
million shares. Other cable gainers included Comcast class A
shares, which rose 1 1/4 at 14 5/8, and American Television &amp;
Communications, which climbed 1 1/8 to 38 1/4.
   As expected, shares of Lotus, Novell and Microsoft were
among the day's most active after merger discussions between
Lotus and Novell collapsed Friday, eliminating a potential
challenge to Microsoft's dominance of the software market.
Lotus fell 1 to 33 3/4 on 3 million shares; Novell gained 1
7/8 to 42 on 2.9 million shares, amid speculation other
buyers might surface for the Provo, Utah, company. Microsoft,
due to unveil its long-awaited Windows 3.0 software today,
added 2 to 70 1/4 on 2.2 million shares.
   Merger and acquisition news continued to fuel some stock
gains: Talman Home Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association rose 1
to 6 7/8; Qume added 1/2 to 6 1/2 and Applebee's
International jumped 1 3/4 to 18 1/2.
   Talman Home Federal, a Chicago thrift, said it accepted an
investor group's $10-a-share acquisition offer. Shareholders
will receive $5 a share in cash and a senior subordinated
debenture of a new holding to be called Talman Bancorp Inc.
   Qume, a Milpitas, Calif., maker of IBM-compatible
products, announced a merger with an investor group led by
the company's chairman and chief executive officer, David
Lee, and Wearnes Technology of Singapore. The agreement is
valued at $7.25 a share. The company said it may also seek
other offers, subject to the payment of a breakup fee to the
investor group. Qume also reported net income for the fourth
quarter ended Feb. 28 fell to seven cents a share, including
extraordinary items, from 17 cents a year earlier.
   Applebee, a Kansas City operator of franchised
restaurants, said it has received unsolicited acquisition
inquiries. Applebee, which hired Piper Jaffray &amp; Hopwood to
evaluate its long-term strategy, said no merger or sale talks
currently are under way.
   Wholesale Club climbed 2 to 22 3/8 after the Indianapolis
wholesaler and distributor of general merchandise said it
earned 10 cents a share in the first quarter ended May 5,
compared to a year-earlier loss of 15 cents a share.
   Shares of two biotechnology companies, Amgen, of Thousand
Oaks, Calif., and Cytogen, of Princeton, N.J., continued to
climb on speculation that products developed by the companies
will be favorably reviewed at this week's meeting in
Washington of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.
   Clinical trials of Neupogen, Amgen's product that
stimulates white blood cells, were reviewed yesterday. Amgen
leaped 3 3/4 to 73.
   Studies of a Cytogen imaging agent used to detect
colorectal cancer are scheduled for review today. Cytogen
gained 3/4 to 8 3/8.
   Synergen tumbled 1 5/8 to 11 after the Boulder, Colo.,
drug company announced Friday that the Swiss pharmaceutical
giant, Hoffman-La Roche, will no longer support Synergen's
research on IL-1ra, a product to treat inflammatory diseases
such as arthritis. Synergen said it doesn't expect the loss
of Hoffman-La Roche's support to hurt its development
schedule for the product and added that it hopes to begin
clinical trials later this year.
   General Parametrics lost 1/8 to 2 after the Berkeley,
Calif., maker of computer graphics products suspended its
quarterly dividend because of lower second-quarter sales.
General Parametrics also reported a loss for the second
quarter ended April 30 of nine cents a share, compared with
net income of seven cents a year earlier. The company told
investors two weeks ago that it expected to report its first
quarterly loss since going public in 1986.
   Stanford Telecommunications slid 1 to 6. Friday, the Santa
Clara, Calif., communications concern reported a loss for the
fourth quarter ended March 31 of 31 cents a share, compared
with year-earlier net income of 10 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Congressional Report Links Top Officers
   In Salvadoran Military to Rights Abuses
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan congressional group charges
that 14 of El Salvador's 15 top military officers, including
the defense minister and the chief of staff, have commanded
military units during their careers that committed serious
human-rights abuses.
   In a new report, the congressional Arms Control and
Foreign Policy Caucus traces how the officers' careers
advanced despite their troops' corruption and crimes against
civilians. The report comes as the House is set to vote today
on a proposal to withhold 50% of U.S. military aid from El
Salvador. The vote could signal the beginning of a breakdown
in bipartisan support for El Salvador, congressional aides
say. Congress has approved virtually every White House
request for such funds since 1984.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the U.S. has provided El Salvador $1 billion in
military aid over the past decade and called regularly for
reform, the 39-page report raises serious questions "as to
whether the officer corps has either been above the law in
allowing repeated abuses of human rights to occur on their
watch, or, at a minimum, has shown serious problems of
competence in failing to halt them."
   The report states that no military officers have been
brought to trial in nearly 50 cases of human-rights abuses
reported by monitoring groups, suggesting that "at a basic
level, there is little accountability." The murder last
November of six Jesuit priests, reportedly at the hands of
military personnel, has focused Congress's attention again on
human-rights abuses by El Salvador's military.
   One reason for a lack of accountability, the report says,
is that most Salvadoran officers' primary loyalty is to
members of their class at the nation's military academy,
rather than to the armed forces as a whole or to civilian
authorities. The report asserts that this is particularly
true for the class of 1966, whose members currently are in
senior positions. The report says members of this class have
successfully resisted efforts by the U.S. embassy to force
the retirement of corrupt officers or those believed
responsible for human-rights abuses.
   The leader of that class, Col. Rene Emilio Ponce, is now
military chief of staff. He formerly was deputy director of
the Treasury Police, which killed 30 civilians during a sweep
of the Soyapango district of San Salvador on April 7, 1981,
according to the State Department. Similar abuses occurred
when Gen. Rafael Humberto Larios, currently the defense
minister, commanded the Artillery Brigade in 1986 and 1987,
the report says.
   Along with the concern about human-rights abuses in
Salvador's military, a general decline in U.S. interest in
Central America is undermining congressional support for
Salvadoran aid. The end of the Cold War and the electoral
defeat of Nicaragua's leftist Sandinistas by Violeta
Chamorro, a staunch U.S. ally, have greatly reduced U.S.
concerns about the spread of communism in this hemisphere.
The Bush administration now is preoccupied with the sweeping
changes under way in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
   "This is probably the end of the blank check for military
aid to El Salvador," says Robert Kurz, a Central America
expert at the Brookings Institution.
   Under the aid plan that the House is expected to consider
today, the 50% cut in military assistance would be restored
if leftist guerrillas battling Salvador's government launch a
new offensive or refuse to negotiate. Alternatively, military
aid would be completely eliminated if the government doesn't
conduct a thorough investigation of the murder of the Jesuits
or refuses to negotiate with guerrillas, or if there is a
military coup.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAW Is Expected to Make Job Security
   Top Demand in Big Three Contract Talks
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR C F GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- The United Auto Workers union will
demand that the Big Three U.S. auto makers follow Japanese
car companies in providing practically unconditional job
guarantees to workers, Owen Bieber, UAW president, announced.
   Mr. Bieber was speaking at the opening of the union's
convention to set bargaining priorities in this summer's
national contract negotiations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said that the Big Three should keep blue-collar workers
on the payroll "unless {the companies'} ability to survive is
severely at risk as a result of conditions beyond their
control." This language mirrors clauses negotiated by the UAW
with Mazda Motor Corp.'s U.S. plant, the Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. and Chrysler Corp. joint venture plant in Illinois, and
the General Motors Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. joint venture
factory in Fremont, Calif.
   Further, Mr. Bieber said the UAW will push to give workers
at Big Three factories more say in areas that management has
traditionally regarded as its exclusive province -- product
design and factory operations. These concepts, too, are
common at the Japanese-operated plants.
   Company officials have complained in recent weeks that
Japanese "transplants" have a substantial cost advantage
because they have either nonunion shops, or have far more
flexible agreements with the UAW.
   Mr. Bieber countered that providing secure jobs would help
the Big Three "as they discovered what fully motivated, fully
secure workers can contribute to their success."
   But Mr. Bieber also appeared to leave open a door for the
Big Three to reduce their manpower levels to match their
smaller market shares. By equating income security with job
security he signaled that the union may tolerate further job
losses if laid-off workers are paid full wages and benefits
for a reasonable time after losing their jobs.
   Currently, the UAW and the Big Three have a patchwork of
programs that provide income for laid off employees. But
there have been so many layoffs, particularly at GM and
Chrysler, that the funds designed to pay these benefits are
being drained faster than expected. The result is that many
employees receive less money than anticipated.
   In a draft bargaining platform, the UAW said the current
income-security system needs to be "revamped and improved in
many ways."
   Meanwhile, Mr. Bieber tried to head off a divisive
internal battle over the issue of putting UAW pensions on a
cost-of-living escalator. A sizable faction of delegates
wants the union to make cost of living adjustments, or COLA,
for pensions the top bargaining priority.
   Buttons and placards demanding COLA on pensions are ever
present at the sprawling Kansas City convention center, where
the meeting is being held. Many of the COLA supporters say
they are ready to fight the leadership on the convention's
floor.
   Mr. Bieber, who in the past has pooh-poohed as unrealistic
the notion of COLA on pensions, was more conciliatory on the
issue yesterday. He added language supporting improved
pensions to his prepared speech. And he criticized GM for its
proposal to almost double the pension of departing Chairman
Roger B. Smith and other executives, declaring that UAW
retirees deserved "decency and fair treatment . . . and we
won't settle without it."
   But Mr. Bieber stopped short of endorsing a straight
inflation adjustment for pensions. The pension issue was only
fourth on the leadership's list of five negotiating demands,
subject to convention approval. The first three are job
security, higher wages, and maintaining full health-care
benefits. The fifth demand is more worker involvement in
decisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Export-Credit Group
   Set to Discuss Delays
   In Soviet Payments
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The Berne Union -- a group of export-credit
agencies from 32 nations -- is moving to review coverage of
the Soviet Union in the face of persistent payment delays by
Moscow on commercial-trade transactions.
   The union -- which has 40 members, a quarter from the
developed world -- will discuss potential action on Soviet
export-credit coverage at its annual meeting starting Sunday
in Italy, said a spokesman for Malcolm Stephens, chief
executive officer of Britain's Export Credit Guarantee
Department and president of the union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Discussions at the six-day meeting will particularly focus
on whether the union should move to hold formal talks with
the Soviets about the delays and on remedial actions that may
be taken to avoid future payment problems.
   Export-credit guarantees haven't been a favored route of
import-financing by Moscow, nor have they been affected by
payment delays. The notion of formal talks at least signals
growing concerns among government-related credit agencies
that the situation may deteriorate.
   Separately, industry representatives in Tokyo told the
Kyodo news agency that Moscow has asked Japanese creditors
for a one-year deferment in its payments for recently
purchased steel pipes. Kyodo said the creditors rejected the
request but said they would accept a deferment of 180 days in
exchange for a letter of guarantee. But, the representatives
told the news agency, the Soviets "are reluctant to provide
such a letter."
   London bankers said some Western nations favor using the
Berne Union as a medium through which bilateral discussions
with the Soviets over remedial action on delayed trade
payments can be focused.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   New Johnsonian Monetary Theory
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   This is in response to Jude Wanniski's April 10
editorial-page defense of a one-to-one exchange deal for East
German and West German marks. It brought to mind another
recent transaction:
   A man came to my house the other day to do some plumbing
work. He did good work, finished on time and came to me to be
paid. I complimented him on his work, thanked him and handed
over his pay. He was puzzled. "What's this?" he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That is your pay," I replied, and thanked him again.
   He looked at the notes in his palm, looked back at me and
said, "Yeah, but what is it?"
   "Why those are Johnsons, of course, and that is your pay.
Eight hundred twelve Johnsons (J812)."
   He said nothing, but continued to look at me -- and not
blankly, I might say. I realized quickly the source of his
confusion.
   "You have given me a bill for $116. The exchange rate for
Johnsons and dollars is seven to one. That was decided
sometime ago, and it has never changed. So I have given you
812 Johnsons." He kept looking at me and his brows lowered a
bit.
   "Johnsons," he said. "What's a Johnson?"
   "Why, it's the currency we use around here. Not everyone,
but me, and my neighbor to the right, and the folks on the
left two houses down, and the woman across the street,
although only sometimes."
   "What do I do with a Johnson?" he asked.
   I stifled a chuckle at his naivete and said, "Well, it's
money. Do whatever you want with it. Buy something, pay your
bills, give it as a present."
   "If I take these to the bank, can I get dollars for them?"
   "I don't think so," I said.
   He was plainly impressed by the fine quality of notes in
his hand. "Where do these come from?" he asked.
   I was becoming a bit impatient, but tried not to seem so.
"Mr. Fuller, across the street, makes them actually. He's a
master printer you know."
   "What the hell's going on here?" he said with more than a
hint of menace in his tone.
   "Look," I said, "you need to be paid, and I've paid you.
Now please take your Johnsons and go. Go buy something, if
that's what you want to do."
   "What can I buy with a Johnson?" he asked, now more
curious than threatening.
   "Buy anything you want. Something here, or next-door.
We've got lots of things: tools, food, clothing, sporting
goods, you name it."
   "I need boots," he said. "Do you have boots?"
   "Of course," I replied, "good ones, too, at a good price.
Regularly, J90; I can let you have them for J75."
   "I wear size 10s."
   "We don't have any of those. We have men's 15s and ladies'
6s and 12s, and there's one boys' size 8."
   "That's what my kid wears. I'll take those."
   "Not `those,'" I corrected him. "It. We have only one."
   "So what am I gonna do with my Johnsons?" he asked.
   "If you don't want to spend them on what's available,
perhaps you should save them. Deposit your Johnsons with Mr.
Fuller. He'll give you a far better rate than some other
bank, and he's more reliable than many of them, too. Your
bank probably pays five or six percent or something like
that. Mr. Fuller pays 19% on Johnsons. Deposit your Johnsons
now and in six months you'll have nearly J900."
   "Then what do I do with them?"
   "You could buy the boots, and if the price hasn't gone up,
you'll still have over J800 left. More than you started
with."
   "By then you'll have size 10s?"
   "Well, no. But we're pursuing monetary union with West
Germany, and demanding an exchange of Johnsons for marks at
one to one. If you work hard and reinvest, you can get more
Johnsons. Mr. Fuller says he is going to run off lots of
them."
   "I don't know," he said. "Who knows what West German marks
will be worth after this reunification business?"
   "Good point," I acknowledged. "Might want to hold on to
your Johnsons."
   William J. Gillen
   Economist
   Madison, Wis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Premier Industrial Says
   Net, Sales Will Rise
   In Fiscal 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PRE
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- Premier Industrial Corp. expects to show a
modest increase in sales and earnings for the fiscal fourth
quarter, which will produce record results for the May 31
fiscal year, Morton L. Mandel, chairman and chief executive
officer, said in an interview.
   The company's sales growth has been slow for the last nine
months, reflecting the slowdown in the U.S. economic
expansion, Mr. Mandel said. In recent weeks, orders appear to
be picking up a little, he said, but there hasn't yet been a
marked change.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The distributor of electronic parts and industrial-repair
and maintenance products expects a fourth-quarter sales
increase slightly greater than the 2.2% rise of the third
period, Mr. Mandel said. It is too early to make a specific
profit estimate for the quarter, he said, but there will be
an increase from the $19.3 million, or 33 cents a share, of
the comparable 1989 period.
   Mr. Mandel said analysts' estimates that earnings for the
fiscal year "will approach $1.30 a share" appear to be
reasonable, but final figures won't be available for several
months. Fiscal 1990 sales will be in the area of $620
million, he said.
   In fiscal 1989, Premier earned $69.7 million, or $1.13 a
share, on sales of $596.1 million. Share earnings for 1989
periods are adjusted for a 3-for-2 stock split effective Dec.
22, 1989.
   Premier's fiscal 1990 per-share earnings will be based on
an average of about 58 million shares outstanding, down from
an adjusted 61.7 million shares in fiscal 1989. The company
in November of 1988 retired 5,850,000 shares, after adjusting
for the split, as part of a $117 million cash distribution to
shareholders.
   Premier expects to achieve record sales and earnings again
in fiscal 1991, if the general economy doesn't deteriorate,
Mr. Mandel said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Hybrids for Investors Blend
   Mutual Funds, Partnerships
   ----
   By Jill Bettner and James A. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP DRY EAVN
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mutual funds are mutual funds, and limited partnerships
are limited partnerships, right?
   Not always. There are also some partnerships that look
like funds, and these hybrids are drawing investor attention
just now because of a marketing push by two companies that
offer them.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. took out full-page newspaper
ads last week to launch a mutual-fund limited partnership
called the Advisors Fund. It will employ fancy, but
high-risk, trading techniques usually not available to
individuals with less than $1 million to invest.
   In another ad campaign, Dreyfus Corp. is promoting its
U.S. Guaranteed Money Market Account by waiving the usual
management fee for the next few months. Although the fund
looks like an ordinary money-market fund, it too is a limited
partnership.
   Because such funds are structured as partnerships, rather
than corporations, they offer some investors tax breaks they
can't get in ordinary mutual funds. Unlike most partnerships,
partnership funds also make it easy for investors to sell
their holdings.
   But partnership funds also have some unique drawbacks,
including more paperwork when investors file their tax
returns. For that reason alone, "if you're a small investor,
you probably want to shy away from these things," says Joseph
Mansueto, president of Morningstar Inc., a Chicago company
that tracks mutual funds.
   Partnership funds aren't a new idea. New York-based
Dreyfus offers seven such funds using the format -- with a
fund operator as general partner and shareholders as limited
partners -- that it pioneered more than a decade ago. In all,
there are 17 or so mutual-fund partnerships, according to
Lipper Analytical Services Inc., which also tracks mutual
funds. They invest in everything from money-market
instruments to stocks, bonds and foreign currencies.
   Perhaps because these partnerships are more difficult for
most investors to understand than ordinary mutual funds,
"none of these funds has attracted a lot of dollars," says A.
Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical. Nearly all of
them have less than $100 million of assets.
   A bigger reason why they have languished may be lackluster
performance. On the whole, Mr. Lipper says, returns have been
"no better, no worse" than ordinary funds.
   Shearson's new partnership fund is probably the last of
the breed. Starting in 1998, these partnership funds will be
taxed as corporations, thanks to the 1987 tax act. The
Shearson partnership fund was in the works before the tax-law
change and so, was grandfathered.
   When the grandfather benefits run out after 1997, such
funds are likely to reorganize as ordinary funds or
disappear, sponsors say. The partnerships are more expensive
for them to offer because, as general partners, they must put
up 1% of a partnership's capital themselves. Without the tax
advantages partnerships currently enjoy, fund operators won't
have much incentive to continue them.
   "We'll be sorry to see them go," says Duane E. Waldenburg,
a vice president and a director of Boston-based Eaton Vance
Inc., which has four of the partnerships. "We think they are
neat products from an investor's point of view, and the
advantages outweigh the disadvantages." In the meantime,
partnership funds do have some special advantages over
ordinary funds. But the value of those advantages may be open
to question as far as many investors are concerned.
   For example, investors in partnership funds that buy
Treasury securities escape taxes on the income in all 43
states that tax investment income. But only seven of those 43
states -- Connecticut, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Delaware,
Mississippi, North Dakota and Tennessee -- don't permit that
exemption for mutual funds that buy Treasurys, according to
the Investment Company Institute, a Washington, D.C.,
mutual-fund trade group.
   Foreign investors in partnership funds also escape federal
income taxes on government securities and corporate bonds. In
mutual funds, that income becomes taxable corporate
dividends.
   The partnership structure also allows aggressive money
managers to employ derring-do trading strategies that
managers of ordinary mutual funds can't without running afoul
of tax laws. Those include the so-called short-short rule
that imposes taxes on ordinary mutual funds that derive more
than 30% of their profits from securities held less than
three months.
   The new Shearson Advisors Fund, for instance, will be
managed by five independent portfolio managers who, while
investing primarily in stocks, will be free to dart in and
out of the market, trade currencies, options and futures,
engage in short-selling and buy shares on margin.
Short-selling involves borrowing securities and selling them
in the hope they can be repurchased later at lower prices.
The fund's $25,000 minimum, while steep compared with most
mutual funds, could open the sophisticated investing style to
many smaller investors for the first time.
   Such trading tactics don't guarantee better performance,
however. Dreyfus Strategic Aggressive, a "flexible" fund that
allocates its investments across several asset classes, had
an 831% portfolio-turnover rate in 1988, says Mr. Lipper. Yet
its net asset value rose only 5.11% that year, while the
average flexible fund had a 9.62% gain.
   The managers hired for the Shearson Advisors Fund have an
unusual incentive to do well. Their annual management fees
will hinge on whether they beat the stock market's
performance, as measured by the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index. To earn their maximum annual fee of 4% of the fund's
assets, they must outperform the index by six percentage
points, after deducting all fund expenses.
   That fee is much steeper than the management fees most
mutual-fund investors typically pay. But the Shearson fund
managers' fees can also drop to zero if the fund fails to
beat the S&amp;P 500 by four points, after expenses.
   "If a traditional mutual-fund manager makes money, you pay
a fee. And if he loses money, you pay a fee," says Ronald L.
Gallatin, a Shearson managing director. "Here, if the guys
perform poorly versus the S&amp;P 500, they don't get paid."
   At tax time, partnership-fund investors, like investors in
ordinary limited partnerships, must decipher an annual
Schedule K-1. The partnership funds' K-1s usually have fewer
items than those for real estate or other ordinary
partnerships. Indeed, the K-1 for a partnership fund that
invests only in government securities "shouldn't be more
complicated than the 1099 for a normal mutual fund," says
Daniel MacLean, Dreyfus general counsel.
   For other funds, though, the extra tax work can be more
burdensome, says Morningstar's Mr. Mansueto. "K-1s are a
hassle," he says."For some reason, they're usually the last
bit of tax information you're waiting on to do your return."
   ---
         A Sample of Mutual-Fund Limited Partnerships
                                                                                                       

                                          PERFORMANCE*
                                                                                                       

                        ASSETS    1990 FIRST    YEAR ENDED
 NAME OF FUND     (In millions)      QUARTER       3/31/90
                                                                                                       

 Dreyfus Strategic
 Aggressive Investing   $ 88.6        -5.89%         1.21%
                                                                                                       

 Dreyfus U.S. Govt.
 Intermediate
 Securities               60.5        -1.36         11.50
                                                                                                       

 Dreyfus U.S.
 Guaranteed Money
 Market Account          131.9         1.80          7.98
                                                                                                       

 Eaton Vance
 Municipal Bond           77.6         0.06         10.29
                                                                                                       

 Fidelity

 Performance               5.3         1.65         N.A.**
                                                                                                       

 Standard &amp; Poor's
 500-stock index                      -3.01         19.27
                                                                                                       

 Shearson Lehman
 Gov't/Corporate
 Bond Index                           -1.14         11.69
                                                                                                       

   *Total returns with dividends reinvested
   **Fund introduced 11/89
   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900522-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900522-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rosewood Proposes
   Adding Craib to Board
   Of First Executive
</HL>
<DATE>
05/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Rosewood Financial Inc., whose previous efforts
to take over troubled First Executive Corp. failed, said it
had proposed that First Executive expand its board by one
seat and appoint Donald F. Craib Jr., former chairman and
chief executive officer of Allstate Insurance Group, to the
position.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, the unit
of Rosewood Corp., which is owned by the trust estate of oil
heiress Carolyn Rose Hunt, said Mr. Craib says he thinks he
can make a substantial contribution to the struggling Los
Angeles insurer whose huge junk-bond portfolio led to a
$775.6 million net loss in 1989. The company has six
directors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Previously, Mr. Craib was recruited by Rosewood as a
candidate to succeed First Executive Chairman Fred Carr,
whose ouster was a condition of the aborted takeover bid.
Rosewood has seen a $100 million investment in First
Executive common stock reduced to roughly $20 million in
value as a result of the company's troubles. Mrs. Hunt's
trust was hit with additional bad news last week when its
troubled thrift, Southwest Savings Association, was placed
under U.S. conservatorship.
   A Rosewood spokesman refused to say whether the company
continues to seek Mr. Carr's ouster or whether it planned to
renew its previous takeover bid, which was turned down by
First Executive's board.
   Other First Executive holders were skeptical about whether
Rosewood planned to make another offer. "I think Rosewood and
the {Hunt} family have suffered so extensively that I just
can't imagine the family saying, `We want to throw more good
money after bad,'" said investor Travis Reed, who said he
owns a 2% stake in First Executive.
   First Executive officals couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
