<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0176
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0176.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It's a Bit Hard to Tote That Barge
   When You're on the Wrong River
   ----
   By Carlee R. Scott
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Does Old Man River really just go rollin'
along here, or has he been shoved aside by a pushy
interloper?
   The answer depends on whether a river is its water or its
name.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Here's the problem: St. Louis is on the Mississippi River;
textbooks, road maps and Mark Twain all say so. But can you,
from here, dangle your feet (if you are hardy enough to want
to at this time of year) in the muddy Mississippi? There are
some who say no, because the water that flows past St. Louis
is traveling under an assumed name.
   Water specialists and river engineers agree that the water
alongside the city limits isn't water from the Mississippi
after all; it's from the Missouri River.
   The U.S. Geological Survey and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers maintain that although the Mississippi and Missouri
rivers merge about 16 miles north of St. Louis, the waters
probably don't completely mix until at least 30 to 40 miles
south of the city. The wide stream of the silt-laden Missouri
River forces the Mississippi water toward the Illinois shore
and East St. Louis, with the two separate currents traveling
along side by side.
   Adding insult to injury, "there are people who say that
the entire river {from the confluence on south} should be
called the Missouri, because it constitutes the majority of
the flow," says David A. Visintainer, an engineer executive
for the city's water division.
   But that's a "ridiculous" contention, asserts Lloyd Waite,
a hydrologist for the Geological Survey's district office
here. "They can say the currents haven't mixed totally, but
it's still the Mississippi River."
   Claude Strauser, chief of the U.S. Army's potamology
(study of rivers) section, calls the occurrence "one of those
mind-grabbers that's very interesting and fun" and will
continue to generate lighthearted debate for years.
   A spokeswoman for the Geological Survey says the situation
isn't unique and exists in many other streams where one is
the tributary to another. Still, this is the mighty
Mississippi that's in question. Would the familiar song be as
popular if the lyrics were "Down the Missouri to New
Orleans?"
   As far as this city's tourism promoters are concerned,
though, Old Man River can answer to any name he likes. A name
change "wouldn't make any difference," declares a tourist
board spokeswoman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   The Demise of a Sad But Lovely Series
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   How are the dead raised up, and with what body do they
come?
   Never before on television has there been a show so
unflinchingly somber, so unrelentingly devoted to death and
pain as "China Beach," ABC's hour-long dramatic series about
a Vietnam surgery and rehab unit. No doubt that's why "China
Beach" has always lingered near the bottom of the ratings. No
doubt that's why, this month, in its fourth season, the
program was put "on hiatus," which is a nice way of easing it
off the air. (A few scattered episodes remain to be broadcast
later.)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But "China Beach" was no ordinary series. Tracing the
stories of the nurses and entertainers of the R&amp;R facility
connected with the U.S. base at Da Nang" -- your in-country
Miami Beach" -- "China Beach," in a sense, picked up where
"MASH" left off, looking at the war behind the front lines.
In this case, the war was Vietnam, and there was little
comedy, even black comedy, here.
   As a show, "China Beach" was never afraid to slap its
viewers across the face: "Some guy's telling you about his
hometown one second, the next second you're scraping him off
your sunglasses." Yet perhaps because the program focused
primarily on the women of war, it was a strangely appealing
blend of hard and soft, of cold metal and warm shoulders. At
the center was the delightful Dana Delany as Colleen
McMurphy, a nurse both tough and fragile, picking her way
through the debris field.
   This season, after many of the Vietnam stories had been
played out, the show took an interesting turn, flashing
backward and forward to examine the aftermath of the war for
the veterans. From anti-Vietnam protests to the trial of the
Chicago Seven, it looked at how the last days of the war
played out on the home front -- especially the strange sense
of dislocation felt by many of the returning men and women.
   Unfortunately, some of these flash-forwards seemed oddly
wrongheaded -- quantum leaps to nowhere -- especially a
postwar McMurphy reincarnated as a leatherclad biker working
for an orange-juice company. But when it came to the scars
left in the wake of combat, this series, co-created by John
Sacret Young and William Broyles Jr., was right on target: "A
couple of guys on the plane home started a game. They called
it `Nightmares.' Whoever could get to Seattle without having
a bad dream would collect 20 bucks from the rest. I won. It
was easy. I didn't sleep the whole flight home."
   More than most war treatments, "China Beach" was about
psychological, not physical, pain. Of course, in a medium of
closeups like television, emotion is a dangerously overused
commodity. And all too often, what TV offers is a quick,
cheap tearjerking, the disease-of-the-week variety. But this
year, as "China Beach" got sadder and sadder -- more and more
depressing -- it just got better.
   One of the best hours -- in fact, one of the single finest
installments of dramatic episodic TV in a long time -- was
this season's "Escape," written by Paris Qualles. Following
Private Samuel "Sammy B." Beckett from childhood to middle
age, it opened with him as a small boy in his father's North
Carolina church, at the funeral for his mother. "How are the
dead raised up?" Beckett's father asks the congregation, "and
with what body do they come?" For all of Beckett's tears that
day, his mother is no Lazarus.
   Ten years later finds Beckett an infantryman in Vietnam,
wisecracking in the face of mortar fire. Already jaded, dying
is a bad joke to him. Not so his buddy Linford "Dead Man"
Crawford, who is so fixated on his mortality that he's
constantly handing over a taped version of his will every
time he hears rifle fire.
   On leave at China Beach together, they liberate a corpse
from the morgue in a prank, but get caught, and end up
re-assigned to the morgue full time. "You kill 'em, we chill
'em," jokes Beckett. "It's disrespectful, playing with the
dead," says the earnest Crawford. Hey, says Beckett, "when
the time comes we're all just fertilizer."
   In a way, this body-bag show is the most explicit spelling
out of a theme that runs through the "Beach." Like all the
episodes, it's about death (vividly so, with fermenting
bodies in the morgue), but like all of them, it's really
about faith, about looking for some kind of redemption in the
middle of a truckful of suffering. For Beckett, it takes the
suicide of his friend Crawford to crack his callous cynicism,
to plunge him so far down he can come out the other side, and
find a human, if not religious, faith.
   "China Beach" didn't stop there -- it got grimmer.
Subsequent episodes like "A Small Step"' showed a series
regular, the lifeguard Boonie, rolling over a landmine and
losing his leg. He returns home an amputee. "The stump's
looking good," the doctors tell him. The message here: The
guy in the next bed's much worse off. He's got no arms and no
legs. "Don't let them use you for third base," Boonie jokes.
   In a time of escapist entertainment, "China Beach" didn't
give its viewers much in the way of escape. It took them into
the morgue of Vietnam, and stuck their noses right in among
the body bags. Rich, powerful and deeply felt, it throttled
its viewers, but every once in a while -- a rare and
wonderful thing on television -- it also offered some kind of
catharsis too, a chance to walk into the morgue and walk back
out the other end.
   So how are the dead raised up? Ironically, despite the
ratings failure, "China Beach's" co-creators, Messrs. Broyles
and Young, are being given the same Saturday-evening time
slot to try a new series, "Under Cover," a hard-edged look at
the CIA that premieres in January.
   But as for "China Beach," don't expect it to come back for
another full season. This, then, is something of a eulogy for
a sad and lovely show that was finally so dark that few could
bear to watch it.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Bank Says Loan
   To Infotechnology
   Is in Default
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   ITCHE FNNIC SPC MIDL
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Security Pacific Corp. said late Friday that
Infotechnology Inc., which owns 46% of struggling Financial
News Network Inc., was in default on a $20.7 million loan and
the bank "moved to protect its interests."
   A spokeswoman for the Los Angeles bank declined to
elaborate on the move. The loan originally was due July 1991.
Infotechnology said its banks "accelerated the due date" of
the $20.7 million loan. Security Pacific said it was acting
on behalf of itself and Midlantic National Bank, a unit of
Midlantic Corp., Edison, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loan is collateralized by Infotechnology's interest in
FNN. In a statement, Infotechnology said the bank "has not
scheduled a foreclosure sale of Infotech's FNN stock, and the
company believes that no such sale is imminent."
   One person close to Infotechnology said Security Pacific
could be taking the action in part to protect its legal
interests. Midlantic couldn't be reached for comment.
   In November, new management at FNN and Infotechnology
recommended selling operations, including FNN. Candidates to
purchase FNN are said to include Dow Jones &amp; Co., which
publishes The Wall Street Journal, Paramount Communications
Inc., Capital Cities/ABC Inc. and General Electric Co.'s NBC
unit. Friday, Infotechnology said the "company has no
intention at the present time of altering its previously
announced plans to sell its interest" in FNN.
   Separately, FNN said that, as of Dec. 21, its stock was
removed from quotation in the National Market System of the
National Association of Securities Dealers Inc., but was
granted a continuing exception to the NASDAQ system listing
requirements; FNN fails to meet net worth requirements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Big Investors Say the Time Is Nearing
   For the Davids to Outperform Goliaths
   ----
   By Ann Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<CO>
   RMCI DGII SMLS MGRC DFII TATE KLAC SODA
</CO>
<IN>
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
OTC GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (OTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For years, it took the faith of a Boston Red
Sox fan to believe that small-company stocks would finally
quit trailing the overall market and resume their former
starring role.
   But now some formerly skeptical big investors are starting
to become believers, a trend that could give a boost to the
perennially disappointing over-the-counter market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Appetite for small stocks is reviving among pension fund
managers, overseas investors and other previously indifferent
traders. In recent weeks, analysts and money managers say,
they have been scrambling to meet clients' demands for
information on smaller shares.
   "There's an awareness that the time to be in small U.S.
stocks is {when the U.S. is} coming out of a recession," says
Bill Church, manager of the $11 million Cowen Opportunity
Fund of New York. Japanese and European investors
particularly have been knocking at his door.
   Even short-sellers, who reap their profits when stock
prices decline, have redirected much of their energy away
from small stocks and into exchange-listed stocks, arguing
that overpriced shares are getting harder to find in the OTC
market. "We're finding more opportunities in larger names,"
says short seller Joseph Feshbach, who oversees nearly $1
billion for Southgate Partners of Palo Alto, Calif.
   "Small stocks take a beating in times like the present,
when marginal companies are being squeezed," says Laurence
Siegel, managing director of Ibbotson Associates Inc., a
Chicago investment research firm. "But in a recovery, they
just take off like a rocket."
   Ibbotson's data in the accompanying chart provide a
compelling argument (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ
Dec. 24, 1990). In the wake of the past seven recessions,
smaller companies' shares outperformed larger issues every
time, at least for the 12 months starting after the
recession.
   Returns on small stocks lagged for much of the 1980s.
Small stocks returned only 1.8% a year on a compounded basis
from July 1983 through September this year, far behind the
12.8% return for larger stocks, according to Mr. Siegel. The
small-stock arena saw post-crash returns of 23% in 1988 and
10% in 1989.
   But for this year so far, the Nasdaq Composite Index of
smaller stocks is down about 18% even with its 14% rally
since mid-October. Meanwhile, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock
index is down only 6.6%.
   Short-sellers sell borrowed stock in hopes that a price
decline will allow them to profit by returning cheaper shares
to the lender; they have long been known for targeting
smaller stocks. But just as high prices in the mid to late
1980s made small stocks ripe for a fall, there now are
"speculative excesses" in big stocks, says Mr. Feshbach.
   The popular practice of indexing -- trading a basket of
stocks included in such indexes as the S&amp;P 500 -- has made
many large stocks overpriced; others are vulnerable because
of heavy debts, he says. About half the Feshbachs' 300 short
positions now are in exchange-listed stocks, including such
household names as Citicorp, McDonnell Douglas and
Westinghouse Electric.
   The risk that the slowing economy will trip some of the
nation's largest and strongest companies is likely to benefit
smaller issues. "When growth prospects for the S&amp;P as a whole
get dashed, then small stocks begin to boom. That's beginning
to happen," says Richard Bernstein, Merrill Lynch
quantitative analyst. The S&amp;P 500 companies are now expected
to grow at about 7% a year over the next five years, he notes
-- the slowest estimated growth rate in about eight or nine
years.
   Skeptics remain, of course. "I think we have to be
patient," says Harry Adams, investment manager for the $410
million Minneapolis Teachers Retirement Fund. Since 1987,
about 10% of the fund's money has been invested in lagging
small- to medium-sized companies. Mr. Adams doesn't expect
the group to do well until the Mideast crisis is resolved and
larger stocks improve.
   Investors still hungry for growth may turn to some of the
faster-growing small companies that turn out such products as
new drugs, medical instruments or computer gadgets that no
one else makes, Mr. Bernstein notes.
   The slowing returns of large stocks are beginning to fall
in line with those of shunned smaller shares. For the first
time in about six years, Mr. Bernstein says, the average
return on equity for stocks traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the over-the-counter Nasdaq system were roughly
comparable for the past few quarters.
   Debt burdens many large companies, adds Mary Lisanti, vice
president of the Evergreen Fund in Purchase, N.Y. "The
majority of small companies have healthier balance sheets,"
she says, explaining that because many have been squeezed out
by banks, they've been forced to finance their own growth.
   Among the stocks Ms. Lisanti expects to outperform the
broad market are those of Right Management Consultants, a
Philadelphia provider of outplacement services; Digi
International, a Minneapolis maker of low-cost computer
equipment; and SciMed Life Systems, a Maple Grove, Minn.,
maker of medical equipment used in heart-related procedures.
   Shares of companies growing at 15% a year or more can be
found in the OTC market, making them competitive with the
falling interest rates on bonds, says Alan Radlo, manager of
the Fidelity OTC Fund of Boston. He has recently favored
McGrath RentCorp, a San Lorenzo, Calif., renter of modular
offices, and Duty Free International, a Ridgefield, Conn.,
operator of duty-free stores along the Canadian border.
   Finding rewarding stocks requires careful selection, he
says. Small-stock indicators, such as the Nasdaq Composite
Index, will continue to disappoint investors because they are
heavily weighted with financial issues and large stocks of
such industry laggards as cellular and cable television
companies, Mr. Radlo notes.
   The Feshbach short sellers have had "minimal exposure" in
such fast-growing OTC areas as biotechnology, healthcare and
software stocks, Mr. Radlo adds.
   Some favorites among the shorts -- such as Ashton-Tate --
are deemed buying opportunities for others, such as Cowen's
Mr. Church. He's recently been "nibbling away" at shares of
the Torrance, Calif., software maker with an eye on some new
products due out in 1991. Among other OTC stocks, Mr.Church
likes KLA Instruments, a San Jose, Calif., medical instrument
maker, and A&amp;W Brands, the White Plains, N.Y., maker of root
beer and other beverages.
   Knowing when to buy small stocks is tricky, however. If an
investor is convinced that the economy is in a deep recession
and won't recover for several years, then Ms. Lisanti says
it's too early to buy small stocks.
   But, like Mr. Church, she says now may be the time to shop
among small stocks if it appears the economy will begin to
recover in 12 to 18 months. Even though both money managers
expect the stock market to fall in the first half of 1991,
they point out that many small stocks already are cheap.
   Small stocks that are thinly traded can be particularly
tough to buy when there's keen competition, adds Mr. Church.
"You can't buy them when you see the whites of {investor's}
eyes," he says. "Now is a great time to be involved."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   OTC stocks overcame an early sell-off and turned higher in
the afternoon. Trading was moderately active.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index was down about one point in the
morning but ended 1.30 points higher, or up 0.35%, at 373.60.
OTC advancers led decliners 1,007 to 917. For the week, the
composite index rose 1.3%.
   Many investors chose technology stocks Friday. Apple
Computer rose 1 to 45, Intel gained 1 to 40 and Autodesk
jumped 1 3/4 to 52 3/4.
   Apple Computer was the most active OTC stock, trading more
than 3 million shares. Oracle Systems added 1/2 to 8 1/8 on
almost 2.5 million shares.
   National Health Laboratories was active and lower again. A
federal grand jury inquiry into the company's pricing
policies continues to put pressure on the stock, which
dropped 2 3/4 to 9 5/8 on 1.5 million shares.
   Healthdyne gained 1 1/8 to 10 1/2. The company said it
expects the Food and Drug Administration to authorize
additional uses for its uterine contraction activity monitor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Industrial Switch:
   Some Companies Cut
   Pollution by Altering
   Production Methods
   ---
   `Clean' Manufacturing Avoids
   Many Problems at Source
   Rather Than Mopping Up
   ---
   Change May Trim Costs, Too
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   T MMM UTX GE
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   According to conventional wisdom, sweeping clean-air laws
will burden U.S. industry with billions of dollars in
pollution-control costs and raise prices for a slew of
commodities and finished goods.
   Not necessarily so, more and more manufacturers say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Surprisingly, they are actually reducing some costs as
they install new pollution-cutting technologies. But the
benefits come from new manufacturing techniques -- not the
waste and emission treatment encouraged by much environmental
legislation.
   And the benefits could be huge. U.S. manufacturing wastes
can be halved by using existing technologies, the
congressional Office of Technology Assessment estimates.
Eliminating another 25% would require research and
development.
   It's difficult to estimate the savings achievable through
such manufacturing changes. But roughly $75 billion a year is
being spent on waste and emission treatment, and recent
clean-air legislation may eventually add another $25 billion
if companies stick to business as usual.
   "This is money down the tube. If industry reduces waste
10%, that's $10 billion in savings. That's just the start,"
says Michael Overcash, a professor at North Carolina State
University in Raleigh who studies the issue for the
Environmental Protection Agency.
   Moreover, American companies produce five times the waste
per dollar of goods sold compared with Japanese companies and
more than twice that of the Germans, according to Joel
Hirschhorn, a former official of the Office of Technology
Assessment who now heads an environmental-technologies
consulting firm. "Waste reduction can have a staggering
effect on the bottom lines of American companies" and can
improve their world-wide competitiveness, he says.
   Here are some savings that companies are already
achieving:
   -- Carrier Corp. spent $500,000 in 1988 to eliminate toxic
lubricants from its manufacture of air conditioners -- and
slashed annual production costs by $1.2 million.
   -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. recently cut about
$3 million of annual costs by ridding its circuit-board
manufacture of an ozone-depleting compound.
   -- Whyco Chromium Co. says a new alloy that it developed
to eliminate harmful byproducts from its process for coating
nuts and screws has trimmed the cost 25%.
   -- And 3M Corp. estimates that manufacturing changes to
control pollution have saved it $41 million in the past three
years.
   Of course, not all environmental pollution can be
suppressed by manufacturing changes alone. Some measure of
pollution-control technologies will be required to treat
sludge, municipal garbage, and emissions from automobiles and
utilities.
   But few companies seem willing to try "clean" technologies
that address the very source of pollution because of up-front
risks and research and development costs associated with
untried approaches, Mr. Hirschhorn says. "It's easier for
companies to resort to easy and low-risk waste-reduction
projects. But that only adds costs."
   That's no surprise to James Gustave Speth, president of
the World Resources Institute, a not-for-profit
policy-research center that expects to issue a study on the
economics of environmental technologies next month. "Our
whole history of environmental regulations has been one of
imposing end-of-the-pipe standards which manufacturers meet
with end-of-the-pipe technologies. We have never encouraged a
rapid diffusion of technologies that prevent pollution in the
first place," he says.
   The result: million-dollar scrubbers to treat toxic
emissions from power companies' chimneys; expensive
incineration plants to treat hazardous wastes; recycling
technologies for coolants used in cars and refrigerators;
special catalytic converters to cleanse toxic
automobile-tailpipe emissions, and elaborate arrangements to
haul waste to disposal sites.
   Yet technologies already available can do away with
expensive "control" measures. Among these are employing
carbon dioxide and other gases to spray paint rather than
using solvent as the medium; sanding and other mechanical
means for stripping paint; batteries that don't use toxic
chemicals (as introduced last year by Polaroid Corp.); and
jet-engine combustion techniques that utility power plants
can use to reduce as much as 80% of the harmful nitrogen
oxides that now must be tamed with ammonia and expensive
catalysts (a technology General Electric Co. is developing).
   Carrier, for example, decided in 1987 to adopt "clean"
technologies. In manufacturing air conditioners, the biggest
source of hazardous wastes is the "degreasing" line. There,
copper and aluminum parts pass through tanks of solvents to
be cleaned of oils and debris accumulated during cutting and
soldering.
   The United Technologies Corp. unit first developed a
nontoxic lubricant that evaporated. Next, it fine-tuned its
cutting presses to cut metal coils more precisely, with less
friction and less waste. (In the past, high friction in the
cutting press was countered by lubricating the metal.) The
company also designed air conditioners with fewer parts,
reducing the need to cut and rejoin metal.
   The result: Carrier eliminated the "degreasing" line,
increased automation, reduced scrap and eliminated down time.
"We also improved overall quality of our product," says
Gerald Bailey, Carrier's director of environmental health and
safety. With fewer joints, the air conditioners leak less, he
says.
   AT&amp;T had traditionally cleaned soldering debris and rosins
from circuit boards with chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which
are believed to deplete the earth's protective ozone layer.
Although several environmental services offer equipment to
recycle CFCs, AT&amp;T has been installing new cleaning lines
that use solutions similar to household detergents.
   With the new solutions, cleaning a square foot of board
costs 15 cents, compared with 25 cents with CFC. The new
solutions, however, must still be treated before disposal.
But by switching to a rosin that is completely harmless and
evaporates, AT&amp;T expects to "eliminate entirely the cost of
cleaning," says George Wenger, of AT&amp;T's materials and
process group.
   Mr. Wenger says environmental standards are tightening so
rapidly that AT&amp;T believes that complying is going to become
increasingly expensive. "Our attitude is that rather than
wait and see how hard it will be," he says, "let's adopt new
technologies that will put us in good competitive position in
the long run."
   Even at companies that must continue resorting to
pollution treatment as well, the preventive approach can
generate substantial savings. For example, 3M estimates that
its 2,500 different manufacturing changes since 1975 have
produced total net savings of $500 million while halving its
toxic emissions.
   Thomas Zosel, manager of 3M's pollution-prevention
programs, argues that such savings call for flexible
enforcement of the regulations. He suggests that the EPA
could allow additional time for compliance for companies
trying out innovative manufacturing technologies.
"Regulations currently don't allow that," he says.
   Whyco Chromium, which coats nuts and bolts and other
automobile fasteners for corrosion resistance, would like to
spend more time improving manufacturing methods than treating
its effluents. Two years ago, the Thomaston, Conn., company
developed an organic compound that required only two to three
coats, half as many as the previous nickel-cadmium-copper
compound. It reorganized its plant with new equipment, but
most of the "several hundred thousand dollars in investment
was in research and development," says Mark Hyner, president.
   And research, he says, is something his small company
can't afford under the pressure of compliance deadlines.
"Most of our time and resources are spent dealing with
regulations. I would love for somebody from the EPA to come
in and say `Let's see how we can do things differently' or
for the government to offer tax incentives for innovative
technologies," he says. Mr. Hyner says his company, whose
1989 sales totaled $13 million, spends $2 million annually on
treating and hauling wastes and maintaining a staff that
oversees environmental compliance.
   At the EPA, David Berg, director of technology innovation
and economics, says the agency is evaluating how "the current
environmental legislation creates disincentives" for
companies to undertake pollution-prevention technologies. His
office is expected to make recommendations to the EPA
administrator this winter.
   Under consideration, he says, are "waivers" that would
give companies that risk innovative technologies additional
time for compliance. Another proposal is to establish
"national centers" where environmental consequences of a new
manufacturing process could be tested without an EPA permit,
which now "costs companies money and time," he says.
   Another fundamental consideration also keeps many
companies from adopting "clean" manufacturing technologies. A
switch-over requires manufacturers to make design and other
changes in products whose "specifications" have long been
established by their customers. Small to middle-level
manufacturers that supply parts and components are reluctant
to change those specifications even though this wouldn't
affect product quality, says Bobbie Pettit, who directs
product testing at Premier Chemical Co., a Burke, Va.,
concern that is developing environmentally safe solvents.
"The suppliers are afraid that if they make manufacturing
changes, their customers won't buy," she says.
   The outcome of the conflicting pressures will depend upon
whether companies see pollution prevention as productivity
improvement. "That directs attention to improving
manufacturing efficiency in ways not looked at before," says
Mr. Overcash at North Carolina State.
   ---
                   Cleaning Up Pays Off
                                                                                                       

   Unexpected corporate benefits of environmental compliance
                                                                                                       

 COMPANY           MANUFACTURING CHANGE           BENEFIT
                                                                                                       

 AT&amp;T            Redesigned               Eliminated use
                 circuit-board cleaning   of ozone-depleting
                 process                  chemicals, slashed
                                          cleaning costs by

                                          annually
                                                                                                       

 Carrier         Revamped metal cutting,  Eliminated toxic
                 and redesigned air       solvents, cut
                 conditioner parts        manufacturing cost
                                          $1.2 million
                                          annually
                                                                                                       

 Clairol         Switched to foam balls   Reduced waste
                 from water to flush      water 70%, saving
                 pipes in hair-care       $240,000 annually
                 product manufacturing    in disposal costs
                                                                                                       

 W.R. Grace      Reformulated solvents    Reduced toxic
                 and changed process in   waste by 50%
                 sealant and gasket
                 operation
                                                                                                       

 3M              Developed adhesive for   Eliminated the
                 box-sealing tapes that   need for $2
                 doesn't require solvent  million worth of
                                          pollution control
                                          equipment
                                                                                                       

 Polaroid        Eliminated mercury from  The batteries are
                 battery                  now recyclable
                                                                                                       

                 Streamlined photographic Cut waste
                 chemical plants          generation 31%;
                                          and disposal costs
                                          by $250,000 a year
                                                                                                       

 Reynolds Metals Replaced solvent-based   Cut emissions 65%,
                 ink with water-based in  saved $30 million
                 packaging plants         in pollution
                                          equipment
                                                                                                       

 Union Carbide   Developed system that    Cut volatile
                 replaces solvents with   organic emissions
                 carbon dioxide as medium 72%
                 for spraying paint
                                                                                                       

 Whyco Chromium  Changed process that     Cut process cost
                 makes nuts, bolts and    by 25%
                 other fasteners
                 corrosion-resistant
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HOLIDAY NOTICE
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   The Wall Street Journal will not be published tomorrow,
Christmas Day. Today's edition is one section.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Paramount Ordered to Refigure
   Buchwald's Fee in Movie Dispute
   ----
   By Amy Stevens and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI BOL EPI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   A judge's ruling that Paramount Pictures Corp. forced
writer Art Buchwald into an "unconscionable" fee agreement
marks one of the few times a court has thrown out a standard
movie contract. It is expected to shake the Hollywood studio
hierarchy and its decades-old system of net-profit deal
making.
   California Superior Court Judge Harvey A. Schneider
ordered the Paramount Communications Inc. unit to abandon its
usual method of cost accounting when it determines how much
money it owes Mr. Buchwald and an independent producer, Alain
Bernheim, for their work on the film "Coming to America." The
studio, which produced and distributed the 1988 hit starring
Eddie Murphy, must instead pay them a "fair and reasonable"
share, which the judge will determine after hearing more
evidence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Buchwald and Mr. Bernheim signed a contract that
included a definition of net profits that has become standard
in the industry. Paramount contended that the movie fell $18
million short of reaching the point at which these net
profits would kick in, even though the film had grossed more
than $300 million world-wide. Of that, Paramount's own share
of the revenue is about $150 million.
   In a strongly worded 36-page opinion, Judge Schneider said
the "net-profits formula as written no longer exists."
   Mr. Buchwald said he expects his suit to "change
Hollywood's accounting system." The decision could have broad
implications for most people who negotiate movie deals with
big studios. Only a handful of Hollywood's most powerful
actors, directors and independent producers are able to
demand a share of gross earnings. Traditionally, artists who
didn't have "the clout to make a better deal," according to
the judge's opinion, signed boilerplate provisions for a
share of net profit, which often failed to materialize.
   In the Buchwald deal, the judge struck down as "overly
harsh" and "one-sided" Paramount's deductions for overhead
and interest on overhead that bore no relation to the
company's actual costs.
   "If I were a studio lawyer right now, I'd have my standard
contract in one hand and the judge's decision in the other,
and I'd be revising it right now," said Pierce O'Donnell, a
Los Angeles lawyer for the Buchwald-Bernheim team.
   The decision drew sharp criticism from the studio and some
members of the movie industry. "If this ruling stands,
virtually every commercial contract would be subject to being
rewritten by the courts at the insistence of a party who felt
that the agreement was not as advantageous as he would have
liked," Paramount said in a statement.
   "This is a disaster that will change the entertainment
business permanently and irreversibly," said Peter Dekom, a
Los Angeles entertainment lawyer. He predicted that hundreds
of writers and producers will sue studios for new accountings
of profits. The ensuing "legal nightmare," Mr. Dekom said,
will provoke a backlash by studios, which could simply
abandon any pretense of net-profit participation and resort
to flat, up-front payments.
   "Individuals with low bargaining power are likely to be
hurt because the studio won't want to take the risk they are
going to sue," he said.
   An executive at another major Hollywood studio said that
if the judge's ruling is upheld on appeal, movies will be
more expensive to make because artists will demand a greater
share of the profit.
   Charles P. Diamond, a lawyer for the studio, vowed to
appeal. "This judge thinks he is free to rewrite economic
terms that willing buyers and sellers agreed to," he said.
   Several talent agents said that in the wake of the ruling
they are likely to seek more favorable terms from studios for
their clients.
   Earlier this year, Judge Schneider ruled that "Coming to
America" was based on an idea by Mr. Buchwald, who wrote a
brief synopsis but didn't receive screen credit. Mr. Murphy
had said that he co-wrote the script with talk-show host
Arsenio Hall.
   Messrs. Buchwald and Bernheim's contract stipulated that
they were entitled to a fee of about $250,000 and about 41%
of the film's net profit as defined in the contract if
Paramount made the movie and Mr. Bernheim was the producer.
"Coming to America" was one of the top 20 grossing films of
the 1980s.
   ---
   ENVIRONMENTAL decision appears to conflict with federal
appellate ruling.
   A Maryland state judge ruled that Utica Mutual Insurance
Co. must pay cleanup costs at a former Bausch &amp; Lomb Inc.
facility in Sparks, Md.
   This is the first such ruling in Maryland in an
environmental cleanup case. Defense lawyers said the case is
significant because Judge John F. Fader II of Baltimore
County Circuit Court refused to follow a 1987 federal appeals
court decision involving Armco Inc. In that case, the appeals
court ruled that Armco's insurer wasn't liable for the costs
of a cleanup at an Armco site.
   "Because federal courts are required to follow state
courts on interpretations of state law, Judge Fader's ruling
undermines the Armco decision," said Jordan Stanzler, a
lawyer with the New York firm Anderson Kill Olick &amp; Oshinsky
who represented Bausch &amp; Lomb. Mr. Stanzler said the Armco
ruling is cited frequently by insurers in environmental
disputes.
   Bausch &amp; Lomb, based in Rochester, N.Y., operated the
optical instruments facility in Sparks from 1965 to 1987.
Groundwater contamination on the site was discovered in 1985.
The cost of the cleanup isn't known.
   Judge Fader ruled that under Maryland law the cost of
cleaning environmental contamination is covered under Bausch
&amp; Lomb's insurance policies. But the judge said the insurer
doesn't have to pay the cost of investigating the nature of
the contamination at the site. Judge Fader, who ruled from
the bench following a two-week trial, hasn't issued a written
opinion.
   Lawyers for the Utica, N.Y., insurer said that Judge
Fader's ruling chips away at the Armco decision but doesn't
undermine it entirely.
   Thomas Brunner, a lawyer with the Washington firm Wiley,
Rein &amp; Fielding, which represents Utica, said Judge Fader's
ruling was a victory for insurers on other issues. He said
the company will appeal the part of the ruling dealing with
the Armco decision.
   ---
   FDIC PLANS to appeal decision barring it from filing new
claims against Drexel.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Francis Conrad rejected the
agency's request for more time to seek additional damages
from Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. Drexel filed for
bankruptcy-law protection last February.
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. already has sued
Drexel for $6.8 billion in damages for alleged thrift losses
caused by Drexel junk-bond transactions. Although the
deadline for filing claims against Drexel was Nov. 15, the
FDIC says it needs more time to investigate thrifts that have
failed since then.
   "It is clear that this agency has a duty and obligation
and a mandate from Congress to pursue fully all avenues of
recovery," said Alfred J.T. Byrne, general counsel for the
FDIC. He said the agency plans to appeal Judge Conrad's
decision.
   The FDIC had asked Judge Conrad to give it until Feb. 13
to file additional claims. But Mr. Byrne said the agency
isn't ruling out seeking an even broader extension. At a
hearing Thursday, Thomas Barr, an attorney for the agency,
said that after a thrift fails, the FDIC should be given 60
days to investigate whether a claim should be filed against
Drexel.
   Mr. Byrne also defended the size of the FDIC's claims,
which Drexel has described as exaggerated and politically
motivated. "We are very serious. We have done our homework,"
Mr. Byrne said. "We haven't asserted damages for any amount
more or less than we think we are entitled to recover."
   Drexel says granting the FDIC the chance to file new
claims will only delay the company's efforts to reorganize.
   ---
   FEDERAL COURTS in seven states will allow cameras in the
courtroom.
   U.S. district courts in parts of Indiana, Massachusetts,
Michigan, Pennsylvania and Washington will take part in a
three-year pilot program. The federal court in Manhattan
announced last week that it was selected as well by a
nationwide committee of federal judges. Cameras also will be
permitted in the federal appeals courts in Manhattan and San
Francisco.
   Only civil cases will be involved. Although cameras are
allowed in most state courtrooms, they are currently
prohibited in all federal courts.
   The federal program will begin July 1, and strict
guidelines have been issued for camera use. Picture-taking of
jurors, for instance, won't be allowed. And only one still
camera and one video camera will be allowed at a time.
   ---
   EAGLE-PICHER names three attorneys in civil RICO suit.
   The former asbestos maker based in Cincinnati alleges
"malicious prosecution" by three lawyers involved in an
effort earlier this month to put Eagle-Picher Industries Inc.
into involuntary bankruptcy.
   The bankruptcy petition, filed by Cincinnati attorney
Norman Slutsky, was on behalf of three plaintiffs who
objected to the class action settlement terms reached in
federal court in New York on behalf of 175,000 asbestos
claimants against Eagle-Picher. A bankruptcy-law filing
automatically stays all other legal action against the
debtor's property.
   The case was dismissed within 24 hours at Mr. Slutsky's
request because at least one -- and possibly two -- of the
plaintiffs didn't have standing to press the complaint, Mr.
Slutsky said. Mr. Slutsky, who wasn't named in Eagle-Picher's
suit, said he was provided inaccurate information by one of
the attorneys named in the complaint, Ronald Motley, of South
Carolina. Mr. Motley couldn't be reached for comment.
   The other attorneys named in the suit, filed in federal
court in Cincinnati, are Frederick Baron and Brent Rosenthal
of Dallas.
   The lawyers said they weren't actively involved in filing
the suit and that the RICO case is a blatant attempt to
intimidate them for opposing Eagle-Picher's class action
settlement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pan Am, TWA
   Talks Continue
   On Loan Setup
   ---
   Plaskett Is Said to Oppose
   Icahn Plan's Insistence
   On a Chapter 11 Filing
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   PN TWA EUROP UAL NWA PPW
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pan Am Corp. and Trans World Airlines Inc. owner Carl
Icahn continued talks through the weekend on how to arrange a
loan to keep Pan Am afloat and clear the way for the
financier's acquisition of the airline.
   Mr. Icahn's camp and Pan Am representatives were trying to
hash out how such a loan should be constructed. Mr. Icahn
seeks a complicated arrangement that would require Pan Am to
file for bankruptcy-court protection. Pan Am Chairman Thomas
Plaskett, although still negotiating, is understood to be
against such a prerequisite.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, Mr. Plaskett sent Mr. Icahn a letter expressing
interest in considering Mr. Icahn's tentative proposal to buy
Pan Am's 150 million shares outstanding for $1.50 each, or
$225 million, plus $1 a share in subordinated notes. Pan Am
shares closed Friday at $1.50, up 12.5 cents, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.
   But Mr. Plaskett said Pan Am first needs a loan so it can
survive the slow winter months. In a letter to TWA employees
late Friday, Mr. Icahn said he would only give Pan Am cash as
part of so-called "debtor-in-possession" financing usually
arranged before a company reorganizes in bankruptcy court.
TWA would get a priority lien on unsecured Pan Am assets and
would be the first creditor in line for repayment.
   Pan Am executives were understood to be annoyed that Mr.
Icahn had publicly raised the prospect that Pan Am could file
for bankruptcy-court protection. But Mr. Icahn has grounds
for concern about lending Pan Am money because the company
has delayed payments many times to creditors.
   Mr. Icahn is said to be willing to provide Pan Am with a
loan of $75 million to $100 million. He apparently found no
banks willing to join in the investment. While the method of
lending that Mr. Icahn prefers would protect his investment,
it would also make any acquisition more complicated because
it would involve bankruptcy court. He is apparently trying to
figure out how a merger could follow.
   Pan Am executives are under pressure because of an impasse
reached Friday in talks between the U.S. and British
governments over whether to approve a $400 million accord for
UAL Corp.'s United Airlines unit to buy Pan Am's service to
London's Heathrow airport. Pan Am had been lobbying for
approval by year's end so it could get the cash, but it now
seems there won't be a decision until at least mid-January.
   In addition to negotiating on a U.S.-U.K. pact that
restricts new U.S. carriers coming into Heathrow, Britain
apparently must change a domestic traffic-distribution law
that doesn't allow any new foreign carrier into Heathrow.
   As part of the pact with United, Pan Am is expected to get
$20 million as early as today for San Francisco facilities. A
further $10 million is trickling in for spare parts and other
small assets. Pan Am has already received $80 million for two
Boeing Co. jets but has had to spend much of that money on
debt on the planes.
   A person familiar with Pan Am's balance sheet said the
money could help the carrier operate until mid-January. That
assumes, however, that none of Pan Am's big creditors will
force the carrier to pay overdue bills. Pan Am executives are
also hoping to get a boost from Christmas holiday revenue.
   The worsening financial straits of Pan Am are apparently
worrying investors other than Mr. Icahn. United executives
are known to be leery of giving Pan Am a cash advance.
   Meanwhile, it has been learned that NWA Inc.'s Northwest
Airlines has arranged financing with PacifiCorp, Portland,
Ore., to buy Pan Am's New York-Boston-Washington shuttle for
about $150 million, according to people familiar with the
arrangement. Northwest would operate the shuttle with an
option to buy it from PacifiCorp.
   Union leaders were told this month that a sale was
imminent but later were told it had been delayed. There are
apparently questions about how any sale would affect union
contracts. Completion of the sale might also be complicated
by any Pan Am reorganization.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New England Bank
   To Restate Results
   For '89 3rd Period
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Bank of New England Corp. agreed to restate
its third-quarter 1989 earnings as part of its settlement of
fraud charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   As previously reported, the Boston-based bank, without
admitting or denying wrongdoing, agreed to settle charges
that it filed false quarterly reports and registration
statements with the SEC, hiding the deterioration of its loan
portfolio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The SEC voted two weeks ago to accept the settlement, but
didn't file the case in Boston federal court until Friday.
   In its settlement with the agency, Bank of New England
agreed to restate its third-quarter 1989 earnings to reflect
the loan problems more accurately. The banking company also
agreed to have independent accountants conduct a review of
internal accounting controls, and it agreed not to violate
fraud provisions in the future.
   A Bank of New England spokesman said, "We're pleased that
we were able to arrive at a satisfactory settlement with the
SEC and can put this matter behind us. The settlement has no
effect on our current business operations and will in no way
interfere with our ongoing affairs."
   Separately, the SEC was granted a temporary restraining
order after filing charges against Latin Investment Corp. and
several principals of the Washington firm. The order largely
freezes the assets of the three principals, Fernando Leonzo,
Leonel Salinas and Jose Cortes.
   The agency charged that since 1982, the company illegally
sold securities in itself to about 3,500 people, mostly
immigrants from El Salvador and other Latin American
countries. The firm took money into what it described as
passbook savings accounts, but since it wasn't a bank the
money actually was invested in securities of Latin
Investment. Moreover, the SEC charged that the firm defrauded
investors by telling them Latin Investment was a bank.
   The agency charged that the three men used much of the
roughly $6.8 million for their own purposes. Earlier this
month, the company was forced into Chapter 7 involuntary
bankruptcy proceedings.
   The principals couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Cooper Resigns Post as Top Regulator
   For AIDS Drugs, Citing Stress, Fatigue
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.HR Z.ROC BMY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The nation's top AIDS drug regulator, a target of
activists fighting the disease, resigned her post, citing
battle fatigue and burnout.
   Dr. Ellen Cooper, chief of the Food and Drug
Administration's anti-viral drug division, asked the agency
for a transfer. She was often criticized by activists as an
obstructionist. Her departure and a search for a successor
may further delay new drugs to combat acquired immune
deficiency syndrome.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "My situation in my current job is untenable," the
40-year-old doctor said in a telephone interview from her
Rockville, Md., office. She said she planned to take
Christmas week off, and return some time shortly after to
clean out her desk. Her departure complicates the transition
of the FDA's new commissioner, David Kessler, who is
succeeding Frank E. Young after a long interregnum.
   "Politics has become paramount, but science should have a
role," she said, citing the conflict among four factions:
people with AIDS, companies that make the drugs they need,
scientists who test the drugs and regulators who approve
them. Most recently, she has been criticized over the delay
of two experimental agents, DDC, made by Hoffmann-La Roche
Inc., the U.S. unit of Roche Holding Ltd., and DDI, made by
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
   The urgency is heightened as the fourth anniversary nears
of the FDA's approval of Wellcome PLC's AZT. Since AZT went
on the market in early 1987, not a single alternative drug
has been approved to combat the virus. Yet about half of
those with AIDS cannot tolerate AZT because of side effects.
   An issue that dogged Dr. Cooper's tenure was liberalizing
criteria for approving drugs. Traditionally, the standard of
proving effectiveness has been better survival, or fewer
deaths, on a drug. However, pressure is building for the FDA
to accept alternative criteria, such as rises in the level of
immune cells called T4 cells, as signs of improvement.
   One of Dr. Cooper's sharpest critics, Martin Delaney,
leader of the San Francisco-based activist group Project
Inform, said it was "too bad {Dr. Cooper} bailed out" before
DDC and DDI were approved. Mr. Delaney said, "she's still
holding out for traditional proofs of efficacy, and we need
new thinking. If that means new blood, so be it."
   Some activists were apprehensive the resignation might
further slow regulatory review.
   "There may be people who think this is a good thing, but
I'm not one of them. I think this is a disaster," said Jay
Lipner, an attorney with the Lambda Legal Defense Fund, a gay
rights group in New York. He predicted Dr. Cooper's departure
would delay, not hasten, the approval of DDC and DDI.
   Dr. Cooper said her "stress and burnout" were exacerbated
in recent days by an erosion of support from within the
Department of Health and Human Services. She charged some
officials leak preliminary data to activists, "feeding the
frenzy" for earlier drug approval while publicly blaming the
FDA. "It's convenient to make the agency the scapegoat for
the problems of drug development," she said. Top AIDS
officials in the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases didn't return phone calls.
   However, National Cancer Institute director Samuel Broder
praised Dr. Cooper for her "enormous intellectual integrity,
even though we didn't always agree. I think highly of her."
   Dr. Cooper insisted she wasn't resisting new standards to
speed drug approval, but rather challenging researchers to
deliver their best data in support of new drug approval
criteria.
   "I'm very open to using {T4 cell counts} or other
surrogate markers of drug efficacy," she said. "But there's
got to be an analysis of the data by statisticians,
researchers and clinicians. That's just starting now," only
after vigorous arm-twisting, she added.
   She acknowledged other signs of drug performance -- such
as weight gain, reduced infections and improved neurological
function -- can indicate that the virus is in retreat "if
they all go in the right direction." But she said too many
people wanted to take such signs on faith.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Halliburton Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HAL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<LP>
   HALLIBURTON Co., Dallas, filed a registration statement
for a public offering of as much as $500 million of debt
securities. Proceeds would be used for general corporate
purposes by the oil field services concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Coastal Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   CGP
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
PETROLEUM (PET)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   COASTAL CORP. (Houston) -- Coastal said it would redeem on
Feb. 15 about $120 million, principal amount, of its 8.48%
subordinated notes due November 1991. The energy concern said
there are $259 million of the notes outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Enron Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EOG ENE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENRON Corp. -- Enron Oil &amp; Gas Co., a unit of Enron Corp.,
said in Houston that it is postponing indefinitely its plans
to offer 4.1 million common shares. The company cited recent
declines in energy stock prices for the postponement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Scimed Life Systems Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SMLS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCIMED LIFE SYSTEMS Inc. (Minneapolis) -- Dr. William W.
McGuire, president of United Healthcare Corp., Minneapolis,
was named to the board of this medical products concern,
increasing the number of directors to four.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Anacomp Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AAC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANACOMP Inc. (Indianapolis) -- Frederick W. Zuckerman, a
consultant and a former vice president and treasurer of
Chrysler Corp., was elected to the board of this
computer-services concern, increasing the number of directors
to seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Bush Threatens
   To Veto Planned
   House Rule Change
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush, supporting an arcane
provision in the deficit-reduction law, said he would veto a
proposed change to House rules that "would begin to undo the
recently enacted budget agreement."
   In a letter to House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.), Mr.
Bush said he opposed the rules change, which would require
that any bill specify that cost estimates by the
Congressional Budget Office or Congress's Joint Tax Committee
be used to determine if a bill complies with the new budget
law. The proposed change has been endorsed by House Democrats
and is due for ratification by the full House next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although arcane, the issue is important because the law
blocks any spending increase or tax cut that isn't offset by
a spending cut or tax increase elsewhere. Unlike the proposed
rule, the new budget law gives primacy to White House budget
office estimates, a provision the Bush administration fought
to include.
   White House aides and House Republicans see the pending
rule as a way for the Democratic-controlled Congress to
circumvent the strict spending limits imposed by the budget
package. The Democrats see the GOP position as a partisan
power grab, which could undercut their ability to legislate
effectively.
   However, Mr. Bush last week seemed to suggest that the
provision lacked teeth. Explaining why the administration
might decide against proposing a cut in capital-gains tax
rates next year, he cited congressional cost estimates that
such a tax cut would lose money -- and therefore require a
compensating tax increase. Administration estimates differ.
   In his letter, released by the White House last Friday,
the president asked Mr. Foley: "If specifically negotiated
and agreed provisions are to be undone before the ink is dry,
how can we expect the agreement to be taken seriously?"
   House Minority Leader Bob Michel (R., Ill.) plans to
challenge the rule change on the House floor, aides said. But
such challenges rarely prevail in the Democratic-dominated
House. Mr. Michel also plans an attempt to force a vote on a
balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   PRESIDENT BUSH said he will veto any bill specifying that
congressional cost estimates supersede administration
estimates. Mr. Bush's statement was characterized incorrectly
in Monday's edition.
   (WSJ Dec. 26, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Medusa Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MSA
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDUSA Corp., Cleveland, said it completed the private
placement of $35 million in 10% senior notes, due Dec. 15,
1995. The construction concern said proceeds will be used to
repay debt. Medusa also said it arranged with three banks a
new $20 million revolving credit facility to be used for
working capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   LSB Bancshares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LXBK
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LSB BANCSHARES Inc. (Lexington, N.C.) -- Robert F. Lowe,
48 years old, president and chief executive officer of this
holding company for Lexington State Bank, takes the
additional post of chairman, succeeding Haynes F. Sherron,
70, who is retiring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;P 500 Index to Be Altered
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 20
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA CSFN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it will remove
MCA Inc. from its composite index of 500 stocks at the close
of market trading on Friday.
   CoreStates Financial Corp., a Philadelphia bank holding
company, will replace MCA in the index.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   War Approval Won't Come
   Easily, Top Democrats Say
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The top two Democrats in Congress warned
that President Bush wouldn't have an easy time getting
Congress's approval to go to war against Iraq.
   House Speaker Thomas Foley said Mr. Bush probably would
win congressional backing but that the vote wouldn't be
overwhelming. What's more, Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell said Congress wouldn't support giving Mr. Bush
open-ended authority to use military force.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I don't think such a resolution would pass," the Maine
Democrat said on NBC News's "Meet the Press" yesterday. "I
surely would not vote for it."
   Both Messrs. Foley and Mitchell favor continued use of
economic sanctions against Iraq and would consider force only
as a last resort.
   Speaker Foley said he doesn't think the president is
exaggerating his intention to go to war if Saddam Hussein
continues to refuse to withdraw from Kuwait. "I am convinced
that he's serious, deadly serious," Rep. Foley said at a
breakfast with reporters Friday. "I don't think there's any
posturing at all."
   Rep. Foley, a Washington state Democrat, said the
president should seek congressional approval before sending
U.S. troops into combat. But he noted that the president
clearly can begin the conflict unilaterally, and he said it
would be a mistake for Saddam Hussein to think otherwise.
   If the president sends U.S. forces into combat, Mr. Foley
said, Congress will surely back his move, and if Mr. Bush
asks permission first, Congress probably will lend its
support.
   "Right now, he'll get an affirmative vote," Rep. Foley
said. But he added, "It wouldn't be overwhelming."
   Congress might stay in session for at least part of the
two weeks in January that it has planned to be in recess, Mr.
Foley said, in case there is need for it to debate possible
war issues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Rally
   Takes Break
   At Year End
   ---
   Some Fund Managers
   Pause for a Snapshot
   To Show Hefty Gains
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market is slipping into a year-end
lull that could put the recent price rally temporarily on
hold, though many people expect bonds to resume climbing
early next year.
   "In the near term, the market contains a little
uncertainty because of political issues, end-of-year
pressures and because of supply," said Donald Fine, market
strategist at Chase Manhattan Bank Corp. "But if you look
further out, inflation is abating and the U.S. economy is
weak -- and that is a prescription for lower bond yields."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, a bond market setback pushed up yields on the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond to 8.28% on Friday from a
low of just over 8% at the start of the week. Still, Mr. Fine
believes that yields on the benchmark bond will move as low
as 7 3/4% within a few months.
   This week, a time when many investors are on vacation and
have closed out their year-end books, the market is bracing
for a large new supply of securities. Yields often rise ahead
of big bond auctions, and the pattern is more pronounced at
yearend, as dealers mark down prices to clear away older
inventory.
   The Treasury is scheduled to sell $12.5 billion of
two-year notes on Wednesday. On Thursday, the Treasury will
auction four-year notes for the last time, selling about $8.5
billion of the securities. The Treasury will replace the
monthly four-year note auction with five-year note auctions.
   In addition, the government will sell as much as $7
billion of 30-year bonds for Resolution Trust Corp. in early
January. The RTC is the federal agency created to rescue the
nation's troubled savings and loan industry.
   Moreover, new government statistics suggest that the
Treasury will be forced to sharply boost the size of its bond
auctions next year to fund a burgeoning federal budget
deficit. On Friday, the Treasury said the federal deficit for
the first two months of fiscal year 1991 was $79.5 billion,
up from $55.82 billion for the first two months of fiscal
year 1990. The budget deficit for the entire 1990 fiscal
year, which ended in September, was $220.39 billion.
   "You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out
we're on a trajectory for a $300 billion deficit" for fiscal
1992, said Stephen Slifer, an economist at Lehman Brothers.
So far, at least, a big increase in the supply of bonds has
been accommodated by investors, who, jarred by the weakening
economy, have been seeking a safe haven in U.S. Treasury
debt.
   Last week's slippage in bond prices followed a nearly
13-week surge that pushed prices of the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond 11 points higher, which translates into a gain
of about $110 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   Analysts said money managers are worried that a number of
political and technical trends will develop that could put
downward pressure on prices. Rather than risk losing a
portion of the tidy gains they've made in the past several
months, many are selling to reap their profits.
   "Nobody wants to take any risk at the end of the year,"
said F. Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone &amp;
McCarthy Research Associates. "Investors are more interested
in having their balance sheets look the way they want them to
look when the year-end snapshot is taken." He expects trading
activity to slow to a crawl during the holidays.
   One big fear is what Lawrence Leuzzi, a trading manager at
S.G. Warburg &amp; Co., calls the "countdown to conflict."
   He said that when investors return from the Christmas and
New Year's holidays they are likely to focus on the Jan. 15
deadline that the United Nations set for Iraq to withdraw
from Kuwait without being forced out militarily. "Investors
will be cautious until either something is resolved in the
Middle East or until that deadline is passed," said Mr.
Leuzzi.
   War fears grew deeper last week. Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney told U.S. troops on Friday that Iraqi leader Saddam
Hussein "is not getting the message" and that it seems
increasingly likely that the U.S. will have to use force to
drive Iraq from Kuwait. Investors worry that armed conflict
in the Persian Gulf could hurt oil supplies, triggering a
rise in oil prices and inflation. Turmoil in the Soviet Union
also could hurt note and bond prices.
   "All of these things bring forth uncertainty, and in
uncertain environments, bond yields rise a bit," said Chase's
Mr. Fine. "But if you ask me where bond yields will be in the
next few months, they will be lower."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended sharply lower, pressured by war worries,
a deluge of new debt expected this week and a growing federal
budget deficit.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of
105, down 5/8 point from 105 20/32 on Thursday. The issue's
yield, which moves counter to its price, rose to 8.27% from
8.23%. In when-issued trading, the two-year notes to be sold
Wednesday were quoted Friday at a price to yield 7.25%.
   Meanwhile, the Treasury's weekly bill auction that
normally takes place on Monday was held on Friday because of
the approaching holiday.
   The Treasury sold $20 billion of short-term bills Friday,
equally divided between three-month and six-month maturities.
Bond dealers complained that the auction was "sloppy" and
poorly bid.
   While the average discount rates on the new bills were the
lowest since mid-1988, the spreads were wide between the
average rates and the highest rates accepted.
   The average discount rate on the new three-month bills was
6.52% and the highest rate accepted was 6.55%. The average
discount rate on the six-month bills was set at 6.57% and the
highest rate accepted was 6.61%.
   Treasury bill auctions are usually tightly bid and rarely
have more than a 0.02 percentage-point "tail," or gap between
the average rate and the high rate.
   Here are details of Friday's Treasury bill auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                             13-Week             26-Week
 Applications .......... $22,346,725,000     $19,835,025,000
 Accepted bids ......... $10,007,725,000     $10,021,025,000
 Accepted at low price               42%                  4%
 Accepted noncompet'ly   $ 1,556,135,000     $ 1,025,430,000
 Average price (Rate)     98.352 (6.52%)      96.679 (6.57%)
 High price (Rate) .....  98.362 (6.48%)      96.704 (6.52%)
 Low price (Rate) ......  98.344 (6.55%)      96.658 (6.61%)
 Coupon equivalent .....           6.72%               6.89%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Dec. 27. The 13-week bills mature
March 28, 1991, and the 26-week bills mature June 27, 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Pacific Western Bancshares Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PWB
</CO>
<IN>
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   PACIFIC WESTERN BANCSHARES Inc. (San Jose, Calif.) --
James R. Barranti, 44 years old, was appointed to the board
of this banking concern. Mr. Barranti, who remains as the
company's executive vice president/cashier, fills a vacancy
on the 13-member board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   ASB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Savings Bank said William G. Lillis,
president and chief executive officer, will retire at the end
of October 1991. A committee was named to begin a search for
a successor.
   Mr. Lillis, who has been president for 10 years, is
stepping down as a "back-to-basics" strategy that American
Savings recently initiated goes into effect. Following a
second-quarter $40 million loss posted last July, reflecting
an increase in reserves against possible loan losses, the
bank said it would consolidate its Riverhead Savings
operations and pursue the sale of other subsidiaries to cut
costs and pare assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Christmas Carol to the President
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Ghost of Christmas Past
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   During last Christmas season, President Bush ordered U.S.
forces to invade Panama. More than 700 U.S. and Panamanian
soldiers and civilians were killed while Congress enjoyed the
holidays. It was not called war.
                                                                                                       

   The Ghost of Christmas Present
                                                                                                       

   The joy is gone from this Christmas. My daughter and
son-in-law are in the infantry and are joining 400,000 other
troops in the Persian Gulf. They joined the Army together
hoping to finish college, and now that choice may cost them
their lives in yet another undeclared war.
   Mothers must be braver than fathers. I see them on the
evening news fighting back tears while saying they support
the president. But I am having trouble. Suddenly, issues like
control of oil, stable monarchies and shaky coalitions boil
down to the love between a father and daughter. My sorrow for
her is equaled only by my despair. I may never see her again.
   War is more than a military maneuver or a United Nations
resolution. For perhaps tens of thousands, it will be the way
their lives end. As a former U.S. Army soldier who served
through the Berlin Airlift and the Cuban missile crisis, I
know the fear of death our troops are feeling. But this is
different.
   Let there be no doubt about it, if the fuse is lit, it
will be war. The president insisted that the U.N. approve the
use of force, and he changed our goals from protecting the
Saudi king to invading Kuwait and Iraq to wrench Saddam
Hussein from power. As a result, a half-million troops on
each side are pointing the most destructive weapons ever
known at each other across Mr. Bush's line in the Saudi sand.
   My greed is at a more personal level than the price of oil
or saving Western life styles. I do not want my daughter's
name etched in stone like those who died in Vietnam. I
believe her destiny holds a higher purpose than restoring
Kuwaiti royalty to the throne.
   Therefore, I have written her and her husband and urged
them not to show up at the battlefield unless Congress
declares war. If her blood is to spill, it should taint the
hands of Congress as well. Too many presidents have asked us
to overlook their abuse of the same Constitution they were
elected to uphold. Congress has a legal and moral obligation
to the American people to debate the issues before sending
our troops to death.
                                                                                                       

   The Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come
                                                                                                       

   If Congress declares war, what comfort will loved ones
take next Christmas? Will the youthful souls of the dead
return with their mangled bodies? Or will they float like
black angels of death over the Jewish Wailing Wall or a
Moslem temple or the tomb of Christ, haunting the nations
that sent them to die in the desert?
   It is to be hoped that, like Ebenezer Scrooge, Congress
will awaken from its holiday sleep filled with a new spirit
of Christmas, take charge of the Gulf crisis, open
negotiations and send the world a message of peace, by voting
no to war.
   Don Trepagnier
   Austin, Texas
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS BMY
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Co. (New York) -- Thomas D. McCann
was named vice president, public affairs, a new position at
this pharmaceutical company. Mr. McCann, 50 years old,
previously vice president, corporate communications, will
assume additional responsibilities for issues management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Capital Cities/ABC
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAPITAL CITIES/ABC (New York) -- Edwin M. Durso was named
executive vice president, network marketing and general
counsel of ESPN, a total sports network and a unit of this
entertainment and information-broadcasting company. Mr.
Durso, 37 years old, was previously senior vice president and
general counsel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Alters Timing of Stock Awards,
   Helping Top Officers but Hurting Others
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   C TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. has changed the
timing of its stock awards and incentive compensation
pay-outs in a way that will produce tax breaks for its
highest-ranking executives at the expense of most other
senior managers.
   The auto maker distributed the payments this month,
instead of in January as originally planned, because "tax
rates are higher next year," said Robert A. Lutz, president
of Chrysler Motors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the federal income tax rates are primarily increasing
in 1991 for the wealthiest Chrysler executives -- the same
ones who decided to change the timing of the payments. The
far greater number of managers who are eligible for the
payments earn less money, and receiving the payments this
month instead of in January creates significant tax
disadvantages for them.
   The income-tax rate for many of these managers will be
reduced next year, under the new federal tax law. Also, these
managers will have to pay taxes on the compensation a year
earlier than they previously had planned.
   The move has angered many managers at Chrysler who weren't
aware the change was coming, and who have been asked by top
management to make deep sacrifices over the past 1 1/2 years.
"Something like this makes it seem like we have to carry more
of the burden here than those at the top," complained one
Chrysler manager, who asked not to be named. "At the very
least it sends the wrong message."
   "It's going to hurt some people to put a lump sum out
there" this year instead of next, conceded Chrysler spokesman
Thomas Houston. "We did what was deemed to be the best for
everyone at the time."
   Chrysler declined to disclose how much any of its
executives will receive from the stock and cash payments.
Amounts given to officers such as Chairman Lee A. Iacocca,
Vice Chairman R.S. Miller Jr. and Mr. Lutz won't be disclosed
until the company sends out its proxy statement this spring.
   The money involved is substantial in some cases. Under the
unusual "bet-your check" program that Chrysler set up in July
1989, managers could wager as much as 10% of their annual
salary against the company's ability to meet a $1 billion
cost-cutting goal by the end of this year. By exceeding that
target the 2,000 senior managers and executives who
participated doubled their money.
   The one-time stock awards have a different purpose.
Chrysler established them last summer to compensate 1,800
top-level employees who weren't getting their usual cash
bonuses, which can equal half of their total compensation.
Chrysler couldn't give out the regular bonuses because of a
union contract that prevents such pay-outs when hourly
workers don't get profit-sharing checks. Omitting the bonus
had been the major reason turnover tripled, as compared with
the normal level, earlier this year.
   Under the new federal tax law, taxpayers earning more than
$180,000 a year will see their tax rate increase to 31% in
1991 from 28% this year. But because of a quirk in the tax
structure, those who earn $80,000 to $180,000 will actually
see their tax rates drop to 31% from 33% this year.
   Financial planners are encouraging their wealthiest
clients to push as much income as they can into this year. A
study by Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. showed a wealthy taxpayer
expecting a $55,000 bonus could save nearly 3% in taxes, or
at least $1,470, by taking the bonus this year instead of in
1991. That is even after considering profits that could have
been reaped from investing the taxes instead of paying them
to the Internal Revenue Service a year early. In any event,
Chrysler's top executives are expected to get payments far
larger than the Arthur Andersen example.
   Advisers are saying the exact opposite to those who get
hit by the higher tax rate this year, but whose rates will
drop next year. "If people are going to have to pay the 33%
rate this year, they shouldn't pull any extra income into
this year if they can avoid it," said Nick Bubnovich, a
consultant with Arthur Andersen &amp; Co. in Chicago.
   Chrysler's lower-ranking executives didn't have much of a
choice, however. IRS rules discourage companies from giving
employees the option of taking compensation in one year or
the next.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hecla, Alta End Discussions
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   ALTA HL
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   COEUR D'ALENE, Idaho -- Hecla Mining Co. said it halted
discussions about a possible business combination with Alta
Gold Co. of Salt Lake City. The mining concerns agreed in
October to consider a combination, such as a merger or a
joint venture, of their businesses, Hecla said, but decided
not to proceed with such a deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equitable Resources' Spending
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 28
</SO>
<CO>
   EQT
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Equitable Resources Inc., an energy concern,
said it plans to boost 1991 capital spending 8.5% to $117
million, compared with a year earlier.
   It said higher expenditures are planned for development
and production of oil and natural gas reserves and for
pipeline and distribution programs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<LP>
   MATSUSHITA ELECTRIC INDUSTRIAL Co. had been concerned,
before completing negotiations last month, that a political
backlash in the U.S. could kill its pending acquisition of
MCA Inc. This was misstated in a headline on an article in
Friday's edition.
   (See: "Marketing &amp; Media: Matsushita Says Backlash May
Kill MCA Purchase" -- WSJ Dec. 21, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Decline on Shevardnadze's Move
   And Weakness in Yen; London Shares Edge Up
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks buckled Friday under early selling pressure
in response to Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze's
resignation Thursday and the yen's subsequent weakness,
traders said.
   Traders noted, however, that prices later were fairly
well-supported near 24000 points on the Nikkei, helped by
investment trust and dealer bargain-hunting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   London stocks closed a bit higher in slow trading.
   At Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down
405.34 points at 24119.60. The index lost 351.84 Thursday.
   Political uncertainty resulting from the resignation news
and rumors about the Middle East crisis added volatility to
the day's thin trading.
   Volume on the First Section was estimated at 350 million
shares, off from 393 million Thursday.
   Declining issues overwhelmed winning issues, 864 to 136,
while 114 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the First Section, which fell 26.04 points Thursday, gave
up another 30.55 points, or 1.70%, to 1764.82.
   The Second Section Index, which declined 23.51 points
Thursday, lost 41.63 points, or 1.47%, to close at 2781.64.
   Volume in the Second Section was estimated at 8.5 million
shares, nearly doubling from 4.5 million Thursday.
   The yen's decline, linked in part to Mr. Shevardnadze's
resignation, stifled buying and left the Nikkei exposed to
index-selling and profit-taking for the first half hour of
trading, participants said.
   The index lost nearly 500 points during that time,
remaining narrowly above 24000 points for most of the
session. Short-covering placed at 24,000 on the Nikkei helped
turn prices around, while other buying, some
arbitrage-related, was strong enough to keep the index from
collapsing.
   Amid low participation ahead of the long weekend and
approaching year-end holidays, the market conjured up rumors
ranging from a Soviet military coup to an Iraqi pullout from
Kuwait, traders said. The market will be closed today for a
national holiday.
   Middle East rumors mostly improved market hopes for a
peaceful settlement to the crisis, sparking some buying in
late afternoon that gave the index back almost half of its
early losses. But profit-taking sent the index lower again by
the close.
   Traders noted that Tokyo's reaction to Mr. Shevardnadze's
resignation was worsened by the market's characteristic
problems with digesting news on international foreign policy.
With details surrounding the foreign minister's resignation
still unclear, investors sold in modest amounts on the
uncertainty, they said.
   Because of the yen's weakness Friday, export-oriented
businesses such as bluechip electrical issues were mostly
firmer.
   TDK rose 100 yen (74 cents) to 4,640 yen, Pioneer added 30
yen to 4,080, Hitachi rose 10 to 1,130 and Kyocera added 150
to 6,000. But Sony closed flat at 6100.
   Banking, construction, steel and shipbuilding shares,
which led the market's recent rally, were mostly lower.
Mitsubishi Bank lost 150 to 2,070, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries fell 15 to 685 and IHI fell 15 to 685. Ohbayashi
dropped 14 to 870.
   London share prices finished just below the day's best
level Friday, as the market was prodded gently higher amid
stagnant, pre-holiday dealings.
   Business was described as extremely quiet and spiritless
as most investors merely rounded out positions ahead of the
weekend and before the onset of this week's Christmas
holidays.
   Dealers said London investors weren't paying much
attention to Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial
Average was up 7.17 points at 2636.63 when the London
business day drew to a close.
   The release of U.K. trade figures for November caused
little stir in the market. The data showed both the trade and
current account deficits at #971 million ($1.84 billion),
which was slightly larger than anticipated.
   At the closing bell, the closely monitored Financial
Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index was up 5.6 points at
2164.4, up from the opening low of 2152.6 and just below the
midafternoon peak of 2164.6.
   In the futures market, the December FT-SE 100 index
contract settled at 2170.0 on the London International
Financial Futures Exchange, up from 2163.0 Thursday.
   At its final calculation, the narrower FT 30 share index
was 1.2 points higher at 1688.4. Volume registered a mild
526.7 million shares, down from 590.2 million Thursday.
   Of the top 100 stocks in terms of market capitalization,
44 finished higher, 17 were unchanged and 39 closed lower.
   Troubled advertising group WPP fell 11 pence to 50 pence
in active dealings. The company said it won't pay an interim
dividend because of its weak cash flow.
   Glaxo shares gained 17 to 861 on what traders said was
strong buying support from the U.S. after several days of
steep falls last week. A total of 3.2 million shares changed
hands during the session.
   Rank Organisation shares finished 18 lower at 622 amid
thin turnover of 788,000 shares. Dealers said the stock fell
on one poorly placed trade, leaving a large amount of stock
overhanging the market.
   Elsewhere, stocks closed higher in Madrid, Zurich,
Frankfurt and Paris, mixed in Amsterdam and lower in Milan,
Stockholm and Brussels. South African gold stocks closed
higher.
   Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Singapore and Manila,
and higher in Taipei, Wellington and Seoul, while they closed
mixed in Hong Kong.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                % This
                         Dec 20     Dec 19        Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .................   307.5      307.3       - 5.4
 Britain ..............   643.8      649.3       -10.7
 Canada ...............   366.6      366.8       -15.2
 Japan ................  1021.3     1033.0       -38.3
 France ...............   433.2      439.7       -23.6
 Germany ..............   229.7      236.3       -19.5
 Hong Kong ............  2209.8     2219.2       + 5.4
 Switzerland ..........   168.9      171.2       -23.5
 Australia ............   267.1      269.1       -19.4
 World index ..........   468.4      473.6       -17.4
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   All Over the Nation
   People Are Putting
   On Pajamas Again
   ---
   The Woodstock Generation,
   For Instance, Now Feels
   Naked Without Them
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It was the golden age of pajamas. "Thin Man"
detective William Powell shook up cocktails in his brocade
robe and silk pajamas. "Pajama Game" became a Broadway hit.
Wheelchair gumshoe James Stewart -- in pajamas -- solved a
murder out his rear window. And one long, rainy night, Clark
Gable shared his pajamas with Claudette Colbert.
   Then along came the Woodstock generation. It didn't
believe in wearing things to bed, and pajamas fell into
disrepute. During the 1960s and '70s, pajamas were regarded
as strictly for kids, for surgery or for Hugh Hefner. Pajamas
were as square as their boxy tops.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now pajamas are making a comeback. Baby boomers in their
cocoons like to lounge in clothes that feel good and don't
bind; and as an added incentive to cover up, their own babies
have reached staring age. Saddam Hussein also can take some
credit for the pajama renaissance. To keep heating bills down
some people are digging into their clothes drawers for those
unworn pajamas that well-meaning relatives once gave them.
   The popularity of pajamas has inspired Chicago's Planet
Cafe, which opened in 1988, to promote pajama parties.
Weekend customers who show up for breakfast in pajamas get
10% discounts on their meals. At times, says owner Todd
Revesz, as many as a third of the 30-seat cafe's patrons are
taking their breakfasts in "pajamas, granny gowns and even a
few nightcaps."
   In returning to pajamas, a generation has created new role
models and sex symbols. Superdad Bill Cosby wears pajamas. So
does Richard Gere -- navy, silk, and only the bottoms -- in
this year's hit movie "Pretty Woman."
   Other male actors, possibly in hope of being taken more
seriously, are often insisting on covering their chests in
bedroom scenes. These are "a lot more glamorous when the
woman is wearing a peignoir and the guy is wearing pajamas,"
says James Alvarez, manager of the wardrobe department for
NBC Television in Burbank, Calif. "Especially since now there
are more beautiful garments to choose from."
   The leading men of old might be shocked by some
contemporary pj's. If you're willing to spend $40 to $80 for
pajamas, you can find them emblazoned with just about
anything -- fried eggs, pink pigs or coffee pots. For lovers,
there's a set printed with "No]" that turns to "Yes]" when
the lights go out.
   New York restaurateur Thomas Baratta got used to sleeping
in undershirts in the service. He never planned to wear
pajamas again. Then he received a pair of flannel pajamas --
printed with dice and playing cards -- and became a convert.
Six of Mr. Baratta's friends will be receiving loud-print
pajamas this Christmas. "When I get home I can't wait to get
out of my clothes and into my pajamas," says Mr. Baratta.
   For the past few months, Elyse Salend, a Los Angeles
gerontologist, has been sleeping in a pair of cow-print
pajamas she bought to match the ones her husband received as
a present. "I wear the cow pajamas when I read bedtime
stories to my kids," says Ms. Salend, "and I feel, you know,
like `Father Knows Best.'"
   Indeed, pajamas seem so all-American -- Ozzie Nelson wore
his buttoned to the chin -- that it's hard to believe they
were first worn as street clothes, by the Hindus in India.
The Hindus called them pajamas. The colonial British took
them back to England in the 1870s for lounging and sleeping.
Only the wealthy could afford pajamas then, so the first ones
were made with drawstrings to accommodate the well-fed. By
1927, pajamas were popular enough in America to earn a place
in the Sears catalogue alongside the popular $1.39 muslin
nightshirt.
   Some sleep specialists believe they can improve the
quality of sleep. "Pajamas have a loose fit, and they feel
nice against your skin, so you won't stick to the sheets,"
says Dianne Hales, author of a 1987 book called "How to Sleep
like a Baby." She says, "As more people have become concerned
about their diet and exercise, they are also more focused on
how they sleep . . . thinking more about the beds they sleep
on, their sheets and their pajamas." Can Teddy Bears be far
behind?
   Bill Slevin, who wears pajamas every night, agrees that
when he dons a fresh pair of pajamas he feels "refreshed" and
sleeps better. Mr. Slevin has been selling pajamas at Brooks
Brothers in New York for 49 years and remembers selling silk
pajamas to Fred Astaire and outfitting numerous young boys on
their way to boarding school. For many years, pajamas played
a role in the hazing of new preppies at Phillips Exeter
Academy in Exeter, N.H. After the annual football game with
archrival Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., new Exeter
students had to put on their pajamas and parade through town
to a bonfire on the football field.
   The pajama game had been sleepy for years until the recent
pickup. But in 1989, Host Pajamas Inc., the nation's largest
pajama maker, reported an 11% jump in annual sales. Host
attributes the increase to buying by older people,
stay-at-homes and others attracted by new fashion prints.
Host now sells machine-washable silk pajamas under the
Christian Dior label for $125, as well as a number of
fluorescent and other loud-print styles.
   At prices that high, retailers have begun treating pajamas
a little more respectfully. More stores are taking them out
of plastic bags and putting them on hangers like regular
clothes. At Ralph Lauren's Madison Avenue store in New York,
$265 rayon pajamas hang on padded satin hangers. And flashy
pj's are turning up in more-unusual places, including the
Gene Autry Western Heritage Museum in Los Angeles, where the
museum shop does a brisk business in pajamas with huge prints
of bronco-busting cowboys.
   Not everybody is back in pajamas, of course. Some men
still won't bother with them. They say they sleep just as
well in underwear or nothing at all. Henry Kravis, the king
of leveraged buy-outs, admits to having a couple of pairs of
pajamas around but not for sleeping. "I wear them only when
I'm sick," he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW'S LEADERS SIGNALED a crackdown against breakaway
republics.
   KGB chief Kryuchkov, speaking to Soviet lawmakers, warned
Saturday that the West is stepping up espionage and economic
sabotage in the Soviet Union and that foreigners are
fostering Ukrainian secessionist moves. Gorbachev reinforced
the anti-independence drive by giving Moldavia 10 days to
take steps to defuse tensions. Legislators are to vote today
on a new government structure and broadened presidential
powers. A vote is expected later in the week on a union
treaty allowing more freedom for republics while retaining a
strong central government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Massive foreign aid won't help the Soviet Union until
Moscow takes rapid and radical steps toward a market economy,
according to a study by Western economic organizations.
   ---
   Cheney thanked Egypt for its leading role in the
anti-Baghdad alliance but said some coalition members
couldn't be counted on to join an offensive war to dislodge
Iraqi military forces from Kuwait. The U.S. defense secretary
spoke in Cairo as he ended a five-day trip to the Persian
Gulf region.
                                                                                                       

   The crew of the USS Saratoga held a memorial service for
21 sailors who drowned early Saturday after a ferry returning
them from Christmas leave in Israel capsized in the
Mediterranean off the port of Haifa.
   ---
   The Irish Republican Army announced a three-day Christmas
cease-fire, the first in 15 years. The guerrillas, who are
fighting to end British rule in Northern Ireland, said
offensive military actions would be suspended as of midnight
last night. Irish Prime Minister Haughey said he "earnestly
hoped" the move could be extended indefinitely.
   ---
   Slovenians overwhelmingly voted in favor of their
republic's independence from Yugoslavia. Initial unofficial
results of the plebiscite, with more than half of the votes
counted, showed that more than 90% of Slovenia's voters
approved of the northwestern Yugoslav republic becoming an
"independent and sovereign state."
   ---
   Israel rejected any change in the mandate of U.N. bodies
assigned to the West Bank and Gaza Strip after a Security
Council resolution last week called for the U.N. to monitor
Palestinians' safety. U.N. diplomats said that there are
plans to use relief officials and various member nations'
consulates to report on the Palestinians.
                                                                                                       

   A total of 5,500 Soviet Jews arrived in Israel over the
weekend amid food shortages and political uncertainty in the
Soviet Union. According to an Israeli agency organizing the
airlift, the daily number of arrivals three weeks ago was
only 800.
   ---
   Dr. Ellen Cooper resigned last week as the nation's top
AIDS drug regulator, citing stress and fatigue. She requested
that the FDA transfer her to a different job from her
position as chief of the agency's antiviral drug division.
   ---
   Walesa was sworn in Saturday as Poland's president. In his
inauguration speech, the ex-Solidarity union leader said he
supported the country's economic restructuring program,
introduced a year ago by Finance Minister Leszek Balcerowicz,
but would make modifications to speed progress.
   ---
   Col. Desi Bouterse resigned as Suriname's armed forces
commander and was succeeded by air force chief Ivan
Graanoogst. Bouterse, who ruled the former Dutch colony for
several years after a military coup in 1980, was said to have
met Saturday with civilian President Ramsewak Shankar and
told him of his decision to quit.
   ---
   Five South African blacks died from gunshot wounds in the
province of Natal, and a police officer was fatally shot in a
black township outside Johannesburg, authorities said. Over
3,000 blacks have been killed in South African unrest during
1990, the worst year on record, according to officials.
   ---
   Albania named a young progressive economist, Fatos Nano,
to be general secretary to the government as part of a
leadership shuffle. Separately, 15,000 people attended a
rally Saturday in support of the country's first opposition
party, the Democratic Party, which is planning to take part
in elections scheduled for Feb. 10.
   ---
   Died: Clarence L. "Kelly" Johnson, 80, former Lockheed
aircraft designer who helped develop more than 40 airplanes
and spacecraft, including the U-2 reconnaissance plane and
the high-speed SR-71 Blackbird, Friday, in Burbank, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Seagram Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS T.VO VO
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEAGRAM Co. (Montreal) -- Jack M. Cooper was named vice
president and chief information officer, a new post,
effective Jan. 1, at this maker of spirits, wines and soft
drinks. Mr. Cooper, previously president of CSX technology, a
unit of CSX Corp., Jacksonville, Fla., will be responsible
for world-wide information systems and services.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Fag Kugelfischer Georg Schaefer KGaA
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.KFS BARD
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   FAG KUGELFISCHER GEORG SCHAEFER KGaA's FAG Finance Corp.
unit, Stamford, Conn., said it completed its $131 million
tender offer for Barden Corp., Danbury, Conn., having
purchased or obtained purchase rights to all of the company's
common shares. Barden was the last independent U.S. maker of
precision ball bearings, with 20% of the market. FAG
Kugelfischer of West Germany makes bearings and industrial
systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   AMR Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMR Corp., Fort Worth, Texas, said it filed a registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a
proposed public offering of five million common shares. The
company, parent of American Airlines, said the offering is
expected to begin in January and has a par value of $1 a
share. Proceeds are expected to be used to help fund AMR's
planned acquisition of Trans World Airlines' London routes;
AMR said it agreed to buy six routes last week for $445
million. AMR has 63 million shares outstanding. Goldman,
Sachs &amp; Co. will be the lead manager of the offering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   JPS Textile
   To Restructure
   Its Debt Load
   ---
   Odyssey Unit to Carry Out
   The $460 Million Plan
   In Chapter 11 Proceeding
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   X.JPS
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- JPS Textile Group Inc. announced a $460
million debt restructuring plan, which it said it proposes to
carry out through a "prepackaged" Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law
filing.
   The prospect of a bankruptcy filing by JPS, the successor
company to much of J.P. Stevens &amp; Co., underscores the
growing financial difficulties of much of the U.S. textile
industry. At least eight major U.S. textile companies took on
big debts in the 1980s because of takeovers,
recapitalizations and leveraged buy-outs. A deepening
recession in the textile industry now is making it difficult
for many of these companies to service their debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   JPS's troubles also are a setback for Odyssey Partners,
the New York investment bank that acquired the Greenville,
S.C., textile company in late 1988. Odyssey spent most of
last summer trying to negotiate an exchange offer for JPS's
bonds that didn't involve a bankruptcy-law filing, but
couldn't overcome bondholders' resistance.
   "We feel a reduction in the debt service of the company is
desirable," said Jerry Hunter, president of JPS. He asserted
that "the most efficient and least disruptive way to
implement our financial restructuring is through a
prepackaged Chapter 11 filing."
   In a prepackaged filing, a company wins creditors'
approval of a restructuring plan before filing for
bankruptcy-law protection from creditors. Such filings, in
theory at least, can be resolved much faster than ordinary
bankruptcy cases. JPS said holders of 62.3% of its bonds have
already approved its restructuring plan. It also said it
hopes to emerge from Chapter 11 within 60 to 90 days of
filing.
   In Chapter 11, a company gets court protection against
creditor lawsuits while it attempts to come up with a plan to
pay its debts.
   In its proposed restructuring, JPS is asking bondholders
to swap high-interest, cash-paying bonds for lower-interest
bonds that pay interest in a mixture of cash and more bonds.
It also is offering bondholders a total of 49% ownership in
the company. Meanwhile, JPS's owners, chiefly Odyssey, plan
to invest another $7.5 million in the company to achieve 51%
ownership.
   In a typical provision of the proposed restructuring,
holders of 15 1/4% notes due in 1999 are being offered 10
1/4% notes due in 1999 and 15% equity in the company.
   In an interview, JPS executives insisted that the
company's operations have been doing reasonably well this
year, but they acknowledged that the company still couldn't
handle its heavy debt load. For the nine months ended July
28, JPS posted a $26.2 million loss, as operating profit of
$34.7 million was overwhelmed by $60.9 million of interest
expense.
   Odyssey bought JPS in 1988 for $578 million, a price that
analysts say appears high in hindsight. Odyssey's original
game plan appears to have been to sell off major pieces of
JPS to pay down debt and turn a profit. That strategy was
quickly thwarted, though, as financing sources for potential
buyers have dried up over the past 18 months.
   JPS also has suffered because of high interest rates on
its high-risk, high-yield junk bonds, which were underwritten
by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. The rates of 14 1/4% to 15
1/4% were significantly higher than Odyssey had expected, an
Odyssey executive said.
   Bond traders Friday afternoon declined to quote prices on
JPS's junk bonds, but investors appeared to have marked down
the bonds in advance of news of the proposed Chapter 11
filing. Recent quotes for JPS's junk bonds have ranged from
20 cents on the dollar to 32 cents on the dollar.
   Major JPS bondholders include Drexel, First Executive
Corp., Allstate Life Insurance Co. and First Capital Corp.,
according to Odyssey and JPS executives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Westwood One Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WONE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTWOOD ONE Inc., a Los Angeles-based producer and
distributor of radio programs, said it amended its offer to
exchange $400 principal amount of its 9% convertible senior
subordinated debentures, due 2002, for each $1,000 principal
amount of its 6 3/4% convertible subordinated debentures, due
2011. The amendment reduces the conversion price of the 9%
debentures to $3.50 a share from $5.25, and eliminates the
company's option to redeem these debentures prior to April
23, 1993. A spokesman said Westwood amended the offer because
there was "interest from a large number of holders who said
they would accept an exchange under the revised terms." About
$8.7 million principal amount of the 6 3/4% debentures had
been tendered as of noon EST Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Firms Allowed
   To Import Iranian Oil
   On Case-by-Case Basis
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. companies are being allowed to import
Iranian oil on a case-by-case basis, but payments for the oil
must go to an escrow fund for U.S. claims against Iran.
   A State Department spokesman said that under a
one-month-old ruling, U.S. companies may apply for a license
to import the oil, as permitted under a 1987 Treasury
Department regulation allowing certain transactions with
Iran. Previously, a trade embargo prohibited U.S. companies
from buying Iranian oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The escrow fund was established in 1981 as part of the
Iran-U.S. Claims Tribunal, which arbitrates commercial
disputes between the two nations. The security account is
used to pay awards determined by the tribunal to the U.S.
government for claims, the department spokesman said.
   The Iranian government is obligated to keep the security
account funded at $500 million or higher, the department
said. Since the fund was established, $2 billion in claims
have been paid from the fund to U.S. claimants.
   "If such transactions occur, this will help insure there
are adequate funds available to pay tribunal awards to U.S.
claimants," the spokesman said.
   The decision was made last month, and approved by
President Bush. The State Department spokesman didn't know if
any U.S. company had taken advantage of the ruling.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Just Whose War
   Is It, Anyway?
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Peter R. Kann's brilliant feature about the fools and
vultures impeding the president's Gulf policies and options
("Stuck on the Miniature Gulf Course," editorial page, Dec.
3) summarizes the dastardly attempts to continue carving up
presidential and commander-in-chief powers.
   In World War II, the military options, including
developing the A-bomb, were not subject to daily debate and
approval by Congress, and even Vice President Truman
reportedly was unaware of the bomb's status. If my history is
right, we won that war confronting bullies and deploying a
weapon that prompted the Japanese to surrender
unconditionally -- and with fewer American casualties to
boot.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mark B. Leeds
   New York
   ---
   Despite the feeble pun, the Gulf game isn't a golf game:
It's a prelude to another of the insane wars in which this
government is prone to involve us. Iraq is not another
Grenada, Panama or Libya. The Iraqis can, and will, fight
back. And the U.S. has helped equip them to do it.
   Mr. Kann suggested trading Congress for the U.N. Security
Council. It has already been accomplished. Considering the
bribes and concessions the U.S. has made to these countries,
why shouldn't they support the offensive action? Secretary of
State Baker has lowered further this government's already-low
esteem by asking Cuba, an outcast for 30 years, for support.
Mr. Bush went to Syria's Assad, asking help from possibly
this government's next candidate as "enemy of the month."
They have made concessions to the Chinese student-killers
only to gain their abstention in the Security Council vote.
   Unlike the U.N. council, members of Congress may at least
have read the U.S. Constitution. They also must face the
wrath of parents who may lose sons and daughters. Taxpayers,
already overburdened with government waste, are not ready for
more obligations.
   C.R. Estes
   Camarillo, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury offerings are tentatively
scheduled for sale this week, according to Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                           U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $12.5 billion of two-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                             Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $8.50 billion of four-year notes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Calmat Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CZM
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CALMAT Co. (Los Angeles) -- A. Frederick Gerstell,
president and chief executive officer of this maker of
construction materials, was elected to the additional post of
chairman. He succeeds William Jenkins, who will retire from
that post Jan. 1. Mr. Jenkins, 70 years old, will remain a
director. Mr. Gerstell, 52, was president and chief operating
officer until 1988 when he was named to his current posts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Reliance Electric Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   REE+
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RELIANCE ELECTRIC CO. (Cleveland) -- Reliance said its
board authorized the purchase of up to $70 million of its
preferred stock and subordinated debt on the open market in
1991. The authorization is subject to the approval of senior
bank creditors. The face value of the debentures outstanding
is $590 million, while the preferred stock outstanding has a
par value of $126 million. In March, the maker of industrial
and telecommunications equipment was authorized to buy $50
million of debentures in 1990, of which $41 million of the
debentures has been purchased.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Giving Students a Head Start in Science
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- An elementary school here in one of the
nation's grimmest slums is at the forefront of a drive to
change science education throughout the U.S.
   The goal: to raise the abysmal level of science literacy
and help kids realize that scientific inquiry is a way to
learn about the world and solve important problems. The
method: teach science, through experimentation, to the
youngest children. "If you miss kids when they're young,
you've lost them" to science, says Allan Bromley, President
Bush's science adviser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This day, 25 kindergarteners at P.S. 7 in East Harlem sit
down to study science. Each child has a snail, a pencil and a
magnifying glass. Take a close look at the snails, says
science teacher Treva Powell, as the mollusks wriggle on the
desks. What do you see?
   Amid groans and giggles, the five-year-olds peer through
their magnifying glasses and watch the snails recoil from
their touch and slime up their desks. Then the children start
drawing -- some adding a smile to a snail's face, others
sketching the circular patterns of the shells. "I want these
kids to develop skills like observation and prediction," says
Ms. Powell. "In my class, we do science."
   Teaching science through experiments is "the best way to
teach democracy," says Mary Budd Rowe, a veteran professor of
science education at Stanford University. "You use concrete
data, and see that experts interpret things in different
ways." The method has the greatest impact, she adds, on poor
kids who don't get to play often with science or construction
toys.
   But science rarely gets taught in elementary school --
less than 30 minutes a day on average. And what little
instruction does take place usually involves memorization.
Teachers are partly to blame, educators say. Many are
frightened off by science material, and don't like the mess
and noise of experimentation. School administrators are
responsible, too, critics say. They frequently judge teachers
by their ability to increase reading and math scores, and
ignore science.
   Efforts to change that mind-set are under way across the
country. The University of Pennsylvania has signed up 110
science and math majors to coach classes in 20 Philadelphia
elementary schools. Teams of four Penn students get groups of
15 grade-schoolers to try such ambitious projects as
designing a Mars colony, and show the kids that science can
be adventurous. The groups even stay overnight at the
Franklin Institute, do experiments in chemistry and
electricity at the science museum and -- every kid's dream --
camp out in sleeping bags under the dinosaurs.
   In California, the Department of Education plans to
require that elementary school children statewide take a
science test that revolves around experimentation -- prodding
local districts to add and improve science lessons. One part
of the test would require kids to design an electric circuit,
build it, predict what objects will conduct electricity and
test their predictions. "We're moving away from teaching
factoids and moving to teaching themes, like energy," says
Kathleen Comfort, a California education consultant.
   One of the most ambitious projects in science education is
taking place here in East Harlem, a black and Hispanic
neighborhood battered by poverty, crime and drugs. The local
school district won a three-year, $620,000 National Science
Foundation grant to train intensively one teacher in each of
the neighborhood's 30 elementary schools in the latest
techniques in science education. These teachers then serve as
mentors to their colleagues.
   But the program has its share of troubles. Mentors face
resistance from teachers who don't like the new methods and
resent being told to change. The local junior high schools
don't continue the experimental approach. And critics say
hands-on instruction by itself won't lead to long-term gains
in understanding.
   Charles Anderson, an education professor at Michigan State
University, says teachers must mix experiments with lectures,
or kids won't learn the underlying principles. "It took
scientists thousands of years to come up with the idea of
photosynthesis," he says. "Left to their own, kids would take
that long, too."
   Ms. Powell, an animated 39-year-old teacher, is P.S. 7's
science mentor. A Harlem resident, she sees herself as a role
model for neighborhood kids and needles them to get back to
school when she sees them hanging around on the streets. She
stocks her room with fish, animals and plants that she
figures her students don't see at home.
   Each class in the school troops into her room at least
once a week to do 45-minute experiments. On a recent Tuesday
morning, she teaches kindergarteners about snails and shows
sixth-graders the concept of prediction and test with bags of
M&amp;Ms. Then she introduces fifth-graders to the difficulty of
cleaning up ocean pollution.
   Devise a plan to skim oil from water, she tells the
fifth-graders, building on a previous experiment for
purifying salt water. For the next class, she plans to buy
the materials the kids say they need and have them start
their experiments.
   One group of girls comes up with an intricate scheme:
"First clip a feather in the water with oil to see how thick
it is. Put a rubber ball inside the oily water to see if
water can make things float. Then use cotton to absorb the
oil."
   Later, Ms. Powell explains that the girls had seen a
picture in a textbook of a bird covered with oil and figured
feathers would somehow be useful for cleaning up spills.
Letting them discover their mistake will take valuable class
time, she says, but will also teach them about trial and
error.
   Once or twice a week, Ms. Powell leaves school to take
science lessons herself, learning, say, to teach the water
cycle by turning plastic soda bottles into terrariums. Local
principals are invited to the training sessions, to win their
support for the program.
   "People are afraid of science," says Robert Negron, P.S.
7's principal. "Everyone means to do well but we become rote"
teachers. Indeed, an earlier movement to teach science
through experimentation was aborted in the mid-1970s when
schools retreated to textbook instruction as part of the
"back to basics" era.
   Ms. Powell wants to make sure the changes stick this time.
On a Wednesday morning, she packs 25 snails in a bowl, grabs
handfuls of magnifying glasses and plastic balances, and
heads off to show third-grade teacher Cynthia Aquart what she
has learned about teaching science. Ms. Aquart is a veteran
teacher known at P.S. 7 as a disciplinarian who can squeeze
better reading scores out of her students.
   Ms. Powell figures the best help she can offer as a mentor
is getting teachers used to hands-on activities. So she
passes out the snails and wanders the room as the kids poke
the mollusks, weigh them on the balances and jot down
observations.
   "Gross," yells one boy in disgust.
   "Did he make your desk slimy?" asks Ms. Powell.
   "Yeah, look," he says, pointing to an oily slick. She
nudges him to make a note.
   As the lesson progresses and the kids get more excited and
noisy, Ms. Aquart becomes uneasy, prowling the room and
finally shutting off the lights to quiet them. Before they
have a chance to finish weighing the snails, she tells Ms.
Powell the experiment is over. The children must get ready
for gym, Ms. Aquart says. Ms. Powell asks her to complete the
experiment later in the day; she demurs.
   Back in her own classroom, the usually effervescent Ms.
Powell is dejected: "When I saw what was going on, I said,
`Uh, oh.'" There was too much mess and noise to suit Ms.
Aquart, she realizes.
   But Ms. Powell vows not to give up. She pulls out journals
that other third-graders kept while growing mystery bulbs.
They weren't told what the bulbs were or whether they would
bloom.
   One entry from Oct. 26 reads: "Some people measured the
plant. Fifteen people thought it was onions. I wonder is it
going to open? We don't know. But I am going to go on and on
until I find out]
   "Your scientist, Victoria Allende."
   Then, on Nov. 19, Victoria added this postscript: "A
flower grew out of it]"
   ---
                  Science in the Classroom
                                                                                                       

 Average minutes per day spent on subjects in 1986*
                                                                                                       

                           Science
                                                                                                       

        K-3                               18
        4-6                               29
                                                                                                       

                         Mathematics
                                                                                                       

        K-3                               43
        4-6                               52
                                                                                                       

                       Social Studies
                                                                                                       

        K-3                               18
        4-6                               33
                                                                                                       

                           Reading
                                                                                                       

        K-3                               77
        4-6                               63
                                                                                                       

 *Most recent data available
                                                                                                       

 Source: Research Triangle Institute
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.IBJ
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN Ltd. (Tokyo) -- Daniel J.
Callahan Jr. was named a senior vice president at Aubrey G.
Lanston &amp; Co., a New York-based U.S. government securities
dealer, and a unit of this bank. Mr Callahan, 39 years old,
was previously a senior vice president at Deutschebank's U.S.
government securities unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   George Melloan is on vacation. His Global View column will
return in two weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Japan and Germany Shirk Gulf Duties
   With Nary a Peep From the White House
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Japan and Germany are barely lifting a
finger to help the U.S. in the Persian Gulf crisis, and the
Bush administration appears to be letting them get away with
it.
   As a result, economic resentment against the two powerful
nations likely will merge with anti-war sentiment in a
formidable challenge to President Bush's Gulf policy. Even
though Congress is in recess, lawmakers already are lining up
to complain. And the House and Senate budget committees are
planning to tackle the question of the allies' contribution
in high-profile hearings next month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The issue is already beginning to reflect badly on two of
President Bush's closest confidants: Secretary of State James
Baker, who negotiated the German support, and Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady, who negotiated the Japanese
contribution. Neither man has publicly chided those nations
for their performance. And behind the scenes, aides to each
man accuse the other of making mistakes.
   So far, criticism has focused on the meager pledges of aid
Mr. Baker and Mr. Brady secured from the two economic giants.
As neither Germany nor Japan is committing troops to the
Gulf, the only way to measure their contribution is in
financial terms. Germany is dipping into its $1.4
trillion-a-year economy for just $1 billion for the U.S. and
about $2 billion for other nations. And Japan's pledges of $2
billion for the U.S. and $2 billion for poor nations are
infinitesimal given its $2.8 trillion gross national product.
   So far, the U.S. has spent about $6.5 billion; and
estimates of the total cost of Operation Desert Shield top
$30 billion.
   But the story is even worse than it seems. Soon, attention
will focus on lesser-known details of the allied aid, which
show that, in certain respects, it's even paltrier than it
seemed at first glance.
   For instance, it turns out that much of the supposedly new
military equipment being sent by Germany to U.S. forces is
actually cast-off gear from the defunct East German army.
"It's perfectly good equipment," says German embassy
spokesman Hans-Henning Horstmann, "and the Pentagon has
approved it."
   The $2 billion pledged by Japan to aid poor Moslem nations
-- Jordan, Turkey and Egypt -- is nearly all in the form of
loans, not grants as had been expected. "As a matter of
principle, we generally don't believe in giveaways in the
matter of economic assistance to developing countries,"
explains Kenzo Ohshima, political counselor at Japan's
embassy.
   Furthermore, what aid the two are providing is flowing
like molasses.
   So far, Japan has delivered to the U.S. just $585 million
in cash and gear, such as fax machines and four-wheel-drive
vehicles. Tokyo's "emergency loans" to frontline states have
totaled just half of the $600 million promised by now, U.S.
officials say. Germany has provided less than half of the
$700 million in military gear it promised in September. Of
the 60 highly publicized poison-gas-detecting armored
vehicles it pledged, only 30 have been sent.
   "This will do nothing but sour allied relations," asserts
Rep. Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.). "Things are already strained
over trade disputes, but this is even worse. . . . They need
the Gulf oil more than we do, and they're not sending
troops."
   The Japanese and German embassies here are scrambling to
put out the building political fire. Japanese Ambassador
Ryohei Murata has been working the phones to members of
Congress, and his deputy called a news conference the other
day to try to put a gloss on Tokyo's performance. The German
embassy has sent an upbeat "fact sheet" to members of
Congress.
   The Bush administration seems oblivious to the domestic
political reaction. It hasn't asked either nation yet for
more money for 1991, despite the huge increase in U.S. forces
going to the Gulf and the looming prospect of war.
   Privately, many mid-level officials are angry at the
allies, especially the Japanese. But the only senior official
willing to criticize Tokyo on the record is Treasury
Undersecretary David Mulford, who heads an international
committee funneling economic aid to hard-hit poorer nations.
   "We have been disappointed that the Japanese have not
disbursed funds as quickly as promised," he said in an
interview.
   By contrast, Richard Boucher, a spokesman for Secretary of
State Baker, said, "We are satisfied with the response that
we've gotten from all our allies." He added: "We are, of
course, engaged with them in continuing discussions about the
effort, and the secretary has made clear, very clear, that we
would be looking for further support."
   Takayuki Kimura, Japan's No. 2 diplomat here, says Japan
is giving "the figure worked out with Mr. Brady. We have not
been asked for more." A German official says, "We could give
$10 billion and it wouldn't make any difference. It would
still be symbolic. The only thing which would count in
American eyes is German troops in the Gulf."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AXP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Paula J. Saint-Amour
was named senior vice president, wholesale travel U.S.A., a
new post at American Express Travel Related Services Inc., a
subsidiary of this travel, financial and information services
company. Ms. Saint-Amour was previously vice president
treasury and budget planning and financial analysis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<LP>
   Healthy Aging Hinges
   On Income, Education
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   MONEY and schooling are the keys to healthy aging, a major
study concludes.
   Drawing on two large national surveys -- one involving
45,000 adults and the other 3,600 -- James S. House and five
colleagues from the University of Michigan's Institute for
Social Research analyzed how education, income, race, sex and
marital status correlate with health as people age. They
measured health both by the amount of such chronic conditions
as cancer, heart attacks and strokes and by the extent to
which respondents are limited in such daily activities as
walking and lifting.
   On average, whites were found healthier than blacks at
every age, men healthier than women and married people
healthier than the unmarried. But these differences were far
less striking than differences based on income and education.
   The researchers divided respondents into four
socioeconomic groups: high education and income, low
education and income, and two middle groupings. In early
adulthood, ages 25 to 34, health differences among the groups
are minimal.
   From then on, however, socioeconomic factors play an
increasing role, and the health of the four groups steadily
diverges. The health of the low socioeconomic group
deteriorates rapidly, that of the highest group declines
comparatively slowly and the two middle groups show an
intermediate pattern.
   Prevalence of chronic conditions, for example, peaks
between 55 and 64 for the lowest group, between 65 and 74 for
the lower middle group, and not until after 75 for the two
higher groups. A similar trend shows for loss of functional
capacity.
   Efforts to postpone chronic illnesses and disabilities
until very late in life, the researchers declare, must
involve measures to reduce socioeconomic differences earlier
in life.
                                                                                                       

   For Women, Remarriage
   Can Be Fruitful
                                                                                                       

   HALF THE WOMEN who remarry while still in their
childbearing years give birth in the second marriage.
   Howard Wineberg, a Portland State University demographer
in Oregon, examined the reproductive history of almost 4,000
women who married for the second time between 1960 and 1984
at an age of 35 or younger. By June 1985, 47.9% of the
remarried women had already given birth, and another 6.4%
expected to. Racial differences were slight.
   Most of the births occurred within 24 months of
remarriage. Not surprisingly, the younger a woman was at the
time of remarriage, the more likely she was to have a child
in the second marriage. And childbearing depended to a large
degree on the number of children the woman had before
remarriage. Women with two or more kids already were
"significantly less likely" to give birth in the second
marriage.
   Poorly educated white women, Mr. Wineberg says, were
considerably more likely to give birth in the second marriage
than high-school or college graduates. But among black women,
college graduates were more apt to have children in a second
marriage.
                                                                                                       

   Mental-Health Problems
   Prevalent in Children
                                                                                                       

   PSYCHOLOGICAL disorders affect almost 10.7 million
children, one out of every five under 18 years old.
   A 1988 government child health survey questioned parents
of more than 17,000 children about learning disabilities,
developmental delays and emotional or behavioral problems.
About seven million children -- more than 13% of all those
between three and 18 -- were reported to have had emotional
or behavioral problems lasting three months or longer or
requiring psychological treatment. These problems included
phobias and anxiety disorders, childhood depression and
aggressive or antisocial conduct.
   An estimated 3.4 million children, or 6.5% of those aged
three to 18, were said to have exceptional difficulty
learning to read and write or do arithmetic. About 2.5
million children, 4% of those between birth and 18, had some
delay in growth or development, ranging from Down's syndrome
to temporary problems due to early illness or injury. The
total number affected by some disorder is estimated at 10.7
million, with some children having problems in more than one
category.
   Analysts Nicholas Zill of Child Trends Inc., a nonprofit
research organization in Washington, D.C., and Charlotte
Schoenborn of the National Center for Health Statistics say
the results establish psychological disorders as being "among
the most prevalent chronic conditions of childhood and
adolescence." They note, for comparison, that 3.5 million
children have chronic bronchitis, 3.2 million have asthma and
1.1 million have heart murmurs.
   Possible causes for the "alarmingly high" level of
psychological disorders, they suggest, include growing
numbers of children who experience parental divorce, are born
outside marriage or are raised in low-income, single-parent
households; increased survival rates of very low birthweight
babies; and effects of environmental contamination.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   FATHERS are more likely to pay attention to daughters if
there are also sons in the family than if there are girls
only, say University of Pennsylvania researchers S. Philip
Morgan and Kathleen Harris. . . . Children from divorced
families tend to get sick more often than those in intact
families, University of California demographer Jane Mauldon
finds. She attributes this more to custodial parents' lowered
income than to children's emotional distress. . . .
Correctional jobs were the fastest-growing type of municipal
employment in 1989, the Census Bureau says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   K-III Holdings to Buy
   Two Field Corp. Units
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- K-III Holdings L.P. said it definitively
agreed with closely held Field Corp. to buy two educational
publishing subsidiaries, the children's book publishers Field
Publications and the encyclopedia publisher Funk &amp; Wagnalls.
   Terms of the transaction, which is expected to close in
early 1991, weren't disclosed. But investment bankers
previously estimated the purchase price will be less than the
$300 million a year in sales for the two businesses combined.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   K-III Holdings, a partnership of former Macmillan Inc.
executives and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., a New York
leveraged buy-out firm, specializes in publishing and
information companies. Recently, it has acquired
special-interest publishers and book clubs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Fed's Key Panel
   Was Unanimous
   On Cut in Rates
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal Reserve policy makers were unanimous
in deciding to lower interest rates in mid-November, amid
mounting evidence of recession and indications that the
inflation rate was stabilizing, the Fed disclosed.
   Despite some differences, all 11 voting members of the
Fed's open market committee agreed that the softening economy
called for cutting rates immediately and for tilting toward
lower rates in the following weeks, according to a summary of
the Nov. 13 meeting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fed pushed down the federal funds rate, the rates that
banks charge on loans to each other, by 1/4 percentage point
after the meeting and by another 1/4 percentage point in
early December.
   Following a meeting of the committee last week, the Fed
pushed down the fed funds rate by another 1/4 percentage
point, bringing it to about 7%. Also last week, the Fed cut
the discount rate, the rate it charges on loans to banks, by
1/2 percentage point to 6.5%. The Fed will release a summary
of last week's deliberations in February.
   In mid-November, Fed economists were projecting "a mild
downturn," but they anticipated that economic growth would
resume during the first six months of 1991. Not all the Fed
policy makers were so optimistic, though. "Many of the
{committee} members noted that, while the most likely outcome
was a relatively mild and brief downturn, there were risks of
a more severe or prolonged contraction," the summary said.
   One continuing concern was the credit crunch or, as the
Fed put it, "the increased reluctance of institutional
lenders to accommodate less-than-prime business borrowers."
Also figuring in the decision was weaker-than-anticipated
growth in the money supply.
   The summary said that a "few" of the committee members
were urging the Fed to move gingerly. Though they were
willing to ease credit conditions slightly, they were
reluctant to give Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan leeway to make
a second move toward lower rates. Still, those who had
objected earlier in the year to easing credit conditions,
including Fed governor Wayne Angell and Cleveland Fed
president Lee Hoskins, didn't dissent.
   The voting members of the Fed's open-market committee are
the six current Fed governors and five of the 12 district Fed
bank presidents. The other seven presidents participate in
the discussions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   State Board of Insurance
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   STATE BOARD OF INSURANCE (Texas) -- Philip W. Barnes, 48
years old, was named commissioner, succeeding A.W. Pogue, who
is leaving for health reasons. Mr. Barnes, a principal in the
Austin office of the accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick, will
take office Jan. 7. Mr. Pogue, who has been a commissioner
since Jan. 4, 1989, will return to his previous position as
associate commissioner for regulated lines and licensing. The
state board sets rates and regulates insurance carriers in
Texas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kroger Co. to Extend
   Offert to Swap Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   KR
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Kroger Co. said it will extend until 5 p.m.
Jan. 9 its offer to bondholders to exchange their 15 1/2%
junior subordinated discount debentures for a new,
cash-interest-paying bond.
   The offer, announced on Nov. 5, was initially set to
expire on Dec. 5, but was extended to last Thursday. This
latest move is being made because holders have tendered less
than the required $150 million principal amount. Terms call
for the supermarket chain to give bondholders between $575
and $660 principal amount of a new 13 1/2% junior
subordinated debenture, due 2003, for each $1,000 face value
of the 15 1/2% junior subordinated discount debentures
distributed as part of the company's 1988 restructuring.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kroger said it won't extend the time for odd-lot holders,
who will receive a cash payment equal to the higher of a $590
minimum, or the price obtained for the debentures when they
are sold. Kroger said it expects to begin mailing payments to
the odd-lot holders on Jan. 2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unocal Plans Work
   On California Plant,
   Bowing to Regulators
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   UCL
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Unocal Corp., bowing to pressure from
California's smog regulators, said it will make $515 million
in additions to its Wilmington, Calif., refinery, allowing it
to produce less polluting "reformulated" gasolines.
   Unocal had steadfastly refused to join the pack of other
oil companies -- including Atlantic Richfield Co., Chevron
Corp. and Shell Oil Co. -- who rushed to the market with
reformulated gasolines over the past year in anticipation of
tougher new air pollution standards.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Company executives had argued that Unocal already
introduced a reformulated gasoline when it converted its
stations to all-unleaded pumps a few years back and that they
didn't want to introduce a gasoline that would be only
slightly cleaner. The company instead launched a $10 million
public relations campaign, buying up smog-belching old cars
in the Los Angeles area and scrapping them, offering free
emission checks for aging autos and having a small fleet of
Unocal trucks cruise the freeways to help stranded motorists.
   But the need to blend cleaner gasolines became an
inevitability in September when the California Air Resources
Board adopted the strictest smog laws in the nation,
requiring oil companies to provide alternative fuels
beginning in 1994 and calling for mass production of
low-polluting cars, including electric cars. Next September,
the board will consider regulations to make the fuel
restrictions even tougher.
   "I'm sure this was a factor in what Unocal is doing now,"
a spokesman for the Air Resources Board said. "They were
intimately involved in the development of our new rules."
   The new facilities, set to be completed in late 1993, will
include a 55,000 barrel-a-day fluid catalytic cracker feed
hydrotreater, a hydrogen plant and related sulfur recovery
units and will result in substantially reduced sulfur oxide
emissions from the cracker unit, Unocal said. Refinery
production will rise by about 8,000 barrels a day from the
current 80,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   President Extends Rail Board Deadline,
   Postponing Possible Nationwide Strike
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
RAILROADS (RAI)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush took action that postponed
the threat of a possible nationwide railroad strike until
mid-February.
   The president again extended the reporting deadline for a
three-man emergency board, from yesterday until Jan. 15. In
May, Mr. Bush named the board to try to resolve health-care
costs, crew size and other contract issues, and later
extended its reporting date to yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the Railway Labor Act, the newest extension put off
for another 30 days, beyond the Jan. 15 deadline, any strike
by the unions and any move by railroads to adopt their own
labor-contract terms unilaterally.
   The White House has said that a rail strike, besides
idling railroad workers and stranding riders, could cause
more than 500,000 layoffs in the economy within two weeks.
This winter, such changes would occur when the economy is
already likely sinking into a recession.
   The emergency board finished its deliberations about a
week ago and began work on a report. Its recommendations
won't be binding, but Congress has typically acted to avert
long rail strikes in the past by enacting board
recommendations into law. That last happened in 1982, when
Congress ended a four-day strike by the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers.
   This time, large railroads and 11 unions are far apart on
a range of issues that they have been negotiating for more
than two years, and chances of a strike are considered high.
That could be complicated if the U.S. becomes involved in a
war in the Middle East, rail unions admit.
   One of the biggest issues is health costs. Railroads want
workers to start paying some of the premiums. And for the
first time in 20 years, railroads are seeking to boost the
deductible amounts that employees must pay on claims.
   The railroads also want to trim operating crew sizes to a
maximum of two from a current three to five, or else reduce
wages of each crew member by 25% or more. Further, the
railroads seek work-rule changes such as boosting the mileage
that crews travel for a day's pay to 160 miles from a current
108 miles.
   The unions oppose all these industry demands and insist
they can continue to resist them. The railroads aren't "going
to impose something we don't want, because we can lick 'em in
Congress," says Richard Kilroy, president of the
Transportation Communication Union, which represents railway
clerks.
   For their part, the unions seek wage increases of 30% over
three years, boosts in cost-of-living pay and job protection
in sales of short lines, among other demands.
   Railroads say they need more cost cutting so they can
compete with trucks, and to improve their return on
investment. Unions counter that they've given enough
concessions in the past, and now need improvements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Gets Solid Reviews for New Laptop
   With Unveiling Said to Be Set for Feb. 26
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. will introduce its
long-awaited laptop computer in late February and appears
finally to have a credible product, industry executives said.
   The executives said IBM has produced one of the more fully
loaded computers in the so-called notebook class of laptops,
which typically weigh six or seven pounds. The machine also
carries an aggressive list price of $5,000 to $5,500, to help
IBM buy its way into the market, they said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If they're going to deliver that kind of performance at
that price, it looks to me like it'll be a winner," said Matt
Fitzsimmons, a computer dealer in White Plains, N.Y. "It
doesn't seem there's too much room for a technology
breakthrough, but this could be a price breakthrough."
   However, the executives added that IBM, based in Armonk,
N.Y., still has a thing or two to prove to laptop customers,
having produced embarrassing failures with its two prior
laptop attempts in the past five years. The laptop market is
mutating as fast as any other part of the computer market,
and a new wave of much lighter machines is expected to appear
next fall. So IBM will have to work to convince corporate
customers that it can keep up.
   The industry executives said the laptop market is still
growing so fast that any share IBM wins won't come out of any
particular competitor's hide. In fact, machines such as IBM's
-- it has a fairly powerful 80386SX processor and large
hard-disk drives -- are just starting to arrive in the market
and are in hopelessly short supply. So any machines IBM can
ship in the first few months will just help the whole market
grow, the executives said.
   The IBM list price of $5,000 to $5,500 would be well below
the current list price of $7,000 for a comparable machine
from Compaq Computer Corp. Lesser-known AST Research Inc.
sells a machine with a smaller disk drive at a list price of
$3,400. Given the state of discounting among computer dealers
these days, all machines sell at about 30% off the list
price.
   While an IBM spokeswoman declined to comment, the industry
executives said the IBM machine will contain a 60-megabyte
hard drive -- enough capacity to store a bookshelf of
material. A megabyte is a unit of storage, equivalent to one
million characters or roughly 400 double-spaced, typewritten
pages. Compaq has begun shipping a machine with a 60-megabyte
drive, but few other companies go beyond 40-megabyte drives.
The IBM hard drive could be important, because laptop buyers
are gobbling up storage capacity.
   The executives also said IBM is talking up its keyboard,
which is full-sized and is slanted to make it more
comfortable to use, as most keyboards on desktop computers
are. But keyboards are an intangible issue, and using a
normal keyboard kept IBM's machine from being as small as
some competitors', such as Compaq's.
   The rest of the IBM machine's features are fairly
standard, the executives said. The machine weighs 7 to 7.5
pounds. The black-and-white screen has so-called VGA
graphics, the top of the line among laptops. The machine
comes with two megabytes of main memory, expandable to 18
megabytes, offering more expansion capability than in
competitors' machines.
   The machine is to be announced and available on Feb. 26,
though it may take IBM a few months to get its manufacturing
operations into top gear.
   While IBM is a bit late in announcing a laptop using a
386SX processor and is years late getting into the laptop
market, there should still be room for it to succeed. Not
only does the IBM logo ensure wide availability, but laptop
customers have always gone for the hottest machine of the
moment, rather than built up loyalties to a particular
company.
   "It's not too late to jump in," said Ed Anderson,
president USA of ComputerLand Corp., a big dealer chain.
   Success in laptops has become ever more important, as
these have captured a bigger and bigger chunk of the market.
Some market researchers have forecast that unit sales of
desktop personal computers will decline in the U.S. next
year. Yet laptop sales should continue to grow 40% to 50% a
year. Forrester Research Inc. forecasts that laptops will
account for at least one-third of U.S. personal computer
sales by 1993, so IBM can't afford to sit on the sidelines
any longer.
   Success also would let IBM resolve a public relations
headache. For years now, critics of IBM in the personal
computer industry would ask, in some form or other: If IBM is
so smart, why can't it build a decent workstation or laptop?
After years of failures, IBM introduced a strong line of
workstations in February. And it would love to be able to
answer the second part of that nagging question.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Gorbachev: From Peasant Boy to Politician
   ----
   By Ilya Prizel
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Ever since Mikhail Gorbachev took the reins of power in
the Kremlin in March 1985 the world has been fascinated with
the persona of this backwater party official who shook up the
Soviet state and the international system. Different
observers have ascribed different sources to the dynamic of
the revolution sweeping through the Soviet empire.
   Moshe Lewin in his masterful book "The Gorbachev
Phenomenon" argued that the changes we are witnessing in the
U.S.S.R. are not due to Gorbachev the person, but rather are
a reflection of systemic crisis in a 19th-century political
system that may have been functional in a predominantly
peasant society but has lost its vitality in an urban,
educated and industrial system. Jerry Hough in his study of
Mr. Gorbachev saw the current changes in the Soviet Union as
a symptom of the re-emergence of the historic schism in
Russia's body-politic between the Slavophiles, who feel that
the Soviet Union ought to develop its own political and
economic models, and the Westernizers, who feel that Russia
must join the rest of civilization by adopting Western
political and economic models.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gail Sheehy's "The Man Who Changed the World: The Lives of
Mikhail Gorbachev" (Harper/Collins, 401 pages, $22.95) avoids
either of these broad conceptions, and instead attempts to
trace the intellectual and psychological development of Mr.
Gorbachev from his early days as a peasant boy in the
foothills of the Caucasus to his rise to the pinnacle of
power in the world's last empire. According to Ms. Sheehy,
Mr. Gorbachev's life has been one of constant conflict
between an inherently decent person traumatized by Stalin's
terror, which directly affected his family (both of his
grandfathers were arrested), and a person who is at the same
time a believer in the general premise of Soviet style
Marxism-Leninism.
   To write this biography, Ms. Sheehy interviewed an
exhausting number of Mr. Gorbachev's friends and associates,
ranging from his Politburo colleagues to childhood
sweethearts. The portrait of Mr. Gorbachev that emerges is
one of a man who attempted to right what seemed to him -- at
the time -- a series of political and economic wrongs in a
basically healthy system; a man who launched a series of
reforms without realizing the magnitude of the forces he was
unleashing. The interesting aspect of the Gorbachev mindset
that Ms. Sheehy brings out is that once confronted by a
rapidly changing set of circumstances that he did not
anticipate, Mr. Gorbachev, the skilled politician, managed to
turn the situation to his advantage.
   Thus, for example, he managed to preside over the
dissolution of the Soviet empire in Eastern Europe without
much political fallout in the U.S.S.R. Ms. Sheehy correctly
points out that Mr. Gorbachev's ultimate Achilles' heel may
well turn out to be his lack of a vision for his vast nation
and his inability to break totally with the suffocating
Communist Party, of which he himself is a product. Although
Mr. Gorbachev is rightly credited with ending fear as a tool
of governance of Russia and sharply curtailing censorship and
other oppressive institutions, he has never had the political
courage to face a competitive election or an independent
legislature.
   As a result, while Mr. Gorbachev has done much to
dismantle the Stalinist legacy, he has failed to bring about
the emergence of new political and economic institutions that
could halt the disintegration of the country's economy and
avert the deepening crisis of confidence haunting Soviet
society. It is this Hamlet-like approach to internal reforms
in the Soviet Union that resulted in the collapse of the old
economic model without the emergence of a new one, leading to
hyperinflation and severe food shortages in many of the
country's cities. If one were to follow this logic to its
ultimate conclusion, Mr. Gorbachev has outlived his political
usefulness. The resignation of Eduard Shevardnadze means a
further setback for reforms.
   Ms. Sheehy's book is a useful contribution to the
understanding of the dilemmas currently confronting the
Kremlin. What severely affects the credibility of the book is
Ms. Sheehy's highly speculative application of pop psychology
to a man she does not really know and never met. For example,
she deduces, quite unconvincingly, that Mr. Gorbachev is
attracted to strong-willed women because he reached puberty
during the German occupation, at a time when most of his
village population consisted of women and children.
   Another irritating aspect of the book is its numerous
factual errors. To cite but a few: The Ukrainian language was
not banned by the Stalin regime as Ms. Sheehy would have it;
Lenin did not consolidate power with the New Economic Plan of
1921; the Politburo does not run the country through the KGB
but through the party bureaucracy, and has not done so since
Stalin's death in 1953; Mr. Gorbachev was not the first
Soviet leader to visit Britain -- Khrushchev did so in 1955
and Kosygin in 1966; and Baku is on the Black Sea, not the
Caspian Sea.
   It is clear that the book was written by an astute
observer of Soviet life, with a weak background in the
country's history. Nevertheless, it makes for entertaining
and at times instructive reading.
   ---
   Mr. Prizel is a professor of Soviet studies at Johns
Hopkins University.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   We would like to reassure readers that Baku remains on the
Caspian not the Black Sea (as suggested in the Dec. 24 book
review of Gail Sheehy's "The Man Who Changed the World: The
Lives of Mikhail Gorbachev").
   (WSJ Dec. 28, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   World Killers vs. the Neville in Us All
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   What's so terrible about a deal with Saddam? ("The Risks
of a Deal With Saddam," by Karen Elliott House, editorial
page, Dec. 11.) We lived for decades with Stalin and Mao
Tse-tung and their successors. They were two of the worst
killers of history, both had nuclear capability, and both
engendered world instability.
   War should be an option only in a clearcut case of
self-defense. Vindicating the slaughter of Kuwaitis by
allowing Saddam's soldiers to kill American troops without
due process is a compounding of injustices. Other tyrants who
remain unpunished include Kim Il Sung, Pol Pot, Idi Amin,
Castro, Gadhafi, Ortega, Assad, Mengistu and a host of
African rulers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Our problem involves retreating from a posture we never
should have assumed. After Aug. 2, Mr. Bush sent troops and
forged an alliance to stop Saddam. But he also broadcast
ultimatums, went on vacation and traveled around the world
telegraphing "business as usual." While he refused to be
inconvenienced by Saddam, he disrupted the lives of tens of
thousands of American families to bolster his bravado. Other
nations were more cautious.
   We should have soldiers from the Arab League replace our
troops immediately and quit sacred Arab soil before Ramadan.
Let Arabs make deals with Saddam if they wish. If we try it
on Saddam's turf he will surely get the upper hand. At best,
we should offer to destroy Saddam's munitions factories from
the air, and let Arabs do the mopping up. OPEC self-interest
will ensure us of oil at market prices. And continued Arab
squabbling will be Israel's best defense. Establishing that
scenario would constitute real world leadership.
   Harry Lee Smith
   Alpharetta, Ga.
   ---
   Ms. House's superb article should be required reading for
all who would stay Mr. Bush's enforcement of the U.N.
resolution. How stupid can we be if we do not learn from
history? Those who were here in 1938 will long remember when
Neville Chamberlain prevailed over Churchill's call for
action to prevent Sudeten aggression. That appeasement
brought the world an agony costing millions of lives,
including six million innocent Jews.
   Are we to repeat the same mistake by leaving another
megalomaniac aggressor in power with his fighting force
intact? Surely the early victims will be the peoples of
Israel and Saudi Arabia; the Kurds of Iraq may be liquidated
genocidally.
   Let the younger generation of Sam Nunns repair to the
history books to learn the mistakes of 1938 and act
accordingly.
   Stanley Rowe JR.
   Cincinnati
   ---
   The events Ms. House writes about are the most frightening
since Sept. 30, 1938, when Chamberlain returned from Munich
with "peace for our time." Had he stood Hitler down, World
War II would have been fought -- if at all -- on the
Czech-German border. Instead, wishful-thinking cowardice led
to a world-wide conflagration and millions of deaths.
   I cannot believe that this ghastly lesson has been
forgotten so soon or that even Congress could sink so low as
to prevent Mr. Bush from taking out this menace,
providentially revealed for what he is, while there is still
time. But if it does, if Saddam's international crime is
allowed to pay, then the bright new order that seemed sure to
follow on the close of the Cold War is in great jeopardy.
   Many reasons have been advanced for our standing up to
Saddam, but the soundest one is that the end of our
confrontation with Marxist totalitarianism makes possible the
development of the U.N. into what it was always meant to be:
a world federation keeping some kind of order. The day of
anarchy among nations has passed: We can do each other too
much harm too quickly for it to continue. If we falter now,
there may be other chances, but, as with World War II, the
price of taking them can only be higher, perhaps much higher.
   Judge Thomas Gibbs Gee
   U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
   Houston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reichmans Reach Pact
   To Buy Rest of Shares
   Of GW Utilities Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GWT T.GWT BRG IHEIF T.IHE GOU T.GOU
</CO>
<IN>
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- GW Utilities Ltd. said its board agreed to the
terms of a 125.7 million Canadian dollar (U.S.$108.5 million)
proposal by Toronto's Reichmann family to buy out the
company's minority shareholders.
   The offer was made by the Reichmann's closely held holding
company, Olympia &amp; York Developments Ltd., which already owns
89.3% of GW Utilities. Olympia &amp; York has offered C$30 a
share. GW Utilities shareholders also will receive a special
dividend of C$10 a share following the sale of the company's
82% stake in Consumers' Gas Ltd. to British Gas PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, British Gas said it has completed the
acquisition of 99% of the shares of Consumers' Gas, a natural
gas distributor based in Toronto. The British Gas bid closed
Thursday.
   The buy-out of GW Utilities is subject to the approval of
the minority shareholders at a meeting scheduled for next
March.
   The buy-out also is conditioned on regulatory approval and
the completion of a proposed reorganization of Olympia &amp;
York's energy holdings. The company has proposed to spin off
Interprovincial Pipe Line Ltd. and Home Oil Co. as separate
public companies by the first quarter of 1991.
   Interprovincial and Home Oil are units of Calgary,
Alberta-based Interhome Energy Inc., which is, in turn, owned
40.7% by GW Utilities, 22.8% by Gulf Canada Resources Ltd.,
and 0.5% by Olympia &amp; York. Olympia &amp; York controls Gulf
Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CrossLand Proposal
   To Convert to Equity
   Cleared by Regulators
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- CrossLand Savings said it reached a
long-sought agreement with federal regulators that allows it
to convert debt and preferred stock to equity in order to
raise its capital levels.
   The agreement follows an earlier rejection by regulators,
who had wanted CrossLand to do more than convert the
cumulative preferred to raise capital. It also comes at a
time when the viability of several major banks and thrifts in
the Northeast, including CrossLand, has been questioned as
they continue to post substantial losses and carry high
amounts of bad real estate loans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CrossLand, one of the nation's largest thrifts with assets
exceeding $11 billion, said the Office of Thrift Supervision
has asked it to submit a plan within 45 days for raising its
core capital level to 3% of assets by the end of 1991 and 5%
by the end of 1994.
   Peter Cunningham, senior vice president of CrossLand,
said, "We've worked for some time" with the OTS on the plan,
and the thrift expects to have the plan submitted in about
two weeks. The 3% level is standard for thrifts, he said, but
CrossLand will increase to 5% because of the higher level of
risk associated with its loan portfolio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Westinghouse Electric Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS WX
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Warren H.
Hollinshead, formerly finance deputy and a vice president,
was named chief financial officer of this broadcasting,
financial services and power generation equipment concern. He
succeeds Harry F. Murray, who retired. Mr. Hollinshead joined
the company in 1964 and has held a variety of positions in
Westinghouse's law, treasury and corporate development
departments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Digital Equipment to Close Site
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DEC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAYNARD, Mass. -- Digital Equipment Corp., a computer
concern, said it will close a disk, tape and optical storage
manufacturing and design facility in Enfield, Conn., moving
workers and operations to Springfield, Mass.
   A spokeswoman said the move won't result in the loss of
jobs but will cut costs by consolidating operations at the
nearby Springfield site. She said Digital owns the
77,000-square-foot Enfield plant, situated on 88 acres. Its
future hasn't been determined, she said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings:
   Allied-Signal Debt Put
   On Review by S&amp;P
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   ALD
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK AND BOND RATINGS (RTG)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it is reviewing
the debt ratings of Allied-Signal Inc. with the possibility
of a downgrade.
   The review affects the ratings of Allied-Signal's single-A
senior debt, preliminary single-A Rule 415 shelf registration
senior debt and A-1 commercial paper. About $1.9 billion in
securities are involved, S&amp;P said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The credit-rating agency said it was taking the action
following a decision by Allied-Signal's 40%-owned Union Texas
Petroleum Holdings Inc. to discontinue efforts to sell the
entire company and instead place individual parts on the
auction block.
   S&amp;P said the move "creates uncertainty over timing and
value of potential proceeds." Allied-Signal was planning to
use the proceeds from the sale of Union Texas to reduce debt
incurred during its stock repurchase program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GM to Open Office in Moscow
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- General Motors Corp. will open permanent offices
in Moscow and the Russian auto manufacturing city of
Togliatti, the Tass news agency reported.
   In June, General Motors signed a five-year, $1 billion
deal with the Volga Auto Works to supply 100,000 to 150,000
engine control systems a year. The agreement with the auto
works, located in Togliatti, is by far the largest deal ever
signed by a U.S. auto maker with the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Volga Auto Works builds Zhiguli and Lada compact cars,
as well as the Niva, a Soviet Jeep.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Retailing:
   Penney's Catalog Division, Long a Star,
   Risks Losing Its Luster as Sales Slacken
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   JCP
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the catalog retailing business, J.C. Penney Co. was an
undisputed star.
   While Montgomery Ward gave up on the business five years
ago and Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.'s catalog division suffered five
years of losses, Penney's catalog operation posted five years
of double-digit growth. Company officials boasted its margins
were among the best in the business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then on Nov. 8, the company reported that catalog sales
had dropped 6.3% in the third quarter ended Oct. 27,
shrinking its sales gain for the first nine months to just
3%. Sales fell again in November, and rose this month only
after discounts were announced. Analysts say Penney, caught
midstream in its transition from mass merchant to upscale
retailer, may be especially vulnerable to the slowdown
hitting the catalog industry. "It's going to be real tough
for the next few months," says Rodney M. Birkins, Penney
catalog president.
   Penney still has high hopes for its catalog operation,
which has won praise for its distribution efficiency and its
innovative marketing. Penney officials expect the catalogs --
which provided 20% of Penney's $16.4 billion in 1990 sales
and, analysts estimate, almost 20% of its profits -- to
contribute an increasing portion of sales in future years. By
mid-decade, they confidently predict, the division, with $3.2
billion in sales last year, will surge past struggling Sears
(sales of $4 billion) to become the nation's biggest catalog
operation.
   Penney does have a potent weapon: its chain of 1,325
stores, which attract some 100 million shoppers a year.
Retailing gospel holds that store shoppers don't buy from
catalogs and vice versa. Indeed, about two-thirds of Penney's
shoppers don't buy from the catalog now, but Penney hopes to
change that by promoting the book heavily in its stores. It
is also starting new specialty catalogs and peddling catalog
wares on television.
   Penney's cockiness is striking, particularly considering
the gloom that pervades the retailing industry these days and
the questions that surround the overcrowded, $35 billion
catalog industry. After nearly a decade of double-digit
growth -- twice that of retail stores -- catalog industry
sales are hardly better than flat this year, and profits are
down even at highfliers. Spiegel Inc.'s third-quarter
earnings dropped 5%, and Lands' End posted a $259,000
nine-month loss. With catalog mailings up nearly 75% since
1983, to 13.4 billion last year, "the industry is reaching
maturity," says Jay Walker, an industry consultant.
   The market saturation and the economic downturn could
hardly come at a worse time for Penney, which has yet to
replace many traditional customers lost in its repositioning
with new upscale customers, analysts say. The enormity of
Penney's catalog operation also makes it more vulnerable to
economic downturns than narrowly targeted specialty catalogs.
   But Penney, which is the nation's fourth largest retailer,
says its department stores will give it an advantage. Unlike
other chains with catalogs, which offer pretty much the same
items in both places, Penney has made its catalogs a distinct
and separate business. As the company has upgraded its
merchandise and image, the catalog has become the repository
for products no longer offered at the stores, including lawn
mowers, toys and sporting goods. And while the
margin-conscious stores limit their stock to the most popular
sizes and colors, the catalog offers a much wider range. In
women's fashion, for instance, only 25% of the catalog
merchandise is available in the stores.
   In the stores, space is devoted to displays, or vignettes,
of goods available only from the catalog, risky in a business
where success is often measured by sales per square foot. At
the Plano, Texas, store, a couch-and-love-seat set
substitutes for a furniture department. Near the "Available
from the Catalog" sign is a phone linked directly to
order-taking operators. "We've sold four of those
couch-and-love-seat sets in as many weeks because of this
display," says Ivan Fischer, the store manager.
   Penney was also the first to offer financial incentives to
encourage store personnel to push catalog merchandise.
Managers' bonuses are based in part on catalog sales, and
sales clerks get a 3.5% commission for catalog referrals.
   Because it distributes about a third of its catalogs in
the stores, Penney spends much less on mailing than many
catalog operations. That's where Gwen Nagle, a 5-foot-11-inch
Dallas costume designer, came across Penney's Especially for
Talls catalog. Now, she shops at Penney stores for
accessories but orders clothes from the catalog. "For tall
women, it's the best selection anywhere," she says.
   To extend its reach, Penney is rolling out specialty
catalogs to target popular niches from its big book. Its
catalogs already sell more nursery furnishings, bridal
apparel and big-and-tall men's clothing than most anyone
else, and Penney plans to introduce catalogs offering
lingerie, jewelry and sports equipment. Eventually, Penney
hopes to send out more than 40 special issues a year, up from
27 now.
   Penney also boasts that it delivers faster than anybody in
the business. While Sears and Spiegel operate out of old
multilevel distribution centers that require up-and-down
movement of product, Penney has built a nationwide network of
efficient and highly automated single-level facilities. And
while most competitors ship out of a single location, Penney
has spread its distribution centers around the country,
enabling it to deliver 90% of its orders to stores within two
business days.
   Customers are rewarded for picking up their orders at
Penney stores by a $1 discount and faster delivery. Returns
can also be made at stores, eliminating a UPS pickup or a
special trip to the post office. "You come up here and try it
on, and if it doesn't fit, you leave it here," says John
Gardere, a Dallas oilman.
   But the emphasis on in-store pickups has generated return
rates that are higher than the industry average, which means
significantly higher costs. "Since they're picking it up at
the catalog center, customers will order multiple sizes and
colors, then they'll only accept the one they like best,"
says Sidney Doolittle, a retail consultant and former Ward
catalog executive. But Penney officials think the high return
rates are offset by another statistic: 20% of customers
picking up orders wander into the store and make purchases.
   Appearance is another problem. Right now, going into the
catalog center at most Penney stores is like stepping into an
alley from a wide, well-lit street. The company plans to
spend millions over the next four years to remodel up to 500
centers.
   Some also question Penney's projection that it will
generate as much as $500 million a year from television
merchandising. The company spent $125 million on one TV
shopping venture that failed and now owns a controlling
interest in Shop Television Network, a Los Angeles cable
channel that televises Penney catalog merchandise to about 11
million homes. So far, the venture hasn't made a profit or
generated significant revenue. "You can't expect people to
sit in front of the TV all day waiting for shoes to come on,"
says Maxwell Sroge, a catalog industry consultant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   End of Strikes at Mills
   May Wipe Out Jump
   In Newsprint Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- The end of long strikes last week at several
newsprint mills in eastern Canada could wipe out a scheduled
5% newsprint price increase in the U.S. and Canada, analysts
and industry executives said.
   Downward pressure on prices would cheer struggling
newspaper publishers and hurt the North American newsprint
industry, which is trying to climb out of a cyclical slump.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The price increase will probably take effect Jan. 1 as
planned, analysts and industry executives said. But after the
reopened Canadian mills return to full operations in January,
producers will likely have to offer bigger discounts from the
list price or formally roll back the price increase, they
said.
   "The world is going to be afloat in newsprint," said Homer
Taylor, vice president, supply at Knight-Ridder Inc. "I can't
imagine how the price increase will go through."
   Led by Stone Container Corp., most major North American
newsprint producers announced this fall that they would raise
the benchmark eastern U.S. list price to $720 a metric ton
from $685 Jan 1. A metric ton equals about 2,204.6 pounds.
   Newsprint isn't sold at list price. Standard discounts
from list range from 16% to as much as 22%, analysts and
industry executives said. At an 18% discount, a buyer
currently paying about $562 a metric ton would pay about $590
a metric ton if the Jan. 1 increase holds.
   Newsprint producers raised list prices by about 5% June 1,
their first increase in more than two years. They made that
price increase stick largely due to the threat of strikes at
mills in eastern Canada, many analysts and newsprint buyers
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mutual of New York Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mutual of New York, a New York-based life
insurance company, sold its midtown Manhattan headquarters
building to Mendick Co. and three unidentified investment
groups for approximately $108 million.
   The 28-story building, which is 40 years old, recently
underwent a $40 million renovation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MONY will continue to occupy about one-third of the
building under a long-term lease.
   The investment groups, which are advised by Chase
Investors Management Corp., will hold a majority stake in the
building. Chase Investors has acquired three other buildings
with Mendic, which owns with its partners more than $2.5
billion in commercial real estate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Buffton Plans to Sell Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   BFX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Buffton Corp. said it has signed a
letter of intent to sell the assets of National Pipe Co. of
Vestal, New York, to the Regency Group of Houston for
approximately $14 million.
   The manufacturer of avionic, electronic and plastic
products said the money will be used to reduce bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Closing of the transaction, which must be approved by
Buffton's board, is scheduled for Jan. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   James River Plans Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JR
</CO>
<IN>
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- James River Corp. said directors approved
construction of a new headquarters and technology center near
Cincinnati for its $1.5 billion-a-year food and consumer
packaging business.
   The facility will consolidate in a single location
facilities now in San Leandro, Calif.; Neenah, Wis.;
Kalamazoo, Mich., and Cincinnati.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cost of the project wasn't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Electronics Output
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Production by Japan's electronics industry in
1991 is expected to rise 6.7% to 25.49 trillion yen ($189
billion), the Electric Industries Association of Japan said.
   The asociation predicted growth will be led by industrial
electronic equipment, production of which is expected to
total 12.12 trillion yen, up 7.6%, thanks to expanded demand
for computers, computer-related equipment and communications
systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, pressure on electronics parts production is
expected from the Middle East crisis, the slump in the U.S.
economy and higher production costs, the report said.
Production in the category is seen growing 4.1% in 1991 to
3.96 trillion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Container Shippers Will Disband
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   H.OOH P.NEP J.KWK
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Two container-line groups operating between
Asia and the U.S. will disband in December 1991, with the
members planning to pursue individual routes and schedules.
   The Asia-U.S. West Coast group is made up of Orient
Overseas Container Line Ltd. of Hong Kong, Neptune Orient
Lines Ltd. of Singapore and Nippon Liner Service Ltd. of
Japan. The Asia-U.S. East Coast group is made up of Orient
Overseas, Neptune Orient and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. of
Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Reservation Rules for Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Transportation Department extended the
rules governing airline computer reservation systems to Nov.
30, 1991, to allow for further study.
   The rules, which were to expire next Monday, are intended
to foster competition. They include requirements that
participation in the systems be open to all carriers on a
nondiscriminatory basis and that schedule information be
organized in an unbiased manner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Critics of the rules -- including the Justice Department,
travel agents and some airlines -- contend that
anti-competitive practices still flourish.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. as Scrooge:
   Our Laws Squeeze
   A Certain Fat Man
   ----
   By Gerald D. Skoning
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   Santa Claus is in real trouble. His North Pole Inc.
headquarters is under siege. No, it's not the avalanche of
Christmas lists and letters he's receiving from good boys and
girls around the world. He's prepared for that every year.
And it's not the troubled economy -- he's bound and
determined to come through for those kids regardless of the
price of oil or the discouraging direction of economic
indicators.
   As he prepares for his busiest season (really his only
season) of the year, Mr. Claus is being distracted by a blitz
of time-consuming investigations by a wide variety of
government agencies. Now, don't jump to conclusions. Mr.
Claus is truly a model employer. Youngsters and adults alike
know that the jolly fat man's integrity and honesty are
absolutely impeccable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And yet, one after the other, federal and state agents
have descended on his workshops at North Pole Inc. to pore
over business and employment records, interview employees,
and otherwise disrupt Old St. Nick and his elves from their
preparation for the big night. Here's a sampling of the
charges and complaints Mr. Claus and his human resources
staff and lawyers have been contending with:
   The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission is
investigating a commissioner's charge that Mr. Claus has
engaged in a pattern and practice of employment
discrimination. The charge alleges that Mr. Claus has no
non-elf employees at all in any of his workshops.
   Mr. Claus's defense is based on the argument that being an
elf is a bona fide occupational qualification. Thus far, the
EEOC has rejected that argument and continued its
investigation. The commission has threatened to sue Mr. Claus
in federal court if he doesn't come up with $1 million in
back pay for an affected class of non-elf applicants for
workshop jobs and agree to a consent decree providing for
non-elf hiring quotas and training programs as a remedy for
his past discrimination.
   Meanwhile, officials from the U.S. Labor Department have
been keeping Mr. Claus quite busy too. The Office of Federal
Contract Compliance Programs has just completed a three-day
compliance review audit of his affirmative-action plan
maintained under Executive Order 11246. It concluded that Mr.
Claus's workshops show gross underutilization of women and
minorities in three job categories. Mr. Claus has been
threatened with debarrment unless he modifies his goals and
timetables and gives Mrs. Claus an immediate promotion to
vice president of operations.
   Other Labor Department bureaucrats have been investigating
a complaint that Mr. Claus has discriminated against his
elves in violation of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 by
refusing to reasonably accommodate them as individuals with
disabilities. He has been charged with failing and refusing
to make the North Pole workshops fully accessible to the
elves and refusing to take reasonable steps to allow them to
perform only the essential functions of their jobs. Mr. Claus
has responded that the government's demands would be an undue
hardship. The dispute seems destined for long and expensive
litigation.
   Mr. Claus has been charged with violations of the
Occupational Safety and Health Act as well. The Labor
Department has cited him for willful violations of
recordkeeping regulations and will seek record fines of $1.2
million. The government claims that Mr. Claus has failed to
include in his OSHA-100 log a wide variety of splinters and
scrapes sustained by elves working on Christmas gifts for
youngsters around the world. Mr. Claus says that Uncle Sam is
engaged in nit-picking over trivial nicks that required no
more than Band-Aid treatment.
   Mr. Claus's pipe smoking has also become a source of
bureaucratic interest. The government claims that he has
persistently violated the Clean Indoor Air Act by failing and
refusing to designate appropriate non-smoking areas.
Undisputed evidence shows that Mr. Claus has regularly
wandered through North Pole Inc.'s workshops puffing his
pipe. According to government agents, when challenged by
worker elves, he has demonstrated his willful disdain for the
law by chortling "ho-ho-ho" with a jolly twinkle in his eye.
   Several of Mr. Claus's administrative elves have been
laboring feverishly to complete summary plan descriptions for
the North Pole's generous pension plans pursuant to the
requirements of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act
and regulations. They are also drafting COBRA notices for
several dissident elves who resigned "to pursue other
interests" (reportedly with the Easter Bunny's rapidly
growing operation).
   Poor old Mr. Claus is also facing miscellaneous charges of
violating the child-labor laws (for employing under-age
elves), the Immigration Reform and Control Act (for failing
to require the proper documentation from alien elves), and
the wage-hour laws (for failing to pay elves overtime for
after-hours sled duty). And, worst of all, the EPA is rumored
to have designated North Pole Inc. as a Superfund site due to
centuries of dumping lead and paint from the crafting of toy
soldiers.
   So, with responding to federal subpoenas, and answering
government questionnaires, and filling out federal forms, and
providing government investigators with thousands of
documents and corporate records, it's little wonder Mr. Claus
is worried about making his rounds tonight. But one
government official did not share Mr. Claus's concern for
productivity and service -- "Bah, humbug] Just make sure he
wears a hard hat and safety harness on his way down those
chimneys."
   And, a Merry Christmas to all (on Form MC-276-90, in
triplicate).
   ---
   Mr. Skoning, a Chicago attorney, is willing to represent
Santa Claus pro bono.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kemet Electronics Buy-Out
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE UK
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DANBURY, Conn. -- Union Carbide Corp. said Kemet
Electronics Corp., in which it holds a 50% stake, will be
sold for $235 million to an investor group that includes
Kemet management.
   Union Carbide had been trying since September to divest
itself of its stake in Kemet, an electronic capacitor maker,
as part of its plan to stick to its core businesses in
chemicals and industrial gases. It expects a fourth-quarter
earnings gain of about $29 million, or 21 cents a share, from
the sale.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The remaining 50% of Kemet, based in Greenville, S.C., is
held by General Electric Co.'s GE Capital Corp. and Kemet
management.
   In the third quarter, Union Carbide had net income of $94
million, or 63 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Horn &amp; Hardart Co.
   Says It Plans to Exit
   Restaurant Business
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   HOR
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEEHAWKEN, N.J. -- Horn &amp; Hardart Co., best-known for
creating the American automat cafeteria, is getting out of
the restaurant business.
   The company said it will sell its last restaurant
business, International King's Table, to focus on its
direct-mail marketing business.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last Friday, the company said it will be taking a
significant fourth-quarter charge resulting from its
divestiture of the restaurant business, which it plans to
complete by the end of March. International King, which
operates 83 buffet-style restaurants in the West coast, had a
$5.2 million net loss in the first nine months of this year.
   The divestiture marks Horn &amp; Hardart's exit from its once
core restaurant business in favor of Hanover Direct Inc., its
direct-marketing concern. In the past year, the company has
sold or is trying to sell nearly all of its East Coast
restaurant holdings, including Bojangles' Fried Chicken 'N
Biscuits, Tony Roma's Italian restaurants in New York and
Arby's in southern Florida.
   According to Jack E. Rosenfeld, president and chief
executive of Horn &amp; Hardart, the company decision to change
its line of business was motivated by continuing losses in
its diverse restaurant holdings. "With 10 years of trying
many facets of the restaurant business, the company wasn't
able to make any kind of return on it," he said.
   For the third-quarter, Horn &amp; Hardart reported a net loss
of $3.2 million, or 23 cents a share, compared with a net
loss of $1.6 million, or 12 cents a share, the previous year.
   Hanover Direct is expected to report a 44% increase in
revenue this year to $550 million from $382 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allwaste Inc. to Post
   Charge on Divestiture
   Of Troubled Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ALWS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Allwaste Inc. said it plans to divest itself of
its troubled asbestos-removal division and report a one-time
charge of 13 cents a share for the first quarter ended Nov.
30 as a result of the decision.
   Part of the charge reflects the anticipated costs of
closing two offices in New York and Massachusetts "as soon as
practical." Remaining operations will be based in Houston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The environmental-services concern also said R.L. Nelson,
chairman and chief executive, was named to the additional
position of president, succeeding Clayton K. Trier, who
resigned as president, co-chief executive and a director, to
start a consulting practice. Mr. Trier will continue to work
with Allwaste as a consultant.
   Allwaste said that in addition to the first-quarter
charge, it expects to report a loss from discontinued
operations of about $2.4 million, or seven cents a share,
reflecting after-tax operating losses of the division. The
one-time charge and loss will be partially offset by a
nine-cents-a-share gain on the previously reported sale of a
manufacturing operation.
   The company didn't give an earnings estimate for the
quarter. In the year-earlier quarter, Allwaste had net income
of about $3 million, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $44.3
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST FORGN AFRIC BA F.ABI F.ASP G.DAI E.CSA
U.BA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
AIRLINES (AIR)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   EC TO BAN CFCS BY MID-1997
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   European Community environment ministers agreed to ban
chlorofluorocarbons by mid-1997.
   "This new regulation will give a strong signal to the rest
of the world that we . . . are determined to stop using the
chemicals which damage the . . . ozone layer as quickly as
possible," British Environment Minister David Trippier said.
   The ministers also agreed to toughen car-pollution curbs,
which now are less rigorous than those in the U.S. EC
Environment Commissioner Carlo Ripa di Meana said the EC
would soon propose fuel-efficiency standards for cars and a
communitywide speed limit.
   Italian Environment Minister Giorgio Ruffolo said the
limits would cut auto emissions of carbon monoxide by 57%.
                                                                                                       

   SWISS AIR-SAFETY CONCERNS
                                                                                                       

   Swiss authorities issued preliminary recommendations aimed
at increasing air safety, five weeks after an Alitalia
airline smashed into a hillside, killing all 46 people on
board. In a preliminary report on the crash, the Accident
Investigation Office said there was a need for improvements
in Swiss air-traffic-control procedures and in lighting. It
also indicated shortcomings in Alitalia landing rules. Flight
AZ404 from Milan crashed into a hill at Zurich's Kloten
airport Nov. 14.
                                                                                                       

   LOANS FOR CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Japan announced loans of up to 42.6 billion yen ($315.7
million) for China, the second portion of a loan package that
had been frozen soon after the crackdown on pro-democracy
protests in Beijing last year and that resumed in November.
The latest loans are for five projects to update port,
highway, telecommunications, air-traffic-control and railway
systems.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREA LOOKS AHEAD
                                                                                                       

   South Korea will aim for economic growth of around 7% in
1991, lower than the 9% expected this year, the Economic
Planning Board said. The targeted growth rate in real terms
would be the second worst in five years; the worst was 1989's
6.7% growth. Announcing the government's economic-management
plan for 1991, Deputy Prime Minister Lee Seung Yun said the
nation's export-oriented economy would be hurt by such
factors as higher oil prices and a global economic slowdown
connected with the Gulf crisis and overseas trade
protectionism.
                                                                                                       

   AN APPEAL FROM THE FAO
                                                                                                       

   The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization's
director-general, Edouard Saouma, called for more food aid to
African nations threatened by famine. "If the world has been
capable of breaking down the political barrier between East
and West, it should be able to attack the economic divide
between North and South," Mr. Saouma said in a year-end
message on the state of world food and agriculture. Ethiopia
and Sudan need massive assistance to avoid famine in 1991,
the FAO chief said.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S POPULATION GROWTH
                                                                                                       

   Japan's population is growing at its slowest rate since
World War II, a preliminary report on the 1990 census showed.
The population totaled 123,611,541 on Oct. 1, up only 2.1%
from 1985, the last time a census was taken. The previous
record low growth was 3.4% in the five years from 1980 to
1985. Surveys of Japanese business show almost all
respondents feel affected by the low birth rate. Those unable
to fill jobs with Japanese workers are turning increasingly
to illegal-immigrant labor.
                                                                                                       

   A VERY LARGE JET
                                                                                                       

   Airbus Industrie is studying the possibility of a very
large commercial jet that would allow it to attack its rival
Boeing Commercial Airplane Group in the Boeing Co. unit's
most lucrative market.
   The giant aircraft envisaged by Airbus designers would be
capable of carrying up to 700 passengers and would have a
range of at least 7,000 miles, enabling airlines to fly
comfortably nonstop from Europe to Sydney, for example.
   Airbus officials say the new plane would be designed to
attack Boeing head-on in the high-capacity commercial-jet
market where it has enjoyed a monopoly up to now thanks to
the Boeing 747 jumbo jet that first entered service 20 years
ago.
   Jean Pierson, Airbus Industrie's chief executive,
indicated in a recent newspaper interview that if the Airbus
partners decide to go ahead with the idea, the aircraft could
enter the development stage in 1997 and enter service with
airlines in 2002. Airbus Industrie's partners are
Aerospatiale of France; Messerschmitt-BoelkowBlohm G.m.b.H.,
a unit of Daimler-Benz AG of West Germany; British Aerospace
PLC; and Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Irish children are fatter and less fit than their
counterparts in other parts of Europe, according to a survey
by Ireland's National Youth Council. Ten-year-old Irish boys
were shown to be 7.5 pounds heavier than their British
equivalents and 3.5 pounds fatter than Dutch boys. . . .
North Korea has notified the Soviet Union's Novosti press
agency and Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper to close their
bureaus in Pyongyang, the Yonhap News Agency of South Korea
reported. The order is believed to be a sign of displeasure
with the recent visit of South Korean President Roh Tae Woo
to the Soviet Union.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MiniScribe Corp. Sues
   The Former Officers
   And Directors of Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MINQE MXTR
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- MiniScribe Corp., the defunct disk-drive maker,
sued its former officers and directors, accusing them of
manipulating the company's financial statements, among other
wrongdoing.
   Any damages collected as a result of the suit will become
part of MiniScribe's estate in bankruptcy court and will be
used to pay creditors, said Denver attorney Greg Ruegsegger,
who filed the suit in state court in Boulder.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MiniScribe filed for protection from its creditors under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code almost a year ago, and
most of its assets were sold in April to Maxtor Corp., a
California-based maker of data-storage products.
   MiniScribe staged a comeback in the last half of the 1980s
under the chairmanship of Q.T. Wiles, onetime chairman of the
venture capital firm of Hambrecht &amp; Quist. After Mr. Wiles's
resignation in February 1989, company investigators found
that much of the company's recovery was the product of
creative bookkeeping.
   Mr. Wiles is among the defendants in the company's suit
and in suits previously filed by shareholders and creditors.
Mr. Wiles's Denver attorney, Ken Starr, said his client is
"denying any wrongdoing" in his stewardship of the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Holidays Are
   Time for Firms
   To Be Vigilant
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   It was nearly Christmas by the time one small East Coast
retailer realized he was being robbed.
   A warehouse supervisor hired as temporary holiday help in
October had seemed the model employee. He stayed late most
nights to help with the Christmas rush, cleaning up after his
seven subordinates left. His job application showed
experience running warehouses, and he was pleasant and
energetic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the employee was a hard-core thief. When several
$8,000 fur coats turned up missing, Jack L. Hayes, a
Stanfordville, N.Y., security consultant, posted a watch
behind the warehouse late one night -- and caught the
supervisor tucking coats into his car. The man didn't have
the experience claimed on his application, but the business
owner had "never bothered to check," Mr. Hayes says. "And I'm
sure the employee knew that."
   For many small businesses, 'tis the season to be wary.
Small-business owners are especially vulnerable to an
increased risk of internal fraud and theft during the
holidays, and many are ill-prepared to cope. A flood of
seasonal transactions and gifts can mask increased employee
theft or payoffs. Holiday bills tempt employees to
dishonesty. An increase in temporary workers invites crime.
   A lack of internal safeguards compounds the problem. "The
small-business owner tends to put more trust in his employees
and have fewer controls. He may not even see certain signs"
of crime, says E. John Keller, a risk-assessment consultant
in Southlake, Texas.
   The consequences can be dire. Inventory shrinkage averages
about 1.9% for retailers nationwide, but losses among small
retailers average 2.5% to 3%, with the biggest share
occurring around Christmas, Mr. Hayes estimates. Other kinds
of small businesses face increased risk as well, and most
lack fidelity bonds and other forms of loss insurance.
   "Many Fortune 500 companies can afford to take a pretty
good hit" from a dishonest employee, says Dennis Dalton, a
Fremont, Calif., security consultant. "But for many smaller
companies, any hit is catastrophic."
   The risk is highest now. Holiday bills and stress often
aggravate employees' personal problems, increasing the
incentive to steal, says Thomas W. Kulawiak, an audit partner
with Grant Thornton, accountants and management consultants
based in Chicago.
   After her boyfriend lost his job, an employee for a small
Midwestern insurance company stole $75,000 from her firm one
Christmas to pay the bills and finance his growing drug
habit. The worker used customers' checks to cover her thefts
from the petty cash fund and destroyed the customers' account
statements to keep them in the dark. Then, in a kind of
pyramid scheme, she hid the fraud by intercepting payments
from other customers and applying them to the deficit
accounts.
   Many small businesses shelve loss-prevention programs
during the holidays. "They have a tendency to be caught up in
the Christmas rush, and they feel they're too busy to
concentrate on things like that," Mr. Hayes says.
   Amid the rush, many businesses fail to detect common
cash-register abuses: making fraudulent refunds, voiding
transactions and pocketing the cash, or "sweethearting" --
charging a friend or accomplice a sharply reduced price. When
a small, exclusive East Coast formal-wear retailer left one
of its employees in charge of the store, the woman stole
$75,000 by voiding customer purchases and falsifying
receipts.
   Lengthened holiday business hours make many small
retailers turn their stores over to seasonal workers in the
evening. An inexperienced manager, often a high school
student or a recent graduate, can face heavy peer pressure to
hand out free merchandise or cash. "It becomes kind of an
early Christmas," says Mr. Dalton.
   "Backdoor losses" from a warehouse or distribution center
can mushroom over the holidays as well. One small retailer
lost $25,000 in men's suits because two unsupervised
warehouse workers were colluding to prepare false shipping
labels and send merchandise to friends' addresses.
   The sheer volume of business associated with the holidays
can mask a multitude of sins. Payoffs by buyers or purchasing
agents are often missed in a flood of seasonal gifts and
greetings. "This is the time of year when nice gifts are
going fast and furious between buyers and vendors," says John
Kula, head of fraud and security consulting for Arthur
Andersen &amp; Co. "At Christmastime, the cash payments get
bigger, and the gifts tend to get more substantial. People
have a greater need."
   Dishonest deals struck by purchasing agents earlier in the
year, during the heavy Christmas buying season, often haunt
the small business around Christmas, when "there certainly
can be more of a problem with shoddy merchandise," says Mr.
Dalton. "The trucks may start rolling into the distribution
center loaded with millions of billiard tables or no-speed
bicycles, and the business owner may wonder, `Hey, what's
wrong with this picture? Did we really order this stuff?'"
   One small automotive-parts distributor lost more than
$100,000 before its purchasing agent was caught approving a
phony invoice for a rebuilt truck engine. "The engine never
came in, but he OK'd it anyway," says Mr. Hayes, who turned
the case over to prosecutors.
   Small businesses are particularly vulnerable because they
tend to trust employees more. A small south Florida retailer
couldn't believe that a star saleswoman could be causing its
missing-merchandise problem. She had been "employee of the
year" for three consecutive years. The business owner was
incredulous when the woman admitted to outside investigators
that she had given away $900,000 in free shirts to friends,
says Read Hayes, a Winter Park, Fla., security consultant.
   Small-business owners often assume they know their
employees better than they do. A vice president in charge of
purchasing for a family-owned jewelry-store chain in Texas
was arrested by Dallas police for consorting with a
prostitute. The employee had been stealing diamonds and using
them to pay prostitutes and raise cash for drugs. "He used to
come to work high. It should have been a huge red flag" for
the business owners, says Mr. Kula of Arthur Andersen.
   When employees have personal problems, many small-business
owners "tend to think in terms of, `What is my obligation?
How should I help the employee?' instead of `What should I
lock down? He might be stealing me blind,'" Mr. Kula says.
   The pressure on employees during a busy season often makes
small-business executives reluctant to enforce basic rules.
One fast-growing New York computer dealer rewarded its
frazzled employees by reimbursing them for dinner if they
worked late. But the company's chief financial officer had
paid the controller for hundreds of dollars in dinners he
never ate before the business's owner noticed that the
controller wasn't turning in receipts.
   "The controller was working hard, and the CFO didn't want
to hassle him," says Anthony Morris, a Boston
computer-industry strategy consultant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Sweden Continues
   Nordbanken Changes
   By Firing Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   STOCKHOLM -- Sweden's Social Democratic government ousted
Nordbanken Chairman Tony Hagstroem and heralded a sweeping
board reshuffle in an apparent political purge of the bank,
which is 71% state-owned.
   Management upheaval at Nordbanken, Sweden's second largest
bank, began last Thursday with the unexplained resignation of
its chief executive officer, Rune Barneus. After a stormy
meeting Friday, Swedish Finance Minister Allan Larsson
effectively discharged Mr. Hagstroem as the bank's chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The official version of Mr. Barneus's departure relates to
a confidential report by Swedish banking regulators that
sharply criticized Nordbanken management. Mr. Hagstroem said
Friday that the report prepared by Sweden's Bank Inspection
Board blamed lax credit controls and other management gaffes
for hefty loan losses that have surfaced at Nordbanken in
recent months.
   Finance Ministry officials reportedly had grown
disenchanted with Nordbanken's management in recent weeks as
the threat of soaring loan losses led to a series of hefty
provisions, slashing expected profit for this year.
   A special shareholders' meeting will be held Jan. 18 to
elect a new slate of directors. In a separate statement, the
Finance Ministry said it will name its nominee for the post
of Nordbanken's new chairman this week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rapid Reform Is the Solution -- Not Problem -- in Poland
   ----
   By Anne Applebaum
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   The first flakes of freezing snow fell on Warsaw's streets
this month, covering the city's ubiquitous street traders
with a light dusting of white. Undeterred, merchants of carp
and caviar, toy trains and bicycles, shampoo, breakfast
cereals and bubble-gum kept hawking their wares beneath
colored umbrellas as the snow turned to rain. Muddied foreign
cars, whose numbers have multiplied in recent months, huddled
near the vendors. No one stands in lines here anymore. The
idea is to park (illegally), to shop (quickly) and to go
home.
   Warsaw was a very different city at this time last year,
and Poland was a very different country. Nothing has been the
same since the inauguration of Poland's Big Bang economic
reform on Jan. 1, when the economic team of exiting Prime
Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki cut subsidies, freed prices,
loosened trade restrictions, raised interest rates and froze
wages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The street traders, the new entrepreneurship and the new
cars are the visible side effects of this tight monetary and
fiscal regime, which has won Poland the applause of the
International Monetary Fund and the international financial
community. No one has watched the transformation more
carefully than the Soviet Union, which is considering a
similar reform.
   But if you believe statistics, the Polish anti-inflation
program -- known as the Balcerowicz Plan after Polish Finance
Minister Leszek Balcerowicz -- has also caused Polish
production to drop by 30%, forced Polish living standards
down by 40%, and bumped unemployment to one million from
zero. If you believe many Western assessments of Poland's
recent elections, these harsh side effects were also
responsible for the results, in which Poles voted Solidarity
leader Lech Walesa into power, rejected Mr. Mazowiecki and
propelled Polish-Canadian businessman Stanislaw Tyminski, who
promised instant prosperity and wealth "within one month" of
his election, into second place.
   Neither the statistics nor the analyses are correct. To
begin with, all the estimates of falling production, which
became easy targets during the election campaign, are based
on comparisons with old communist estimates, which often bore
little relation to reality. Production figures were skewed in
the past both by over-optimistic estimation on the part of
factory directors looking for promotions, and by the fact
that "production" included the production of junk that no one
ever purchased. A drop in production of ill-fitting shoes or
worthless machinery does not necessarily represent an
economic disaster. This is particularly true -- unfortunately
-- because the Polish economic reform is far from finished.
   A real restructuring of state industry -- through mass
privatization for example -- has yet to happen. Nor is the
banking system yet capable of adhering to the financial
discipline necessary for widespread bankruptcies.
   At the same time, unemployment statistics were disrupted
by the fact that "unemployment," as such, was formerly not a
statistical category at all. People who remained on payrolls
but did no work, as well as people who could not or would not
find jobs, were simply not registered anywhere on any list.
   The new legions of officially registered unemployed, as
any local government official will freely admit, are mostly
either people who never held jobs before or people who work
in the unregistered, untaxed street markets and other sectors
of the black economy. Meanwhile, jobs for masons, carpenters,
plumbers and mechanics go unfilled week after week, despite
newspaper ads that can only be described as pleading. After
10 weeks of running ads, one man looking for a carpenter to
do household woodwork ended up importing a "guest worker"
from Lithuania. Real unemployment may well be just around the
corner, but it hasn't arrived yet.
   Even estimates of living standards fall into similar
traps. In the past, figures for real wages were based on
calculations of what people could theoretically buy in shops
that were, in reality, empty. New figures don't quantify the
happiness gained from the absence of long lines in food
shops, and the availability of products, like kiwi fruit,
that were absent before.
   Those who say the elections show reform has sped along too
fast are wrong. They are, however, right when they say Poles
are more worried than they used to be. One new element of
life is painfully real: fear of the future. Suddenly, people
see things in shops that they cannot afford to buy. Suddenly,
they are told that their state-subsidized cradle-to-grave
welfare programs will be dismantled, that their jobs are no
longer guaranteed.
   Citizens of the capitalist world accept these facts of
life, and know that possibilities of improvement and
expansion exist alongside a degree of uncertainty. Many Poles
feel only the fear. There is no major unemployment yet, but
there might be. They may not be starving yet, but when Mr.
Tyminski tells them that soon they will be living on the
streets, people have no reason not to believe it. By shouting
"the Balcerowicz Plan has destroyed Poland; things will get
worse, not better" into a microphone at his electoral
meetings, Mr. Tyminski managed to whip crowds into something
bordering panic.
   Fear was the reason for his success.
   In this touchy political situation, the last thing Poland
needs is slower economic reform, a return to the empty shops
and subsidies of the old days. That is something Lech Walesa,
for all his inconsistencies, appears to understand. The theme
of his campaign was Przyspieszenia, or "Acceleration." Faster
reform is the only way out, and most of all faster
privatization -- the mass sale of Poland's industry, still
nearly 90% state-owned. The capitalist life is a more
difficult life; people have to be bribed to accept it.
Privatization schemes that give people free shares in former
state enterprises that might have a hard time finding
outright buyers are one potential sweetener.
   Better business conditions at the lowest levels,
specifically lower taxes, are also necessary. The national
insurance tax, Poland's equivalent of Social Security, claims
45% of wages. Streamlining administrative procedures (legally
registering a new company can take up to six months) and
hurrying vital business legislation through Parliament could
also help give more people more options and open up untapped
sources of ingenuity. Poles are now known as Europe's
traders. They travel nearly everywhere, buying and selling
nearly everything along the way. Yet bureaucracy still
strangles such activity at home.
   Watching the street, and the opening of new shops and
restaurants, we see things have changed. Now the question is
how much more can change, and how fast. An oil crisis looms,
and an international recession could slow foreign investment
to a trickle. Much painful restructuring is still to come.
Many Poles know this, and when they voted for Lech Walesa and
his "acceleration" campaign theme they hoped they were voting
for this kind of faster change, moving toward capitalism as
before.
   ---
   Ms. Applebaum is Warsaw correspondent for The Economist.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Action Industries' Outlook
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   ACX
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Action Industries Inc., a marketer of
houseware and giftware promotional programs, said it expects
a "material decline" in second-quarter sales, citing order
cancellations reflecting the general economic downturn, but
predicted it will be profitable for the period. A year
earlier, Action earned $3.4 million, or 62 cents a share, on
sales of $57.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   Weekend Warrior
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some friends have tennis elbow
   Others suffer with jogger's knee,
   Which causes a left-out feeling
   For couch potatoes, like me.
   With gridiron season in swing,
   I'm less apt to feel inferior
   When complaining about my bad case
   Of TV-football posterior.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Yule Fools Only
                                                                                                       

   Congress was thinking of putting on a Christmas pageant --
but it couldn't find three wise men.
   -- Herm Albright.
   ---
   Daffynition
                                                                                                       

   Big spender: wad processor.
   -- Len Elliott.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicker Industries Inc. Is Sued
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PUL
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   OLD GREENWICH, Conn. -- Publicker Industries Inc. said the
U.S. government, at the request of the Environmental
Protection Agency, filed suit against the company and two
other undisclosed parties in federal court in Philadelphia.
   The suit relates to cleanup costs at a former Publicker
storage facility in Philadelphia where the EPA has allegedly
spent more than $22 million under the federal Superfund Act.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Publicker said the extent of the company's
liability wasn't known. But the company has said that if it
is determined to be liable for any "significant portion" of
the amounts sought by the U.S., it could have a "material
adverse effect" on the financial condition of the alcohol and
chemical company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alberta-Pacific
   Cleared to Build
   Large Pulp Mill
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA T.CFI J.HON J.MIB
</CO>
<IN>
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Alberta government approved construction of one of the
world's largest pulp mills, after two years of often stormy
debate in the Canadian province.
   The Japanese-backed, 1.3 billion Canadian dollar (US$1.12
billion) bleached kraft pulp mill became the main target for
critics of the Alberta government's recent push to develop
its northern forests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Environmental groups oppose the mill, which they maintain
will harm the Athabasca and Slave rivers. Lorraine Vetsch of
Edmonton (Alberta) Friends of the North said her group will
take court action to try to block construction of the mill.
   Bleached kraft pulp is used to produce a wide range of
paper products.
   The mill will be built by closely held Alberta-Pacific
Forest Industries Inc., Edmonton, Alberta, an affiliate of
British Columbia-based Crestbrook Forest Industries Ltd.
Crestbrook, a small pulp producer, is controlled by
Mitsubishi Corp. and Honshu Paper Co. of Japan.
   "We're really happy," an Alberta-Pacific spokeswoman said.
The company first announced the mill in 1988 and initially
planned to complete construction in 1991. Now it plans to
break ground next spring and complete the mill in late 1993.
   Situated near the town of Athabasca, north of Edmonton,
the mill will have an annual capacity of 496,000 metric tons.
A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
Alberta-Pacific plans to build a C$300 million paper mill on
the same site later.
   Alberta-Pacific said its project will be the first
greenfield pulp mill that doesn't use chlorine, which is
traditionally used in the bleaching process. The company was
forced to redesign the mill to use other bleaching agents,
after an environmental review board found that the company's
first design could have damaged the Athabasca River.
   "The Alberta-Pacific project is the cleanest bleached
kraft pulp mill ever proposed in Canada," said Alberta
Forestry Minister LeRoy Fjordbotten. Analysts agreed, saying
that environmental safeguards also make this one of the most
expensive mills per ton of capacity ever built in Canada.
"This project has been studied from here to kingdom come," an
analyst said. "It has all the bells and whistles possible."
   About C$3.5 billion of pulp and paper projects either are
proposed or in various stages of completion in Alberta.
Daishowa Canada Co., a unit of Daishowa Paper Manufacturing
Co. of Japan, just completed a C$500 million bleached kraft
pulp mill near Peace River, Alberta.
   The provincial government backed many of the projects with
loans and other incentives. The government will ease the
sting for Alberta-Pacific of the long delay in approving the
mill by investing C$250 million in the project, C$100 million
more than initially promised. The government also will invest
as much as C$150 million in the company's proposed paper
mill. The government granted Alberta-Pacific timber rights to
a 28,000-square-mile area, a territory close in size to the
state of South Carolina.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   `Green' Marketing Gets Tougher
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   MMM UN UL WPPGY AXP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
SECURITIES (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   New state laws policing environmental pitches will give
big advertisers heartburn -- and could force some to drop
their "green marketing" claims altogether.
   The latest law, effective next week in California, sets
strict standards for terms such as "environmentally
friendly," "biodegradable" and "recyclable." In April, Rhode
Island starts enforcing an even tougher statute that bans
most green marketing as misleading. Companies risk fines of
up to $1,000 a day if they label packages "environmentally
safe," for example.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Less-sweeping legislation to oversee environmental
advertising has passed recently in New York, Wisconsin and
New Hampshire. New Jersey and Pennsylvania are considering
bills, too.
   The measures aim to end consumer confusion and cynicism
about green marketing, but a proliferation of conflicting
statutes could exacerbate the skepticism. The laws
undoubtedly will widen the clamor for the U.S. government to
adopt uniform standards. Federal action isn't imminent --
despite pressure from both a task force of 10 attorneys
general and a new working group of 20 big trade associations.
   Ad-industry executives and major manufacturers fear a
patchwork of state laws will disrupt national marketing
efforts. Large corporations can't afford to package goods
differently for a particular state, argues John Kamp, a vice
president of the American Association of Advertising
Agencies. They will "have to follow the strictest {state}
law" nationwide if they want to claim a product benefits the
environment.
   Few companies may choose such a course. Disparate state
laws mean "there won't be a whole lot of options left except
to refrain more and more from making environmental claims for
our products," says Donald Theissen, director of corporate
product responsibility at Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing.
He adds: "The consumer is the loser in the end."
   This fall, 3M started selling a recycled version of its
popular, removable Post-it Notes. But the new notes won't
qualify as "recycled" under the California law because they
are made from paper discarded during production rather than
paper used by consumers. And 3M can't find a reliable
producer whose recycled paper would pass muster.
   At the least, 3M "will have to refrain from selling
{Recycled Paper Post-it Notes} in California," Mr. Theissen
says. "The pressure is toward not making any {recycled-paper}
claims at all" in promoting the product throughout the U.S.
   Similarly, Lever Brothers wonders about its recyclability
claim for a new package design being tested in Seattle and
the Twin Cities. The "Bag in the Box" package, labeled "100%
recyclable," consists of plastic pouches filled with fabric
softener or liquid detergent inside a corrugated carton. The
Unilever unit won't be allowed to introduce the label in
California unless it knows the cartons can be "conveniently
recycled" in the state's 15 counties with over 300,000
residents apiece.
   "We would have to have something strictly geared for the
California market," says Melinda Sweet, Lever's director of
environmental affairs. "That's not something we are willing
to consider." Lever may refrain from rolling out the package
nationwide until national green guidelines emerge. "We don't
support state-by-state regulation," Ms. Sweet says. "It is an
impossible task."
   State officials say the laws protect consumers against
what they dub "green-collar fraud": misleading and deceptive
environmental advertising.
   American Enviro Products reached a settlement with the
task force of attorneys general in mid-October by agreeing to
stop making biodegradability claims about its disposable
diapers. The concern, which didn't admit any wrongdoing, had
promoted its Bunnies products as "biodegradable" in its
packaging and ads. The attorneys general contended the
diapers couldn't degrade quickly in landfills.
   Seven states sued Mobil Chemical Co. last summer charging
that Mobil exploited popular misconceptions by making
environmental claims for Hefty trash bags that it knew were
false. And the Federal Trade Commission expects to take
action soon against other manufacturers as a result of the
agency's 20 investigations into possibly deceptive claims for
"environmentally friendly" products.
   Too many companies "thought they could just stick that
{green} label on like candy," says Sarah Johnston, an
environmental policy assistant for New York's attorney
general.
   Kip Lepper, chief of staff for California Democratic
Assemblyman Byron Sher, the statute's sponsor, shares her
view. "The intent of this law is not to discourage
environmental advertising," he says, "but rather to bring
some truth to environmental advertising -- something which
has been woefully absent."
   ---
   WPP Skips Dividend
                                                                                                       

   WPP Group, in the latest sign of slowing revenue and
weakening cash flow at the British ad firm, said it won't pay
an interim dividend to shareholders.
   In a letter to shareholders, WPP Chairman David Ogilvy
wrote that it remains WPP's priority to conserve cash. "We
consider that it would not be in the best interests of the
company to pay the interim dividend for 1990 and therefore
this dividend will not be paid." WPP, which owns the J.
Walter Thompson and Ogilvy &amp; Mather ad networks, had said in
August it would pay 13.7 pence (25.9 cents) as an interim
dividend. Shares of WPP fell 11 pence to 50 pence Friday on
the London Stock Exchange.
   WPP was downbeat about 1991 earnings, saying it could be
"some time before the group can resume the pattern of growth
. . . experienced up until a few months ago." WPP added that
it is reviewing loan arrangements with its creditor banks to
reach satisfactory repayment terms, should earnings be weak
in 1991. The company declined to elaborate on the talks.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Shearson Lehman Brothers awarded its ad
account to Chiat/Day/Mojo's New York office. The account is
expected to bill $20 million, somewhat more than in the past
year, a Shearson spokesman said. It covers ad
responsibilities for the brokerage company's domestic retail
business and asset management activities. Chiat already
handles the Gold Card account for American Express, which
owns Shearson. The win capped a good week at Chiat, which a
few days earlier won a big chunk of NutraSweet's national ad
business.
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: Tatham-Laird &amp; Kudner, Chicago, said it
acquired Peter Rogers Associates, a New York agency with
about $35 million in billings. Terms weren't disclosed. Peter
Rogers Associates, whose clients include Baccarat and Vidal
Sassoon, will operate independently.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pittston Gets 10-Year Coal Pacts
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCO AEP
</CO>
<IN>
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- Pittston Co. said it signed two
10-year agreements to supply low sulphur coal to subsidiaries
of American Electric Power Co. A total value for the accords
wasn't disclosed.
   The first agreement, with American Electric's Appalachian
Power Co., calls for Pittston to supply a minimum of one
million tons annually for 10 years starting in Oct. 1, 1991.
In the second pact, Pittston would supply the Ohio Power Co.
unit, starting with 240,000 tons in the first year and
gradually increasing to one million tons by the sixth year of
the contract.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Storebrand America Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   Y.SNG BLV
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TARRYTOWN, N.Y. -- Storebrand America Inc. said it plans
to raise its stake in Belvedere Corp. to 54.9% by purchasing
an additional 290,000 common shares.
   The company, a unit of Norwegian insurer Storebrand AS,
declined to disclose terms. It said it is authorized to
acquire the additional 5% stake under a 1989 agreement with
Belvedere, a New York-based reinsurer. The purchases will be
done in the open market or through private transactions,
Storebrand said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Belvedere last month ended talks aimed at the merger of
Belvedere and Storebrand America's Christiania Holding Co. in
exchange for Belvedere's common stock. The transaction would
have increased Storebrand America's stake to 82%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Retail Sales Decline
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
CANADIAN ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (CEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales in October fell 0.3% to a
seasonally adjusted 16.12 billion Canadian dollars (US$13.91
billion) from September, Statistics Canada, a federal agency,
said.
   This marked the third consecutive monthly drop. The
October decline was partly attributed to weak auto sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, Statistics Canada reported that Canadian
building permits in October rose 5.5% from September.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   NTT President
   Sees Dreary Profit
   For a Few Years
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Corp. faces at least
two to three more years of depressed earnings, President
Masashi Kojima said.
   The extended dreary outlook for the company, the world's
largest in terms of market capitalization, surprised some
analysts, most of whom had concluded NTT's financial problems
were bottoming out.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese law allows only Japanese citizens to own NTT
stock, but the government is considering allowing foreign
ownership and is expected to make a decision early next year.
   Mr. Kojima, who took over as president earlier this year,
said at a press luncheon Friday that "for a few years, we
will be in a difficult situation in increasing" profit.
   The struggles of the partly privatized giant, he
complained, come from facing new, deregulated competition in
areas such as domestic long-distance calls, while still
answering to regulators on rates and other matters. He also
attributed the expected earnings drop to enormous capital
spending required to modernize Japan's telephone system.
   "NTT is in a very difficult situation," the wry, outspoken
executive said. "I'd like to retire shortly, as long as
somebody would succeed me."
   An NTT spokesman later explained that, specifically, the
company expects pretax profit to drop more than 10% to about
400 billion yen ($2.96 billion) for the year ending March 31,
1992, and to remain flat for fiscal 1993. That compares with
NTT's pretax profit forecast of 447 billion yen for fiscal
1991, and with analysts' projections of 430 billion to 450
billion. Mr. Kojima said he expects 400 billion yen will be
rock-bottom.
   The NTT spokesman said the company hopes earnings will
rebound after the next couple of years.
   Michael Jeremy, an analyst with the Tokyo office of Baring
Securities Ltd., expressed some skepticism about Mr. Kojima's
remarks, noting that NTT has some incentive to dampen
earnings expectations to avoid unfavorable regulatory action.
"The tune will change," he said, "according to whom they're
trying to please."
   NTT's sliding earnings have been one of the many causes
for the much-publicized plunge in its stock price -- a drop
of about 70% since its 1987 peak of 3.18 million yen a share.
Mr. Kojima disclosed Friday that he, as have many small
investors in Japan, also had been hurt financially as a
result. His personal portfolio, he said he once calculated,
had lost 20 million to 30 million yen in value from its peak
price.
   But Mr. Kojima said he is holding on to the shares until
his retirement. "So NTT's stock has to go up," he said.
"Otherwise, I will face a difficult retirement."
   NTT had fiscal 1990 pretax earnings of 484.7 billion yen.
The company is capitalized at about 15 trillion yen. Its
shares closed unchanged Friday at 1,010,000 yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Executives Who Rely on a Very Senior Partner
   ----
   By Jack Falvey
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   "In God We Trust" is inscribed on the coin and currency we
all work for. Do we trust in God? Do you? Should we pay more
attention to this motto we all carry with us?
   It seems to be inscribed in the minds and hearts of many
of our business and political leaders. Total self-reliance is
not how things actually work. For example, Secretary of State
James Baker acknowledges that in the diplomatic power game
there is always a higher power. At the annual National Prayer
Breakfast in Washington, D.C., in February, he was quoted as
saying: "Inner security and true real fulfillment comes by
faith. It doesn't come by wielding power in a town where
power is king." He candidly stated that his wife had helped
him cope with a personal problem by teaching him to pray and
helping him to realize his true position in life. "I really
needed to stop trying to play God and turn the matter over to
Him."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Walter Hoving, the head of Tiffany's from 1955 to 1980,
died last year at age 91. He built sales during his tenure
from $7 million to $100 million. Convinced that his entire
career was guided by God, he had Tiffany's produce small
silver-plate pins (later expanded to include sterling silver,
Vermeil and gold) with the message "Try God" spelled out.
   Was Mr. Hoving merely an eccentric business success? Is
James Baker just a little unusual? It seems not. The ranks of
American industry and government are studded with the names
of successful leaders who are not afraid to state their firm
belief in God and then, of greater importance, to act
according to that belief.
   Peter Grace, formerly of W. R. Grace Inc., has never been
shy about his association with the Catholic Church and its
works in the New York archdiocese. Perhaps in his
environmentally sensitive business, he needed all the help he
could get.
   Tom Phillips, of Raytheon, famous for its air defense
systems and now making great strides in air-traffic control,
started a prayer-breakfast group in the mid-1980s that still
meets today. Forty or so business leaders gather to discuss
ethical or spiritual topics or hear an inspirational talk at
this little-publicized forum. Ken Olsen, of Digital Equipment
Corp., is reported to be a regular attendee. Now that IBM has
its sights locked on DEC's once-invulnerable market niche,
Mr. Olsen has a great deal for which to pray.
   At the worker level, in many companies there are small
scripture-study gatherings that meet at lunchtime. Wang
Laboratories has such a group, and who can say whether that
had something to do with its modest comeback in profitability
after its recent reorganization?
   Of course, most people would prefer to keep their
religious beliefs separate from their careers. But it's
impossible to compartmentalize one's life completely. Our
Constitution separates church and state, and it would be wise
not to designate a company religion. It is, however,
difficult for many of us to deny the impact of the workings
of God in the world -- and that includes the business world.
Worship on the weekend and business-as-usual the rest of the
week isn't how things work.
   Can you deny the existence of God and his workings in the
world and succeed in at least a secular monetary sense? Yes.
Free will allows the world to operate in its own mysterious
way. In fact, some might argue that the bottom line
necessitates an occasional departure from strict application
of God's rules -- an approach to which Edwin Land, the
founder of Polaroid, had a ready response. At one
shareholders' meeting in 1977, he responded to desperate
reports of a product reversal by saying, "The bottom line is
in heaven."
   Indeed, the role of providence in decisions and outcomes
should not be overlooked. We are all told how important
timing is in business, yet no one has any idea how to be at
the right place at the right time. Some will say luck is a
big factor (always combined with hard work). If so, perhaps
the business schools should teach a two-semester course in
luck. (First semester, good luck; second semester, bad luck.)
It would go well with a companion set of courses on timing.
(First semester, too soon; second semester, too late.)
   It is difficult to attribute specifics in business
directly to God. It is equally difficult to deny his
involvement. (You can, of course, if you choose to])
   It is human nature to turn to God in difficult or
impossible times (referred to as "fox-hole religion" in
wartime). If, as the saying goes, "God is my co-pilot," why
not let him take over? Many do. It is a higher form of human
nature to turn to God in good times.
   Why do so many well-known and successful executives feel
that God is a dominant force in their lives and in their
businesses? The ethics of everyday operations and how people
should be treated are issues that are not covered very well
in business schools or in most management books. On the other
hand, students of management study the traits of successful
leaders. We might do well to study the practices of
executives who rely on God.
   Mr. Hoving's little pins carry a powerful message: "Try
God." Why not? In this holy season, it would be wise to
reflect on this message. Prayer as a management technique
should not be discounted.
   ---
   Mr. Falvey is a writer and speaker living in Londonderry,
N.H.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Uh, Oh, the People
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   During the recent Polish presidential campaign, Lech
Walesa paused to ask, "Why is the West making a tyrant out of
me?" He might well wonder. Even as he faces difficulties
forming a new government, the man who could do no wrong for
10 years is suddenly being portrayed as a
cryptoauthoritarian.
   It is not only Mr. Walesa who has suddenly gone out of
vogue. His critics see a wave of "populism" sweeping all
across Eastern Europe. "Super-patriots" are winning
elections, citizens are voting along ethnic lines. Even
Czechoslovakia's Vaclav Havel is asking for emergency powers,
including the power to dissolve Parliament. All of this is
being interpreted as a sign that these peoples, because of
their "limited experience" with democracy, maybe aren't ready
for self-rule after all.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What is really happening is that East European democracies
are exiting from their cuddly stages, and are beginning to
reflect the real issues in the region. This means that the
dissident intellectuals who came to power in 1989, and who
have become favorites in Western intellectual circles, are
hitting the rocks.
   Poland is the clearest example. The recent election was
Tadeusz Mazowiecki's to lose. A few months ago, the Polish
leader had overwhelming support and almost two-thirds of
those surveyed said they did not want to see Mr. Walesa as
president. But many of the Solidarity intellectuals who
surrounded Mr. Mazowiecki showed contempt for the Polish
people.
   Andrzej Szcypiorski, a member of the Senate and a leading
member of Solidarity's intellectual faction, expressed the
sentiments not uncommon in that group: "Walesa and the
workers say with pride, `We are the simple people.' I say it
is high time to get a little more complicated. They do not
realize that in contemporary Western life real power is held
by managers and professionals." Of the working class, Mr.
Szcypiorski said, "They have low morale, low achievement and
weak characters."
   Adam Michnik is the Solidarity intellectual who has
emerged as everybody's favorite quote-meister. He typically
calls Mr. Walesa a burgeoning Peronist or a Mussolini. He
predicts that Mr. Walesa "will not be president of a
democratic Poland. Rather, he will become a destabilizing
factor, creating chaos, and isolating Poland from the rest of
the world."
   The Polish people sensed that this was a class war and had
no trouble deciding which side they were on. By electing Mr.
Walesa, they were not protesting the pain inflicted by Mr.
Mazowiecki's economic reforms. Indeed, Mr. Walesa pledges to
continue the economic reforms started under Finance Minister
Leszek Balcerowicz. He understands that the people want
economic reform accelerated.
   The intellectual technocrats, victims of their own
managerial caution, slowed privatization to a snail's pace.
Nor did the technocrats understand how it offended the people
to be called on to make sacrifices, while the old communist
nomenklatura stayed in office. The Mazowiecki regime had made
a compact with the communists to ensure an "orderly"
transition. Communists paid lip service to the market, but
what they meant was something very similar to welfarestate
socialism.
   Intellectual elites are rarely pleased with the
rough-and-tumble world of true democracy. They sniff at the
simple patriotism of a Lech Walesa or a Ronald Reagan. Yet
surely the cure for fragile democracy is not less democracy.
These populist movements in Eastern Europe are the fruition
of last year's revolutions. Populist governments are not only
more democratic than governments tailormade to suit the
elites, they are often also more sensible.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   France's Foreign Trade Deficit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- France's foreign trade deficit narrowed
significantly to a preliminary, seasonally adjusted 601
million francs ($117.1 million) in November from a revised
6.69 billion franc gap in October, which had been estimated
earlier at 5.87 billion francs, the government said.
   The latest result came in well below the previous
forecasts of Paris market economists for a November deficit
of about 7.6 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unadjusted November data showed a deficit of 1.7 billion
francs, after a revised October deficit of 6.77 billion
francs.
   For the first 11 months, France's adjusted trade deficit
fell to 44 billion francs from the year-earlier deficit of
44.51 billion francs. The cumulative deficit was 39.84
billion francs on an unadjusted basis, compared with 41.65
billion francs a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health Care REIT Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HCN
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOLEDO, Ohio -- Health Care REIT Inc. said it leased its
120-bed nursing home in Camp Verde, Ariz., previously
classified as other real estate owned, to Arbors Health Care
Center Inc. for a 10-year period.
   Arbors is a subsidiary of Signature Health Care Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The real estate concern said the carrying value of the
property at Dec. 1 was approximately $3 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Synergen Inc. Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SYGN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOULDER, Colo. -- Synergen Inc. said it expects to raise
$50 million in an offering of partnership units to finance
research and development of a potential treatment for
inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis.
   The biotechnology concern said the partnership units will
own certain rights to the treatment, interleukin-1 receptor
antagonist, which is currently in human clinical trials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it expects the partnership to be funded
in the first quarter of 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mazda Boosts Price of Navajo
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Mazda Motor of America said it is raising the
base price of its 1991 Navajo sport utility vehicle by 1.6%
to $17,835. The auto maker said in September that the Navajo
would cost $17,560. Mazda said the price increase is at least
partly a result of the rising cost of doing business. The
price increase is effective for vehicles that arrive at
showrooms on or after Jan. 2, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   In Hoc Anno Domini
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   When Saul of Tarsus set out on his journey to Damascus the
whole of the known world lay in bondage. There was one state,
and it was Rome. There was one master for it all, and he was
Tiberius Caesar.
   Everywhere there was civil order, for the arm of the Roman
law was long. Everywhere there was stability, in government
and in society, for the centurions saw that it was so.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But everywhere there was something else, too. There was
oppression -- for those who were not the friends of Tiberius
Caesar. There was the tax gatherer to take the grain from the
fields and the flax from the spindle to feed the legions or
to fill the hungry treasury from which divine Caesar gave
largess to the people. There was the impressor to find
recruits for the circuses. There were executioners to quiet
those whom the Emperor proscribed. What was a man for but to
serve Caesar?
   There was the persecution of men who dared think
differently, who heard strange voices or read strange
manuscripts. There was enslavement of men whose tribes came
not from Rome, disdain for those who did not have the
familiar visage. And most of all, there was everywhere a
contempt for human life. What, to the strong, was one man
more or less in a crowded world?
   Then, of a sudden, there was a light in the world, and a
man from Galilee saying, Render unto Caesar the things which
are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's.
   And the voice from Galilee, which would defy Caesar,
offered a new Kingdom in which each man could walk upright
and bow to none but his God. Inasmuch as ye have done it unto
one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto
me. And he sent this gospel of the Kingdom of Man into the
uttermost ends of the earth.
   So the light came into the world and the men who lived in
darkness were afraid, and they tried to lower a curtain so
that man would still believe salvation lay with the leaders.
   But it came to pass for a while in divers places that the
truth did set man free, although the men of darkness were
offended and they tried to put out the light. The voice said,
Haste ye. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness come
upon you, for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither
he goeth.
   Along the road to Damascus the light shone brightly. But
afterward Paul of Tarsus, too, was sore afraid. He feared
that other Caesars, other prophets, might one day persuade
men that man was nothing save a servant unto them, that men
might yield up their birthright from God for pottage and walk
no more in freedom.
   Then might it come to pass that darkness would settle
again over the lands and there would be a burning of books
and men would think only of what they should eat and what
they should wear, and would give heed only to new Caesars and
to false prophets. Then might it come to pass that men would
not look upward to see even a winter's star in the East, and
once more, there would be no light at all in the darkness.
   And so Paul, the apostle of the Son of Man, spoke to his
brethren, the Galatians, the words he would have us remember
afterward in each of the years of his Lord:
   Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ has
made us free and be not entangled again with the yoke of
bondage.
   ---
   This editorial was written in 1949 by Vermont Royster, now
editor emeritus of the Journal, and has been published
annually since.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Argentines Escape to Shopping Malls,
   Spending Away Their Recession Blues
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUENOS AIRES -- In most countries, recession means
belt-tightening. But Argentina likes to do things
differently. Here, says Susana Germinaro, while waiting on
customers in the exclusive leather-goods shop she manages,
"People are buying belts."
   They're also buying clothes. And shoes. And plane tickets
abroad. "And appliances," says shop-owner Daniel Polensvaig.
"Everybody's buying appliances like nuts. TV sets. VCRs.
Freezers. In the last six months, spending has been crazy."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's long been said that Argentina's steady economic slide
led many Argentines to seek solace on the shrink's couch.
Now, they're also seeking respite by spending money.
   Even as Argentina goes through what is described as its
worst recession ever, the country is experiencing a consumer
boom -- although many caution that the boom is limited to the
ever-smaller number of Argentines who can afford to consume.
The newsweekly Noticias recently reported that sales of
clothes are up 46.4%, washing-machine sales have climbed 51%,
and travel agents are selling 89% more airline tickets.
   Lured by the current cheap dollar, Argentines are
traveling -- and buying -- abroad in droves. Punta del Este,
the fashionable resort in neighboring Uruguay, is expecting
one million Argentines during the Southern hemisphere summer.
   But it's not just abroad that Argentines are consuming.
Even as they continue to complain about "la crisis," large,
upscale shopping malls are opening all over Argentina. And
their business is booming. "From what salespeople say,
they're selling twice what they sold elsewhere," says Alicia
Moszkowski, sales director of Alto Palermo, the newest
shopping mall.
   Some say the spending spree is a sign of optimism that
President Carlos Menem's free-market policies are finally
beginning to arrest the country's decline. "They're spending
because they feel confident, and they're spending at high
prices in dollar terms," says Brian McMahon, an economist.
   Others say it's a sign of pessimism. "People don't save
money here because money is worthless," says Mr. Polensvaig,
who owns a store in Alto Palermo. "People still don't trust
their currency, so what do you do? You buy dollars, or you
buy goods."
   Some say it's because the Argentine austral is currently
overvalued in relation to the dollar, leaving more disposable
income once spending on food, which is pegged to the dollar,
is excluded. Or, they say, it's because inflation has fallen
to below two digits. Others, however, point out that when the
dollar was high and Argentina was in hyperinflation a few
months ago, people were buying, too, because anything was
better than holding on to their money.
   "It's a case for psychologists," says Irma Scarpin, a
saleswoman at Pigalle, a shoe and leather-goods shop in the
Alto Palermo mall. Psychologists are indeed expounding on the
topic. Mauricio Abadi, a leading Buenos Aires analyst, told
Noticias, "Maybe the experience of disastrous losses during
war, economic crashes or hyperinflation has taught us to give
up a certain feeling of omnipotence that made us think we
could shield ourselves from future losses. So everything now
centers on the urgency of instant gratification."
   For instant gratification, Argentines have a new place to
go: the mall.
   For years, Argentina remained impervious to the retailing
revolution that replaced small shops with department stores,
supermarkets and shopping centers. Now, that revolution is
hitting the country with a vengeance. "No matter how
backwards we are, we have to follow the world," says Mr.
Polensvaig. "And the world is shopping at the malls."
   So Buenos Aires is getting malls. Lots of them. The first
big one, Patio Bullrich, opened a couple of years ago. Alto
Palermo opened in mid-October; one million people visited it
in the first two weeks. At least three more are in the works.
   If Argentina is in crisis, it doesn't show at Alto
Palermo. A gleaming $45 million structure of glass, marble,
granite and chrome, the mall has everything a yuppie would
want: four levels and 180 shops, including Calvin Klein,
Christian Dior and Yves Saint Laurent. There's a shop that
sells just Lacoste shirts and another selling Sergio Tacchini
sportswear. And there're McDonalds, not one, but three.
Everything is open seven days a week, 12 hours a day.
   At La Triestina, a Luger rifle sells for 8 million
Australes ($1,600). Aeromodelismo Canning sells
remote-control operated airplanes for up to $2,500. "Sales
are good," says its manager, Alberto Serafini. Space Station,
Mr. Polensvaig's import shop, sells a $14,000 solarium, a
$3,100 motorized rubber dinghy and other essentials, like a
transparent neon-lit telephone. "It's basically
impulse-buying," he says. "Some of the things I sell are
useless," Mr. Polensvaig concedes. "But they're imported.
Last time we had something imported was in 1980. People here
are hungry for something new."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carolco Shares
   Owned by Kassar
   Frozen by Court
   ----
   By Kathleen A. Hughes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A state court judge here froze 2.2 million
Carolco Pictures Inc. shares owned by the company's chairman,
Mario Kassar, and limited Mr. Kassar's ability to draw funds
from the independent movie production company.
   Judge John Zerbrowski took the action at a Thursday
hearing of a shareholder's suit that charged Mr. Kassar with
self-dealing in a $45 million stock transaction with Carolco
last September.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the transaction, Carolco agreed to buy back about 3.4
million shares from Mr. Kassar at $13 a share. At the time,
the shares were trading at about $7.25 on the New York Stock
Exchange. The company didn't offer an explanation for the
much higher price. The buy-back was completed last month.
   On Friday, Carolco closed at $8.375 a share, down 25
cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Carolco, one of the few remaining independent movie
companies, has a reputation for paying some of the highest
fees in Hollywood to writers, directors and actors. The
company is known for producing a string of action movies. It
released the high-budget "Total Recall," starring Arnold
Schwarzenegger, last summer.
   In his order Thursday, Judge Zerbrowski said the evidence
suggested "self-dealing" and a breach of fiduciary duties. In
addition to freezing 2.2 million shares, the judge froze one
million warrants held by Mr. Kassar and ordered Carolco not
to approve any loans or other financial transactions with Mr.
Kassar without court review.
   Mr. Kassar founded Carolco with Andrew Vajna about 14
years ago, and the two ran the company as co-chairmen. Mr.
Vajna left the company in November 1989, and Mr. Kassar
purchased his 36% stake, or 11.2 million shares, for about
$108 million, or $9.60 a share. Based on that price, Mr.
Kassar made a profit of about $11.5 million when he sold the
smaller number of shares to the company. The Carolco buy-back
left Mr. Kassar with 15.1 million shares, or a 57% stake in
the company.
   After buying the shares from Mr. Vajna, Mr. Kassar also
sold about 3.8 million shares to four institutional investors
at prices ranging from $10.50 to $11.50 a share.
   Carolco officials declined to comment on the Thursday
action. In a statement, the company said the preliminary
action "has no effect on the company and its operations."
Carolco said the transaction was approved by its independent
committee and its board and that the company received support
from institutional and other large holders representing a
majority of the shares not owned by Mr. Kassar.
   As a result, Carolco said it believes that its "view of
this case is correct" and that "the courts will agree once
they have had the opportunity to review all the facts."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tucson Electric Hit by Court Decision
   That May Mean Charges of $350 Million
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   TEP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tucson Electric Power Co. appeared to move closer to a
bankruptcy-protection filing after an adverse state court
decision raised the possibility that the utility may be
forced to take $350 million in immediate one-time charges.
   The state court in Phoenix upheld two regulatory orders
issued last year that had been challenged by Tucson Electric.
The first involved a purchased power contract with a former
Tucson Electric subsidiary. The second involved Tucson
Electric's gain on the 1982 sale of an option to purchase an
interest in a New Mexico power plant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Tucson, Ariz., utility prevailed in a third dispute
with regulators related to $20 million of fuel expenses for a
four-month period last year.
   The Arizona Corporations Commission, which regulates
utilities, had disallowed certain Tucson Electric charges for
power purchased from its former Alamito unit, which was spun
off to shareholders and later taken private as Century Power
Corp. Tucson Electric has said that the difference between
its estimate of costs and the limits set by regulators is
$250 million over the life of the 28-year contract, which
expires in 2014.
   The commission also disputed Tucson Electric's treatment
of a gain on the sale of an option to buy a 28.8% interest in
Unit 4 of the San Juan Generating Station near Farmington,
N.M. The commission argued that money from the sale to the
Modesto, Santa Clara and Redding Public Power Agency should
have benefited ratepayers rather than being passed on to
shareholders as a one-time gain. Tucson Electric has
estimated its pretax liability in the event of an unfavorable
outcome in this dispute to be $100 million as of Nov. 1,
1990.
   In a statement, Tucson Electric said it hasn't decided
whether it will appeal the decisions. The utility also said
it is "reviewing whether recognition of losses or write-offs
related to the Century Power purchase contract and the
{option-gain} adjustment is required at this time."
   Regarding the 28-year Century Power contract, a Tucson
Electric spokesman said: "We don't know if accounting
treatment would require immediate" write-downs for the full
$250 million rather than amortization over the life of the
contract.
   In two recent filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Tucson Electric has cautioned that it may file
for Chapter 11 protection from creditors if it is unable to
maintain liquidity. In October, a spokesman said such an
action wasn't imminent. The spokesman declined to speculate
on what the company will do now.
   In a bid to improve liquidity, Tucson Electric omitted
indefinitely all of its preferred-stock dividends earlier
this month. The company said the omission was one of a number
of steps designed to conserve cash. The company omitted its
quarterly dividend on common stock in January.
   Tucson Electric has been plagued by excess generating
capacity throughout the Southwest and by fallout from the
company's disastrous diversification into the thrift and real
estate businesses. In the year ended June 30, the utility had
a net loss of $210.9 million, or $8.64 a share, including
write-downs from disposal of discontinued operations, on
revenue of $480.9 million.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Tucson Electric shares closed at $7.375, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Texas Instruments, Samsung
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   C.SEL TXN
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Texas Instruments Inc. said it reached a
five-year licensing agreement with Samsung Electronics Co. of
South Korea, settling one of several patent issues with
foreign chip makers.
   The company didn't disclose the amount of royalties it
expects to receive from Samsung but said the total will
"greatly exceed" royalties under the chip makers' previous
agreement, which expires at year end. The new agreement is
subject to approval by the South Korean government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several other licensing agreements between Texas
Instruments and foreign chip makers expire at the end of this
year, and the company said negotiations for new agreements
were continuing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Harsco Pact With Army
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HSC
</CO>
<IN>
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   HARRISBURG, Pa. -- Harsco Corp. said it has reached an
agreement with the U.S. Army to modify a contract that allows
the company to produce fewer five-ton trucks in exchange for
dismissing certain claims against the government.
   The industrial concern said cost problems related to its
five-ton truck contract had required it to build loss
reserves totaling $60 million. Harsco said it doesn't
anticipate having to add to its reserves as a result of the
new agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new agreement calls for the company to provide the
government with 17,092 vehicles, as opposed to the original
contract calling for 21,000 trucks. Harsco said it has
already built and delivered 10,000 of those trucks.
   In return, Harso has agreed to drop certain claims,
representing about $55 million, against the government.
However, the company said it still continues to pursue claims
in excess of $55 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrimac Holders Clear Change
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MRM MXC
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   WEST CALDWELL, N.J. -- Merrimac Industries Inc. said
shareholders approved a change in its charter that eliminated
cumulative voting in the election of its directors.
   The change, approved at a special shareholders meeting,
means that each shareholder will be entitled to one vote per
common share. It represents a setback for Matec Corp.,
Merrimac's largest shareholder with a 16.2% stake, which had
sought to enhance its voting power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Matec, based in Hopkinton, Mass., makes instruments for
industrial research and military operations. Merrimac makes
signal processing equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trans Financial to Merge Banks
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRFI
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOWLING GREEN, Ky. -- Trans Financial Bancorp, a bank
holding company, said its two commercial banks, Citizens
National Bank in Bowling Green and Citizens Bank &amp; Trust Co.
in Glasgow and Cave City, will merge and change their names
to Trans Financial Bank, effective next Monday.
   The company said the merger will provide greater
efficiencies in automation, marketing, check processing and
branch operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Philips Injects Funds
   Into Video Company,
   Boosts Stake to 21%
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   PHG
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The Belgian unit of N.V. Philips said it
agreed to pump at least four billion Belgian francs ($128
million) into Super Club N.V., a Belgian operator of video
and music stores.
   Philips said the injection would be made in the form of
equity and convertible debt. Philips's stake in Super Club
would rise to about 21% from 12%. "This will strengthen Super
Club's financial position by January 1991," Philips said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both sides denied, however, that the move was a rescue
operation. Charles Cool, a Super Club director, said it was
too early to say how the money would be used.
   The investment surprised analysts because Philips, an
electronics giant based in the Netherlands, is suffering from
severe financial problems and heavy debt. The company is
eliminating nearly 20% of its work force world-wide and has
warned that its loss for 1990 will total about four billion
Dutch guilders ($2.4 billion).
   "I don't think it's the opportune time" to make such an
investment, said Luc van Lent, an analyst at Swiss Bank Corp.
in London.
   But the Dutch company said Super Club's activities "fit in
perfectly with Philips's strategy." A Philips spokesman said
his company, which owns 80% of PolyGram N.V., a
recorded-music company, wants to expand further in software
to go with the consumer-electronics hardware made by Philips.
   Super Club had 1989 net income of about $38 million on
sales of $349 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy -- Reporter's Notebook:
   Keating Five Hearings Have Lawmakers Caught
   Between Public Duty and Loyalty to Senate Club
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Senate Ethics Committee is the most
unpopular assignment a lawmaker can get on Capitol Hill.
After six weeks of hearings in the Keating Five case, it's
easy to see why.
   As politicians, the six senators on the bipartisan
committee are all keenly aware that the televised hearings
focusing on the intervention of five senators with thrift
regulators on behalf of a big contributor, Charles Keating,
have fed public outrage over Washington's ethics. Although
only 26% of the public has been following the hearings
closely, according to the most recent Wall Street Journal/NBC
News poll, nearly three-quarters of those paying attention
say the violations that the Keating Five are accused of are
typical of all members of Congress. Voters also
overwhelmingly favor term limitations for senators and House
members, 74% to 22%, according to the poll. If the panel
doesn't punish at least some members of the Keating Five, the
public's cynicism could further deepen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But as members of the Senate Club, the Ethics Committee is
tugged in the opposite direction. Respected senior senators,
including Hawaii Democrat Daniel Inouye and South Carolina
Republican Strom Thurmond, have come running to the defense
of Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D., Ariz.), a chief target of the
ethics probe. They say that the five are guilty of nothing
more than zealousness in trying to help a constituent. Sen.
DeConcini has been busy circulating copies of Sen. Inouye's
"We All Do It" testimony to the ethics panel and is expecting
even more of his colleagues to step forward to publicly
defend him. "I haven't leaned on anybody," he says, "but many
of my colleagues agree with those {Inouye's} statements."
   From their questioning of witnesses, it's possible to
glean which way committee members are leaning. Sen. Terry
Sanford (D., N.C.) seems to be the five senators' most
stalwart ally and often asks questions that help draw the
sting out of witnesses' testimony. The other North Carolinian
on the panel, Republican Jesse Helms, seems the most outraged
by the senators' behavior. The strongest voices on the panel
-- Chairman Howell Heflin (D., Ala.) and Sen. Warren Rudman
(R., N.H.) -- have both seemed deeply disturbed by some of
the testimony. The two other senators, David Pryor (D., Ark.)
and Trent Lott (R., Miss.), are difficult to read.
   Special counsel Robert Bennett has already recommended
that Sens. John Glenn (D., Ohio) and John McCain (R., Ariz.)
be exonerated, and they probably will be. It seems equally
probable that Alan Cranston (D., Calif.), who has already
announced his retirement from the Senate when his term ends
in 1992, will face the stiffest penalty because of the
uncomfortably close links between some of Sen. Cranston's
actions and Mr. Keating's nearly $1 million in contributions
to his political causes. But the fact that the senator has
cancer makes it unlikely that his colleagues would have the
stomach to expel him -- the harshest sanction. He could face
censure or denunciation.
   Sen. DeConcini is likely to receive some kind of reprimand
-- maybe even censurefor leaning too hard on regulators on
Mr. Keating's behalf. The fate of Sen. Donald Riegle (D.,
Mich.) is hardest to predict because his gravest sin appears
to be a lack of candor with the panel.
   The ethics panel will conclude the hearing and begin
deliberations next month. Some senators are already dreading
an ugly floor fight because any punishment stiffer than
reprimand requires full Senate approval. "It could be a real
blood bath," predicts one GOP senator.
   ---
   In a private meeting of the committee, a transcript of
which was released recently, the increasing tension between
Mr. Bennett and the senators' defense lawyers is obvious. All
of the lawyers involved in the case, including Mr. Bennett,
are part of a small, fraternal, white-collar defense bar in
Washington. They've worked together on other cases and often
attend the same parties. But during the Keating Five case, in
which Mr. Bennett has reversed roles and serves as
prosecutor, they are pals no more. During the questioning of
James Grogan, a lobbyist for Lincoln Savings &amp; Loan
Association, the thrift controlled by Mr. Keating, the
attorney for Sen. McCain got into an angry confrontation with
Mr. Bennett. "I don't want any cheap {expletive deleted} from
you," the lawyer, John Dowd, snapped at the special counsel.
   ---
   Sen. McCain is not only the only Republican member of the
Keating Five, but also the only one of the five who faces
re-election in 1992, now that Sen. Cranston has announced his
retirement. The Arizona Republican is back home trying to
repair political damage, appearing on a slew of call-in shows
and attending meetings with political supporters. Although
the Keating case follows him like a cloud, he says most of
the calls and questions he receives deal with the Persian
Gulf crisis, a shift of emphasis he has gladly seized on. Mr.
McCain has told the ethics panel that he plans to leave on a
trip to the Middle East and Vietnam on Jan. 5. "I've told
them I'm gone after that," he says. Mr. McCain will be the
first senator to be questioned by the panel after hearings
resume Jan. 2.
   ---
   The long Keating Five investigation, which began in
October 1989, has also taken a toll on some former associates
of the fallen thrift executive. Mr. Grogan, who once earned
$300,000 as a lobbyist for Mr. Keating, is now in less-cushy
circumstances. "I'm a consultant," he told the ethics panel,
"which is a common way of saying you're unemployed."
   ---
   As problems mounted at Lincoln S&amp;L, Mr. Keating apparently
became more and more brazen in his political requests. An
affidavit from Ron Ober, a former aide to Sen. DeConcini,
discloses that the thrift executive wanted Sen. DeConcini to
offer to support the nomination of John Tower to be defense
secretary in return for the Bush administration's help in
persuading federal regulators to approve a sale of Lincoln.
Mr. Ober says he refused to approach Sen. DeConcini with such
a request.
   In late 1988, according to the affidavit, Mr. Ober warned
Sen. DeConcini that he should be "wary of requests for
assistance from Charles Keating and Lincoln." But Mr. Ober's
former boss didn't heed the advice. After Lincoln was seized
by the government in April 1989, Mr. Ober says he received a
call from the senator. "We had a brief conversation in which
he commented that he had not taken my earlier political
suggestion concerning Mr. Keating. I did not ask him what he
meant by this comment, and he did not say."
   ---
                    Public Responses on
                   Keating Five Hearings
                                                                                                       

   "How much attention have you been paying to the Senate
Ethics Committee hearings on the Keating Five?"
                                                                                                       

   A great deal ................................... 10%
                                                                                                       

   Quite a bit .................................... 16%
                                                                                                       

   Just some ...................................... 23%
                                                                                                       

   Very little .................................... 26%
                                                                                                       

   None at all .................................... 23%
                                                                                                       

   Not sure .......................................  2%
                                                                                                       

   "Are ethical violations the Keating Five are accused of
typical of the behavior of senators and members of Congress?"
                                                                                                       

   Typical ........................................ 71%
                                                                                                       

   Not Typical .................................... 19%
                                                                                                       

   Not sure ....................................... 10%
                                                                                                       

   *Asked only of respondents who have paid at least a little
attention to the ethics hearing.
                                                                                                       

   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Winnebago Industries Inc.:
   First-Period Loss Widened
   On 48% Drop in Revenue
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WGO
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Winnebago Industries Inc. said its loss for the first
quarter, ended Dec. 1, widened to $8 million, or 32 cents a
share, from $4.6 million, or 19 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue dropped 48% to $40.7 million from $78.9
million.
   The Forest City, Iowa, maker of motor homes blamed the
industry slump on "Iraq's actions in the Middle East and
concerns about a slowing economy." The Mideast crisis raises
fears among motor home buyers about the availability and
price of gasoline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stephens Is Awarded
   Damages in Fraud Suit
   Against Geldermann
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 25
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- A federal district court jury awarded
Stephens Inc. $1,380,000 in compensatory damages and $1
million in punitive damages in a fraud and conspiracy suit
that the Little Rock-based investment banking concern had
brought against Geldermann Inc., a Chicago commodity-futures
trading firm.
   The civil suit involved an alleged commodities trading
scheme operated from 1982 until 1987 by the late John Markle,
a former Stephens vice president who controlled a
futures-trading account at Geldermann for Stephens. Mr.
Markle was allegedly allowed to wait until the end of the
trading day to designate the fate of trades made through
Geldermann, with losses being assigned to Stephens and gains
to an account Mr. Markle had established for his mother,
Academy Award-winning actress Mercedes McCambridge, of San
Diego, Calif.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. McCambridge joined Stephen's suit against Geldermann
and sought $500,000 in compensatory and $1 million in
punitive damages. The jury awarded her nothing.
   Stephens had sought $6.2 million in compensatory damages
and an equal amount in punitive damages.
   During the three-week trial, Geldermann's attorneys argued
that Stephens contributed to its own losses by poorly
supervising Mr. Markle. Stephens countered that it didn't
learn of the scheme until Oct. 6, 1987. Stephens fired Mr.
Markle on Nov. 13, 1987. Three days later, the Little Rock
executive killed his wife, two daughters and himself,
authorities say.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   This TV Season,
   It Looks Like
   Talk, Talk, Talk
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   KWP OPC PCI TRB VIA TWX MCA NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Television audiences may get talked to death this season.
   Seven new daily talk shows are poised to go on the air,
joining a field already crowded with gabfest hosts known by
their first names: Oprah, Geraldo, Arsenio, Sally, Joan,
Regis and Kathie Lee. Not to mention Phil Donahue, the
granddaddy of all the talkers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TV producers, stung by the failure of four game shows and
three "reality-based" programs introduced in syndication this
year, say they expect to fare better with talk shows. The
programs "have had the greatest degree of success as a
program type in the past several years," says Mitchell
Praver, a vice president at Katz Continental Television, a
station consultant. "The worst performing talk show does
better than the best performing of the new game shows."
   Those vying for spots include an entertainment-oriented
show starring Chuck Woolery, the snickering host of the
popular "Love Connection" video dating show; a hot-topic
program starring Maury Povich, the eyebrow-arching former
anchor of the tabloid ratings giant "A Current Affair"; and a
female-oriented show starring Jenny Jones, a comedian who
performs a nightclub stand-up routine for women.
   There's also a single-topic program starring Sarah
Purcell, who starred on "Real People." And former President
Reagan's son Ron is weighing in with a late-night talk show.
   Despite the talk shows' cost of between $150,000 and
$300,000 a week, producers say they're worth it. "Unlike
{less-expensive} game shows or flash-in-the-pan concepts,
these shows tend to become franchises that last a decade,"
says Scott Carlin, senior vice president of Warner Bros.
Domestic Television, a unit of Time Warner Inc., which is
distributing "Jenny Jones."
   But not all of the new entries will even get on the air,
let alone last long enough to build a franchise. "We've
already reached the saturation point," says Richard A.
Kurlander, vice president and director of programming at
Petry Television, a station consulting firm.
   For example, "Realities," a new show from Viacom Inc., is
already having problems despite the presence of David
Hartman, the popular former co-anchor of the ABC network's
"Good Morning America." The pilot, five pre-taped pieces not
unlike prime-time magazine shows such as "60 Minutes" and
"20/20," was poorly received by stations, so Viacom is
retooling the show.
   The shakeout in talk shows likely will occur before the
National Association of Television Program Executives' annual
convention scheduled to begin Jan. 14 in New Orleans. The
convention is a glitzy high-technology flea market where
producers of talk, game and reality-based shows entering
syndication peddle their goods to individual stations.
   For example, if "Realities" isn't sold to at least 20
stations before NATPE, it would be "difficult" to continue
with the project, concedes Michael Gerber, president of
first-run syndication at Viacom.
   Still, independent stations and network affiliates are
eager to use talk shows to fill programming gaps. Late last
week, for example, the NBC network said it was giving back
one hour of the daytime schedule to its 209 affiliates. The
sudden move by NBC, a General Electric Co. unit, means most
stations will seek to fill the 60 minutes with syndicated
programming.
   Jerry Dalrymple, general manager of KWTV, the CBS
affiliate in Oklahoma City, says the new glut of talk shows
isn't unexpected. "What are syndicators going to do?" he
asks. "People last year tried new high-tech game shows and
other things to beat {ratings giants} `Wheel of Fortune,'
`Jeopardy]' and Oprah, but nothing happened," he says.
   Indeed, the rookie game shows "Trump Card," "The
Challengers," "Quiz Kids Challenge" and "Tic Tac Dough" all
bombed. Reality-based shows fared no better: "Preview: First
Look at the New" was recently axed, and neither Fox
Broadcasting Co.'s "Personalities" nor King World Productions
Inc.'s "Total Recall" has ignited the ratings. Next
September, only two new games shows are entering the field:
"Scrabble," based on the popular board game and a retread of
"The $100,000 Pyramid."
   There's a lot at stake for the stations. Syndicated shows
cost far less to buy than, say, reruns of network situation
comedies, which can run $500,000 a week. The producer
receives a fee from each station and keeps half of the
advertising time -- seven minutes in a one-hour talk show --
to sell to national sponsors. The local stations keep the
other seven minutes.
   Syndicators say finding a "television star" before
constructing a show is of the utmost importance. That's what
happened with Mr. Woolery, says Robert King, president of
Orion Television Entertainment, a unit of Orion Pictures
Corp. "We wanted to find a daytime television star to host a
show," says Mr. King. The original host of the daytime
version of "Wheel of Fortune," Mr. Woolery spent the past
eight years hosting "Love Connection," where he dares to be
goofy and has developed a disarming way of debriefing couples
after their first date.
   So far, Mr. Woolery's show has been sold in 44 markets.
And Ms. Jones' program has been sold to about 50 stations.
But Mr. Povich's program from Paramount Television, a unit of
Paramount Communications Inc., has sold faster than any other
talk show in recent history. It's been purchased by at least
71 stations, including 28 of the top 30 markets.
   "We're doing it because we have Povich," says Lucy
Salhany, president of Paramount's domestic TV unit. "We
wouldn't do a talk show simply to do a talk show." Paramount
already has established syndicated shows, "Entertainment
Tonight" and "Hard Copy," in the lucrative one hour that
proceeds prime time; the "Arsenio Hall Show" in the
late-night slot; and a weekly syndicated hit, "Star Trek: The
Next Generation."
   If Maury, Chuck, Jenny or Ron fail, there are already
others prepared to shoot off their mouths: Talks are
continuing between Tribune Entertainment, a unit of Tribune
Co., and comedian Gary Shandling, among others, about a
late-night talk show. And King World Productions recently
completed test marketing a morning talk show on the NBC
affiliate in Baltimore with the husband-wife team of Tim and
Daphne Reid.
   Says Mr. Kurlander, the consultant: "There's so much
controversy and so many celebrities to go around. Instead of
talk being cheap, the glut is cheapening talk."
   ---
                      The Gift of Gab
                                                                                                       

   Here are some talk-show hopefuls in the syndication
marketplace for the 1991-92 television season:
                                                                                                       

                                                 COVERAGE
   TITLE               DISTRIBUTOR                OF U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Maury               Paramount                    70%
   Povich              Television
   Show                Distribution
                                                                                                       

   Chuck               Orion                        50%
   Woolery             Television
   Show                Entertainment
                                                                                                       

   Jenny               Warner Bros.                 40%
   Jones               Domestic
                       Television
                                                                                                       

   Late Night          MCA TV/Fox                   23%
   with                Stations Inc.
   Ron Reagan
                                                                                                       

   Realities           Viacom                       Not for
   with David          Enterprises                  sale yet
   Hartman
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   MD PPL RTC SCG WH
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
STOCK AND BOND RATINGS (RTG)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCDONNELL DOUGLAS Corp. (St. Louis, Mo.) -- Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it downgraded about $2.4 billion
of McDonnell Douglas Finance Corp.'s long-term debt. The
rating agency lowered the rating of the commercial aircraft
leasing concern's senior long-term debt to Baa-2 from Baa-1,
and lowered the rating of subordinated debt to Ba-1 from
Baa-3. In addition, Moody's said it reduced its rating on
commercial paper to Prime-3 from Prime-2. The agency said its
actions were based on "asset quality deterioration" in some
of McDonnell's newer businesses, the "corresponding erosion
in core profitability," and "constrained funding access in
light of the financial deterioration of the parent company."
Moody's also noted the "inherent strengths" of the leasing
unit's core business. Elayne Bendel, a spokeswoman for
McDonnell, declined to comment.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   PENNSYLVANIA POWER &amp; LIGHT Co. (Allentown, Pa.) --
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it raised its ratings on this
utility's senior secured debt to single-A from
single-A-minus, preferred stock to single-A-minus from
triple-B-plus, and preference stock to triple-B-plus from
triple-B. The rating concern also affirmed the commercial
paper rating at single-A-1. The actions affect about $3
billion of debt outstanding. S&amp;P cited the company's
prospects of "solid financial performances" throughout the
1990s, despite some exposure to increased costs related to
complying with federal clean-air legislation. S&amp;P also cited
"excellent" operating records at Pennsylvania Power's
Susquehanna nuclear power station.
   ---
   PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO. OF AMERICA (Newark, N.J.) --
Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it confirmed various
ratings on this insurance company, following the announcement
that its Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. subsidiary would
have a 1990 loss of about $250 million. The rating concern
said that although Prudential will face increased earnings
pressure "because of its somewhat aggressive investment
portfolio," the company has restructured its portfolio and
taken other steps to maintain its financial strength.
   ---
   ROCHESTER TELEPHONE Corp. (Rochester, N.Y.) -- Standard &amp;
Poor's Corp. said it lowered its ratings on about $420
million in securities of this phone company. The rating
concern downgraded senior secured debt to single-A-plus from
double-A, senior unsecured debt and preferred stock to
single-A from double-A-minus, and commercial paper to
single-A-1 from single-A-1-plus. S&amp;P said that Rochester
Telephone's "appetite" for telephone acquisitions has placed
added pressure on the company's debt leverage, and that it
doesn't expect the debt leverage to decline, as the company
plans to continue to acquire out-of-state firms.
   ---
   SOUTH CAROLINA ELECTRIC &amp; GAS Co. (Columbia, S.C.) --
Fitch Investor Service lowered its ratings on $890 million of
South Carolina E&amp;G debt, saying competition from energy
cooperatives is limiting the company's ability to raise its
low rates. The company is a unit of Scana Corp. Fitch
downgraded the utility's rating on $800 million in
first-mortgage bonds to A from AA. Fitch's rating on $90
million in preferred stock went to A- from A+. B. Tate
Horton, vice president and treasurer of South Carolina E&amp;G,
said the action will probably increase the cost of credit for
the utility, which expects to seek $200 million to $400
million in new capital in the late 1990s to comply with the
federal Clean Air Act.
   ---
   WHITMAN Corp. (Chicago) -- Moody's Investors Service Inc.,
citing a "more positive outlook" for certain Whitman
operations, changed an earlier-announced review of the
company's $1.2 billion in long-term debt to "direction
uncertain." The rating concern in October announced it would
review the debt for "possible downgrade" after Whitman
announced plans to spin off Pet Inc., its largest business.
The restructuring included a $150 million after-tax charge in
the third quarter. But Friday, Moody's said the review
direction "was changed to reflect a more positive outlook for
certain of the company's business units, including those
remaining with Whitman and those which may be spun off into
the newly created Pet Inc." Moody's review will also weigh
the "extent to which the announced restructuring charge will
reduce overhead costs in the future." In addition to Pet,
Whitman currently operates Midas International, Pepsi Cola
General Bottlers and Hussmann Corp. units.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Carnival Cruise Lines Inc.:
   Company Estimates Profit
   Increased for Fiscal 1990
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. expects to report per-share
earnings for the fiscal year ended Nov. 30 of about $1.50 to
$1.55, up from $1.44 in the prior year, Micky Arison,
chairman and chief executive officer, said.
   For fiscal 1989, the Miami company had net income of
$193.6 million on revenue of $1.15 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite greater capacity -- this year the company has
added one new ship and a greater number of "berths," or beds,
on another -- Carnival's bookings are currently at about the
same percentage of occupancy as they were this time last
year, he said. He wouldn't be specific, however.
   The trouble spot was the company's resort and casino
business in Nassau, the Bahamas, which "performed below our
expectations," Mr. Arison said.
   Despite the weakening economy in the fourth quarter,
Carnival's occupancy rates, an important measure of a cruise
company's performance, were "approximately the same, maybe a
little better" than the year-ago quarter, Mr. Arison said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- BancTexas Group Inc.:
   Firm Says Investor Group
   To Buy Newly Issued Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BTX
</CO>
<IN>
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BancTexas Group Inc. said an investor group headed by
Billy B. Goldberg of Houston agreed to purchase between 16
million and 20 million newly issued shares for 25 cents each,
or $4 million to $5 million.
   The Dallas bank holding company said the proposed
transaction, which remains subject to due diligence and
regulatory and shareholder approval, would leave the group
with a 45% to 55% stake, allowing it to nominate a majority
to the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BancTexas, which owns banks in Houston and McKinney,
Texas, said the investor group also plans to ask the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. to permanently waive any claims
against BancTexas arising from the recent failure of the
company's Dallas bank. BancTexas said it and the investor
group are also attempting to arrange the redemption of the
FDIC's warrants to buy about 12% of the company's stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Markets to Close
   Early Today for Christmas
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 17
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- U.S. securities markets generally will close
early today for Christmas Eve and will be closed tomorrow.
   The New York Stock Exchange and American Stock Exchange
will close at 2 p.m. EST, and the Public Securities
Association has recommended that the U.S. government
securities market close at the same time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Pacific Stock Exchange will close trading in equities
and options activities between 2:10 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. EST
today.
   In Canada, banks, exchanges, government offices and most
businesses will be closed Tuesday and Wednesday for the
Christmas and Boxing Day holidays. There won't be any mail
delivery.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Warehouse Club Inc.:
   Accord to Sell 51% Stake
   To A&amp;P Chain Is Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   GAP WCLB G.TWA
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Warehouse Club Inc. said in Chicago that its earlier
agreement to sell about a 51% stake to Great Atlantic &amp;
Pacific Tea Co. for $11 million has been terminated.
   Under the tentative accord announced last month,
loss-plagued Warehouse Club was to issue 7.3 million new
shares to A&amp;P. "No other transaction between Warehouse Club
and A&amp;P is presently contemplated," the company said Friday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Warehouse Club didn't say why the deal collapsed, or
whether it intends to seek another investor. Warehouse
operates 10 stores that sell merchandise at wholesale or
near-wholesale prices; A&amp;P is a supermarket chain.
   Officials at A&amp;P, of Montvale, N.J., couldn't be reached
for comment. A&amp;P is 52%-owned by the Tengelmann Group of
Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Walt Disney Co.:
   Directors Approve Addition
   Of Shares to Incentive Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Walt Disney Co. said its board approved the addition of
8.5 million shares to the company's stock incentive plan.
   The Burbank, Calif., entertainment company said the
addition will be presented to shareholders at the company's
next shareholder meeting in March. Under the plan, stock
options are granted to executives over a five-year period and
the executives are allowed to exercise 20% of the options a
year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Walt Disney said the board also approved increasing the
number of common shares authorized for repurchase by 8.5
million shares. The company said those repurchases would
offset any potential dilution from the stock incentive plan.
   The company currently has about 135 million common shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Dynamics
   Taps Webb to Head
   Its A-12 Program
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   GD MD WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   General Dynamics Corp. named the former director of its
F-16 fighter program to head its ailing A-12 program, which
is in danger of cancellation by the Pentagon as early as Jan.
2.
   Ted S. Webb, 60 years old, who retired in August 1989
after heading the F-16 program for nine years, will return as
program director for the A-12 and as vice president of the
Fort Worth, Texas, division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He succeeds Charles A. Anderson, 58, former general
manager of the Fort Worth division who was put in charge of
the A-12 just last July. General Dynamics said Mr. Anderson
"is being removed and reassigned" as division vice president
for special programs and other business, which includes the
company's work on the national aerospace plane and indigenous
fighters for Japan and Taiwan.
   The shake-up, part of an overall shuffling of management
duties at the Fort Worth division, comes as General Dynamics
and A-12 team partner McDonnell Douglas Corp. are negotiating
with the Navy and aides to Defense Secretary Dick Cheney to
try to salvage the program, which has been plagued by
engineering problems and cost overruns. The Pentagon has
threatened to cancel the program unless the two St. Louis
defense contractors come up with a plan by Jan. 2 to solve
the problems. General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas each
notified 4,000 employees last week that they could be laid
off as early as Jan. 2 if the A-12 is canceled.
   General Dynamics downplayed the A-12 problems as a cause
for the management reorganization at Fort Worth. The change
is designed "to concentrate authority and resources in the
hands of executives in charge of the individual business
groups and then hold them directly responsible for the
results," said Herbert F. Rogers, General Dynamics' president
and chief operating officer. Mr. Rogers in July moved from
corporate headquarters to become general manager of the Fort
Worth division in an effort to shore up the A-12, shortly
after the company took a $450 million write-off on the
program.
   As part of the latest changes, General Dynamics has split
the Fort Worth division into five business groups, according
to its major military programs there. In addition to the
appointments of Messrs. Webb and Anderson, Dain M. Hancock,
49, program director for the F-16, was named to head the new
F-16 group; D. Randall Kent, 64, program manager for the
Advanced Tactical Fighter, will head the new ATF group; and
John E. Vick, 57, formerly division vice president for
electronic products, will head the newly created military
electronics business group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   DISK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MEDIA: John W. Kluge and Stuart Subotnick, who together
hold about a 40% stake in Image Entertainment Inc., said they
retained Salomon Brothers Inc. "to render financial advisory
and investment banking services" related to the investors'
Image holding. A spokeswoman for the investors said she
couldn't elaborate. Mr. Kluge is chairman and majority owner
of Metromedia Co., based in Secaucus, N.J. Mr. Subotnick is
Metromedia executive vice president and minority owner. Image
Entertainment is a Chatsworth, Calif.-based supplier of laser
disks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ameritech:
   Company Reaches Accord
   To Acquire Knowledge Data
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   AIT KDSI
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ameritech said it reached a definitive agreement to
acquire Knowledge Data Systems Inc. for $26 million, or 94
cents a share.
   Under the agreement, Chicago-based Ameritech will start a
cash tender offer before next Monday. Knowledge Data and
certain shareholders granted Ameritech an option to buy up to
40% of the shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis at the
same price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Knowledge Data, based in San Francisco, provides data
processing systems and related services to health-care
institutions and medical laboratories.
   After the tender offer is completed, which is expected by
the end of January, Knowledge Data will operate as a unit of
Ameritech Information Systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ashland Oil Co.:
   Refiner to Report a Deficit
   For the Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 18
</SO>
<CO>
   ASH
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ashland Oil Inc., citing depressed petroleum refining
margins, said it expects to post a loss for its first quarter
ending next Monday.
   In the year-earlier fiscal first period, the Ashland, Ky.,
oil refiner earned $22 million, or 40 cents a share, on
revenue of $2.04 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Refining margins have been depressed and declined
throughout the quarter, as petroleum markets have tried to
adjust to the volatility brought on by the Persian Gulf
crisis," Ashland said. Also, it said significant maintenance
turarounds were performed at two of the company's refineries
during the quarter. Ashland said demand for gasoline and
heating oil dropped considerably in October and November,
which hurt refinery margins. Though crude oil prices have
declined in recent weeks, they haven't fallen as far or as
quickly as product prices, Ashland said.
   Ashland said it "remains cautiously optimistic" about the
outlook for fiscal 1991 ending Sept. 30, but it wasn't more
specific.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq's Loans Are Placed
   On a Nonaccrual Status
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The World Bank placed all its $51.4 million
of loans to Iraq on nonaccrual status, signifying that nation
is more than six months overdue on interest payments.
   Nonaccrual means that the World Bank will now only count
Iraqi interest payments it receives and won't automatically
accrue payments that are due.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the international agency noted, Iraq's assets have been
frozen since August, when it invaded Kuwait. It has therefore
been unable to make payments to the World Bank.
   Altogether, Iraq now has about $10.2 million of overdue
payments, the World Bank said, consisting of $7.1 million of
principal and $3.1 million of interest payments and other
charges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.:
   Firm's Canada Unit to Take
   A Charge in 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   S T.SCC
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sears Canada Inc., the 62%-owned unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp;
Co. of the U.S., will report a fourth-quarter charge related
to its recently completed voluntary staff-reduction program,
said Joseph Reddington, president and chief executive officer
of the Toronto retailer.
   "More people than were anticipated actually did accept the
voluntary severance package," Mr. Reddington said. He
declined to estimate the size of the charge.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sears Canada offered the voluntary severance to all
full-time employees in Eastern Canada in an effort to pare
about 1,000 jobs.
   Mr. Reddington said earnings will be well below last
year's 10.6 million Canadian dollars (U.S.$9.2 million), or
C$1.23 a share. Revenue for 1990 will be little changed from
last year's C$4.56 billion, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   American Mortgage Banking
   To Buy Offices From Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A unit of GE Capital Corp. said it agreed to sell its 13
retail mortgage origination offices to American Mortgage
Banking Ltd., Westbury, N.Y. It didn't disclose the amount.
   The unit, GE Capital Mortgage Services Inc., Cherry Hill,
N.J., acquired the retail origination branch network when it
bought Travelers Mortgage Services Inc. That transaction was
completed in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When the Travelers Mortgage purchase was announced, GE
Capital Mortgage said it didn't want to be in the business of
making mortgage loans because it doesn't want to compete with
its customers, which are thrifts, banks and other mortgage
finance companies. Travelers Mortgage had tried to find other
buyers for the retail network but failed.
   American Mortgage Banking said it plans to change its name
to Arbor National Mortgage Inc. after the purchase is
completed. The 13 offices are in Connecticut, Maryland, New
Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia. The transaction
is expected to be completed next week. GE Capital Corp.,
Stamford, Conn., is a financial services unit of General
Electric Co., Fairfield, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Telecommunications Inc.:
   Sprint Offers New Service
   For International Callers
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   US Sprint, a unit of United Telecommunications Inc., said
it began an international telephone calling service that
would provide significant savings over its regular rates.
   Called Sprint WORLD, the plan offers simplified low flat
rates for customers making calls to 36 international regions
from anywhere in the U.S., the concern said. A spokeswoman
said the regions include most major cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A caller in the U.S. who subscribes to the services would
be able to talk to a person in Paris for about 59 cents a
minute during Sprint's discount and economy calling periods:
The rates don't apply during peak business hours. That
compares to the normal rate of $1.38 for the first minute and
79 cents for each additional minute if the same person was
calling during the discount calling period.
   The Kansas City, Mo., company said subscribers would be
billed a monthly fee of $3 for the service, although the fee
would be waived for the first three months of service for
those who sign up before Feb. 28.
   "International calling is the fastest growing segment of
the industry," said Steve Akin, president of Sprint's
consumer services group. "It has been the most widely
requested new service by our customers."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Star States Corp.:
   Loss of Up to $28 Million
   Expected in Fourth Period
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STSS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Star States Corp. said it expects a loss of $22 million to
$28 million in the fourth quarter, reflecting a provision for
loan losses and a write-down.
   The Wilmington, Del., financial and leasing services
concern said that $12 million to $18 million would reflect
potential loan losses and that it would write down about $8.5
million for the carrying value of certain intangible assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it expects a loss of $70 million to $76
million for the year. In the year-ago fourth quarter, Star
States earned $1.6 million, or 34 cents a share. For 1989, it
reported a loss of $5.8 million, or $1.23 a share.
   "While we believe this loss provision will result in an
accurate reflection of the value of the company's loan
portfolio and financial condition today, we realize that the
real estate market is volatile and that further deterioration
in the economy could result in additional loan losses in the
future," said Marvin N. Schoenhals, president and chief
executive officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Curtiss-Wright Corp.:
   U.S. Files $22 Million Suit
   Against Unit Over Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CW
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Curtiss-Wright Corp.'s Target Rock Corp. unit said it was
advised that the U.S. government filed a complaint against it
seeking $22 million and other penalties in connection with
military contracts.
   Target, based in East Farmingdale, N.Y., said the
complaint alleges that former employees embezzled funds from
the unit and as a result "damaged" the U.S. government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government alleges that the employees made false
travel and expense reports, inflated invoices from suppliers
and mischarged labor hours to government subcontractors, the
company said.
   Target, which makes engineered valves for use in U.S. Navy
nuclear propulsion systems, said the "information currently
available to the company would not, in its opinion,
substantiate a claim for an amount even approaching the sum
claimed." Target said it intends to fight the suit
"vigorously."
   A spokesman said the company believes the government
charges result from an investigation conducted by
Curtiss-Wright, Lyndhurst, N.J., in March 1987. The probe
resulted in the indictment and guilty pleas of the former
employees and vendors. The company wasn't charged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Economists, Not Waiting for New Data,
   Brace for Plunge in 4th-Quarter Activity
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
FORECASTS AND ANALYSIS OF U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMJ)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The economy is ending this year and beginning
the new year on a decidedly downward note.
   Even before all the data for December are collected and
tallied, economists are bracing for a sharp drop in
fourth-quarter economic activity. That is because a spate of
negative numbers in October and November has convincingly
demonstrated the economy's weaknesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, though generally pleased with the Federal
Reserve's moves to lower key interest rates last week,
economists warn that the beneficial effects of lower rates
won't show up in the economic statistics for months.
   Bruce Steinberg, an economist with Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. in
New York likens the economic situation to a balloon that has
been deflated. "The air is still being let out." It will be
midyear, at least, "before the lower rates kick in," he says.
   Others argue that the benefits of the initial easing of
monetary policy will be muted during this recession. The
reason: Banks and other lending institutions, with plenty of
their own headaches, are choosing their customers more
carefully. Alan Levenson, a director of financial services
for the WEFA Group, an economic forecasting and consulting
firm, puts it in a more cynical context. "The banking sector
is like a roach motel. The reserves come in but the money
won't go out."
   Economists don't expect this week's indicators to add
much, if any, brightness to the already dreary economic
picture. Wrapping up the November data are durable goods
orders, scheduled for release Thursday, followed by the
leading indicators index on Friday.
   The WEFA Group's Mr. Levenson says durable goods orders
are so volatile he doesn't even bother to try to predict
them.
   Indeed there tends to be a wide range of predictions
floating around. Gary Ciminero, an economist at Fleet/Norstar
Financial Group in Rhode Island, sees durable goods orders
dropping as much as 6.2%. In contrast, the consensus, as
surveyed by MMS International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc.,
New York, sees durable goods orders falling about 3%. In
October, durable goods rose a surprising 3.6%, mostly on the
strength of aircraft orders.
   There is less disagreement over what the leading
indicators index is likely to do. The consensus view holds
the index will decline by 0.5%. If so, that would mark the
fifth consecutive monthly decline. In October, the index fell
1.2% to 141.6.
   A report released last Friday by the Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia suggests that the economic weakness is
spilling over into December. The survey revealed that 54% of
the companies polled said business was slowing in December
from November, while only 15% said it was improving.
Moreover, 40% of the concerns surveyed said they are cutting
back on working hours and trimming payrolls, moves that will
show up as negatives in future data.
   In another measure of the economic outlook, a survey of
U.S. corporate controllers shows that many believe the
recession will be short-lived. According to the survey by the
National Association of Accountants, 87% of U.S. corporate
controllers predict a recession in 1991, but only 17% say it
will continue into 1992. Asked what factors would have the
greatest impact on the economy over the next six months, the
controllers rated the Iraq crisis first, followed by interest
rates and the budget deficit.
   ---
                  Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended Dec. 21
                                                                                                       

                                                   CHANGE
                                              (from prior
                                 TOTAL            period)
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     Dec. 10 (in billions)      $820.4            +$1.6
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     Dec. 10 (in billions)    $3,318.0            +$8.3
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     Dec. 10 (in billions)    $4,087.2           +$11.8
                                                                                                       

   Merchandise trade deficit
   October (in billions)        $11.61           +$2.28
                                                                                                       

   Consumer price index
   November                     133.8%            +0.3%
                                                                                                       

   Building permits
   November, annual rate       907,000            -1.4%
                                                                                                       

   Housing starts

   (in thousands)                1,129            +9.3%
                                                                                                       

   Real GNP
   3rd quarter, revised
   annual rate (in trillions)   $4.170            +1.4%
                                                                                                       

   Personal income
   November, annual rate
   (in trillions)               $4.711            +0.3%
                                                                                                       

   Personal consumption
   November, annual rate
   (in trillions)               $3.727            +0.1%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended Dec. 8           455,000            -3.3%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders (Thurs.)
   November
                                                                                                       

   Money Supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Initial jobless claims (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   Leading indicators index (Fri.)
   November
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- PacifiCorp:
   Pacific Telecom Unit Bids
   For Mid-Plains Telephone
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   PPW PTCM
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pacific Telecom Inc., a unit of PacifiCorp, a Portland,
Ore.-based utility holding company, said it proposed to
acquire Mid-Plains Telephone Inc. by exchanging PacifiCorp
common stock valued at about $51 million for all of the
common shares of the Middleton, Wis., company.
   Mid-Plains provides local phone service in Middleton,
Cross Plains and parts of Madison. It had total assets of
$27.3 million on Sept. 30, Pacific Telecom said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the bid, made to the Mid-Plains board, Mid-Plains
holders would receive for each share about 1.19 PacifiCorp
common shares. Pacific Telecom said MidPlains has 1,933,467
shares outstanding. PacifiCorp shares closed Friday at
$22.375, up 37.5 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Mid-Plains officials couldn't be reached for
comment.
   "This offer is consistent with our commitment to expand
our business . . . in the rural and suburban areas of
Wisconsin," C.E. Robinson, Pacific Telecom chairman and chief
executive officer, said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   This Stock-Picker Believes in Life After '90
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<CO>
   HOU IDA WPS AIG CB GRN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
NYSE GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (NYS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Spooked by the recession and the Mideast
crisis, many growth-stock managers are cowering behind a pile
of cash, anxiously awaiting the next piece of bad news.
   Not Robert Chesek. He plunged back into the stock market
almost three months ago, and reckons stocks will post healthy
gains in 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're more optimistic than we have been in a long time,"
he says. "People are talking about failures in the banking
system and war in the Mideast. Nobody's looking past the next
quarter."
   Mr. Chesek isn't exactly a well-known money manager. But
his views are worth considering, for he has one of the best
10-year performance records in the mutual fund industry.
   Mr. Chesek's fund, Phoenix Growth Fund, has returned 17.5%
a year over the 10 years through November. Only four funds
have better records: Merrill Lynch Pacific at 21.8% a year,
Fidelity Magellan with 20.5%, Japan Fund with 18.6% and
Lindner Dividend with 17.5%.
   Mr. Chesek, 56 years old, works for the investment
advisory subsidiary of Hartford, Conn.-based Phoenix Mutual
Life Insurance Co. He has run Phoenix Growth, which charges a
6.9% sales commission on new purchases, since 1980. Earlier
this year, Catherine Dudley joined him as a co-portfolio
manager of the fund.
   What's Mr. Chesek's secret? Like many other growth-stock
managers, he looks for stocks with earnings momentum. He
likes companies whose profits have grown faster than the
average company over the prior 12 months and should continue
to grow rapidly over at least the next year.
   But to make sure he's not paying too much for that growth,
Mr. Chesek looks to see how a company's projected five-year
earnings growth rate compares with its current stock price.
For Mr. Chesek, a company whose earnings are expected to grow
at 20% a year is a bargain at 18 times trailing 12-month
earnings. At the same time, he reckons a company whose
earnings will plod along at a 7% annual growth rate is pricey
at 13 times earnings.
   Mr. Chesek usually won't buy into a company unless it is
clearly on the fast track. "We typically wait until the
earnings momentum has started," he says.
   Often Mr. Chesek owns a stock right up until the day it
announces disappointing earnings. "The difference between an
amateur and a professional is that a professional panics
first," he says. Earlier this year, for instance, the fund
dumped Browning-Ferris Industries when it reported
disappointing earnings for the three months through
September.
   Not surprisingly, Mr. Chesek's stock-picking style
involves some rapid-fire trading. During the 1980s, his fund
had average portfolio turnover of 175%, against 79% for the
average stock fund. That means Mr. Chesek typically held onto
a stock for a little less than seven months, compared with 15
months for the average fund manager.
   This rapid turnover isn't so unusual for a growth stock
manager. What distinguishes Mr. Chesek's stock-picking style
is his willingness to raise cash when he reckons the market
might tumble, and his use of long-term themes to help him
select stocks.
   Right now, for instance, Mr. Chesek is trying to find
companies that will prosper because of the aging of America.
His $730 million fund is 17% invested in drug stocks such as
Pfizer and Amgen. He also reckons that entertainment, travel
and financial services companies should benefit as baby
boomers grow older.
   Mr. Chesek's long-term record has been helped by two
well-timed switches into cash. In 1987, nervous about rising
interest rates, Mr. Chesek boosted his fund's cash position,
so that he was only 60% invested in stocks at the time of the
October 1987 crash. Phoenix Growth finished the year up
11.2%, while the average fund eked out a gain of just 0.6%.
(These figures are total returns, which include both
share-price changes and dividends.)
   This year, worried that rising inflation might keep
interest rates high, he dodged into cash once again, so that
his fund was only 70% invested in stocks when the market
began slipping in mid-July. But in late September and early
October, he clambered back into the stock market, just in
time for the recent rebound.
   These astute moves, combined with healthy gains from the
fund's drug stocks and its holdings of multinationals such as
PepsiCo, Philip Morris and Unilever N.V., have ensured that
the fund will outpace the stock market for the eighth time in
10 years. So far this year, Phoenix Growth is up 5.7%,
against a decline of 6.8% for the average fund tracked by
Lipper Analytical Services.
   A big reason for Mr. Chesek's current optimism is the
decline in short-term interest rates. "Historically, any time
shortterm interest rates start coming down, it's been good
for equities," he says.
   Though Mr. Chesek is a growth-stock manager, he isn't
averse to buying relatively slow-growing industries,
providing they trade at a low enough multiple of earnings.
Right now, he is betting that high dividend-yielding utility
stocks such as Houston Industries, Idaho Power and Wisconsin
Public Service will get a boost from falling interest rates.
   "If you look at our utilities, the average yield is 8%,"
says Mr. Chesek. "If you're disenchanted with the yield on
your money market fund, your next step might be to buy a
utility."
   Mr. Chesek also likes top insurance companies such as
American International Group, Chubb and General Re Corp. All
are trading at 13 times earnings or less, and the fund is
betting that profits at these companies will grow 13% to 15%
annually over the next five years.
   Mr. Chesek thinks the companies that make up the Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-stock index might earn $30 a share in 1992, up
from $21.75 for the latest 12 months. Put a 15 multiple on
that, he says, and you get the S&amp;P 500-stock index up at 450.
That would represent a 36% rise from current levels.
   "I think 1991 will be a pretty good year, and it will
continue through 1992," says Mr. Chesek. "Then we'll probably
overdo the damn thing, and we'll have a correction."
   But whatever happens to the market, don't expect Mr.
Chesek to sit tight with his current stock portfolio. He will
happily hang onto his utilities and his insurers and his drug
stocks, but only as long as the earnings keep coming through
and the stock prices don't get too rich. Says Mr. Chesek,
"I'd rather love my family than love my stocks."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The stock market ended narrowly mixed with market averages
holding to slim gains -- enough to preserve a 1.5% rise for
the week in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
   Friday's "triple witching hour" -- when stock index
futures, index options and options on individual stocks
expire simultaneously-boosted share prices at the opening.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose about 14 points in the
first minutes of trading.
   But another round of expirations in the afternoon failed
to lift stocks. In the final hour of trading, the Dow
industrials slid from a 15-point gain to close just 4.20
points higher at 2633.66.
   Aside from the expiration-related trading, which bloated
volume to 233,400,000 shares, activity was listless, traders
said.
   Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index added 1.63 to 331.75;
the New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.55 to
180.87; and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index gained 1.22 to
307.17. Declining stocks on the Big Board edged out gainers,
793 to 773.
   For the week, the Dow industrials gained 39.85 points. The
S&amp;P 500 also added 1.5% for the week, while the Big Board's
composite index rose 1.2% and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index gained 1.4%.
   A weak profit projection wiped out nearly half of Systems
Center's market value Friday. The stock plunged 4 1/2 to 4
7/8 after the company said Friday morning that fourth-quarter
operating earnings will be between five and 30 cents a share,
considerably lower than market expectations of 50 cents to $1
a share. The company, which develops and markets software for
International Business Machines mainframes and other systems,
earned 68 cents a share in the 1989 fourth quarter.
   USF&amp;G topped the most active list on volume of about 4.3
million shares, dipping 1/4 to 7 5/8 in dividend-related
trading.
   Merck jumped 1 1/2 to 87 5/8. The company disclosed that
it has developed a novel type of drug for fighting the AIDS
virus, and that it started pilot tests of the drug in humans
last month.
   General Electric won an important competition over rival
United Technologies' Pratt &amp; Whitney unit to design the
engine for Japan's controversial FSX fighter plane, The Wall
Street Journal reported. GE added 1/2 to 58, while United
Technologies closed unchanged at 47 7/8.
   AMR fell 3/4 to 49 3/4. The Justice Department said it
would review a proposed $625 million deal between Trans World
Airlines and AMR's American Airlines unit to determine
whether the sale of international routes and airport
facilities would violate antitrust laws.
   Meanwhile, UAL, which will compete with AMR on routes to
London, gained 2 1/4 to 112 1/2. United agreed in October to
buy most of Pan Am's London routes for $400 million.
   Smith Barney upgraded several paper and forest product
stocks Friday, and suggested investors overweight large
diversified portfolios with the group. Boise Cascade, which
leaped to the top of the mostactive list earlier in the
session on dividend-related trading, gained 1 3/8 to 27 5/8.
   Westvaco rose 1 1/8 to 27 1/4 and James River increased
7/8 to 26 1/4. Among other paper shares, International Paper
added 3/8 to 53 1/2, Temple-Inland rose 3/4 to 31 1/4, and
Scott Paper gained 1 1/2 to 37 3/4.
   EG&amp;G dropped 1 3/4 to 32 3/4. Late Thursday it said
fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than previously
anticipated.
   Halliburton dropped 7/8 to 43 3/4. After the market closed
Thursday, Halliburton said the Internal Revenue Service had
notified the company that it might have underpaid its federal
corporate income taxes for the years 1980 through 1986 by as
much as $247 million, excluding interest. The company is
disputing the allegation, claiming it is owed a $115 million
refund.
   NCNB slipped 1/4 to 25 3/8. The company said it will add
about $180 million to $190 million to its loan-loss provision
in the fourth quarter, which could cut earnings to the
24-to-34-cent-a-share range, compared with net income of
$1.30 a share a year earlier.
   Black &amp; Decker eased 3/8 to 10 1/8. Late Thursday, the
company said business conditions in Brazil have deteriorated
and U.S. sales have been below expectations in the fourth
quarter, which the company said will result in
lower-than-expected earnings for the quarter.
   The American Stock Exchange Index fell 0.29 to 306.20. The
average price per share was unchanged.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Triangle Corp.:
   Tools Unit Will Be Sold
   In Effort to Reduce Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TRG SPW PKRA
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Triangle Corp. said it is selling its special tools
business and issued a tender offer for debentures as part of
a restructuring aimed at reducing debt load.
   The Stamford, Conn., company said it expects to report a
net loss for the fourth quarter and year because of failure
to close a sale as scheduled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sale of the special tools business to SPX Corp., Muskegon,
Mich., for $12 million is expected to close early next year.
Triangle will use $7 million to reduce bank debt.
   Triangle is also seeking to arrange a new long-term senior
credit facility -- a move that is currently prohibited by
covenants in its senior debentures. To modify that provision,
Triangle proposed to purchase 51% of the 13.75% debentures,
or at least $12.8 million principal amount, at $600 plus
accrued interest for each $1,000 principal amount.
   The company didn't complete the sale of a fuel injector
cleaning equipment product line to Parker Automotive Corp.
because of a breach of the purchase and sale agreement.
   In the 1989 fourth quarter, Triangle had a loss of
$120,000, or four cents a share, on sales of $21.3 million.
In 1989, it had a loss of $931,000 or 36 cents a share, on
$70.2 million in sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japanese Panel Proposes
   Raising Fines for Cartels
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- An advisory panel to Japan's Fair Trade
Commission recommended that fines against large companies
engaged in illegal cartels be raised to 6% of relevant sales
from the current level of about 1.5%.
   The recommendation follows Japan's pledge during the
Structural Impediments Initiative trade talks with the U.S.
earlier this year to strengthen the country's weak
anti-monopoly regulations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposed 6% level would still leave Japan's
anti-monopoly surcharges below those typically charged in the
U.S. and the European Community. The U.S. also wants Japan to
strengthen criminal enforcement against illegal cartels and
to make it easier for private parties to bring civil suits
against companies engaged in cartels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pentagon Will Investigate
   Allegations Concerning Jet
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Defense Department officials "will look
into" allegations that the Air Force may have deliberately
misled Congress about a 1986 safety inspection of some
Lockheed Corp. C-5B cargo jets, a Pentagon spokesman said.
   Rep. John D. Dingell (D., Mich.) asked the Pentagon to
investigate the actions of Lockheed, the Air Force, and a
former Air Force procurement chief, after evidence surfaced
suggesting that only a cursory inspection was performed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The evidence was a written statement by Lawrence B.
Welborn, a retired lieutenant colonel, which apparently was
obtained by plaintiff attorneys in connection with related
litigation against Lockheed. Mr. Welborn said the inspection
team spent about one hour examining only one aircraft.
   An Air Force spokesman said he couldn't comment on
allegations that might become the subject of an
investigation.
   In a statement, Calabasas, Calif.-based Lockheed said that
"in five years of very demanding service with the Air Force,
there have been no incidents suggesting any deficiency in
C-5B mainframes." Lockheed also said it has "absolutely no
reason to doubt" the Air Force testimony about its 1986
safety inspection.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, December 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                             Stock    N.A.    Stock     %
 Fund Name                   Exch.   Value    Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

  Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

 Adams Express                NYSE   16.97   14 5/8   -13.82
 Baker Fentress               NYSE   18.52   14 1/2   -21.71
 Blue Chip Value              NYSE    6.94    6       -13.54
 Clemente Global Gro          NYSE  ba9.89    8 1/2   -14.05
 Gemini II Capital            NYSE   11.98    9 5/8   -19.66
 Gemini II Income             NYSE    9.92   11 1/2   +15.93
 General Amer Invest          NYSE   20.92   17 5/8   -15.75
 Growth Stock Outlook         NYSE    9.85   10       + 1.52
 Liberty All-Star Eqty        NYSE    8.92    7 3/4   -13.12
 Niagara Share Corp.          NYSE   14.36   12 1/8   -15.56
 Nicholas-Applegate           NYSE   10.15    9 3/4   - 3.94
 Quest For Value Cap          NYSE   16.92   11 3/4   -30.56
 Quest For Value Inco         NYSE   11.76   12 7/8   + 9.48
 Royce Value Trust            NYSE   a8.51    8 1/4   - 3.06
 Salomon Fd                   NYSE   13.45   11       -18.22
 Source Capital               NYSE   36.93   36 7/8   - 0.15
 Tri-Continental Corp.        NYSE   24.65   21 7/8   -11.26
 Worldwide Value              NYSE   14.64   12 3/8   -15.47
 Zweig Fund                   NYSE   10.47   11 1/4   + 7.45
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

 CIM High Yield Secs          AMEX   a5.65    4 1/2   -20.35
 Franklin Prin Mat Tr         NYSE   b7.42    7 1/8   - 3.98
 Franklin Universal Tr        NYSE   b5.94    5 1/4   -11.62
 Municipal High Inco          NYSE   a9.28    9 1/4   - 0.32
 Zenix Income Fund            NYSE   a5.00    4 5/8   - 7.50
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

 America's All Seasn          OTC    a5.67    4 7/8   -14.02
 European Warrant Fd          NYSE    9.29    7       -24.65
 Franklin M-M Inco            NYSE   b7.48    7       - 6.42
 Zweig Total Return Fd        NYSE    9.00    8 5/8   - 4.17
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

 Alliance Global Env Fd       NYSE  a12.71   10       -21.32
 Alliance New Europe Fd       NYSE   a8.85    8 5/8   - 2.54
 American Capital Conv        NYSE   19.28   16 7/8   -12.47
 ASA Ltd                      NYSE bc46.30   42 3/4   - 7.67
 Asia Pacific                 NYSE   12.04   11       - 8.64
 Austria Fund                 NYSE  a12.12    9 7/8   -18.52
 Bancroft Convertible         AMEX   18.32   15 7/8   -13.35
 Bergstrom Capital            AMEX   62.79   61       - 2.85
 BGR Precious Metals          TOR   be9.48    8 1/2   -10.34
 Brazil                       NYSE    6.19    7       +13.09
 CNV Holdings Capital         NYSE    7.57    4 1/8   -45.51
 CNV Holdings Income          NYSE    9.62   10 7/8   +13.05
 Castle Convertible           AMEX  a19.36   16 5/8   -14.13
 Central Fund Canada          AMEX   b4.67    4 5/16  - 7.66
 Central Securities           AMEX    9.92    7 5/8   -23.14
 Chile Fund                   NYSE   17.76   15 1/4   -14.13
 Couns Tandem Secs            NYSE   12.86   10 3/4   -16.41
 Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils        NYSE    8.38    8 3/4   + 4.42
 Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc            AMEX    7.43    6 1/2   -12.52
 Emerging Ger Fd              NYSE    9.53    7 7/8   -17.37
 Emerging Mexico Fd           NYSE  a11.09    9       -18.85
 Engex                        AMEX    7.65    6       -21.57
 Europe Fund                  NYSE   13.50   11 1/2   -14.81
 1stAustralia                 AMEX    8.69    7 3/8   -15.13
 First Financial Fund         NYSE    4.98    5 1/4   + 5.42
 First Iberian                AMEX    8.43    7 5/8   - 9.55
 First Philippine Fund        NYSE    9.06    6 1/2   -28.26
 France Growth Fund           NYSE   10.12    8 1/4   -18.48
 Future Germany Fund          NYSE   13.96   11 5/8   -16.73
 Gabelli Equity Trust         NYSE   10.47   10 3/4   + 2.67
 Germany Fund                 NYSE   10.92   11 1/8   + 1.88
 Global Utilities Fund        NYSE   11.41   10 7/8   - 4.69
 Growth Fund Spain            NYSE   10.20    8 1/8   -20.34
 GT Greater Europe Fd         NYSE   11.10    9 1/2   -14.41
 H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv           NYSE   12.85   12       - 6.61
 Hampton Utils Tr Cap         AMEX  b12.44   10 1/4   -17.60
 Hampton Utils Tr Pref        AMEX  b49.81   48 1/8   - 3.38
 India Growth Fund            NYSE fa13.90   11 7/8   -14.57
 Indonesia Fund               NYSE  a10.15    9 7/8   - 2.71
 Inefficient Market Fund      AMEX    9.28    8 1/4   -11.10
 Irish Investment Fd          NYSE    9.33    7 1/4   -22.29
 Italy Fund                   NYSE  a11.76   10 3/8   -11.78
 Jakarta Growth Fd            NYSE    8.56    6 5/8   -22.61
 Japan OTC Equity Fund        NYSE    8.98    8 1/4   - 8.13
 Korea Fund                   NYSE   11.80   13       +10.17
 Latin America Inv Fd         NYSE   14.09   11 1/8   -21.04
 Malaysia Fund                NYSE   12.50   12 1/8   - 3.00
 Mexico Equity Inc Fd         NYSE  a11.24    9 7/8   -12.14
 Mexico Fund                  NYSE  b15.81   13 3/8   -15.40

 New Germany Fund             NYSE   13.59   11 3/8   -16.30
 Pacific Eur Growth Fd        NYSE    9.23    8 3/8   - 9.26
 Petrol &amp; Resources           NYSE   28.30   25 1/2   - 9.89
 Pilgrim Regional             NYSE   a7.45    7 1/4   - 2.68
 Putnam Dividend Inco         NYSE    9.85    9 1/2   - 3.55
 Portugal Fund                NYSE   10.92    9 1/4   -15.29
 Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd        AMEX    5.47    4 5/8   -15.45
 ROC Taiwan Fund              NYSE    8.39    7 1/4   -13.59
 Scudder New Asia             NYSE   15.60   13 7/8   -11.06
 Scudder New Europe           NYSE   10.58    8 3/4   -17.30
 SE Savings Inst Fd           OTC    b6.20    5       -19.35
 Singapore Fd                 NYSE   10.92    9 1/4   -15.29
 Spain Fund                   NYSE   10.57   10 1/2   - 0.66
 Swiss Helvetia Fd            NYSE   12.88   11 7/8   - 7.80
 Taiwan Fund                  NYSE  b15.52   21 1/4   +36.92
 TCW Convertible Secs         NYSE   b7.00    7       + 0.00
 Templeton Em Mkts            AMEX  b12.00   13 1/8   + 9.38
 Templeton Global Util        AMEX   10.91   11 1/4   + 3.12
 Templeton Value Fund         NYSE   b7.88    7 3/8   - 6.41
 Thai Capital Fund            NYSE    8.41    7 1/8   -15.28
 Thai Fund                    NYSE   15.01   16 5/8   +10.76
 Turkish Inv Fund             NYSE    8.59    7       -18.51
 United Kingdom Fund          NYSE   11.16    9 3/4   -12.63
 Z-Seven                      OTC    11.81   12 1/2   + 5.84
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Fed Seems Likely
   To Remain Cautious
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
FORECASTS AND ANALYSIS OF U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMJ)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The federal funds rate is the Federal
Reserve's prime policy indicator, and the central bank had
allowed it to fall by about a percentage point since July.
Many analysts were expecting more decisive action to spur the
sagging economy when the Federal Open Market Committee, the
Fed's chief policy-making arm, met last week. In a sense they
got it, when the Reserve Board cut the discount rate to 6
1/2% from 7%. But the Fed probably still intends to proceed
very cautiously.
   The Open Market Committee still isn't convinced inflation
is dead, in spite of the relatively modest 0.3% rise in the
consumer price index for November.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The committee members -- the seven Federal Reserve
governors and five of the 12 regional Fed bank presidents --
often disagree among themselves on the proper course for
policy. In the past two years, the inflation hawks have
seemed to hold the upper hand. Most committee members,
however, think now that inflation worry should be balanced
with more concern for the economy.
                                                                                                       

   It's a difficult balancing act, one that the Fed has not
always attempted. In the mid-1980s there was a sharp drop in
business activity; in the second quarter of 1986, the
inflation-adjusted gross national product actually declined.
The Federal Reserve responded by sharply stimulating the
economy.
                                                                                                       

   The federal funds rate that banks charge on overnight
loans to one another had been above 8% in early 1986 but by
late that year was below 6%. The Fed influences this rate by
buying or selling securities in the market; these
transactions increase or decrease reserves in the banking
system. By increasing banks' reserves, the Fed influences
them to lend or invest. Banks don't like to let reserves lie
idle, earning no interest.
   Reserves climbed sharply in 1986. By early 1987, however,
the Fed decided it might be overdoing the stimulus. The
consumer price index, which had been flat in early 1986, was
rising sharply. So the Fed began, very gradually, tightening
up.
   The stock market crash in October 1987 led the Federal
Reserve to ease policy for a few weeks but, by early 1988,
the gradual tightening took over again. It has persisted
recently.
   The decline in the funds rate since July, and other
interest rate decreases in recent weeks, are deceptive. They
reflect mainly a lack of demand for funds, not an aggressive
Fed easing of policy. Since early 1988, as the chart shows,
bank reserves have been essentially flat (see accompanying
chart -- WSJ Dec. 24, 1990).
   When the Fed recently eliminated the reserve requirements
on large certificates of deposit and Eurocurrency
liabilities, some analysts wrote that the Fed had given the
banking system $14 billion of reserves to back up increased
lending. Actually, the central bank scarcely had announced
the change before it went into the market to start pulling
out reserves; total reserves so far have stayed flat. At the
most, the effect of the reserve change won't be as drastic as
it might have been.
   For a few weeks in August and September the Fed had seemed
to realize that giving the banking system a modest addition
to reserves might be compatible both with containing
inflation and preventing a business collapse. In August and
September, bank reserves actually grew. In October, however,
reserves dropped at an annual rate of 20.2%, and the drop
continued in November.
   So what will the Federal Reserve do now? The Fed last week
decided to let its funds rate target fall to 7%, less of a
cut than some analysts had expected, but in line with the
central bank's gradualist approach.
   The cut in the discount rate, the fee the Fed charges on
its loans to banks, isn't likely to have much economic
effect. Banks are reluctant to use the discount window unless
they absolutely have to; discount borrowing is seen as a sign
a bank is in trouble. The central bank polices the discount
window very carefully, and banks are reluctant to use it
unless they have to.
                                                                                                       

   Still the rate is widely interpreted as a strong signal of
Federal Reserve intentions. The cut was quickly followed by a
drop in bond interest rates, but bond rates later moved up,
reflecting continuing inflation fear. The Fed, if it is to
spur business expansion, needs lower, not higher, long-term
rates.
                                                                                                       

   The Open Market Committee, as it met last week, had no way
of knowing how the Mideast crisis would play itself out. The
continuing upward pressure on energy prices keeps inflation
fears alive. Meanwhile, the crisis is boosting the budget
deficits, which by themselves used to cause inflation worry.
A peaceful resolution of the crisis, of course, would give
the Fed room to be slightly more stimulative.
   Indications are, however, that the committee recognized
that controlling inflation didn't require the Fed to deny the
banks any increase in reserves at all. So, gradually, the
Federal Reserve is likely to be moving in the direction of
ease. Change won't be dramatic, but the next moves in
interest rates are likely to be downward.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Credit Crunch Is a Boon to Loan-Brokerage Swindlers
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Law enforcement agencies across the nation say they are
seeing a ghost of recessions past: the old advance-fee
scheme, in which fraudulent loan brokers collect fees from
would-be borrowers but never deliver the promised financing.
   "It's a very good time for these schemes," says Joe
Braunreuther, head of the fraud unit of the U.S. attorney's
office in New Jersey. "The credit crunch has made people more
desperate for financing, so they're willing to pay money
upfront to con men."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The federal prosecutors in New Jersey, who obtained a
guilty plea earlier this year from a loan broker who had
taken in some $8 million in advance fees, are now
investigating a growing number of advance-fee schemes, Mr.
Braunreuther says.
   In Iowa, at least 16 victims of advance-fee schemes have
filed complaints this year with the Iowa attorney general's
office, prompting the agency to issue a televised warning
against the schemes earlier this month. The Dallas district
attorney's staff has seen a surge in complaints from
advance-fee victims this year and is now looking into 14
separate cases, according to prosecutors and investigators
there.
   The schemes aren't new, of course, but the law enforcement
officials say the nationwide shortage of credit, coming on
top of the holiday season, has inspired a resurgence. "This
seems to be the fraud fad right now," says Don Ramsey, a
spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Dallas.
"Credit's tight, people can't get legitimate financing, so
they go somewhere else and get taken."
   Typically, the victims are either small business owners
seeking start-up capital or refinancing, or cash-strapped
consumers. As part of the scam, unscrupulous brokers reassure
the soon-to-be victims with impressively -- and carefully --
worded contracts when they collect their upfront fees, and
then deliver polished excuses when the financing doesn't
materialize.
   In recent years, prosecutors in Dallas say, fraudulent
loan brokers have gotten smarter, fine-tuning their contracts
with clauses stating that the advance fees are refundable --
minus the expenses incurred for attempting to locate
financing. "By the time the client figures out he's not going
to get his money, the fee has been eaten up in purported
expenses," says Ted Steinke, head of the specialized crime
section of the Dallas district attorney's office.
   Fraudulent loan brokers have also stopped making
guarantees that financing will be located, because such
promises can turn contracts into securities and make them
subject to stringent state securities laws. Dallas
prosecutors say fraudulent loan brokers now solicit would-be
borrowers from out of state to discourage the victims from
seeking redress. Such out-of-state operations also stymie
local investigators, who often don't have the resources -- or
incentive -- to pursue multistate investigations on behalf of
victims who live outside their jurisdiction.
   But joint investigations by state and federal agencies are
beginning to stop some multistate operations. Last month, the
FBI teamed up with the Texas attorney general and the Dallas
district attorney to shut down Diamon International Inc., a
Dallas-based loan broker that signed on clients from
California, Ohio, Texas and even Britain. An FBI spokesman
says the firm collected at least $800,000 from at least 24
would-be borrowers.
   One of Diamon International's clients was Carl Johnson of
Long Beach, Calif., who says he had persuaded his wife that
the couple should postpone buying a home while he pursued his
lifelong dream of owning a car wash.
   Mr. Johnson, 32 years old, says he couldn't find a
traditional lender willing to rely on the car wash's cash
flow, so he paid $17,000 to Diamon International for a
commitment that the firm would find financing for the
purchase. With the commitment in hand, Mr. Johnson says he
confidently gave the seller a $100,000 downpayment to secure
the sale. But Diamon International never came up with a loan.
   "I lost the deal because it didn't fund," says Mr.
Johnson, who says his losses are approaching $125,000. "That
was everything I had. That was my life savings."
   Last month, the FBI arrested Diamon International's
president, Diane Harmon, 39, on a federal mail-fraud charge
after receiving a tip that she was about to leave Dallas for
Spain. She hasn't been indicted and is currently free on
bond. Her attorney, William Kim Wade of Dallas, says Ms.
Harmon's loan brokerage business was legitimate.
   "It's my understanding that she did place loans, that she
did pay application fees to some lenders, and that she did
have significant lender contacts," Mr. Wade says. He added
that he believes the complaints by would-be borrowers "should
be handled as a civil matter." At least half a dozen people
who sent fees to Diamon International are pressing civil
lawsuits against the firm and Ms. Harmon.
   One client, Bernard Master of Columbus, Ohio, was able to
recoup much of his $50,000 advance fee in a settlement of his
civil lawsuit. He had asked Diamon International to find
refinancing for the medical clinics he owns. Dr. Master says
he has given up hope of refinancing the clinics in the
current tight credit market.
   "People should remember that Santa Claus comes only once a
year," he says now. "If Santa Claus comes in August, you
should know there's a problem."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, December 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 9 1/2%-10%. The base rate on corporate loans
at large U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 7 1/4% high, 6 1/2% low, 6 1/2% near
closing bid, 6 3/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 6.50%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9% to 9 1/2%. The charge on loans to brokers
on stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.70% 30 to 44 days; 7.15% 45 to 59 days;
7.10% 60 to 89 days; 7.05% 90 to 119 days; 7% 120 to 149
days; 6.95% 150 to 179 days; 6.85% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.50%
30 days; 8.05% 60 days; 7.85% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.48% one month; 7.53% two
months; 7.51% three months; 7.49% six months; 7.60% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.50% one month; 7.90% three months;
7.75% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.65% 30 days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.80%
90 days; 7.65% 120 days; 7.42% 150 days; 7.30% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 13/16% - 8 11/16% one month; 8
3/16% - 8 1/16% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% three months;
8% - 7 7/8% four months; 7 7/8% - 7 3/4% five months; 7 7/8%
- 7 3/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 11/16% one
month; 8 1/8% three months; 7 13/16% six months; 7 11/16% one
year. The average of interbank offered rates for dollar
deposits in the London market based on quotations at five
major banks. Effective rate for contracts entered into two
days from date appearing at top of this column.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 12.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
8%; Switzerland 10.13%; Britain 14%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, December 17, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
6.78% 13 weeks; 6.77% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.62%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
7.75%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.58%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 7.70%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.37%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Crying Fowl: Chicago Merc
   To Trade Chicken Futures
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 25
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange said that it
received regulatory approval to begin trading broiler-chicken
futures contracts.
   The exchange said it expects to begin trading the
contracts, each of which represent 40,000 pounds of broilers,
on Feb. 7, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A previous version faded into dormancy in 1982 because
traders were frustrated with its cumbersome delivery
provisions. To fix that, the Merc devised a contract that
doesn't require physical delivery of the underlying broilers.
   Instead, the new contract will use an unusual cash
settlement system based on the Agriculture Department's
12-city average price report on Grade A broilers.
   Contracts will be traded for delivery in February, April,
May, June, July, August, October and December.
   As approved by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
the speculative limit is 2,000 broiler contracts in all
contract months combined. Speculators are limited to 500
contracts in any specific contract month.
   The exchange slashed its original proposal for a
speculative limit of an enormous 10,000 contracts in all
trading months combined after the CFTC raised questions.
   The CFTC is still considering a Merc proposal to trade
options on the broiler futures contracts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Expects McBirney's Cooperation
   After Guilty Plea in Sunbelt S&amp;L Case
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   SMRK TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- The Justice Department said it expects to
receive "substantial assistance" in its investigations of
thrift fraud from Edwin T. McBirney III, former owner of the
defunct Sunbelt Savings Association of Texas.
   Mr. McBirney will cooperate with federal prosecutors as
part of an agreement under which he will plead guilty to bank
fraud and three other federal criminal charges. The plea
agreement was filed Friday in federal court in Dallas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McBirney is valuable to the prosecutors because of his
extensive dealings with other thrifts and their executives
during the four years that he was chairman and chief
executive officer of Sunbelt Savings. Sunbelt made 145 loans
totaling $523.3 million to the directors, officers and
shareholders of other thrifts, according to thrift
regulators, who tallied Sunbelt's total losses at more than
$2 billion.
   Among the now-failed thrifts that were involved in real
estate and loan transactions with Sunbelt and Mr. McBirney
were San Jacinto Savings Association of Houston, a unit of
Southmark Corp. until its seizure last month by thrift
regulators; Independent American Savings Association, which
was owned by Thomas R. Gaubert of Dallas; and Western Savings
Association of Dallas, formerly owned by Jarrett E. Woods Jr.
   The Federal Bureau of Investigation has acknowledged an
ongoing criminal investigation of San Jacinto, and Mr.
Gaubert has remained a target of federal prosecutors despite
his acquittal in October 1988 on charges related to loans
from a now-defunct Iowa thrift. Mr. Woods is scheduled for
trial in January on 37 charges related to the failure of
Western Savings, which had extensive dealings with Sunbelt in
loans and real estate transactions.
   A loan agreement between Western and Sunbelt is at the
heart of the bank-fraud charge to which Mr. McBirney has
agreed to plead guilty. Mr. McBirney also agreed to plead
guilty to charges that he filed a false tax return on behalf
of one of his companies, Amchase Financial Corp.; that he
caused a false statement to be made to Sunbelt; and that he
misapplied $250,000 in thrift funds in connection with an
unspecified loan.
   The four charges carry a maximum possible sentence of 15
years in federal prison, well below the 85-year sentence that
Mr. McBirney could have faced if he had been convicted of all
17 charges contained in his indictment last July.
   Federal prosecutors agreed to delay Mr. McBirney's
sentencing for up to two years, according to his attorney,
Paul E. Coggins of Dallas. The delay will give Mr. McBirney a
greater impetus to cooperate and underscores the importance
the Justice Department is placing on his help.
   Mr. Coggins said negotiations of a plea agreement had
begun before Mr. McBirney's indictment but an actual deal
wasn't struck and signed until Nov. 16.
   The filing of the agreement was delayed until Friday to
avoid influencing the Dallas federal jury that was hearing
testimony in the trial of another former Texas thrift owner,
Don R. Dixon.
   The jury convicted Mr. Dixon Thursday on 23 charges
related to the misuse of funds from the defunct Vernon
Savings &amp; Loan Association, which he owned. Mr. Dixon faces a
maximum possible prison term of 120 years at his sentencing,
scheduled for February.
   In Washington, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said,
"Bringing to justice top S&amp;L executives such as McBirney and
Dixon belies the myth that those at the top can avoid
prosecution for their criminal acts."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mulroney Sees Big Changes
   From Canadians' Demands
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 23
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
CANADIAN ECONOMIC AND MONETARY NEWS AND ANALYSIS (CEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said Canada's
federal system must undergo "substantial change" to meet the
demands of Quebecers and other Canadians.
   He said at a news conference that "the alternative to a
fundamentally reformed Canada is probably no Canada."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Mulroney didn't indicate what specific changes might
be made in the federal system. But he said he is confident
that "we will be able to devise a more modern, flexible brand
of federalism that will accommodate the desires and
aspirations of all Canadians."
   The largely French-speaking province of Quebec is
preparing demands for more autonomy, backed by polls showing
record support for Quebec's gaining independence. In western
Canada, protest movements are demanding constitutional
changes to give western provinces greater influence in
Canada's Parliament.
   Mr. Mulroney said Quebec separatists would like a vote on
Quebec independence immediately. They want "to strike while
the iron appears to be hot," he said, but added, "It isn't
going to work that way."
   He said the federal government will deal in an orderly way
with the constitutional demands. He attributed the current
constitutional grievances to the failure of the provinces to
ratify the Meech Lake constitutional accord earlier this
year. The proposed accord would have granted new powers to
the provinces and recognized Quebec as a "distinct society"
within Canada.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   NSANY EUROP I.CAR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nassau County, N.Y. -- $64 million 3 1/2-month tax
anticipation notes, due April 12, 1991, were apparently won
by a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. group. The notes are rated single-A-1
by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and carry a coupon of
5.18%. The notes weren't reoffered to investors.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Nissan Motors Co. (Japan) -- 20 billion yen of 7.2%
Eurobonds due April 23, 1999, priced at 101 3/8, via Daiwa
Europe Ltd. There is a short first coupon and the payment
date is Jan. 23.
   Nissan Motors Co. (Japan) -- 30 billion yen of 7 1/4%
Eurobonds due April 23, 1997, priced at 101 3/8, via Yamaichi
International Europe Ltd. There is a short first coupon and
the payment date is Jan. 23.
   Cassa di Risparmio delle Provincie Lombarde, Cariplo
(Italy) -- 10 billion yen of 7% depository receipts via the
Law Debenture Trust Co., due Jan. 18, 1996, priced at 101
7/8, via IBJ International Ltd.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Election Complaint Against
   Pro-Israel Group Dismissed
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Federal Election Commission dismissed a
complaint that a pro-Israel lobbying group illegally
coordinated political contributions.
   The American Israel Public Affairs Committee, one of the
most powerful lobbying groups here, had been accused of
violating federal campaign-spending limits by secretly
coordinating activities of at least 27 pro-Israel political
action committees nationwide. A group of retired U.S.
diplomats led by former Undersecretary of State George Ball,
along with former Illinois Rep. Paul Findley, had filed a
complaint with the FEC in January 1989, charging the groups
were "affiliated" with AIPAC in a network that should be
regarded as a single political action committee.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the FEC, in a statement Friday, found unanimously
"there is insufficient evidence to indicate that AIPAC and
the respondent PACS are affiliated."
   The FEC said that the 27 PACS received data regarding
congressional races from AIPAC, and that their contributions
followed a similar pattern. But FEC concluded there was no
collusion between them and AIPAC. "It appears that each
respondent PAC makes independent decisions regarding which
candidates to support," the FEC said.
   In its filings to FEC, AIPAC said, "No one directs
American Jews to become active . . . in political campaigns,
or to give to candidates, or to form political organizations
of their own."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arco Signs Initial Pacts
   To Develop Soviet Oil, Gas
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Atlantic Richfield Co. said it signed two
preliminary agreements to explore, develop and produce oil
and gas in parts of eastern Siberia in the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.
   The oil giant said the agreements were with the regional
councils of the Chukotka Autonomous Area and of Madagan, on
the east coast of the Sea of Okhotsk. Arco said the
agreements are the first step toward securing "exclusive
rights" for onshore and offshore oil exploration and
development in the region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arco said the agreements mark its first business foray
into the Soviet Union.
   "This is a very preliminary agreement," an Arco
spokeswoman said. There's no timetable for completing a final
agreement or to begin operations there, she said. The
regional councils will help Arco obtain required legal
approvals of the Russian Federation and the U.S.S.R., Arco
said.
   It wasn't clear why Arco believes it needs approval from
the Russian Federation, which is in a different part of the
U.S.S.R. The spokeswoman said company officials who might be
able to answer the question weren't available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FASB Takes
   Steps to Address
   Firms' Concerns
   ---
   Board Issues Cost-Benefit
   Data to Justify a Rule,
   Plans Change in Voting
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the
chief rule-making body for accountants, is stepping up
efforts to defuse business criticism of its controversial
accounting rules.
   For example, the 205-page rule it just issued on
post-retirement health benefits includes a section, for the
first time in the FASB's 17-year history, justifying the rule
on a cost-benefit basis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rule will reduce reported corporate profits at least
$200 billion starting in 1993, and many businessmen are upset
at the FASB for declining to ease the rule's impact on
earnings. In response to corporate criticism that some
accounting rules are too costly and complex, the Securities
and Exchange Commission has in recent months urged the FASB
to make sure its rules are worth implementing.
   In the new health-benefit rule, the FASB, based in
Norwalk, Conn., says many companies haven't properly
monitored or managed their health-benefit obligations for a
long time. The rule boosts the credibility of financial
statements by showing the real obligation of retiree health
benefits and will force companies to estimate these benefits
more accurately, the FASB adds. The rule forces companies to
accrue or set up a reserve for such benefits rather than
account for them on a "pay-as-you-go" basis each year, as is
current practice.
   Timothy Lucas, research director of the FASB, concedes
that the new cost-benefit section was included as a response
to criticism of business and government regulators. "We may
very well include such cost-benefit sections in future
statements {rules}, but we want to be sure they aren't just
boilerplate and address each rule's specific benefits."
   In recent months, the FASB has been the target of heavy
criticism from the committee on corporate reporting of the
13,500-member Financial Executives Institute and from the
accounting principles task force of the powerful Business
Roundtable. Since August, both the FEI and the Roundtable
have written letters to the SEC criticizing the FASB's rules
for being too detailed and too expensive to implement.
   The FASB usually sends only its own letter of comment to
the SEC in response to business criticism. But this time the
board became incensed that the FEI was criticizing FASB rules
on consolidation and cash flows that the FASB thought FEI had
supported. And so it sent a more stinging letter to the SEC
noting these so-called inconsistencies.
   The result was a private meeting called by the FEI and the
FASB Dec. 14 at a New York club to discuss their differences.
Says Mr. Lucas, who attended: "Not everyone kept their cool,
but nobody really lost their temper. While we don't think
that FEI will like everything the board does, the meeting may
help clear the air." Only three FASB board members attended.
If four had come, FASB rules would have required the meeting
to be open to the public.
   Norman Roy, FEI president, declining to discuss meeting
specifics, says the gettogether was part of a dialogue
between businessmen and the FASB on accounting rules.
   In response to its critics, the FASB next year will change
its voting procedure so that a 5-to-2 vote rather than the
current 4-to-3 vote is needed to issue new accounting rules.
Last year, the FASB began heading its task forces, which
draft new rules, with board members rather than staff, who
companies have thought are tougher on business. And in 1989,
the FASB also began sending a representative to attend
certain key FEI meetings on accounting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   David Willetts of the London Centre for Policy Studies
recalls his time working for Margaret Thatcher in the Dec. 1
issue of the London Spectator:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   I remember once asking for a Perrier water when she was
buying me a snack. She obviously regarded it as treachery to
drink a French product and asked why I wanted it. I explained
it was because it was naturally fizzy. She replied that the
bubbles were artificially added. We then started arguing
about whether the bubbles in Perrier were natural or not. . .
   A free marketeer would be horrified at her nationalistic
instincts. But as always there was a shrewd judgment
underlying them. British people are not going to be motivated
to be enterprising and accept painful economic changes in
pursuit of the vision of a free market, but they may do so if
they are told it is because we have to compete with the
French and the Germans. Maybe we are like schoolchildren who
can only be motivated by the desire to be top of the class
(or competing with foreigners) and not by the abstract idea
of being well educated (the true equivalent of prosperity).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sharing the Wealth:
   Gulf Crisis Inflames
   Tension Between Rich
   And Poor in Mideast
   ---
   Saddam Hussein's Promise
   To Distribute Oil Wealth
   Appeals to Many Arabs
   ---
   Living a Harsh Life in Egypt
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   CAIRO -- The contrast isn't lost on the people of this
city: 25,000 mostly dirt-poor Egyptian troops dispatched to
the Saudi Arabian desert to protect a wealthy way of life
unknown back home. In today's Gulf crisis, Arab "have-nots"
are defending the "haves."
   Shabaan Abdel Kader, an unemployed father of four in
Cairo, reflects on the gap between rich and poor and shakes
his head. The oil nations "used their money to raise the
quality of living of their own people and to invest in Europe
and the U.S. -- and gave crumbs to the Egyptians," he says
bitterly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kader's is just one in a chorus of Arab voices
frustrated by the disparity. Saddam Hussein's populist
rhetoric about forcing the Gulf states to share their wealth
may be self-serving, but it hits a raw nerve in many Arab
countries, particularly this one. In business and newspaper
offices, government ministries and cafes, people here are
sniping at the "insensitive super rich of the Arab world" and
the "rotten monarchies" for not investing more of their oil
windfalls in Arab countries. In the minds of many Arab and
Western leaders, regional stability in the post-crisis era
will partly depend on resolving these tensions.
   The contrast in life styles in the Mideast is indeed
stark, especially when the comparison is with Egypt. In
Cairo's streets, a curly-haired urchin carries a naked infant
and begs for food from tourists. A river of sewer water clogs
a downtown street for days. A retiree explodes at a butcher
over the price of meat. In the oil-rich realm of the Gulf,
such scenes are virtually absent among the tidy villas, the
superhighways and the brimming store shelves. In the wealthy
United Arab Emirates, per capita income is $15,720 a year and
in Qatar it is $11,610; in Egypt, the figure is just $650.
   Sipping coffee at a restaurant overlooking the Nile River,
a retired Egyptian diplomat named Tahseen Basheer sees a need
for redistributing some of the Arab World's wealth. He
believes the oil states should allot 10% of their annual
income to an Arab development and defense fund. "The money
the rich Arabs were dumping in buying houses in Beverly Hills
and Cannes and indulging in massive, atrocious
superconsumerism only alienated the people and led to
continued destabilization," Mr. Basheer says.
   Ideas like his are also getting plenty of currency outside
Egypt, notably in Jordan, where King Hussein has called on
the Gulf states to share the wealth. The U.S. State
Department, too, is said to be considering ways to persuade
the Gulf Arabs to better distribute their oil earnings after
the crisis, in hopes that doing so will foster development
and stability in the region. Stability is on everyone's mind.
"If there is no real solution to the problems of the economy
of this country, nobody can guarantee the future of the
political regime," warns Phillip Gallab, editor of a leftist
newspaper in Egypt.
   Egyptians imagine that Saddam Hussein is gloating in
Baghdad over the new economic frustration he is causing here.
Hundreds of thousands of Egyptian workers have fled home to
Egypt from jobs in Iraq and Kuwait, and many aren't finding
work.
   "The children are now asking me questions, like `why can't
we have that kind of food?'" says Saeed Rifaah, a 40-year-old
father of five who left Kuwait and is out of luck in Cairo.
He can't get a job, much less a bank loan to restart his
construction business or open a shop. He has switched his
children from private schools to inferior, government-run
ones and is borrowing money from relatives to make ends meet.
"It's very embarrassing for a father," Mr. Rifaah says.
   It doesn't take long for these economic frustrations to
pick up political overtones. Abdel Basit Mohamed, 52,
supported three families back home in Egypt with his
construction job in Kuwait. When bread got hard to find
following Iraq's invasion, he went back to Egypt, carrying
only a few clothes and about $150. Now he looks for work,
along with three million unemployed people in the country,
and wonders how he will make the next payment on his new
flat, which he proudly notes even has a kitchen.
   "It's the government's responsibility to create these
jobs," fumes Mr. Mohamed, clutching a grocery sack to his
long robe. "There's such a shortage of housing here that
young people can't find houses to get married. The government
should use all of this desert land to build houses, and this
would create jobs. I'm a taxpayer and I should be paid back."
   His solution isn't far from what academics and business
officials propose in agitating for a bigger share of the
Gulf's oil income. What they envision is long-term investment
and development aid and an economic integration of Arab
nations similar to the European Community.
   "It's not a matter of cash being transferred from Riyadh
to Cairo -- that doesn't mean development," says Ali
Dessouki, a political scientist at Cairo University. "We need
serious industrialization, education, joint ventures with
public and private-sector companies." And that holds true not
just for Egypt, he says, but for those cash-strapped Arab
countries now sympathizing with Iraq.
   To be fair, the Gulf Arabs -- with the notable exception
of Iraq -- have donated considerable amounts of money since
they struck oil. According to the World Bank, Saudi Arabia
and Kuwait lead the world in the percentage of gross national
product dedicated to aid to poorer nations (not all of them
in the Arab world).
   In addition, the Saudis in particular are famous for
handing out occasional huge sums under the table to buy
favors or protection in the Mideast. Just before Saddam
Hussein invaded, the emir of Kuwait helped finance the
purchase of boatloads of wheat for Egypt. Saudi officials
said early this month they are giving President Hosni Mubarak
$1.5 billion in financial assistance to help pay Egypt's
debts and finance development projects.
   But as Butrous Ghali, Egypt's minister of state for
foreign affairs, notes, Arab aid to Egypt traditionally has
been "nothing to compare with what we receive from non-Arab
countries" such as the U.S. and Japan. (In fiscal 1990 alone,
the U.S. gave Egypt $2.2 billion in economic and military
grants and $360 million in loans and credit guarantees.)
   Most Egyptians have learned about the extent of the wealth
in the Gulf from friends or relatives who have worked there.
Sherif al Mazen was one of those workers. Serving guava juice
and chocolates in his Cairo parlor, he reminisces about the
life he led as a computer science professor at Kuwait
University: no traffic jams, no housing shortage, no air
pollution and little difference between what the poor and
rich ate.
   He also recalls -- with some fondness -- the rife
consumerism of many Kuwaitis. There were the elaborate villas
for extended families -- "you can actually call them palaces"
-- and the appetite for Mercedes-Benzes and BMWs. "If you
went to the Kuwait University campus, you'd find the most
elegant and prestigious cars were those of the students, not
the professors," he says. It was a far cry from life in
Cairo.
   Without some help, life in his native country is likely to
simply get worse. Egypt's population of 54 million is
ballooning about 3% a year. The country still owes $36
billion in foreign debt and hasn't been able to make all of
its debt repayments. Inflation is sprinting along at more
than 20% a year. And with foreign exchange in short supply,
the country sometimes has been unable to buy enough raw
materials for its factories. Before receiving recent aid,
Egypt was even scrambling to find credits to import wheat for
bread, the mainstay of the diet here.
   The country's relatively modest oil industry is benefiting
from the Gulf crisis, of course. But even if the price of
crude oil surged to, say, $40 a barrel, and stayed there for
a year, the windfall would offset only $1.8 billion of the
$4.5 billion the government estimates it is losing annually
because of the crisis. The costs to Egypt of the rising
tensions have been immediate: Tourism dropped, toll-paying
traffic through the Suez Canal fell and the amount of money
sent home by Egyptians working abroad plummeted.
   In the flood of workers back from the Gulf, the hardest to
accommodate will be the professionals. There simply aren't
enough well-paying jobs. Mostafa al-Ridi, an Egyptian lawyer
who fled Kuwait, says he has been offered a position as a
sales manager in Cairo, making just 4% of what he earned as a
financial account manager in Kuwait. For now, he prefers to
wait in hopes of getting back his Kuwaiti job.
   The thousands of returnees like him will further tax this
country's already strained housing, school and medical
programs. So it is that more Egyptians are calling for a
longer-term solution to their country's chronic financial
problems, and a bigger role in that solution for the oil-rich
Gulf states.
   But will the wealthy Arab nations go along? Thanks largely
to the current crisis, exiled Kuwaiti officials have lately
sounded more egalitarian than ever. "I assure you that our
intention is to have more economic cooperation with Egypt,"
says Kuwait's ambassador in Cairo, Abdel Razak al Kandari. "A
new Arab system should be established from all angles:
political, economic and security." Perhaps as a sign of good
faith, Kuwait's exiled government, along with Saudi Arabia,
Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, now have written off more
than $7 billion in Egyptian debt that they had stubbornly
refused to forgive for years.
   Makram Mohammed Ahmed, editor of Egypt's al-Musower
magazine and a confidant of President Mubarak, says there
ultimately is no other path for the rich Gulf states but to
share more of their wealth. "What kind of choice do they have
for their security?" he asks. "They have a big fortune but
few people. . . . They must change or they will be changed."
   ---
                     Richest to Poorest
                                                                                                       

 Arab League countries and their per-capita income, in U.S.
dollars
                                                                                                       

 United Arab Emirates                       $15,720
                                                                                                       

 Kuwait                                      13,680
                                                                                                       

 Qatar                                       11,610
                                                                                                       

 Bahrain                                      6,610
                                                                                                       

 Saudi Arabia                                 6,170
                                                                                                       

 Libya                                        5,410
                                                                                                       

 Oman                                         5,070

 Iraq                                1,500 to 3,499*
                                                                                                       

 Algeria                                      2,450
                                                                                                       

 Syria                                        1,670
                                                                                                       

 Jordan                                       1,500
                                                                                                       

 Djibouti                              500 to 1,499*
                                                                                                       

 Lebanon                               500 to 1,499*
                                                                                                       

 Tunisia                                      1,230
                                                                                                       

 Morocco                                        750
                                                                                                       

 North Yemen**                                  650
                                                                                                       

 Egypt                                          650
                                                                                                       

 Mauritania                                     480
                                                                                                       

 South Yemen**                                  430
                                                                                                       

 Sudan                                          340
                                                                                                       

 Somalia                                        170
                                                                                                       

 *World Bank estimate
 **Reunited into Republic of Yemen
                                                                                                       

 Source: World Bank Atlas, based on 1988 data
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Prentiss Properties Ltd.:
   Pension Funds Committed
   $90 Million for Real Estate
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Prentiss Properties Ltd., Dallas, said pension funds have
committed about $90 million to a newly formed investment fund
for the acquisition of office and industrial properties.
   The new fund, Prentiss Properties Acquisition Partners,
expects to close its first purchase in January, a spokeswoman
for Prentiss Properties said. The fund wouldn't provide
details of property to be acquired.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The investment fund expects to raise a total of $100
million to $115 million by mid-January, the spokeswoman said.
   Prentiss Properties Ltd., a closely held commercial real
estate concern, will take an undisclosed partnership interest
in the properties to be acquired, and will collect fees for
managing the properties.
   The investment fund is headed by Joshua M. Brown, who was
a vice president of Fayez Saforim &amp; Co. in Houston prior to
joining Prentiss Properties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Groupe Cockerill Sambre:
   Belgian Firm, Arbed End
   Talks About Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   B.COS B.ARB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Steel makers Groupe Cockerill Sambre of Belgium and Groupe
Arbed of Luxembourg have broken off talks started earlier
this year to combine their flat-steel activities, Arbed said.
   Arbed said that "studies conducted during the past few
months have shown that the constraints of the two groups
aren't reconcilable on certain essential points."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Further details weren't provided in the statement.
   The two steel groups announced last August they were
discussing a 50-50 joint venture to combine their production
and sales of flat steel. However, in November, executives at
Arbed's Belgian unit, Sidmar SA, said the talks had become
blocked over the question of control of the new joint
venture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Records:
   Disks With `Living Presence'
   ----
   By Mark Swed
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Edison, N.J. -- When compact discs were first introduced
with the slogan "perfect sound forever," serious audiophiles
knew better. They had only to compare the vital sound of
their cherished copies of Mercury Living Presence recordings,
made 30 years ago, with those shrill early CDs to become
militantly anti-digital. In fact, one consequence of the
digital revolution was to make some of the rarer copies of
original Mercury records -- which many collectors feel are
the most strikingly lifelike recordings ever made -- worth as
much as $1,000.
   But now that Philips Classics, which owns the Mercury
catalog, has reissued 10 Living Presence titles on CD, not
only are audiophiles changing their tune about digital, but
Mercurymania is spreading throughout record stores. And for
good reason. Philips has been uncommonly painstaking in its
digital transfers, and CDs have never before sounded as if
they had such, well, living presence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Still, this is a phenomenon that caught Philips and the
retailers by surprise. Surely no one at Philips expected
record collectors to actually invade their Manhattan offices
when the stores quickly sold out of many titles only days
after they were released. And never has the distinguished
Dutch classical music label had such fan mail before. One
grateful Mercury enthusiast, who had been distraught over the
loss of his LP collection in the San Francisco earthquake
last year, sent Philips a photograph of his crumbling Marina
apartment building taken a day after the disaster.
   What makes all of this so extraordinary is that Mercury
was little more than a mom-and-pop label that made records
during the '50s and early '60s, and its roster of performers
-- which includes the cellist Pierre Fournier; the pianist
Byron Janis; the conductors Antal Dorati, Stanislaw
Skrowaczewski and Paul Paray; the Detroit and Minneapolis
symphonies -- is hardly stellar by modern standards. Yet
Fournier's 1962 recording of the Dvorak Cello Concerto right
now readily outsells other CD versions played by such
celebrity cellists as Casals, Rostropovich, Yo Yo Ma and
Andrew Lloyd Webber's brother, Julian.
   The mom and pop of Mercury were a couple of recording
purists, C. Robert Fine and Wilma Cozart Fine, who allowed as
little sonic adulteration as they could in the final product.
They did minimal amounts of tape splicing, always recording
whole movements in single takes. They used a single
microphone for their monaural records, and only three mikes
for stereo, which meant no artificial highlighting of
instruments in an orchestra. They permitted no electronic
doctoring, no boosting highs or lows. Sticklers for detail,
they carefully oversaw every aspect of the production of the
final product, much of it made on Mr. Fine's custom
equipment. And in the mid '60s they closed up shop, because
Mrs. Fine wanted to raise a family.
   Two years ago, with the kids grown and Mr. Fine deceased,
Mrs. Fine was enticed back into the studio to oversee the
digital transfers of the Mercury catalog, and it turns out
she has lost none of her golden-ear perfectionism. Avoiding
the assembly-line nature of most CD reissuing, Mrs. Fine has
handpicked every bit of equipment used, and she has even gone
so far as to insist that the master tapes be digitally
transferred from the original tube recording equipment used
to make them.
   The result is sound indistinguishable from the original
masters, as was apparent during a demonstration Mrs. Fine
held for journalists in the Polygram studio here, where she
spent two years tirelessly working on the transfers of these
first 10 reissues. Critical listeners who compare the CDs
with the LPs may, in fact, hear a difference, since the LPs
have an added smoothness that many listeners favor, but that
is actually a distortion of the master tape.
   Ultimately, though, it is not the demonstration quality of
the sound that makes these discs so astonishing, although
they do make even modest equipment sound terrific. Rather it
is that the Fines managed to capture the sense of a
performance really happening, and that ephemeral quality
alone can make these releases preferable to other, even
musically finer, recordings of the same work.
   For instance, Skrowaczewski's account of Prokofiev's
"Romeo and Juliet" suites with the Minneapolis Symphony,
recorded in 1962, is not nearly so gorgeously played as, say,
Riccardo Muti's with the Philadelphia Orchestra (Angel) or as
profoundly conducted as Evgeny Mravinsky's classic Leningrad
recording (Philips). But not those two or any other recorded
versions of these suites is as physically alive as the
Mercury disc, where the sound grabs a listener through its
sheer visceral qualities alone. Skrowaczewski does, however,
deserve credit for a highly dramatic interpretation and some
really monumental climaxes.
   Other highlights in the series include a Respighi disc,
conducted by Dorati, with a mesmeric version of "The Birds,"
and surely the splashiest sounding recording of that
intemperate orchestral exercise, "The Fountains of Rome."
Dorati also oversees a sonically resonant disc of
20th-century Viennese masterpieces by Schoenberg, Berg and
Webern.
   But wonderful as many Mercurys are, it is sometimes hard
to completely understand the Fines' taste. In 1962, they were
the first American cold warriors to take recording equipment
into the Soviet Union to record Soviet musicians. But instead
of capturing really important Soviet musicians playing
Russian music, they brought us the erratic American pianist
Byron Janis playing the two Liszt concertos with the Moscow
Radio Symphony and a dopey disc of balalaika favorites in
glamorous sound.
   On the other hand, the Fines were admirable in their
support of American music, and one of the most valuable
recordings of this first issue features Howard Hanson
conducting his first two symphonies, the "Nordic" and
"Romantic" -- big, old-fashioned works that have become newly
popular but that don't sound half as impressive on modern
recordings as they do here.
   Collectors don't seem to care about the unevenness,
though. They like the sound of these discs so much that they
are buying them all (at midprice, and since all of them run
over 60 minutes, they happen to be great bargains) and
eagerly awaiting the next batch to come out early next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief -- Affiliated Publications Inc.:
   Boston Globe to Cut Staff;
   Advertising Decline Is Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 11
</SO>
<CO>
   AFP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Boston Globe, citing advertising declines, said it
will reduce its work force by 100 full-time positions through
attrition over the next five years.
   The newspaper's advertising revenue for the first 11
months of 1990 is running 10.7% behind the like period for
1989, said a Boston Globe official.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Globe is a unit of Affiliated Publications Inc.
   "We find this is the least painful way to become cost
effective in a declining economy," said a Globe spokesman.
"And, frankly, we don't expect 1991 to be any better than
1990 in terms of ad revenues."
   The spokesman said the Globe will naturally lose 100
positions, about 5% of its fulltime staff, by not filling
positions that become vacant, except in special cases. The
attrition program is another step in the newspaper's overall
cost-cutting effort started in spring 1988, which has meant
reductions in department expenditures and in hours of
part-time staff.
   William O. Taylor, publisher of the Globe and chairman of
Affiliated Publications, said the company plans to raise
revenue by increasing the price of the Globe to 50 cents,
from 35 cents, in areas 30 miles or more from Boston.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Greater New York Savings Bank:
   Rise in Bad Loans to Lead
   To Losses for Quarter, Year
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   GRTR
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Greater New York Savings Bank said it expects to post
losses for the fourth quarter and full year because of an
increase in nonperforming assets.
   The New York bank, citing a deterioration of the
commercial real estate market, said it expects to report a
loss of between $20 million and $25 million for the current
quarter and $15 million to $20 million for the full year. It
also plans to omit its dividend on common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the 1989 fourth quarter, the bank posted net income of
$1.4 million, or seven cents a share, and declared a 12 cent
dividend. It reported a profit of 19.3 million, or $1.37 a
share, for the whole of 1989.
   Greater New York Savings said its nonperforming assets are
expected to more than triple to $260 million from $83.8
million in the 1989 quarter. Nonperforming assets stood at
$145 million Sept. 30. The bank expects to add $25 million to
$30 million to its loan-loss reserves. Following chargeoffs
during the quarter, the balance in the reserves will total
about $40 million to $45 million. Loan-loss provisions were
$3.7 million in the 1989 quarter and $3.5 million in the
third quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Northeast Bancorp:
   Company Expects to Report
   A `Sizable' 4th-Quarter Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NBIC
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Northeast Bancorp, Stamford, Conn., hurt by further
deterioration in its loan portfolio in October and November,
said it expects to report a "sizable loss" for the fourth
quarter.
   It said the loss would "approximate" the loss of $25.8
million, or $3.27 a share, recorded in the year-earlier
quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Northeast Bancorp said the loss will result "principally"
from a boost in loan-loss reserves to cover increases in
nonperforming assets and charges against bad loans.
   "The increase in nonperforming assets since the third
quarter reflects the severity of the economic decline in
Connecticut, which is affecting all business sectors as well
as consumers," said Frank J. Kugler Jr., chairman and chief
executive officer.
   He said that based on year-end projections, "our capital
ratios will be well above regulatory minimums."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Beneficial Unit Charged
   With Deceiving Borrowers
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   BNL
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- State officials filed suit against a
Beneficial Corp. consumer finance subsidiary for allegedly
using a "predatory and deceptive" scheme to get borrowers.
   The unit, Beneficial New York Inc., denied the charges.
"We're confident we're within New York state regulations,"
said Robert Wade, a company spokesman. "I can't say anything
beyond that because I haven't seen the complaint," he added.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The suit, filed in state supreme court in Rochester,
charges that Beneficial mailed unsolicited checks to
consumers around the state for up to $1,500, urging they be
cashed immediately.
   According to Attorney General Robert Abrams and Banking
Superintendent Jill Considine, the documents Beneficial
mailed to consumers stated that by cashing the check they
agreed to repay the loan. State officials charge that
Beneficial deceived customers by calling the interest
payments on the loan "low," when in practice the rates
charged would be 25%. Under New York state law the maximum
rate allowed is 25%, or about double most conventional bank
loans.
   Mr. Abrams said he is asking the court to suspend
repayment of the loans and to bar Beneficial from continuing
its marketing campaign.
   The Beneficial spokesman said the company would wait to
see the complaint before it decided on a course of action.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gold Loses Traditional Role as a Hedge in Times
   Of International Crisis, Economic Downturns
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gold, once the hedge for all seasons, seems to have lost
its magic.
   Traditionally, traders have switched to gold for stability
during international crises, which are often marked by
falling currency values, high oil prices and unstable stock
markets. And in economic downturns, which spread fears of
financial collapse and often come with rising inflation and
low real interest rates, gold has been a haven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until now, that is.
   Despite a brief run-up last Wednesday in the wake of the
Federal Reserve's reduction in the discount rate, the
February gold contract ended the week at about $384.30 an
ounce -- almost unchanged from where it was at the beginning
of August, before Iraq invaded Kuwait and before the U.S.
economy soured. In fact, ever since the early 1980s gold
prices have failed to move with inflation, currencies and oil
prices the way they had earlier. The current gold price,
adjusted for inflation, is actually slightly lower than the
average price in 1975, when U.S. gold trading began.
   "I'm not so sure the historical patterns are going to
hold," says William O'Neill, senior futures strategist with
Merrill Lynch. "We may have a whole new ball game for gold."
   That's what Earl Hadady, publisher of the Bullish
Consensus newsletter, is guessing. According to his
newsletter's survey of hundreds of traders and analysts, the
sentiment about gold is now slightly bearish (48% on a
bearish-to-bullish scale of 1% to 100%).
   "We think it will go considerably lower, even though the
prices look like bargain basement," says Mr. Hadady. He is
recommending that clients sell their gold.
   Investors clearly don't see gold as the best protection
against catastrophes anymore. "At one time, gold was the
generic hedge for everything," says Mr. O'Neill. But now,
with the active use of options and futures, investors can
protect themselves more directly.
   For example, instead of fleeing to gold, they can hedge
petroleum or currency risks by switching markets or
instruments for the same commodity.
   Gold, Mr. O'Neill says, has become a "third-rate hedge."
Even when investors do look for outside alternatives, they're
more likely to end up in cash or Treasury bills.
   In fairness to the metal, the current situation has
important differences from the past. This downturn hasn't
seen the high inflation common in past skids, so real
interest rates have remained high enough that investors
haven't been scared into non-interest-bearing commodities
such as gold. And the Persian Gulf crisis hasn't had the
impact on markets that a major or world-wide conflict would.
   Still, some wonder whether gold's traditional status as a
haven in crises has been a myth all along. Jeffrey Nichols,
who heads American Precious Metals Advisors, points out that
gold didn't react favorably to the Falkland Islands, Grenada
or Libya conflicts of the 1980s. Gold did well in the 1973-74
recession, but Mr. Nichols says there had been a bull market
for gold before that. Gold prices cleared $850 an ounce
during the Iran conflict in 1979-80, but that was also a time
of double-digit inflation.
   The fundamentals, at least, suggest a prettier picture for
gold than market psychology has allowed. Gold demand is at a
"historically high level" despite softer jewelry orders, Mr.
Nichols says. Gold supply is likely to become tighter.
Gold-mine production had been rising rapidly but appears to
have peaked. Production is declining in South Africa and
should fall in Australia next year as labor costs rise; North
American production should peak in the next year or two.
   In addition, some gold companies have borrowed gold from
central bank vaults to raise cash to finance mine
development, creating an artificial bulge in gold supply. But
companies will soon begin paying back those loans with the
gold they produce, reducing the available supply.
   Still, the supply-demand equation has dubious value for
gold traders, as many of those who buy gold hoard it
regardless of price. (People won't start selling the rings
off their fingers even if gold prices do rally.) PaineWebber
analyst Peter Marcus says that with gold, so-called supply
and demand fundamentals are "irrelevant chatter." He also
notes that gold companies' stocks haven't been a useful hedge
this time, either.
   And gold traders, who have killed every gold rally with
heavy selling in the past few years, aren't about to let gold
go much over $400, analysts say.
   Merrill Lynch's Mr. O'Neill says: "We'll need a major
banking crisis or a massive world war to jolt gold out of the
doldrums."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Petroleum futures prices, except for heating oil, took a
wallop late Friday as traders anticipated the four-day
weekend suspension in trading activity caused by the
Christmas holiday. Crude oil fell 47 cents a barrel on the
New York Mercantile Exchange, and gasoline was lower as well.
Heating oil, however, continued to show strength, primarily
on the progress of a winter storm. Some traders predicted
weakness in heating oil when trading resumes Wednesday if the
harsh weather fails to hit the Northeast, the nation's
biggest heating oil market.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Prices will continue to fluctuate on speculation about
when Moscow might use its $1 billion in U.S. credit
guarantees to buy U.S. foodstuffs.
   Despite the prospect of exports to the Soviet Union, U.S.
grain prices have slipped since the Bush administration
granted the credit guarantees this month. Traders were
disappointed because they had expected the White House to
extend as much as a $3 billion package.
   What's more, the two nations seem divided over how the
credit guarantees should be used. Washington reportedly
opposes Moscow's desire to use some U.S.backed credits to pay
for shipping the U.S. foodstuffs to Soviet ports. Traders
also aren't clear on what U.S. commodities the Soviets might
be interested in buying.
   Moscow wanted the guarantees because U.S. exporters and
financial institutions had grown wary of extending it credit.
Amid economic turmoil, the Soviet Union has fallen behind on
its import-related debts this year.
                                                                                                       

   Silver
                                                                                                       

   Traders' hopes that silver would finally stage a
significant rally and retain its gains were dashed last week
after what seemed a promising start.
   Last week's cut in the Federal Reserve's discount rate and
the resignation of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze seemed to give new life to silver. The metal had
attracted some demand when the price fell to $3.93 an ounce,
the lowest in almost 15 years, a little over a week ago. The
news from the Fed and the Kremlin sent the price up more than
13 cents.
   But the rally proved illusory. The buying was mostly
technical, from traders who had previously sold silver short,
and once it was exhausted, there was no follow-through.
   In fact, on Friday the market fell into a hole. From an
intraday high of $4.40 on Thursday, the most active March
contract dropped to a low Friday of $4.03, a skid of 8.4%
from one session to the next.
   Silver has been chronically beset by a lack of investor
interest, and the slowing U.S. economy is eroding industrial
demand. Analysts say the metal's decline to new lows may
resume.
                                                                                                       

   Orange Juice
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices fluctuated wildly Friday on concern that
freezing weather might hit Florida citrus-growing areas. The
price of the January contract ended with a loss of 3.6 cents
a pound at $1.1640.
   But fears of a Florida chill were dismissed by Peter
Leavitt, vice president of Weather Services Corp., Bedford,
Mass. Temperatures in Florida are expected to remain mild
through Christmas, he said.
   In California, however, temperatures on Thursday night
dropped into the mid to upper 20s in the central and southern
San Joaquin Valley's citrus-growing areas, Mr. Leavitt said.
Scattered cold patches were expected to extend farther south,
where some citrus fruits are grown but not in commercial
quantities, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Some of News Corp.'s Short-Sellers Say Zero
   Sounds Like a Nice Round Number to Target
   ----
   By Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 14
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The short-sellers are hanging crepe for News Corp. Again.
   Even as the media giant's shares continue to plumb new
lows, the company's critics keep betting the stock will fall
further still. The question is: How much of a decline is
enough? Isn't News Corp. a savvy buy at some point?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not if you believe the bears' growl.
   "News Corp. is so over-leveraged that it's likely to face
a bankruptcy-like reorganization," contends California's Joe
Feshbach of Feshbach Bros., a money-management firm that
invests over $1 billion and boasts a penchant for selling
short, or making a bet that share prices will decline.
Indeed, he argues, News Corp. already looks very much like an
insolvent company, given that it can't meet its cur rent
bank-loan obligations, needs a deferral of debt payments, and
is asking banks for $600 million in loans, adding to the
10.53 billion Australian dollars (US$8.14 billion) of debt
already burdening the company.
   Mr. Feshbach's firm began selling short a huge number of
News Corp. shares when the price of the company's American
depositary receipts had already dropped into single digits.
In a short sale, a bear sells borrowed shares in the hope the
stock will take a tumble, allowing him to return the shares
later at far lower prices. But Mr. Feshbach still hasn't
"covered" -- he thinks the stock is going to zero.
   Other short-sellers, believed to include George Soros's
Quantum Fund, James Chanos of Kynikos Associates Ltd., and
Rocker Partners Ltd., apparently agree. Even after News Corp.
ADRs hit a 52-week low of 6 5/8 last month, a mere fraction
of their high of 23 3/8 last January, the bears kept
shorting. They sold nearly 100,000 more borrowed shares in
the ensuing weeks leading up to mid-December, pushing the
overall amount of the stock sold short up 1.6% from the month
before, to a total of 6,266,555 ADRs.
   Triggered partly by a wave of short-selling, News Corp.
shares tumbled 20% on the Australian exchange on Thursday
alone; the company's ADRs, pounded on the New York Stock
Exchange, fell more than 5% the same day. The jitters were
caused by rumors that the British government, or perhaps the
Australian government, was about to pursue News Corp. for
back taxes of more than $1 billion -- what currency varies
with the rumor's source.
   In Big Board trading Friday, News Corp. ADRs closed at
$7.50 a share, unchanged.
   News Corp. officials counter: What's the worry? Debt talks
are going fine, and 95% of the more than 100 banks involved
have approved the new terms of a redone loan package, company
insiders say. If News Corp.'s chief executive officer, Rupert
Murdoch, can only reach a new lending agreement, to repay
US$1.4 billion by the end of 1993 instead of the US$6.8
billion that would be due under the existing pact, there will
be sufficient time to sell some assets at good prices without
holding a fire sale, the company argument goes.
   Bears scoff at such talk, citing the company's creaking
load of debt and the economic weakness in the U.S., Australia
and Britain. If News Corp.'s banks are smart to keep backing
the company, says Mr. Feshbach, how did they ever get in the
current mess? He notes that "one of our largest short
positions is one of News Corp.'s largest lenders --
Citicorp," which is leading the current renegotiation.
   News Corp., which had negative cash flow of A$873 million
in the fiscal year ended June 30, envisions positive cash
flow of A$104 million this fiscal year. But that projection
depends on logging a 25% increase in pretax earnings, to
A$1.73 billion, as recession looms and the media business
struggles world-wide.
   Bears call that projection a fantasy. They also point to a
number of apparent contradictions emanating from Mr. Murdoch,
who has a 45% stake.
   In October, for example, Mr. Murdoch told reporters and
analysts he would cut huge capital spending to A$400 million
in fiscal '91. A month later, company officials said spending
would be almost twice that, at A$740 million, insisting they
had never cited the earlier figure. Last April, this
newspaper quoted Mr. Murdoch in an interview saying that News
Corp. debt would rise US$400 million, to US$6.5 billion, by
June 1990, after sales of assets and the addition of
HarperCollins debt to the books. Debt instead hit a total of
A$10.53 billion and continues to climb. News Corp. executives
maintain the newspaper report was wrong, though they never
bothered to correct it.
   The problem, says one short-seller in New York, is that if
News Corp. does a belly-flop: "The banks are going to get
their money out before the shareholders do. That's why this
equity is worthless."
   ---
   News Corp. ADR
   (NYSE; Symbol: NWS)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Media, entertainment
                                                                                                       

   Year ended June 30, 1990:
   Revenue: $6.72 billion
   Net income: $263.2 million*; or $1.85 per ADR
                                                                                                       

   First quarter, Sept. 30, 1990**;
   Earnings per ADR: 34 cents vs. 23 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 225,288 ADRs
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 268.5 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $46.8 million extraordinary credit
                                                                                                       

   **Latest quarter's $44.2 million profit includes $23.3
million extraordinary credit
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Each ADR is equivalent to two common shares. Figures
are in U.S. dollars converted by company using average
exchange rates
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CMS Energy Corp.:
   Utility Boosts Credit Line
   Held by Unregulated Units
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMS
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CMS Energy Corp. said it has boosted the line of credit
held by its unregulated energy businesses to meet their
higher capital needs next year and to post a bond in a legal
proceeding over $1.5 billion of frozen assets.
   The Dearborn, Mich., electric and gas utility said Friday
that it has arranged for a $500 million line of credit with a
bank group led by Union Bank and the Citibank unit of
Citicorp. The new loan will be used to consolidate credit
arrangements with several different banks that had extended
it a total of $280 million in credit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CMS Energy officials said they will spend $125 million of
the credit to post a surety bond in their ongoing court case
over $1.2 billion in notes and $341 million in equity the
company received for its contribution to the Midland
Cogeneration Venture. CMS officials said they plan to use the
remainder of the funds in their unregulated energy
businesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Fokus Bank AS:
   Company Gets Equity Boost
   To Shore Up Loan Losses
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Fokus Bank AS, Norway's No. 3 bank, received an equity
injection of 1.5 billion Norwegian kroner (US$253 million)
from a national bank guarantee fund to shore up a capital
base eroded by soaring loan losses.
   The financial bail-out of Fokus Bank came only a day after
Norway's second biggest bank, Christiania Bank &amp; Kreditkasse,
disclosed that it now expects loan losses this year to more
than double and to plunge the bank to an operating loss of
nearly one billion kroner. Banking analysts said the loan
losses underlined continued weakness in the Norwegian
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fokus Bank blamed depressed real estate markets and a
collapse of the regional fish farming industry for a sharp
jump in nonperforming credits in its loan portfolio. The bank
expects to increase provisions against possible bad loans in
this year's accounts to 980 million kroner, more than wiping
out a 360 million kroner operating profit and leaving it with
a full-year operating loss of 600 million kroner.
   The guarantee fund's injection of guaranteed but not
paid-in equity capital will qualify as core capital and raise
the bank's capital ratio to 8.5%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Bridgestone Corp.:
   Japanese Tire Maker Lowers
   1990 Profit, Sales Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   J.BDT
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bridgestone Corp. of Japan, a tire maker, lowered its
forecasts for 1990 net income and consolidated sales.
   Bridgestone said 1990 profit will amount to 10 billion yen
($74.1 million), which is off 50% from the company's initial
prediction in March of 20 billion yen. Sales are expected to
reach 1.78 trillion yen ($13.19 billion), or 1.1% less than
the initial forecast of 1.8 trillion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1989, Bridgestone earned 9.6 billion yen on sales of
1.69 trillion yen.
   For its latest revision, Bridgestone cited soft market
conditions in North America and Europe, with weak customer
demand in the replacement-tire market and decreased new-auto
production. It said the lower forecasts also were prompted by
the suspension of natural rubber operations in Liberia, as a
result of that country's civil war, and increased production
costs owing to a rise in raw materials prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- J.M. Peters Co.:
   Revenue Declined by 45%
   In Fiscal Third Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JMP
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   J.M. Peters Co. said its fiscal third-quarter revenue fell
45% to $40 million, resulting in a net loss of $7.1 million,
or 51 cents a share.
   The loss included a $3.1 million write-down on undeveloped
land the company has agreed to sell. The property is in
escrow and the sale is set to close early next year, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the third quarter ended Nov. 30, 1989, the Newport
Beach, Calif., home building concern had net income of $5.7
million, or 41 cents a share, on revenue of $72.4 million.
   The company said its latest results "continue to mirror
the downturn in sales for single family move-up housing
throughout most of Southern California." Increased finance
and marketing costs on the company's unsold homes also
contributed to the loss. Gross profit percentages on sales
was 8.8% compared with 21.3% a year earlier.
   In the first nine months, the company had a net loss of $6
million, or 43 cents a share, compared with year-earlier net
income of $14.2 million, or $1.02 a share. Revenue fell 14%
to $161.9 million from $188.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   PAN AM and TWA owner Carl Icahn are trying to arrange a
loan to keep Pan Am running and to allow Icahn to buy it.
Icahn has proposed a plan that would require Pan Am to file
for bankruptcy-court pro tection. Separately, Pan Am is being
pressed by a delay in its sale of Lon don service to United
Airlines.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chrysler has changed the timing of its stock awards and
incentive compensation pay-outs in a way that will produce
tax breaks for its highest-ranking executives at the expense
of most other senior managers.
   ---
   Fed policy makers were unanimous in deciding to lower
interest rates in mid-November, amid mounting evidence of
recession and indications that the inflation rate was
stabilizing, the central bank disclosed.
   ---
   The FASB is stepping up efforts to defuse severe business
criticism of regulations created by the group, which is the
chief rule-making body for the accounting industry.
   ---
   Bush says he'll veto a proposed House rule change,
concerning cost estimates, that the president says will
threaten the new budget pact.
   ---
   Tucson Electric appeared to move closer to a
bankruptcy-protection filing after a court ruling raised the
possibility that the utility may have to take $350 million in
one-time charges.
   ---
   Odyssey Partners' JPS Textile Group announced a $460
million debt restructuring plan that it said it proposes to
carry out through a "pre packaged" bankruptcy-law filing.
   ---
   Japan's Finance Ministry is expected to propose a 6.2%
increase in its budget for the next fiscal year to give a
boost to the slowing economy.
   ---
   Japan's NTT expects two to three more years of depressed
earnings. The problems of the giant telecommunications
concern include facing new, deregulated competition.
   ---
   IBM will unveil its long-awaited laptop in late February,
and the computer's features and planned price are drawing
positive appraisals.
   ---
   Stocks rose slightly, with the Dow Jones industrials
gaining 4.20 to 2633.66. Bond prices fell, partly on an
expected flood of new debt.
   ---
   The threat of a railroad strike, of nationwide scope, has
been postponed until mid-February, after Bush extended a
regulatory deadline.
   ---
   General Dynamics named the for mer director of its F-16
fighter program to head its ailing A-12 program, which is in
danger of cancellation by the Pentagon as early as Jan. 2.
   ---
   U.S. thrift-fraud investigators expect to receive
substantial help from Edwin McBirney, the former owner of the
defunct Sunbelt Savings of Texas, whose assistance will be
part of a guilty plea to criminal charges.
   ---
   The Alberta government approved construction of one of the
world's largest pulp mills, a Japanese-backed $1.12 billion
venture, after two years of debate in the Canadian province.
   ---
   Bank of New England agreed to restate its third-quarter
1989 earnings as part of its settlement of SEC charges that
it filed false quarterly reports and registration statements.
   ---
   A Carolco Pictures stake of 2.2 million shares owned by
its chairman was frozen by a judge in connection with a
holder's suit charging the executive with self-dealing.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 233,400,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2633.66, up 4.20; transportation 923.91, up 8.24; utilities
211.39, up 1.51.
   Bonds: Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3652.05, off 14.50.
   Commodities: Oil $25.92 a barrel, down $0.47; Dow Jones
futures index 125.80, off 0.71; spot index 123.85, off 0.12.
   Dollar: 135.55 yen, off 0.30; 1.5289 marks, up 0.0174.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Car Output Rises 2.2%
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's production of cars, buses and trucks
climbed 2.2% in November from a year earlier, but was much
lower than October's 12% year-to-year increase, the Japan
Automobile Manufacturer's Association reported.
   Japan's auto makers produced 1,160,036 vehicles in
November, down 12% from a record 1,263,321 units in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for the manufacturers' group said auto makers
likely had scaled back production following October's record
level because of slowing growth in consumer spending.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Home &amp; City Savings Bank Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HCSB
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALBANY, N.Y. -- Home &amp; City Savings Bank said it agreed to
be acquired by Rose Associates for cash and notes valued at
$28 a share, or about $81.2 million.
   Under terms, the limited partnership will pay $24 in cash
plus $4 of 9% debentures for each of Home &amp; City's 2.9
million shares. The partnership currently holds 8.8% of Home
&amp; City.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Expectations
   On Sales, Profits, Jobs
   Plunge, Survey Finds
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Business expectations for sales, profits and
employment for the first quarter of 1991 are at their lowest
levels in eight years, according to Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.
   In its latest quarterly survey of 1,500 business
executives nationwide, D&amp;B found that business optimism,
already rattled during the fourth quarter by the Middle East
situation, has fallen off even more for early 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Business expectations were down across the U.S, with the
retail sector reporting the sharpest drop in optimism. For
all firms, the sales optimism index fell 14 points to 36, the
lowest level since 1982. Retailers' expectations plummeted 30
points to 22, compared with 52 in the fourth quarter of 1990.
On a regional basis, the West North Central region reported
the sharpest decline in sales optimism, down 26 points to 36.
   Major industries across the U.S. expect first-quarter
profits to be down, the survey revealed. Dun &amp; Bradstreet's
profits optimism Index fell nine points to 34. By industry,
retailers are again the gloomiest, with their expectations
down 17 points to 23 from 40 in the fourth quarter of 1990.
By region, New England reported the sharpest decline in
profits optimism, down 21 points to 18.
   On the employment front, industries agree the prospects
aren't bright. The employment optimism index for the first
quarter of 1991 fell three points to eight, the lowest level
in eight years. Only the services sector's optimism remains
unchanged from the previous quarter's survey. On a regional
basis, first-quarter employment expectations were mixed, with
only the East South Central states reporting much hope.
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet, a marketer of business information and
related services, has been conducting the Survey of Business
Expectations since 1947. The latest survey, conducted last
month, asked 1,500 executives in manufacturing, retailing and
wholesaling if they expected an increase, decrease or no
change in first-quarter sales, profits, prices, inventories,
employment, exports and new orders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Newmont Mining Corp. and Newmont Gold Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NGC NEM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWMONT MINING Corp. and NEWMONT GOLD Co. (both Denver) --
Pierre Haas, 70, chairman of R.E.L. Partners N.V., a
Netherlands firm, was named a director of these mining
companies, succeeding David H. Clarke, 48, who had
represented Hanson Industries, a unit of Hanson PLC, on the
board. Hanson previously held a 49% stake in Newmont.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar May Climb Higher in Near Term
   As Investors Seek a Haven, Traders Say
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 22
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar is gathering steam and could rise
further, at least in the near term, traders say.
   Now that the Soviet Union has joined the Persian Gulf as a
center of political turmoil, it's hard to say how high the
dollar could rise on flight-to-quality buying, currency
specialists say. Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze
resigned last week, warning that a dictatorship was taking
shape in his nation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There really is no downside. I only see upside," says
John Hickey, treasurer at Kansallis Osake Pankki, a Finnish
bank.
   Late Friday here, the dollar was quoted at 1.5289 marks,
up from 1.5115 marks late Thursday in New York. Against the
Japanese currency, the dollar closed at 135.55 yen, off from
135.85 yen late Thursday. Tokyo markets were closed Monday
for a holiday.
   Friday's intraday dollar peaks of 1.5335 marks and 136.35
yen were the highest levels since early October. For the
week, the dollar was up 4.6 pfennigs and 2.60 yen. The dollar
gained more against European currencies than it did against
the yen, because investors believe Europe is more exposed to
troubles in the Soviet Union than Japan is.
   The greenback's fortunes have changed sharply.
   Only a few months ago, it was spiraling downward because
of the Federal Reserve's easier monetary policy and worries
about the woes of the U.S. economy and banking industry.
   While those bearish fundamentals are still in place, they
are being outweighed by the political crisis in the Soviet
Union and rising tension in the Gulf. These developments have
re-established the dollar's role as a "haven" for investors.
   Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation put into question the
future of the struggling Soviet government and economy. It
has also cooled much of the cheer about German unification
and the democracy movement that swept Eastern Europe this
year.
   As for the Gulf, odds for a war seem to be growing because
of Iraq's refusal to leave Kuwait.
   In such a scenario, the dollar may very well be on its way
to 1.56 marks and 140 yen or higher, says Mr. Hickey.
   David Horner, senior financial strategist at Merrill Lynch
&amp; Co., says dollar levels of 1.5750 marks and 137.50 yen are
within reach. The year-end comeback is "a meaningful bounce,"
says Mr. Horner, adding that "it may take us months to get
back down" to lower levels.
   However, because of the bearish fundamentals, there's some
skepticism about the dollar's potential for further gains.
For example, the U.S. still has stubbornly large budget and
trade deficits. Friday's news of a $48.05 billion November
budget gap, larger than expected, prompted predictions of a
$300 billion deficit for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30.
   "I would be on the skeptical side. I honestly believe {the
dollar} will fall back," says Bruno Zbinden, manager of
foreign-exchange and precious metals dealings at Swiss Bank
Corp. It's possible that the dollar will test 1.45 marks and
130 yen in the first quarter of 1991 if traders "go back to
fundamentals" after focusing on politics, he says.
   One negative factor may be further credit relaxation by
the Fed, Mr. Zbinden says. He forecasts that the federal
funds rate will slip to 6.5% in the first quarter from the
current 7% norm. The federal funds rate is the charge on
reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight use.
   Lower U.S. rates are bearish for the dollar because they
lessen the attractiveness of U.S. debt instruments,
particularly at a time when rates in Germany, Japan and other
nations are steady to higher.
   Merrill Lynch's Mr. Horner agrees that the dollar could
run into trouble quickly if its flight-to-quality support
crumbles and traders zero in on the troubled U.S. economy
again. "We could fall awfully far awfully fast," he says.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $382.50 an ounce, down $2.70.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$382.45 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR LLY HAL
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   AMR Corp., proposed offering of five million common
shares, via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

   Cygnus Therapeutic Systems initial offering of common
stock, via Robertson, Stephens &amp; Co. and Hambrecht &amp; Quist
Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Eli Lilly &amp; Co., shelf offering of up to $500 million
principal amount of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Halliburton Co., offering of up to $500 million of debt
securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Budget
   For Fiscal '92
   To Rise 6.2%
   ---
   Proposed Spending Increase
   Is Meant to Stimulate
   The Slowing Economy
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Amid a slowing economy, Japan's Finance Ministry
is expected to propose today a mildly stimulative budget for
the year that begins April 1.
   The ministry is expected to call for an increase of about
6.2% in overall spending, to around 70.34 trillion yen ($517
billion). In the economically important "general
expenditures" category, the ministry is expected to recommend
an increase of about 5.3% -- the biggest rise in 12 years --
to around 37.24 billion yen. The category excludes such items
as interest payments and transfer payments to local
governments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Strong growth in spending on public works, in line with a
pledge made earlier this year during the so-called Structural
Impediments Initiative trade talks with the U.S., is likely
to be the most stimulative aspect of the budget proposal,
economists say.
   At the same time, the ministry will continue to emphasize
restraining the national debt burden, so the country will be
better positioned to deal with a larger retired population
after the turn of the century. The new budget will, however,
provide for about 5.34 trillion yen in bonds for specific
construction projects -- about 250 billion yen less than the
amount included in the current budget, according to Japanese
news reports.
   The Finance Ministry's budget proposal provides the basic
framework for the government's spending plan. While it is
subject to negotiation at the cabinet level, modifications
are usually slight.
   The annual budget planning comes amid signs that Japan's
economic growth is slowing from the torrid pace recorded
earlier this year. The cabinet on Saturday adopted an
economic projection of 3.8% growth, after inflation, for the
fiscal year. That would be down from the 5.2% rate now
estimated for the year that ends March 31.
   The government projection for next year is toward the high
end of recent private forecasts, which have ranged from 2.9%
to 4.2%. Even at the lower end of that scale, however, growth
in Japan would continue to outstrip the levels expected for
most other industrialized nations. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development last week said it
expects growth for its 24-nation group to run at about 1.8%
in the first six months of 1991, picking up to 2.4% in the
second half.
   In explaining Japan's projection for next year, an
official of Japan's Economic Planning Agency said growth in
private investment in plant and equipment is expected to ease
to 6.8% after inflation, down from the 11.7% rate estimated
for this year. Private consumption should remain firm, with
real growth of about 4.1% next year, compared with 4.2% in
the current year, according to Seiichi Toshida, deputy
director-general of the agency's coordination bureau.
   The decline in domestic private investment will leave
government policy with a larger role to play in the coming
year.
   Robert Feldman, a Salomon Brothers Inc. economist based in
Tokyo, says the new budget is likely to be "mildly
stimulative" in its emphasis on public-works spending. Tax
changes aren't likely to have any economic impact in the
coming year, he adds. (A recently proposed new national land
tax wouldn't take effect until 1992.)
   Mr. Feldman notes that a continuing labor shortage may
constrain the government's ability to raise public works
spending. The construction industry has been working at close
to full capacity. Still, with real estate beginning to soften
after a long boom period, the pace of new private
construction may ease next year.
   Growth in defense spending is expected to slow, in line
with a new five-year defense plan adopted last week. The new
plan calls for average annual growth, after inflation, of 3%
-- down from 5.4% under the plan that expires in March. The
Finance Ministry is likely to propose defense spending of
about 5% over the current year's 4.16 trillion yen, an
increase consistent with the guideline once inflation is
factored in.
   Meanwhile, Japan will gradually increase its share of the
costs of basing U.S. soldiers here. Japan now pays about 40%
of the costs associated with the 50,000 U.S. soldiers in
Japan, and plans to increase that to 50%.
   The Foreign Ministry has requested a 9.7% increase in
foreign aid.
   The cabinet is scheduled to review and adopt the Finance
Ministry's budget proposals by Dec. 29.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Western Study
   Says Soviet Aid
   May Be Futile
   ---
   Report Portrays Economy
   Akin to Third World's;
   Rapid Reforms Urged
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST FORGN EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
PETROLEUM (PET)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Massive Western aid won't help the Soviet
Union until it takes rapid and radical steps toward a market
economy, according to a study by the leading Western economic
organizations.
   The new report provides the first thorough Western
snapshot of the Soviet economy, and the image that emerges
looks more like Mexico than the U.S. Estimated annual income
per capita in the Soviet Union, at $1,780 a year, is about
10% of the $17,606 average income per person for Western
industrialized nations and trails even the $2,465 average in
Eastern Europe.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These figures imply that total Soviet output is little
more than $500 billion, or about 10% of that of the U.S. If
true, many past estimates that accepted the official Soviet
valuation of the ruble -- including those of the Central
Intelligence Agency -- have greatly exaggerated the size and
wealth of the Soviet economy.
   The grim assessment predicts that Soviet national output,
excluding services, declined 4% in 1990, and assuming present
policies persist, is set to shrink 5% or more in 1991.
Inflation may be as much as 40% next year, and the nation
also has to cope with as much as $12 billion of its long-term
foreign debt falling due at a time when its commercial
creditors are increasingly reluctant to lend.
   "The traditional centrally planned system has largely
collapsed, but hasn't been replaced by a functioning market
system," the study says. To improve the situation, the study
advocates a decisive and irreversible program that includes
liberalization of prices and the establishment of property
rights. The economy also requires "an early and effective
clarification of the responsibilities between the union and
the republics," as well as far-reaching legal changes to
provide the basis for a complete refashioning of the Soviet
economy.
   The report should therefore provide some support for
reformers in the Soviet Union, who are on the defensive
following the resignation of Foreign Minister Eduard
Shevardnadze last week.
   The 2,000-page study, a 50-page summary of which was
released Friday, was commissioned at the Houston economic
summit last summer partly to settle a dispute between the
U.S. and some European Community leaders over aid to the
Soviets. The Europeans, particularly the Germans and French,
were eager to rush large amounts of aid to Moscow, but the
U.S. argued for a more cautious approach.
   If anything, the report -- prepared by the International
Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development -- is a vindication of holding
back substantial aid until there is much more commitment to
reform.
   The Soviets have expressed interest in joining these four
organizations and other Western bodies, and the study is
expected to form a basis for the Soviets' continuing
discussions with these agencies. In recent days, the U.S.
suggested the Soviet Union apply for special associate status
with the IMF, which could lead to full membership.
   The new study does advocate some immediate but limited
Western help for the Soviet Union: substantial technical
assistance, particularly to help with formulating policy,
building Western-style institutions and a new legal
framework; carefully supervised humanitarian food aid,
especially to alleviate shortages in big cities; and some
well-monitored financing of selected projects. And, it says,
larger support could play a useful role once the country is
firmly committed to a market economy and private ownership.
   For the Soviet economy, the report generally advocates
orthodox Western economic policies, such as cutting the
bloated budget deficit -- expected to total 8.5% of output in
1990. Moderate credit expansion, firm wage and price
controls, and a more sustainable balance-of-payments policy
also are essential. A progressive opening up to foreign
competition and investment also is needed, along with a
realistic unified exchange rate, full convertibility of the
ruble and careful management of foreign debt.
   The 1990 current-account deficit, excluding gold, is
estimated at almost $11 billion, the study says. Exports of
gold, which are close to annual production levels, are
expected to net almost $4 billion in 1990.
   Soviet foreign-exchange reserves dropped to $5 billion
this year, from $14.7 billion in 1989, as the country
financed itself by drawing down reserves and getting behind
in its payments by as much as $5 billion. Declining
international confidence led to a cut of $9.5 billion in
foreign lines of credit, particularly short-term credits.
Altogether, foreign debt declined to $52.2 billion from $54
billion, as reserves were liquidated to make up for reduced
foreign credit.
   The study's statistics on the Soviet Union are similar to
those of Argentina or some other big developing nation.
Proportionate to the population, the Soviet Union has only a
quarter of the telephone lines of Western Europe and
one-eighth the number of passenger cars. Fifteen million
Soviets are on the waiting list for a telephone. Eighteen
percent of all Soviet families have been on waiting lists for
housing for more than 10 years, and average per-capita living
space is less than half that in Western Europe. Price
subsidies account for more than 10% of gross domestic
product.
   Life is no better on the Soviet farm. Twenty percent of
the Soviet wheat crop is lost through waste and inefficiency,
compared with a loss of 2% of the wheat crop in the U.S.
Spoilage and loss of fruit and vegetables run as high as 40%
of the crop. Altogether losses in food production cost the
Soviet Union about $20 billion a year, a sum equal to the
value of the nation's annual food imports. Meanwhile, milk
yields per cow are half those in the EC and 40% of those in
the U.S.
   Nevertheless, the Soviet Union has vast natural resources
and formidable potential, as the study recognizes. It already
accounts for 22% of world oil output and 40% of world gas
output, and is the world's largest producer of iron ore, zinc
and nickel, and the second-biggest producer of gold and
aluminum.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Our Other Sort of Christmas
   ----
   By Peggy Noonan
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   In the entranceway to my apartment there is a portrait of
the Madonna and child. It is about 50 years old, hand
colored, and covered in glass. People always stop to mention
its beauty. It looks so old. It looks like it was handed
down.
   I bought the Madonna a few months ago at a big flea market
on the West Side of Manhattan. Every Sunday, a few thousand
New Yorkers go there to demonstrate their faith in bargains
and adore cedar-lined Art Deco bedroom sets. One of the most
interesting things about this flea market is the quantity of
old religious art that is for sale: paintings of saints,
statues of the Virgin Mary, framed prints of the Sacred Heart
of Jesus. There are 1950s miraculous medals that go for
two-for-$5, and never-worn scapulars in yellowed plastic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All these old things came from somebody's house -- from
grandma's house after she died. Her boomer grandchildren sold
them to dealers -- "The real estate agents tell you to get
that stuff off the walls if you want to sell the house,"
explains a friend. The dealers sell them now to -- who? My
friends and I walk along the busy aisles ("it's 20, but I can
go 17") and when we see an old wall crucifix we call to each
other as if we've found an authentic relic, which in a way we
have.
   It is commonplace at this time of year to note what has
probably always been so, at least in America: Christmas has
become too commercial. Years ago there was the annual
campaign to "Put Christ back in Christmas" -- this to counter
the then-growing habit of writing "Xmas," which I notice no
one does anymore. Now we have the annual tussle over the
creche in the public square, pitting understandably aggrieved
citizens against an American Civil Liberties Union hellbent
on protecting us from the sight of what is, as it were, a
homeless child being put up on public property -- probably
the only kind of public housing the ACLU has ever opposed.
   The controversy over what Michael Kinsley has wryly called
"the creche menace" may be aggravated in part by a wider loss
-- the loss of the days when people displayed quite publicly,
on their persons and in their homes, the signs and symbols of
their religious feeling. I write as a Catholic who remembers
the way we were.
   When I was a child in New York in the '50s and '60s, some
of us -- "us" being the children and grandchildren of the
immigrants of Europe -- had grottos on the front lawn, with
statues of the Blessed Mother. (You can still see these in
Queens, where beats still the heart of the old New York.) We
wore crucifixes, and medals with heroic renderings of St.
Dominic and St. Anthony and St. Teresa, the Little Flower. In
the house, on the big bureau with the mirror, there were
palms from the last Palm Sunday, and mass cards with praying
saints, and a pair of rosary beads.
   Italians were partial to makeshift altars in the corner of
the bedroom, with a statue of St. Lucy or the Infant of
Padua. The Irish sometimes had a little altar on the mantle,
and a bottle of holy water kept in a special drawer. There
were crucifixes on the wall. On Good Friday some kids wore
pebbles in their shoes to know some of His suffering, and on
Ash Wednesday half the people in the neighborhood went around
with a big smudge of ashes on their foreheads. We carried to
mass each week our own small leather missals. (I have
something like it in my bag now, but it's a Filofax.)
   The habit of religion was more prevalent then and so less
embarrassing, and did not seem an implicit affront to
American homogeneity. It didn't seem wrong in those days to
be different and discrete; I think we just thought we were
one of the meatier elements in the melting pot, which most of
us understood to be a rich Sunday stew. Now we are part of a
mosaic, bright dry and static; and we do blend in.
   Somewhere in the '60s we changed our style just as much as
Vatican II changed the church. We stopped being so open and
exuberant and vulgar; we banished the statues and the mass
card in the mirror; we stopped wearing medals; we developed
good taste. But I find myself wondering this season what we
lost: the sense we had, with millions of others, that we were
part of something big, and the sense we had, when the symbols
of our faith surrounded us in our rooms, our houses, our
lawns, our lives, that we were part of something true.
   Now it's more segmented; one is a Catholic quietly, in
church. We're not so out there, so open, so . . . ethnic.
   Which according to me is one of the reasons we changed. I
think about 20 years ago boomers came to associate all that
conspicuous kneeling and scapular-wearing with Uncle Vinny
and Aunt Bridget, and that's not who we aspired to be. We
were slightly, mildly, almost unconsciously embarrassed by
our ethnicity. We wanted to be more, as they say, like the
people in the Ralph Lauren ads -- handsome, upscale,
Protestant. We made the kind of cultural choices that are
reflected in a comment by an old Boston Irish politician to
the political reporter Joe Klein. The politician, questioning
the authenticity of another politician's trauma, said, "He's
not really ethnic -- he's never been ashamed of his father."
Or his father's religion.
   There were other reasons for the change in style of course
-- the church itself changed, and the world did.
   This is about Christmas and so must include hope. Is there
any chance Catholics will go back, at least a little, to the
old ways? Sure. The new ethnic Catholics -- the Mexicans and
Haitians and Nicaraguans who are filling the parishes of New
York -- are bringing in the energy and unembarassed
obviousness of the old ethnics of Brooklyn. Their faith is as
real and indispensible to their lives as the kitchen sink.
   There are other signs, and some of them are hearteningly
vulgar. Boomers desperate to sell their houses are starting
to bury little statues of St. Joseph, who knew all about
being desperate for a new home, in the front lawn. And in
Catholic churches around Manhattan the candles in front of
the statues of St. Anne, the patron saint of finding a man,
are these days always lit. I don't think it's the old ethnics
who are lighting them.
   There is the fact that boomers now have children, and are
newly appreciative of the ways of the elders, especially in
matters of spiritual development. An example: I go to mass
with my three-year-old son and he does not want to stay, and
if he stays he does not want to be quiet. When he isn't
looking I hide a cherry lollipop in the hymnal. I put the
book back in the pew and tell him to open it to see if there
are pictures. He finds the lollipop and laughs. I tell him
God put it there, so he will associate church, and God, with
sweetness and surprise. Is this right? Or should I eschew the
bribe and lean on discipline? I turn to Aunt Peggy for
advice. For now stick with the lollipop, she says.
   Aunt Peggy is an ethnic, Brooklyn born, and can remember
when true ecumenism was when the Italians and the Irish
started speaking to each other. She passes on to new
generations what she knows about living in belief. She adores
the symbols of religious worship and is on a first-name basis
with most saints. She calls St. Anthony "Tony," for instance,
and has everyone where she works praying, when they lose
something, "St. Anthony, St. Anthony, please come around.
Something is lost which must be found." Her boss, an
agnostic, now keeps a St. Anthony list.
   Aunt Peggy does missionary work for the old Catholicism.
Recently a saleswoman at a department store was waiting on
her, and Aunt Peggy saw that she was wearing a crucifix.
"Thank you," Aunt Peggy said.
   The saleswoman was surprised. "Why are you thanking me? I
wouldn't go anywhere without my cross."
   "Good," said Peggy. "Thank you for exposing it to me."
   Aunt Peggy believes in encouraging that which should be
encouraged. And early in December, when I told her about the
relics at the flea market, she insisted on going with me, so
she could buy a few and find good homes for them. If she
finds a manger she'll probably keep it, to remind herself and
her neighbors what this holiday is about. She'll probably put
it in the window of her East Side apartment, for all the
world to see.
   ---
   Miss Noonan, a New York writer, is a visiting editor at
the Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia Banks
   Push to Form Panel
   To Oversee Budget
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSFN
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Banks are pressing for the creation of a
fiscal-oversight board that would have veto power over
Philadelphia's budget under certain circumstances as part of
a $150 million loan proposal to help the city avoid
bankruptcy.
   The demands of eight Philadelphia banks were outlined last
week in a confidential 10-page document that bore the logo of
CoreStates Financial Corp., the lead negotiator for the
eight-bank consortium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to the oversight board, the banks also urged
spending cuts, tax increases, sale of city assets and
privatization of some services to end the city's chronic
deficits. The administration of Mayor W. Wilson Goode is
facing a deficit of $229.5 million this fiscal year.
   Under the loan proposal, the banks would buy $100 million
in notes as early as next week and be repaid by March 15. The
other $50 million in notes would be sold by Jan. 31 "upon the
satisfactory occurence of certain events," the proposal said.
   Among those events would be approval by city council of
the oversight board. Similar legislation would have to be
introduced by Jan. 31 in the state House and Senate.
   The source familiar with the document said that, while the
banks "never intended to dictate" the specifics of what the
oversight board would do, such an entity would be necessary
to "restore the confidence of the city's Wall Street lenders
and state legislators."
   Seperately, Fidelity Investments of Boston, the nation's
largest mutual fund company, joined negotiations on an
emergency loan package for that city, which is running low on
cash and could begin missing payrolls on Jan. 4. But a
Fidelity spokesman said that "no investment decisions have
been made."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Reports
   Finding No CIA Link
   With Thrift Failures
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A congressional committee said it found no
evidence to support claims that the Central Intelligence
Agency was involved with savings-and-loan failures.
   The House Intelligence Committee said Friday that it was
closing a nine-month preliminary inquiry into allegations
that the CIA had fraudulently used S&amp;L funds, among other
claims. Those charges, the committee concluded, were "based
primarily on second-hand information."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The conclusions were disclosed in a letter to Rep. Frank
Annunzio (D., Ill.), chairman of a House banking
subcommittee. He sought the investigation after a series of
articles in the Houston Post that alleged the CIA or
organized crime was involved in the failures of 26 thrifts.
   The Intelligence Committee said it investigated three
specific charges: that CIA operatives used connections with
S&amp;Ls to fraudulently obtain loans, that the agency used S&amp;L
funds to support covert operations and that the CIA
intervened with federal prosecutors to deter them from
pursuing particular cases.
   The committee said it interviewed several individuals who
claimed to know others who had information about CIA
involvement in S&amp;L failures. But either those parties
"refused to identify the source, or the source refused to be
interviewed," said the letter, signed by chairman Anthony
Beilenson (D., Calif.).
   Federal prosecutors denied that the CIA had attempted to
quash any S&amp;L prosecutions. "The federal prosecutors and law
enforcement personnel interviewed were quite clear on that
point," Mr. Beilenson said.
   The congressional investigators said the CIA did use
routine financial services at four of the S&amp;Ls named by the
Houston Post. "Those were consistent with routine agency
practices," Mr. Beilenson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southland Must Hold
   New Creditor Vote
   On Reorganization
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 21
</SO>
<CO>
   SLPQC J.SEV IYCOY
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A federal bankruptcy judge ordered Southland
Corp. to solicit a new vote of its creditors on the company's
reorganization plan, which had been approved by most
creditors before Southland sought bankruptcy-court protection
in October.
   Attorneys for the company and a group of dissident
bondholders who had objected to the earlier vote said they
don't expect the new vote to change the plans of Southland's
Japanese partners to buy a 70% stake in the company. The sale
to the Japanese is the key provision of Southland's
reorganization plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We don't believe the Japanese will be scared off by
this," said Paul Silverstein, an attorney for the dissident
bondholders who sought the new vote. He said the creditors he
represents hope to persuade other creditors that the cash and
notes being offered by the Japanese "should be enhanced."
   The dissident bondholders objected to the original vote on
Southland's reorganization plan because Southland "gave
minimal time" for creditors to consider the plan, said Mr.
Silverstein, of the New York law firm of Milgrim Thomajan &amp;
Lee.
   Michael Sutherland, an attorney for Southland, said the
company doesn't view the new vote as a "negative or a
setback." The new vote was ordered by Judge Harold Abramson
of Dallas.
   "This will give us a means to show {the judge} the broad
base of creditor support for the plan," said Mr. Sutherland,
a lawyer with the Houston-based firm of Vinson &amp; Elkins.
"This will help us to remove whatever doubt remains in his
mind."
   The company hasn't yet decided how the new vote will be
solicited. A hearing on the voting procedure is scheduled for
Thursday before Judge Abramson, according to Mr. Sutherland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ITT Gets Army Job
   Totaling $193.1 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 30
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT T UTX SQAA BA GD UIS IBM GE OLN OTRKB RTN CTC
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- ITT Corp. received a $193.1 million Army
contract for radios.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Environmental &amp; Safety Designs Inc. -- Allen &amp; Hoshall, a
joint venture, got a $100 million Navy contract for base
pollution cleanup.
                                                                                                       

   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. received an $83.5
million Navy contract for oceanographic services.
                                                                                                       

   United Technologies Corp. got $63.8 million in contracts
for Air Force jet engines and Army helicopters.
                                                                                                       

   Sequa Corp. said its Atlantic Research unit won a roughly
$60 million contract for work on the U.S. Army's
environmental test facility at Fort Huachuca, Ariz.
                                                                                                       

   Boeing Co. was awarded a $58.5 million Air Force contract
for aircraft support.
                                                                                                       

   General Dynamics Corp. received $51.9 million in contracts
for Air Force aircraft software and Navy submarine services.
                                                                                                       

   Unisys Corp. got a $49.5 million Navy contract for
computer sets.
                                                                                                       

   International Business Machines Corp. received a $42.5
million contract for Navy helicopter electronics and Air
Force space system support.
                                                                                                       

   General Electric Co. got a $37.5 million Air Force
contract for aircraft engines.
                                                                                                       

   Olin Corp. received a $27.2 million Army contract for
120-mm cartridges.

   Oshkosh Truck Corp. got a $24.7 million Army contract for
tactical vehicles.
                                                                                                       

   Engineered Air Systems Inc. received a $23.6 million Air
Force contract for aircraft air conditioners.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. got a $21.9 million Navy contract for
magnetic silencing equipment.
                                                                                                       

   Contel Federal Systems, a unit of Contel Corp., received a
$15.1 million Air Force contract for space communications
equipment.
                                                                                                       

   BDM International Corp. was awarded a $12.9 million Army
contract for air defense equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Moscow Signals a Domestic Crackdown,
   Draws Line on Moldavia Secession Moves
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- The Soviet leadership continued its offensive
against maverick republics, cracking down at home even as it
assured the West that foreign policy won't be changing with
the resignation of Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze.
   KGB Chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov, addressing the Congress
of People's Deputies, the nation's highest legislative body,
pointed a finger at the West as he spoke of the dangers
facing the nation. In his speech, later broadcast in full on
television, Mr. Kryuchkov warned that "outside forces" are
trying to use the Soviet Union's difficulties to gain the
upper hand. He accused the West of stepping up espionage and
economic sabotage, sending contaminated foods and inspiring a
brain-drain of emigration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Kryuchkov accused foreign organizations of fostering
Ukrainian efforts at secession and noted with concern that
Western secret services are stepping up their efforts to
collect information on the Soviet Union, including its
"defenses, the scientific and technical potential, the size
of strategic stocks of raw materials, fuel, food and currency
reserves."
   Outside forces "are trying to exert overt and covert
pressure on the Soviet Union and to impose doubtful ideas and
plans to pull the country out of the difficult situation," he
said. "All these efforts often screen a desire to strengthen
not so much us as their own positions in our country."
   Such attacks hark back to decades of pre-Gorbachev
official paranoia, and indeed to centuries of cultural
xenophobia. As troubling as such attacks may be to Western
ears, the main aim of Mr. Kryuchkov's speech was to stifle
republics that are striving for independence. President
Mikhail Gorbachev himself reinforced this with a decree on
Moldavian independence that also held grave portents for
other secession-minded republics, especially the three Baltic
republics.
   Mr. Gorbachev's decree answered Moldavian officials'
demands to stop two minority regions within the republic from
claiming their own sovereignty. The decree annulled such
internal sovereignty declarations, but also included harsh
threats directed at the Moldavian government itself. Mr.
Gorbachev gave the republic 10 days to take various moves to
defuse its internal tension, including repealing its law
promoting the Romanian language. "In the event of this decree
not being respected, necessary steps will be taken in
accordance with the authority granted to the U.S.S.R.
president by the constitution," the decree said.
   The decree had worrisome implications for the independence
drives in other republics as well. In particular, it declared
invalid Moldavia's denunciation of the 1939 Nazi-Soviet pact,
which led to the incorporation of much of Moldavia and the
Baltic republics into the Soviet Union. The Baltics are
claiming independence on the same historical grounds.
   Baltic officials meanwhile have been complaining that the
Soviet Union is stepping up pressure within the republics. In
Lithuania, armed Soviet soldiers are patrolling the port of
Klaipeda and are authorized to search and arrest local
citizens. The Soviet government has said it is willing to
reopen negotiations with Lithuania, but Lithuanian officials
are skeptical. Lithuanian president Vytautas Landsbergis told
pro-independence politicians, "Attempts are being made to
impose a union treaty upon Lithuania through threats of
bloodshed and use of violence," He called for preparations
for "resistance and self-defense."
   Nonetheless, most deputies at the Congress in Moscow don't
see a way of resolving the nation's problems without a strong
central power. Although many have started expressing concern
about dictatorship since Mr. Shevardnadze voiced the word,
most are still prepared to vote in favor of Mr. Gorbachev's
plan to strengthen presidential powers.
   The vote by the Congress on constitutional changes to
establish a new government structure and strengthen the
presidency is scheduled for today and will be followed later
in the week by a vote on the new union treaty. The treaty
would create a new national structure with more independence
for republics while retaining a strong central government.
   A resolution supporting the idea of a new union treaty may
well pass the Congress, although many republics refuse to
sign on to the current draft. Even if republics refuse to
accept the union treaty, however, once they grant the
president his new powers, battles over the treaty will be
more unequal than ever.
   "Actually, all the main ideas of the treaty are offered as
amendments to the constitution, and there's no doubt they'll
be passed by the Congress," says political scientist Andranik
Migranyan, in the first issue of a liberal daily, The
Independent Newspaper. "It's absolutely clear that all these
measures of the center are aimed against the recalcitrant
republics."
   "Gorbachev's fate may be tragic," Yuri Afanasyev, a
prominent leader of the liberal group of Parliament members,
the Interregional Group of Deputies, writes in the same
paper. "The initiator of perestroika may become its
undertaker."
   Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation seems to have roused
dispirited democrats to try to organize to fight for checks
and balances on the new presidential powers, but few see them
accomplishing much beyond a new flurry of public rallies.
Increasingly, even democratic newspapers are starting to
point out the lack of organization and factionalism that has
sapped their potential power.
   "Many deputies already don't consider it a detriment to
their reputation to doubt the value of democracy as a whole,"
wrote the nation's largest daily, Komsomolskaya Pravda. "And
our president uses the thesis of democratic choice more and
more rarely."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Budget Deficit
   Grew to $48.05 Billion
   During November
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMI)
FORECASTS AND ANALYSIS OF U.S. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EMJ)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The federal government's budget deficit
totaled $48.05 billion in November, compared with $29.73
billion a year earlier, the Treasury Department said.
   Last month's budget gap compared with a deficit of $31.46
billion in October. In its monthly statement, the Treasury
said receipts totaled $72.82 billion last month, compared
with $71.21 billion a year earlier and $78.71 billion in
October. Outlays totaled $120.87 billion last month, compared
with $100.95 billion a year earlier and $110.17 billion in
October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The slim increase in revenues and the big increase in
outlays reflected the slowing economy and increasing costs
because of the large U.S. military presence in the Persian
Gulf.
   For the first two months of fiscal 1991, which began Oct.
1, government receipts totaled $151.53 billion, compared with
$139.64 billion during the same period last year. Outlays
through November totaled $231.04 billion, compared with
$195.45 billion a year earlier. That produced a total deficit
of $79.51 billion for the first two months of fiscal 1991,
compared with $55.82 billion during the same period in the
previous fiscal year. The deficit for all of fiscal 1990 was
$220.39 billion.
   The government paid $21.88 billion in interest last month
on the federal debt.
   Revenue from the defense cooperation account, which
consists of contributions from U.S. allies to help cover the
cost of the U.S. military operation in Saudi Arabia, totaled
$2.82 billion in November, compared with $1.63 billion last
month, the Treasury said.
   Military outlays rose in November to $29.02 billion,
compared with $24.09 billion in October. So far in fiscal
1991, military spending has totaled $53.11 billion, up from
$43.73 billion for the same period in 1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Berkeley Remnant
</HL>
<DATE>
12/24/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   One of the late Prof. Paul Seabury's last great deeds was
to commission a small plane to fly over this year's Earth Day
parade in his hometown of Berkeley with a banner telling the
Mayor to forget radical politics and fix the potholes.
   Voters gave Mayor Loni Hancock much the same message this
past Election Day. Her radical-left allies on the City
Council and rent-control board were routed. But she has
apparently survived the bid by a moderate Democrat to oust
her, by about the narrowest margin conceivable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A trial-court judge blessed her 77-vote victory, even
though 386 absentee ballots remain uncounted. More than
35,000 votes were cast, with her challenger polling 60% among
the absentee ballots that were counted. But the uncounted
ballots arrived after Election Day, apparently because of a
delay processing applications, and Judge Howard Schwartz said
rules are rules.
   The rule in Berkeley city government for nearly two
decades has been relentless radicalism. The University of
California's mother campus has mellowed back into a bastion
of studiousness, where the only major political strife
involves admissions policies that seem to keep out qualified
Asian-Americans. But the town astride Telegraph Avenue struck
the usual sistercity arrangements with revolutionary
communists, and sponsored various festivals and exhibits of
zoology.
   What's really hurt the community has been draconian rent
control, enforced to protect a favored class of barnacle
renters familiar to college towns. The law reduced liquidity
in the housing market, hurt students, and exacted a punitive
tax on small landlords, many of them black.
   Berkeley is on its way to overcoming the entrenched left,
though the symbolic Mayor may remain, holed up like the czar
in his winter palace. Our departed friend Paul Seabury would
be amused.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901224-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901224-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
12/19/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   PUBLISHING: Encyclopaedia Britannica Inc. agreed to
publish a Russian-language edition with Progress Publishers
of the Soviet Union. The first 12 volumes of the New
Encyclopaedia Britannica will be translated into Russian and
combined with "local editorial material" for the Soviet
Union. It is expected to take five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
