<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Emerald Mortgage Name
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HPX
</CO>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Emerald Mortgage Investments Corp. said
it completed the change of its name to Homeplex Mortgage
Investments Corp. The company's new listing symbol on the New
York Stock Exchange is HPX.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Central Financial
   Reports $197,000 Loss
   For the Fourth Period
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   FCC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LYNBROOK, N.Y. -- First Central Financial Corp., which in
February estimated that fourth-quarter net income rose more
than 9%, reported a $197,000 loss for the period, after
adding $1.8 million to reserves for incurred but unreported
losses on underwriting.
   The insurance-holding company said its reserves against
possible losses in its general liability and worker's
compensation insurance had been insufficient, and the
additional provision brought reserves to levels required by
state regulators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The loss equaled three cents a share, compared with net
income of $914,000, or 15 cents a share, a year earlier.
   The loss brought down 1989 net income 23% to $2.4 million,
or 40 cents a share, from 1988's $3.1 million, or 50 cents a
share. First Central had estimated that full-year earnings
rose 20%. Average shares outstanding for 1989 fell 4% to 5.9
million; First Central has been buying back its shares.
   Chairman Martin J. Simon stood by his projected percentage
increases in per-share earnings made two months ago. He
called the provision "a bullish move. We strengthened our
loss reserves and saved $500,000 in taxes. . . . We're very
strong financially. We're climbing a mountain. We decided to
take a breath and resume our climb."
   The company is allowed to write insurance equal to three
times its net worth, or assets less liabilities, and the firm
is currently writing a "very conservative" 1.2 times net
worth, Mr. Simon said.
   Two months ago, Mr. Simon projected that First Central's
per-share earnings would rise as much as 25% for 1990 and
then as much as 17% for 1991.
   Mr. Simon said the company won't make a public offering as
it had contemplated. "In these uncertain times, and because I
thought it would be too much of a dilution" of current
holders' equity, First Central dropped the idea of a public
offering, Mr. Simon said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Visa Rules Eased
   For Foreigners
   With AIDS Virus
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   FORGN
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration eased visa
restrictions on foreigners infected with the AIDS virus, but
showed no signs of moving to end an immigration policy that
AIDS activists say is discriminatory.
   Current immigration rules classify acquired immune
deficiency syndrome, or AIDS, as a contagious disease. The
rules block people infected with the human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV), which causes AIDS, from entering the country
unless they get a waiver. A number of AIDS support groups,
medical associations and foreign governments have condemned
the U.S. policy as unnecessarily harsh, and have threatened
to boycott an international AIDS conference scheduled for San
Francisco in June unless the law is changed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced on
Friday a decision to grant special 10-day visas that will
allow foreigners to attend designated scientific and other
conferences in the U.S. without having to declare on an
immigration form whether they are HIV-positive. Health and
Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan, the official charged
with selecting the meetings eligible for the 10-day visas,
said that the June AIDS conference and an August conference
on hemophilia in Washington both qualify.
   In 1987, Congress, acting on a proposal by Sen. Jesse
Helms (R., N.C.), added HIV to the list of contagious
diseases to be kept out of the country. However, the federal
Centers for Disease Control, part of HHS, recently
recommended that HIV be removed from the list because it
doesn't represent a public health threat. A bill was recently
introduced by Rep. Roy Rowland (D., Ga.) to allow HHS to do
that.
   AIDS activists have been pressing President Bush and Dr.
Sullivan to support the Rowland bill. But, so far, the
administration, apparently worried about a political backlash
from conservatives, has refused.
   The administration's reaction to pressure from AIDS groups
and even from the government's own National Commission on
AIDS has been characterized by awkwardness and silence.
Earlier this month, the administration flip-flopped when Rep.
Rowland, a doctor, introduced his bill. At first, HHS
officials said the administration opposed the bill. Then,
after meetings involving Dr. Sullivan and his staff, the
department announced that the administration has no position
on the bill. That continues to be the administration's
stance.
   Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), who supports removing HIV
from the list of diseases that restricts entry into the U.S.,
called the new visa procedure "encouraging." But he urged the
administration to "work with Congress to realign U.S.
immigration policy with sound public health principles."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Red Army Fights for Its Life
   ----
   By Sergei Zamascikov
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   The newly elected Estonian Parliament enacted a resolution
Thursday relieving young Estonians of their legal obligation
to serve in the Soviet army. Latvia will likely follow next
month. The Baltic Republics' challenge to Soviet military
power suggests that there might after all be something in the
suggestion made by various members of the Soviet government
-- including, it has been reported, President Mikhail
Gorbachev himself -- that the Red Army instigated the
crackdown on Lithuania. While Western analysts have a natural
proclivity -- certainly justified by past experience -- to
discount stories about "hardliners in the Kremlin," this time
these claims might be true.
   The Soviet military does have reasons to make a show of
force in Lithuania. Although the armed forces initially
supported President Mikhail Gorbachev's reform drive, the
political, social and moral status of the military have been
undermined by his policies. Minister of Defense Sergei
Sokolov was unceremoniously retired, along with a number of
senior commanders; the defense budget has been cut and troop
strengths reduced; Eastern Europe has been lost; the standard
of living of career servicemen, officers and NCOs has been
permitted to deteriorate; and the leadership has failed to
control the criticism of the military in the newly free
press.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There have been signs of military restiveness in recent
months. In a March interview in Izvestia, defense minister
Gen. Dmitri Yazov echoed the criticisms of Soviet defense
policy made by Chief of General Staff Gen. Mikhail Moiseev in
an interview with the army's newspaper, Red Star, in
February. Gen. Moiseev had expressed unprecedented criticism
of the new party program and said that the cuts in the
defense budget might reduce the Soviet Union's military
potential. Military journals such as Communist of the Armed
Forces and the Military Historical Journal have issued
ominous warnings to those who are trying to "unilaterally
disarm us against the aggressor."
   The military simply may not be prepared to accept an
Eastern European outcome in the Baltic states, not just
because of the threat to Soviet security, but because of the
threat to its own integrity as an institution. The publicity
around the 500 deserters that the Soviets have rounded up in
Lithuania has created a false impression that the Soviets are
dealing with the problem of desertion for the first time. But
even before the crisis in the Baltics, desertion had become a
serious problem for the Soviet military. The military has
complained for years about the declining quality of its
recruits, particularly their lack of motivation and poor
physical condition. Large numbers of Moslem draftees -- who
by the year 2,000 will provide more than 50% of the available
pool of young men -- speak virtually no Russian. Worse, they
show extreme reluctance to serve.
   Outright draft resistance, however, was virtually unknown
in the Soviet Union before Mr. Gorbachev's time. Now it is
spreading. Official figures list 6,647 young men who failed
to register during last spring's "call-up." A number of
unofficial reports suggest that the real figure is at least
twice as high. More than 1,200 Armenian and Azeri soldiers
fled their units and joined their fellow nationals during the
ethnic strife in Baku. According to the Chief Military
Prosecutor, Gen. Aleksandr Katusev, more than 1,000 Balts are
currently listed as deserters.
   Military authorities are almost entirely dependent upon
local law enforcement organs to ensure compliance with the
law and punish those who resist the draft. Increasingly,
these organs are reluctant to take action against fellow
nationals. Local political authorities have also lent support
to draft resisters and deserters.
   Military authorities complain that local governments in
Lithuania have been refusing to establish draft boards and
that youth are being encouraged to join the republic's new
militia and border forces. A local Georgian party secretary
reportedly responded to a military official's plea for help
in his district with the following statement: "I am with the
people. And the people don't want to serve." In Armenia,
hatred of conscription led to an attempt on the life of the
local draft commissioner.
   The Russian republic itself is not immune to the problems
of draft evasion and desertion. In some Moscow districts,
fewer than 5% of draftees reported on the first day of the
"call-up" last fall. Although complete statistics are not
available, the figures for large cities such as Leningrad and
Moscow are apparently alarmingly large. The storming of the
Vilnius Psychiatric Hospital in search of Lithuanian
deserters on March 27 may have been a sign that further draft
resistance and desertion will not be tolerated.
   The military is also clearly unhappy about its new role in
policing ethnic strife. In April 1989, airborne units were
called on to suppress a massive demonstration in Tbilisi,
Georgia. Since early 1989 the armed forces have been
enforcing martial law in Armenia and Azerbaijan.
   The armed forces' strong show of force in Lithuania may be
intended to relieve them of the necessity of suppressing
similar rebellions elsewhere in the future. It may also be
that the military feels so reluctant to police the population
because it is aware of its inability to continue doing so for
very much longer.
   The Soviet armed forces are composed of five separate
services: the strategic rocket forces, the ground forces, the
air defense troops, the air force and the navy, but only some
part of the ground forces can be used against the population.
Most ground forces divisions are of reduced strength. Without
summoning the reserves, these divisions are not capable of
doing much more than maintaining and guarding equipment. But
a reserve "call-up" would require the cooperation of local
authorities -- the same authorities who have already shown
themselves to be at cross purposes with the military. The
January "call-up" of Russian reservists for duty in Armenia
and Azerbaijan was canceled because of strong protests by
mothers and wives, as well as reluctance to report among the
reservists themselves.
   The only forces reliably available to the Soviet
government to support the local police and the anti-riot
internal troop units are therefore the combat-ready regular
strength army troops and the elite airborne, air assault and
"spetsnaz" units. Altogether, that gives the government: 24
motorized rifle divisions and independent corps; 24 tank
divisions; five airborne divisions; 10 air assault brigades;
20,000 spetsnaz troops; and 35,000 Ministry of the Interior
troops.
   Although this "order of battle" may appear impressive, in
fact, most of the infantry and tank units listed are deployed
in Eastern Europe and in strategically important areas near
the borders. This leaves the airborne, the air assault and
spetsnaz troops -- and these troops, though well trained and
drafted mostly from the Slavic regions of the Soviet Union,
are hardly enough to suppress simultaneous large-scale
revolts.
   Many of these troops are already deployed in the
Transcaucasus region to control the Azeri-Armenian conflict.
In Lithuania, the 7th Airborne division had to be utilized
because the only ground forces division in Lithuania is not
combat ready. While the Soviet military may be capable of
dealing with isolated disturbances, putting out many
dispersed fires would seriously tax its capabilities.
   The tensions in Lithuania now seem to be subsiding. The
Lithuanians have adopted a less defiant attitude, and the
Soviets have dropped hints that they are open to
negotiations. But once again the interests of the military
may interfere. The 1990 spring call-up began on March 31.
Many young Lithuanians can be expected not to have responded
by the May deadline. The military may then once again be
tempted to use force to reclaim what it considers its due:
the military service of every eligible young man who lives in
those territories it believes to be its own.
   ---
   Mr. Zamascikov is a researcher at the RAND Corporation in
Santa Monica.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Growth Stunted Success
   At Phoenix Technologies
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   PTEC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- At an awards dinner last June, Neil Colvin,
founder of Phoenix Technologies Ltd., was named New England's
software entrepreneur of the year.
   It's been downhill ever since.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even as Mr. Colvin's accomplishments were being lauded,
Phoenix was faltering. The company had bet millions of
dollars on a product diversification that turned out to be a
flop. Flush with cash from going public in 1988, it had spent
lavishly, even opening offices in Honolulu and southern
France. On some of Mr. Colvin's West Coast trips, the company
lodged him in a $605-a-night Beverly Hills hotel suite.
   Phoenix became a classic case of the rapidly growing small
company led astray by its own success. Though still a small
company, it spent like a big one. "Phoenix saw itself as
larger than life," says David F. Parkinson, who resigned last
month as chief financial officer, one of a number of recent
defections from Phoenix's management, sales and engineering
ranks. A spokesman says the company is working to replace
those who have left and "still has a strong core of
engineering talent."
   Phoenix was indeed playing in the big leagues. It supplied
a key element of the mid-'80s personal-computer boom: the
basic input-output software to operate millions of clones of
International Business Machines Corp. PCs. It counted among
its customers some of the biggest PC makers, such as Tandy
Corp. and American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. Sales soared to
$52.6 million in the year ended last Sept. 30 from $7.2
million in fiscal 1985.
   But now, Phoenix is shrinking. It had a loss of $4.9
million in the quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit
of $2.86 million in the year-earlier period. And the company
expects to report another loss for the quarter ended March
31. Sales in the December quarter plunged 47% to $7.8 million
from $14.6 million a year earlier. The company has slashed
its work force by more than one-third. And Phoenix faces the
possibility of a hostile takeover, threatened last month by a
disgruntled investor.
   "They had an extraordinary strategic advantage in the
hottest part of the computer business, and they blew it,"
says David Pearl, a technology analyst who backed the
purchase of a stake in Phoenix by his former employer BEA
Associates Inc., a New York investment company. Mr. Pearl,
who owns shares in Phoenix himself, says he still thinks the
company can rebound.
   Mr. Colvin contends his company is on the road to
recovery. "We have no debt, a strong market position, $10
million in cash and we're running cash flow neutral to
positive now," he says. "Lots of companies would like to have
our problems." One big customer, Japan's NEC Corp., says
Phoenix's core product line has stayed competitive. Another
big customer, AT&amp;T, says it is still pleased with engineering
work Phoenix has done for it.
   Analysts, investors and former employees place much of the
blame for Phoenix's problems on Mr. Colvin and his top
managers. By all accounts an accomplished software designer,
Mr. Colvin claims little interest in day-to-day details of
the business and was persuaded to step down as chairman in
February to become chief scientist, or in his words, "senior
guru and architect."
   With a 27% stake in the company, Mr. Colvin is the largest
Phoenix shareholder and still wields plenty of influence. The
1988 public offering, at $15 a share, made him rich -- and
brought in $37 million to Phoenix. But instead of fueling
growth, the cash almost killed the company, and the stock
price has fallen to $2.75 a share.
   Executives say Phoenix's most costly mistake was its foray
into the emerging market for software geared to the Unix
computer operating system. The company jumped on the Sun
Microsystems Inc. bandwagon -- hoping to create products that
would allow companies to make Sun-compatible computers, based
on Unix software, just as it had helped to create the huge
IBM-compatible computer market.
   But in effect, Phoenix was trying to build a market that
would help Sun at the expense of all its other customers of
the previous eight years. "Phoenix tried to expand in too
many directions at one time, and it got out of control," says
Lawrence Finch, a San Jose, Calif., venture capitalist and
the only non-management member of the board. "Some
professional management would have been real helpful earlier
on. . . . But the customers haven't gone away, and the
company still holds a strategic place in the computer
business."
   For a time, though, Phoenix's dizzying growth not only
masked the problems but led to grandiose plans. "We had lots
of money and lots of plans," Mr. Colvin now says. "The
incredible growth we were having gave everybody a sense of
euphoria." After the public offering, Mr. Colvin wanted to
buy a private jet and move into a huge building on Boston's
Route 128 with room for 1,000 workers. (The company did
neither.) At its peak in 1989, Phoenix employed 420 people.
   At the same time, the company spent millions of dollars on
large offices, in the U.S. and abroad, filled with expensive
furnishings. One unit with 14 people ordered 80 office chairs
costing $300 each.
   Mr. Colvin concedes that he grew increasingly distant from
day-to-day operations. Employees say morale sagged.
   Finally, under mounting pressure, Phoenix last September
slashed its payroll and ended its Unix research effort. It
took a $5.5 million restructuring charge against earnings for
the year ended Sept. 30, wrote off some $7.9 million in bad
debts, and closed its offices in Hawaii and France, among
other places. Phoenix says it established the Honolulu office
to be closer to its Asian customers. But, according to a
former Phoenix engineer, many of the Asian customers declined
to come to Honolulu for fear the trips would look like
junkets.
   At the same time, Phoenix named Ronald Fisher, chief of a
small Eastman Kodak Co. subsidiary, as president and chief
executive officer, ending a merry-go-round of management
changes at the top. Mr. Fisher, a longtime friend of Mr.
Colvin, also became the fifth member of the board.
   The company also tightened its revenue-recognition
practices, booking business when it was paid for, rather than
when the first part of an order was shipped. The new revenue
policy exposed the precarious state of the company's growth.
"Sooner or later, if there's a slowdown in the business, that
kind of accounting catches up with you and leads to a
tremendous revenue drop," Mr. Fisher says. The new accounting
method "will build a solid, predictable revenue stream," he
says.
   Some investors aren't convinced. Norwood Partners, an
investment group led by Daniel Barnett -- a venture
capitalist who got a stake in Phoenix after it bought a
company he had funded -- decided last month that he'd had
enough. He announced that he was interested in acquiring a
majority stake, at $5 a share, to take the company private.
"They built a fantastic franchise, and it's not too late to
turn it around," Mr. Barnett says.
   Phoenix immediately rejected the proposal. "We have an
undervalued stock on our hands," Mr. Fisher says. "We don't
want to sell."
   Not every investor lost out. Securities and Exchange
Commission filings show that Phoenix executives, including
Mr. Colvin, sold shares with uncanny timing -- sometimes days
before bad news drove down the stock. For example, Mr. Colvin
sold a total of 65,000 shares in early March, shortly before
the company announced on March 13 that it expected to report
a big loss for the fiscal second quarter.
   Mr. Parkinson, the former financial officer, says he left
Phoenix over the board's failure to act on such trading by
Mr. Colvin and a second senior executive.
   Mr. Colvin says he was unaware the company was about to
announce bad news when he sold shares. As for Phoenix's
problems, he is blunt. "You reach the end of the cliff, and
you either stop in time, or you go over," he says. "Once you
start falling, you go into free fall."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Merrill, Shearson Pare Asia-Pacific Lines
   ---
   Other Firms Set Up or Expand
   in Fast-Growing Region
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6E
</SO>
<CO>
   SLH AXP MER MS SB FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HONG KONG -- Wall Street's retrenchment has caused two big
U.S. securities firms to scale down some investment banking
activities in the Asia-Pacific region, even though markets
there remain healthy.
   But at the same time that Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. have been affected, other U.S. firms and
their European and Asian counterparts are expanding or
setting up operations in the region. These firms are likely
to fill any gaps left by the bigger U.S. firms' retrenchment,
which means the overall investment banking market won't be
greatly affected by Wall Street's cost-cutting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. firms' operations in Japan and their securities
businesses throughout the region -- except for the operations
of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which is liquidating --
appear to be safe from retrenchment. But for many U.S.
securities companies with Asia-Pacific investment banking
operations, the question is whether their home offices will
commit the resources needed to grow with the region, or cede
the smaller Asian-Pacific markets to Asian and European
rivals to concentrate on the U.S. market and the new allure
of Europe.
   Even the U.S. units that are committed to expanding in the
region are finding it harder to get a hearing from their home
offices, as cost-conscious parent companies struggle with
smaller budgets.
   The head of a U.S. firm's investment banking operation in
Hong Kong, who is worried about his hopes for the firm's
growth, said: "This is the fastest-growth market in the
world, but will they be able to devote the resources to this
market to make it out here? The jury is out."
   Merrill Lynch and Shearson, the two largest U.S.
securities firms, have reduced staffing and growth plans in
their Asia-Pacific investment banking operations. The two
firms have been hit hard by the steep recession on Wall
Street, which has led to the dismissals of nearly 45,000
securities employees in the U.S. since the October 1987 stock
market crash.
   In 1989, Merrill Lynch had its first unprofitable year as
a public company, after taking a $470 million restructuring
charge. Shearson, which recently required a $750 million cash
infusion from its parent, American Express Co., has said it
expects a first-quarter loss of as much as $917 million after
taking $787 million in charges for bad loans, a retrenchment
plan and other items. The firm said in February that it
planned to cut 17% of its investment banking staff
world-wide.
   Merrill Lynch's Hong Kong investment banking arm has
experienced firings and departures. Shearson has closed its
Sydney, Australia, office. The parent companies haven't
completed a review of business areas, and more cuts could
come.
   Executives of both companies who are based in the region
remain hopeful that retrenchment won't render them incapable
of exploiting the region's opportunities. "Despite the many
ups and downs on Wall Street, we have to position ourselves
for the growth in Asia," said K.C. Kwan, Asia regional
director for Merrill Lynch.
   Troubles on Wall Street, however, may make it difficult
for the Merrill Lynch and Shearson units to keep up with
rivals in the Asia-Pacific region, where some investment
banking operations, such as the relative newcomers from
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. and the Salomon Brothers Inc. unit of
Salomon Inc., expanded rapidly in the past few years and
appear willing to continue spending the money to build
business. This view is shared by European firms, such as
Baring Brothers &amp; Co., and by Asia-based Jardine Fleming &amp;
Co. and James Capel (Far East) Ltd., which is owned by
Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp.
   By contrast, the staff at Merrill Lynch's Hong Kong
investment banking arm has shrunk to 10 from 18. Mr. Kwan
said the loss is minor, but acknowledged that the posts won't
be filled soon. Moreover, fearful of a long, slow decline, a
few senior Merrill Lynch and Shearson employees are beginning
to look for other jobs.
   Four top directors of Merrill Lynch's investment banking
unit, all Asia veterans, left early this year after the
retrenchment began. Other investment banking executives in
Hong Kong regard the problems at Merrill Lynch's Hong Kong
unit as serious. In the past five years, Merrill Lynch has
been a leader in Asia, topping the 1989 list of investment
banking operations for the value of mergers-and-acquisitions
business and for Eurobonds.
   One newly appointed Merrill Lynch executive in Hong Kong
conceded that when he interviews people, he tells them there
is "a risk factor in coming to work for Merrill." He said he
expects some additional departures in Tokyo and the rest of
Asia, and predicts a long period to rebuild the business.
   As for Shearson, its decision to close its Sydney
operation reflected in part the frustration of many banks and
securities companies that have tried to crack that market and
the extent to which the Australian economy has deteriorated.
But the problems in New York forced Shearson to cut its
losses in Australia instead of investing more money; company
officials had believed the operation could become profitable
in two years.
   Shearson officials hope there won't be any more cuts in
the region, but they acknowledged that the firm will grow at
a far slower rate than they had wanted.
   Executives from other foreign investment banking units try
to distance themselves from the problems Merrill Lynch and
Shearson face.
   "What is happening at Merrill and Shearson is unique to
their own corporate history, and I don't see any linkage
between their corporate strategy and ours," an official at
Morgan Stanley said.
   Nevertheless, many investment bankers in the region have
trouble convincing their U.S. bosses that Asia encompasses
more markets than Japan and selling the home office on an
expansion strategy.
   "There is so much competition for resources, and we are
far away from the ears you have to whisper into," a U.S.
investment banking executive said.
   The one advantage is that few of these operations grew too
rapidly in the Asia-Pacific region or adopted the strategy of
being all things to all people -- a tack that is partly
blamed for the retrenchment the U.S. industry faces.
   Most companies expanded into specific niche markets in the
region, and then had to justify that growth. It has become
even more difficult in recent years, as costs rocketed and
profit margins narrowed in the region, and Europe grew
increasingly attractive. The opening of Eastern Europe and
the unified European market that is to start in 1992 have
drawn the attention of some U.S. firms.
   Asia-Pacific investment banking offices for many U.S. and
European firms grew, even as thousands lost their jobs in the
U.S. and London after the 1987 crash. Managers in Asian
offices kept their heads down and quietly added people.
   Any gaps left by a slowdown in the development of some
U.S. companies will be quickly filled by other companies.
   Baring has been expanding aggressively. In 1989, 25% of
the company's staff was in the Asia-Pacific region, compared
with only 6% in the U.S., and a managing director said the
company "remains a believer" in the strength of the region.
   Morgan Stanley said its strategy for growth in the region,
set in the 1980s, hasn't changed. Salomon and Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co. are substantial players in Japan, but also are planning
to expand in other countries in the region.
   Some of the best-positioned investment banking operations
are those based regionally that don't have to report to New
York or London.
   A group of executives from Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers
Hong Kong Ltd., the London-based securities arm of the U.S.
banking concern Citicorp, left to start Peregrine Capital
Ltd. 1 1/2 years ago. They wanted to tap the potential of the
Asian-Pacific markets without being distracted by the
problems in other international markets or the demands of
association with a bank.
   "Our main lines of business will only be strengthened in
Southeast Asia," Peter Wong, Peregrine's financial director,
said. "We still think it's the biggest growth area."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Africa Says
   Its Economy Headed
   For a `Soft Landing'
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6E
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG -- The South African economy appeared to be
heading for a "soft landing" in the early months of this
year, the nation's central bank said in its latest quarterly
review.
   The Reserve Bank said "the soft landing of the economy up
to the early months of 1990 came about despite the
progressive tightening of monetary policy since late 1987 and
the de facto quite restrictive posture of fiscal policy in
the fiscal year 1989-1990."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A more significant slowdown had been predicted for the
South African economy. The Reserve Bank attributed the
better-than-expected performance to the sharp rise in
agricultural production from 1988 to 1989. Other factors
contributing to the softer landing were relatively receptive
export markets, the vigorous performance of South African
exporters, the more positive business mood and higher levels
of consumer confidence.
   Also helping cushion the economy's slowdown were the rise
in wages of non-agricultural workers and the increased share
in labor remuneration, which were likely to have supported
household spending and the propensity to consume in the
economy as a whole.
   The bank said the economy has been "moving in the right
direction" satisfactorily as regards the balance of payments
in general and the foreign exchange rate situation in
particular.
   Less satisfactory progress has been made in subduing
inflation, moderating wage adjustments and slowing down the
expansion of bank credit and money supply.
   The bank takes the view that South Africa's
balance-of-payments position has improved substantially and
its foreign debt commitments were likely to ease as a result
of improved foreign perceptions about the country.
   The bank said net sales by foreigners of securities listed
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in the first half of 1989
were replaced by large net purchases of such securities in
the second half of the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Escrow Isn't
   As Safe as It
   Used to Be
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Many people think that putting money into an escrow bank
account guarded by an attorney is as safe as putting it into
their own bank vault. They couldn't be more wrong.
   In recent years, many attorneys and other trustees of
escrow accounts -- mainly for real-estate transactions and
legal settlements -- have used the money to gamble, buy drugs
and enrich their own life styles. Clients find themselves
victims of the very people they had hired to protect
themselves and their assets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now some state bar associations are trying to provide
safeguards for clients. Bar groups in New York, New Jersey
and other states have initiated programs to require attorneys
to keep stricter records of escrow accounts. Groups in a few
states, including New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland, also
have begun random audits of escrow accounts to ensure that
the attorneys are keeping clients' funds separated from their
own.
   Nobody seems to know the total amount of money in escrow
accounts, or the total amount of escrow fraud, but
authorities agree it's a growing problem. "There's greater
detection, so we know more about it {now}, but there's no
question the problem is increasing very rapidly," says Hal R.
Lieberman, chief counsel for a disciplinary committee of the
appellate division of the New York State Supreme Court. John
Moscow, deputy chief of the Manhattan District Attorney's
investigations division, adds, "An escrow account is one of
the biggest avenues for theft in the nation."
   Many families and businesses give big sums of money to
lawyers and other professionals -- such as accountants and
real-estate brokers -- to hold in bank escrow accounts. After
sales of homes or court settlements following accidents, the
proceeds are normally sent to the client's attorney, who
places the money in an escrow account. With the client's
permission, the attorney takes his fee from the account. He
then is supposed to forward the rest to his client.
   It doesn't always work out that way. This month, former
lawyer Jack B. Solerwitz pleaded guilty to grand larceny in
Nassau County (N.Y.) Court. According to court officials, he
admitted taking $1.8 million from escrow and other accounts
of many clients to live a flamboyant life style that included
luxury automobiles. Mr. Solerwitz, who was disbarred in
February, listed debts of $4 million in a personal-bankruptcy
filing. He faces 10 to 30 years in prison and is free on
$250,000 bail.
   In another case, Ross Nichols of Pawling, N.Y., began
worrying three years ago because he and other heirs to a
$600,000 estate of which he was also executor weren't
receiving checks from an attorney's escrow bank account.
(About $315,000 of the estate had already been distributed.)
   So he phoned the lawyer, Richard Nahley, who was also a
probate-court judge in Danbury, Conn. According to Mr.
Nichols, Mr. Nahley said he had misplaced checks from the
estate that were supposed to be mailed to a bank for the
heirs to draw on. He said the checks would be promptly
deposited. They weren't.
   Mr. Nichols and Mr. Nahley were old friends. Mr. Nahley
even invited Mr. Nichols and his wife, Beverly, as his guests
to see the Broadway show "Les Miserables." "Why, he even took
us to an expensive French restaurant and bought an $88 bottle
of wine," Mrs. Nichols says.
   A month later, Mr. Nahley was found dead in a Washington,
D.C., motel, where he had strangled himself with a bathrobe
belt, according to law-enforcement authorities. Investigators
determined that Mr. Nahley had been defrauding dozens of his
clients of close to $5 million from their escrow funds, which
he used to live the high life and travel to Europe on the
Concorde for frequent vacations.
   In the wake of the Nahley case, the Connecticut bar late
last year began requiring the state's 14,000 lawyers to keep
their clients' escrow accounts in certain selected banks.
These banks have agreed that if an attorney's escrow account
kept in safekeeping for his client is overdrawn, the bank
must immediately inform a grievance panel of the state bar
association.
   "If these steps had been taken years ago, the problems
with Mr. Nahley would never have occurred," says John W.
Hogan Jr., a New Haven attorney who is chairman of the
Connecticut bar's client-security fund.
   That fund, like those in most other states, pays full or
partial restitution to clients defrauded by attorneys. But
some such state funds -- which are supported by lawyers' dues
or voluntary contributions -- have been strapped because of a
surge in claims. In Illinois, the voluntary fund has dropped
to less than $100,000 from more than $400,000 four years ago.
   The Illinois bar has 153 claims totaling $2.2 million
pending against its client-security fund for money improperly
taken by lawyers in the state from escrow and other clients'
accounts. "The bar used to be a gentlemen's club, but some
members just aren't gentlemen anymore," says Willis Tribler,
a Chicago lawyer who is a director of the state's
client-security fund.
   Mr. Tribler says a class-action suit is pending against
one disbarred Illinois lawyer -- now driving a cab -- who
allegedly took money from dozens of illegal aliens. The
aliens had planned to use the money to file for citizenship
during a period of amnesty from immigration laws. He recalls
another Illinois lawyer who allegedly stole more than
$100,000 from escrow accounts of people who had received
accident-claim settlements from insurance companies.
   Some attorneys say holding large amounts of clients' money
in escrow creates a psychological strain. Steven Winston, who
was suspended as a lawyer by a New York court several years
ago after he improperly used a client's funds, says in an
interview that he "sometimes felt that escrow money of
clients was my money." He says he took $12,500 of a client's
escrow bank account from selling a home to use for drugs.
   "I became addicted to cocaine, and I needed a lot of
money," says Mr. Winston, who last August applied for
readmission to the bar after undergoing rehabilitation from
drug addiction. (The application is still pending.) "Now that
my mind is a lot clearer, I know that the escrow account
belongs to the clients," says Mr. Winston, who has paid the
$12,500 back to the client.
   Policing the entire bar to make sure that clients' escrow
accounts held by attorneys are safe is a gargantuan task. But
if escrow accounts are overseen by individuals other than
attorneys, even if they're professionals, it is almost
impossible.
   In February, a New York certified public accountant named
Steven Delit allegedly stole more than $1.7 million he was
supposed to have put in escrow funds from 70 tenants living
in the same Manhattan apartment building as Mr. Delit.
Tenants unhappy with the building's service had given the
money to Mr. Delit for safekeeping in a rent strike.
   But Mr. Delit -- now subject to arrest under a felony
warrant for first-degree grand larceny -- allegedly used the
money to open a brokerage account and to gamble at 10 casinos
in Atlantic City, where he lost thousands of dollars playing
blackjack in an attempt to shore up a failing practice. He
also used the money to take trips to Club Med in Tahiti and
to open up a pizza restaurant, says Mr. Moscow of the
Manhattan District Attorney's office.
   Mr. Moscow says attorneys for the tenants and the landlord
both failed to check monthly on the escrow account overseen
by Mr. Delit. Mr. Moscow says Mr. Delit has fled New York and
can't be found by law-enforcement agencies.
   Robert Anderson, attorney for the tenant group, says it
wasn't his responsibility to check the escrow account. "Mr.
Delit was a CPA, and the tenants trusted him," Mr. Anderson
says.
   Mr. Moscow says an escrow account overseen by someone who
can withdraw money with only his signature and without
periodic checking by an outside party is "an open invitation
to theft."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Eastern Air's Unsecured Creditors Spurn
   Latest Offer, Press for Naming of Trustee
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   TEX LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Eastern Airlines' unsecured creditors spurned
an 11th-hour repayment offer from the airline and instead
pressed their attempt to depose its management and have a
trustee named to run it.
   At the same time, the creditors dug in against Eastern's
request to withdraw $80 million from an escrow fund to
finance second-quarter operations. In a court hearing here
Friday, Eastern attorney Bruce Zirinsky told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Burton R. Lifland that the airline needs the money by
today or tomorrow. But the creditors said they wouldn't
consent to any release of money unless a trustee is
appointed. A spokesman for Eastern's parent, Texas Air Corp.,
later said Eastern could last the month without the money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The combination of the two requests has turned the
hearing, which resumes today and could run through the middle
of the week, into a showdown over Eastern's future. Should a
trustee be named, Eastern would be wrested from the hands of
Texas Air and probably be put up for sale, though finding a
buyer might prove difficult. Eastern has called any
appointment of a trustee the carrier's "death knell." The
outcome is up to Judge Lifland, who, on Friday at least,
appeared impatient with Eastern's attempts to gain time to
fight the creditors.
   Eastern's unsecured creditors had until recently been
supportive of the airline and its attempt to shed excess
assets and rebuild into a smaller carrier. But as Eastern's
losses soared beyond projections, its management alienated
creditors by repeatedly cutting back on how much it proposed
to repay. Arthur B. Newman, hired by the creditors' committee
to assess Eastern's repayment plans, testified Friday, "I've
never in my experience seen a company miss their forecasts by
this large an amount."
   In August, he testified, Eastern had projected a $143
million loss for the fourth quarter of 1989. By Dec. 18, it
had amended that forecast to $254 million. The actual loss,
he testified, was $326 million. Eastern has contended that
much of the losses were beyond its control, as fuel prices
skyrocketed and business travelers continued to shun the
airline.
   Whatever the cause, Eastern presented five separate
business plans to its creditors in the past year, and each
one proposed giving them less than the last. Only two weeks
ago, unsecured creditors were offered 25 cents for every
dollar they're owed. Only five cents of that amount would
have been in cash, the rest was to be in notes guaranteed by
Continental Airlines, Eastern's sister carrier. The creditors
rejected that offer and initiated the move toward a trustee.
   Eastern's most recent offer, made on Friday just hours
before the trustee hearing began, offered even less,
according to people who heard it. The proposal consisted of a
combination of notes, Texas Air stock and cash, although the
cash portion was even lower than the five cents offered
earlier this month. It was after listening to and rejecting
that new, still smaller proposal that creditors pressed ahead
with their demand for a trustee.
   Eastern had originally intended to submit its own
reorganization plan to the court last week, but it changed
its plans as it came under increasing pressure from several
sides.
   One of those groups was the Pension Benefit Guarantee
Corp., the federal agency that administers pension insurance.
The agency claims Eastern's various pension plans are
underfunded by as much as $900 million. If Eastern appears
unable to cover its pension debt, or if control of the
airline shifts, the agency could terminate the plans. Under
pension law, Texas Air and Continental would then be liable
for any amount the agency couldn't get from Eastern.
   Last Thursday, the agency told Texas Air it intended to
terminate Eastern's pension plans immediately, according to
someone familiar with the talks, unless Texas Air agreed it
would remain responsible for the plans if a trustee were
appointed. According to a letter written by Texas Air general
counsel Charles Goolsbee to the agency, Texas Air agreed to
those conditions.
   Texas Air and the agency are continuing to negotiate on a
method of settling the outstanding liability, according to
someone familiar with the talks. Eastern and Texas Air have
maintained that Eastern owes only about $400 million for the
pension plans.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Political Rhetoric Turned Upside Down
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   One of the spinoffs of the political upheaval in middle
Europe is a new confusion of two familiar political terms,
"liberal" and "conservative."
   They have been common coinage in Britain at least since
the 18th century and have been used elsewhere since, but with
increasingly less precision of meaning. The imprecision
widens when they are applied to Soviet and East European
politics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The etymology is clear enough. Conservative has roots
implying preservation of the status quo. Liberal draws on
Latin roots relating to freedom. In its early usage it
implied a break with tradition, particularly monarchical
constraints on freedom.
   But such broad terms cannot escape contradictions. In the
U.S., the two words often adhere to their original meanings
when applied to social attitudes. Liberals indeed tend to be
more liberal than conservatives on matters such as explicit
sex on TV. But that is not a hard and fast rule. Many are
hellbent to prevent their fellow citizens from smoking
cigarettes. On politico-economic issues, the meanings often
reverse themselves entirely. U.S. conservatives, not
liberals, usually are the ones demanding greater freedom from
the power of the state, just as did the 19th-century liberal
John Stuart Mill.
   Jimmy Carter, who had styled himself a conservative
Democrat, began the serious work of economic deregulation in
the U.S. in the late 1970s. Ronald Reagan, a conservative
Republican, carried it through. Margaret Thatcher is also a
conservative economic liberationist.
   When Soviet communism was born 72 years ago, the two terms
had little application. Stalin certainly wasn't a
"conservative" when he was seizing the farms of peasants and
murdering those who resisted. Nor was he a "liberal,"
although some Western liberals of the 1930s were sympathetic
toward his revolutionary experiments. They believed he was
emancipating Russians from serfdom. The press of that era
somehow never managed to reveal the enormity of Stalin's
crimes.
   Now politicians in Russia and its former satellites are
eligible to be called liberals or conservatives as those
political systems open up to public debate. But that brings a
further loss of precision. The press and academics often
refer to communist traditionalists -- some would call them
neo-Stalinists -- as conservatives and Soviet reformers as
liberals. Mikhail Gorbachev is a "liberal." The Pamyat
Russian nationalists are "conservatives."
   To the literal-minded, William F. Buckley Jr. would be an
excellent candidate for the editorship of Pravda, were it not
for the fact that Pravda, after losing large chunks of
circulation, is trying to make itself more "liberal." Mr.
Buckley will have to look elsewhere.
   Many American liberals see no contradiction. President
Gorbachev, they say, represents progressive forces, much as
Teddy Kennedy does in the U.S. It was perfectly natural for
these two to meet at the Kremlin recently so that the Russian
liberal could assure the American liberal that the Red Army
will not use force against Lithuania -- maybe.
   But then one must ask about some other folks who are
giving Mr. Gorbachev a bit of trouble. Are the leaders who
are overthrowing Soviet rule in Eastern Europe trying to
preserve the status quo? Is it possible to describe the
daredevil Lithuanian secessionist, Vytautas Landsbergis, as a
"conservative?"
   What all of this means is that politics can never be
reduced to simple definitive terms. In some sense, the labels
fit. American conservatives are more likely than liberals to
cling to the values of their forefathers, just as Russian
conservatives pine for the Marxist-Leninist verities of 1918.
But keep in mind that American and Russian conservatives are
upholding opposite sets of values. The desire for less state
involvement in their lives easily makes Mr. Landsbergis, East
German Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere, Czech President
Vaclav Havel and the other revolutionary leaders of Eastern
Europe conservatives in the American sense.
   Now, this is not an indirect way of calling American
liberals communists. There is another important distinction.
American liberals and conservatives alike are by and large
ardent democrats. Even when American liberals engage in the
Marxist-style politics of class warfare, they cannot be
equated with the Russian conservatives who happily renounce
democratic process on the grounds that it interferes with the
egalitarianism they profess.
   The terms liberal and conservative are imprecise but the
word democracy has a definite meaning. It was clearly
understood by the royalists of the 18th century, who referred
to it as "mobocracy," and it is understood by the Communist
apparatchiks of today, who also view it with fear and scorn.
It is no accident that the U.S. began to have more
foreign-policy success when, in the 1980s, it made the spread
of democracy a key goal.
   There is no confusion about democracy between Vytautas
Landsbergis and the Pamyat folks across the way in Leningrad.
The Lithuanians took a vote, a real one. Nobody appointed
Pamyat as the guardian of all things good in the Russian
culture. That kind of distinction is the one most clear to
the peoples who have been throwing out Communist parties
throughout Europe.
   Through having lived under statist absolutism, they also
have a vivid sense of the connection between democracy and
market economics. Democracy lets individuals vote for their
leaders. Market economics lets them vote their preferences in
goods and services. In both cases, the principle of private
property comes into play.
   Democracy cannot thrive where the state is everyone's
landlord and thus can exercise absolute power over the lives
of individuals, determining what housing, what jobs, what
farm plots will be awarded to whom. In the Soviet Union
today, people are voting against a Communist Party that
exercises such enormous control over their lives, but with a
combination of desperation and fear, and with an expectation
that at some point -- maybe beginning with Lithuania -- the
party will retaliate.
   As for market economics, it also is impossible to have a
market economy without private property. Markets result from
individuals making judgments about how much they are willing
to pay to own property. Bargaining over property you don't
own is like playing poker with matchsticks.
   The words conservative and liberal will not be banished.
Bill Buckley, a man of formidable language skills, will
continue to call himself a conservative just as Sen. Daniel
Patrick Moynihan, similarly gifted, will cheerfully call
himself a liberal. Whatever the terms, voters won't have much
trouble deciding whom they want to lead them -- providing a
choice is available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- On Sports:
   Derby Candidates Shake a Leg
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Lexington, Ky. -- April is when Kentucky Derby candidates
emerge from the mist, and on Saturday afternoon, at bucolic
Keeneland, one did. He is Summer Squall, and his bid must be
classed as serious if only because he emerged not only from
the mist, but also from the rain, cold and mud.
   The smallish, dark colt, who was bred, auctioned and first
sent trackward in the Blue Grass state, won the 1 1/8-mile
Blue Grass Stakes, worth $185,000, over a small but
interesting field. His victory was notable because it was his
seventh in eight outings, because he spent the entire race in
the close and threatening company of his colleagues and,
again, because he prevailed in circumstances that must have
made a warm barn seem tempting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His trainer, heavy-browed Neil Howard, appeased the turf
gods by allowing that one never knows what's gonna happen in
the Big One for three-year-olds-that Louisville race on the
first Saturday in May. But he added that, in the meantime,
he'd rather be in his own shoes than anyone else's.
   "I like our chances -- I really do," Howard declared.
"Summer Squall has never run a bad race, and he doesn't have
to take his race track with him." The latter is track talk
for an animal's ability to handle different surfaces and
conditions.
   Pat Day, the winner's jockey, voiced similar sentiments.
"I have tremendous confidence in this colt," he said. "He can
run off or on the lead, and has courage under fire. He showed
that last summer when he won the Hopeful Stakes at Saratoga
after being jostled. He showed it today, too."
   There are, of course, other trainers and jockeys, at other
courses, who are saying much the same things about their
steeds, which ought to make for some lively office pools come
next month. As things stand, Summer Squall should enter the
gate on Derby Day as no worse than the people's second
choice, perhaps, behind unbeaten Mister Frisky. That's the
$15,000 bargain who ran his early races in unfashionable
Puerto Rico before showing he also could win on the mainland,
most lately in the Santa Anita Derby.
   This year's Beast of the East is Champagneforashley, who
won a fast 7/8-mile by a wide margin Friday in New York, but
hasn't been tested sternly at longer distances. C etc.
probably will run again before the Derby, while Summer Squall
and Mister Frisky are slated for R &amp; R, so he might attract
the custom of folks with short memories if he shows
impressively again.
   A fourth, and nouveau, Derby hopeful is the Blue Grass
runnerup, Land Rush. His credentials going into Saturday were
a meager two wins in eight starts, and $83,000 in earnings
(to Summer Squall's $600,000), and he went off at odds of
12-to-1 compared with 3-10 for the eventual victor. But he
poked his head in front of Summer Squall's at the 3/4-mile
mark and dogged (horsed?) SS down the homestretch before
faltering by two lengths.
   "We've got room to improve, and three weeks to do it,"
grinned D. Wayne Lucas, Land Rush's trainer. "I like the
whole scenario now."
   The scenario that brought Summer Squall to his present
wealth and fame might have been borrowed from "General
Hospital"; the nicely named offspring of Storm Bird and
Weekend Surprise has interspersed his races with trips to
infirmaries. A leg stress-fracture and nostril bleeding
caused a gap in his campaigning from late August, 1989, to
this March. That was followed by a rush to catch up that sent
him postward three times in the past month, an unusual amount
of exercise for a colt of his worth.
   That he has survived both those ordeals has endeared him
to trainer Howard. "We've asked more of the horse than we'd
normally like to, but he's never told us we shouldn't," he
noted.
   The field for the Blue Grass, which has sent 10 winners on
to acquire a rose blanket at the Kentucky Derby (but none
since Spectacular Bid in 1979), was supposed to number seven,
but was reduced to five by the weather. It would have been
cut to four had not trainer Carl Nafzger decided, just before
race time, to allow his Unbridled, the Florida Derby winner
and offspring of another Florida stakes winner, Shot Gun
Scott, to run. Nafziger explained that he preferred "soup,"
in the form of mud, to "slop," the puddles new rain leaves.
The latter condition often is toughest on horses because it
opens a track's bottom material to their hoofs.
   Summer Squall, who likes to run near the lead on land or
sea, did just that Saturday, following 50-to-1 shot Iskandar
Elakbar out of the gate. The two ran almost together until
the 3/4-mile mark, when Land Rush joined them and, briefly,
edged ahead. Summer Squall surged past at the start of the
stretch, hung for a bit until Day whipped him for the first
and only time, then won pulling away. His longest lead -- 1
3/4 lengths -- came when he crossed the finish line, no small
feat for such a hotly contested race. Unbridled rallied for
third but never threatened to win.
   Jockey Day spent part of last year aboard Easy Goer in
that colt's storied but mostly futile pursuit of
horse-of-the-year Sunday Silence. Several times he was
faulted for allowing Sunday Silence to gain leads over his
late-running mount that were to prove insurmountable. That
specter arose again on Saturday, when he let Land Rush pass
Summer Squall.
   "Pat terrified me," confessed W. Cothran Campbell, the
front man for Dogwood Stable, the 28-member partnership that
owns Summer Squall. "I was hoping he knew what his horse had
left."
   Not to worry, said Pat. "I didn't want to scare anybody,
but they don't pay off for who's ahead at the 3/8-mile pole,
or 1/4 or 1/16," he averred. Besides, "I think this colt
might be better running at horses than making the pace
himself."
   Questions remain. Can Summer Squall (or Mister Frisky,
Champagneforashley or Land Rush) handle the 1 1/4-mile Derby
distance? How about a race with some hot early speed? What
about the cavalry-charge field that's expected?
   Answers must await May 5. That's why they run the thing,
ya know.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   Due to an editing error, Shot Gun Scott was misidentified
in yesterday's On Sports piece. He was another horse in the
Blue Grass Stakes and not Unbridled's sire.
   (WSJ April 17, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Turkish President Ozal Appears Secure,
   But Status of Motherland Party Wanes
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANAKKALE, Turkey -- The band snaps to attention as a few
nonagenarian veterans from Turkey's war of independence stand
unsteadily by.
   But as President Turgut Ozal arrives to celebrate the
Ottoman defense of the Dardanelles Strait during World War I,
Canakkale's elected mayor refuses to stand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In fact, the mayor used the occasion last month to attack
Turkey's "sultans," adding: "Anyone taking decisions without
the people's support is condemned to be lost in the darkness
of history." Hours later, the minister of the interior fired
the mayor.
   Such unpleasant schisms are multiplying, weakening the
already brittle structure of the Turkish republic. A
stumbling government, political boycotts, student protests,
terrorism, Kurdish insurgency and growing Islamic
fundamentalism, are brewing what one senior Western diplomat
calls a "dire scenario" for the 55 million people of Turkey,
a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
   Mr. Ozal says that he now plans to take the unusual step
of heading some cabinet meetings. Turkish presidents usually
don't get involved in cabinet deliberations. "Maybe I will do
it every month. They won't like it, but . . . I can help
them," he says.
   Prime minister of Turkey from 1983 until he was elected
president in November 1989, Mr. Ozal may be secure for his
seven-year term. But the Motherland Party he founded in 1983
isn't as sanguine about its ability to hold together and hold
off opposition demands for early parliamentary elections, now
set for 1992.
   Three national opinion polls last month put support at 12%
or less for the Motherland Party, a center-right grouping of
Islamists, reformists, nationalists and free-market
advocates. "None of them wants to accept that the story of
Ozal and the Motherland is over," wrote Hasan Cemal, editor
of the left-wing Comhuriyet newspaper.
   The man Mr. Ozal chose to succeed him as prime minister
last November, Yildirim Akbulut, a slow-speaking provincial
lawyer, faces ridicule as books of Akbulut jokes become best
sellers. The minister of foreign affairs resigned in February
and the minister of finance quit in March to prepare bids to
succeed Mr. Akbulut.
   Mr. Ozal, 62 years old, officially has cut his ties with
Motherland because of his presidential vow to be "without
bias." But he says he is still the guiding hand behind
Turkey, and he firmly lists the wide powers available to the
president under Turkey's 1982 constitution. Turkey's system
of government, similar to France's, has a president and prime
minister.
   Diplomats say major foreign governments all deal directly
with Mr. Ozal, sometimes bypassing the Foreign Ministry. When
a ministerial post falls vacant, Mr. Ozal names the
successor. Economic decision-makers meet monthly for
"briefings" at Mr. Ozal's palace.
   Indeed, Mr. Ozal uses the flourishing economy -- which he
has controlled for a decade -- to silence his critics. "If
there are no economic problems, {the opposition} cannot
collect the masses," he says.
   The lifting of foreign-exchange controls, an export boom
and rapid tourism development have reversed Turkey's
once-chronic foreign-currency shortages. Turkey registered
balance-of-payments surpluses of $1.5 billion in 1988 and
$966 million in 1989. The account is still in the black, Mr.
Ozal says, though the foreign trade deficit has widened
recently as import growth has far outpaced that of exports.
The trade deficit ballooned to $504 million in January from
$292 million a year earlier, the national statistics bureau
said April 13.
   Foreign investment hit a record $650 million last year and
officials and bankers say it hasn't let up this year. But not
everyone has shared in the wealth.
   Austerity budgets have brought inflation that hit 87% in
1988 down to 62% for the fiscal year ended March 31. But
gross national product, the total value of goods and
services, slowed to 1.7% growth in 1989, down from 3.4% in
1988, 7.4% in 1987 and 8.1% in 1986. Industrial production
has been picking up steam, but Istanbul's business leaders
are concerned about rising public dissatisfaction and
political uncertainty, which has paralyzed bureaucrats who
control 60% of the country's production and regulate the
rest.
   The Motherland Party has resisted calls for early
elections since it lost many municipal elections in March
1989. It has been helped by the lack of credible alternative
policies from the two main opposition parties on the left and
right. They are even in the polls but neither is likely to
win a parliamentary majority.
   While the political establishment is locked in battle and
the army, which intervened in political crises in 1960, 1971
and 1980, remains on the sidelines, forces outside the
traditional framework are winning sympathy. Western diplomats
are concerned about the rising power of Islamic
fundamentalists.
   Mr. Ozal insists that Islam is moderate in Turkey and that
pressure on religion only breeds extremism. He sees a greater
danger in the southeast, where ethnic Kurds are becoming
increasingly militant. PKK, the main Kurdish guerrilla group,
is organizing protests in Kurdish-speaking southeast Turkey
modeled after the Palestinian intifada. More than 2,000
people have died in violence since the PKK started armed
attacks in 1984.
   Sitting high above Istanbul in his luxury apartment in the
army's main hotel, Mr. Ozal says he believes Turkey is a
stabilizing influence amid the changes sweeping its Balkan
and Soviet neighbors. Turkey embarked on a course of economic
liberalization in 1983 on which its neighbors are only
beginning to embark, he says.
   But long-promised political liberalization has slipped
down the agenda, sparking criticism from human-rights groups
such as Helsinki Watch, which said 400 Turkish journalists
were prosecuted for their writings in 1989. An overhaul of
the most restrictive articles of Turkey's 1926 penal code
probably won't be ready until after the summer, Mr. Ozal
says.
   Amnesty International and other groups repeatedly have
accused Turkish police of systematic torture. "Ozal doesn't
favor torture, but I think he is unconcerned. The police are
acting almost independently in this matter, out of control. .
. ." says Istanbul Human Rights Association chief Emile Galip
Sandalci.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Today Is It
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some always look to the future,
   Obsessed with the "if and when";
   Others elect to dwell in the past --
   The nostalgic "there and then."
   There are also those more fortunate ones
   Who have learned the secret how
   To make the most of the present --
   The fleeting "here and now."
   -- George O. Ludcke.
   ---
   Junk Flood
                                                                                                       

   There's one thing on envelopes
   I've been seeing of late:
   If it is stamped "Urgent]"
   Then I know it can wait.
   -- Mimi Kay.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Corp. Questions
   Purported Tax Status
   Of Icahn Spinoff Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- USX Corp., in a letter to shareholders,
attacked a proposal by New York investor Carl Icahn to spin
off the company's steel business, saying the plan may not be
tax-free.
   Shareholders are scheduled to vote May 7 on Mr. Icahn's
proposal to split the company's steel and energy businesses,
and give 80% or more of the steel business to shareholders as
a dividend.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   USX Chairman Charles A. Corry cited a study by Robert
Willens, who follows tax and accounting issues for Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Mr. Willens suggests that the Internal Revenue Service may
question whether the spinoff was made for a valid business
reason, or whether it was a device to raise the stock price,
in which case it may not qualify as tax-free.
   Mr. Willens concludes that "there is doubt regarding the
transaction's qualification as a tax-free spinoff."
   Mr. Icahn couldn't be reached for comment. He previously
said, however, that his lawyers had advised him that the
spinoff could be done on a tax-free basis.
   Mr. Corry also said Mr. Icahn's proposal fails to consider
at least $115 million a year in new expenses involved in
forming two separate companies. For example, he said, the
riskier steel business would have to borrow separately and
would probably pay a higher interest rate than USX pays now.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Koreans Are Favored
   By Iran to Rebuild
   Petrochemical Plant
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANAMA -- South Korean companies are likely to win
contracts to rebuild the war-damaged Bandar Khomeini
petrochemical plant in Iran, the official islamic Republic
News Agency reported.
   Citing an interview in the local magazine Iran Exports
with Deputy Oil Minister Ahmad Rahgozar, the agency said
about $1 billion will be invested in completing the plant
during the next five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, a consortium of Japanese companies led
by Mitsui &amp; Co. paid Iran nearly $1 billion in exchange for
an agreement to withdraw from a joint venture set up in the
1970s to build and run Bandar Khomeini.
   Mr. Rahgozar said no final decision has been made, but
that "most probably" the new contractors will be Koreans. He
said $5.71 billion will be spent on Iran's petrochemical
plants during the new five-year plan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U S West Inc. Files
   Registration to Sell
   14 Million Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   USW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD, Colo. -- U S West Inc. said it filed a
registration statement for the proposed sale of 14 million
shares of the company's common stock. An additional 2.1
million shares may be sold to cover any overallotments.
   Based on the April 12 closing price, gross proceeds from
the offering would be about $525 million. The filing
represents post-split shares, following the April 6
announcement of a two-for-one stock split.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The diversified telecommunications company said it expects
to offer 9 million shares in the U.S., 2.5 million in Japan
and 2.5 million in other countries. The offering, by
prospectus only, will be sold in the U.S. and Europe through
underwriters managed by Goldman Sachs &amp; Co., Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets and Salomon Brothers Inc., with the Japanese
portion managed by Yamaichi Securities Co.
   U S West said net proceeds will be invested in expansion
and modernization of U S West Communications' core telephone
unit, U S West Capital Corp.'s financial services businesses,
cable television franchises in Hong Kong and the U.K., and a
personal communications network in the U.K.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toray Industries Says
   Boeing Co. Approved
   Plastic Fiber for Jets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   J.TOR BA
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- An advanced carbon-reinforced plastic made by
Toray Industries Inc. has been approved by Boeing Co. for use
in the primary structure of its aircraft, the Japanese
company said.
   A spokesman for the company, which is the leader of
Japan's synthetic-fiber industry, said Boeing approved the
fiber April 5 after testing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spokesman denied a news report it has received orders
from Boeing for the material. He said it was likely Boeing
would consider using the fiber in the 777 jumbo jet it
currently is developing.
   Toray expects the fiber, called TORAYCA prepreg P2302, to
be used in the fuselage, tail and main wings of new aircraft.
The company estimates that the weight of aircraft could be
reduced as much as 25% by use of carbon-reinforced plastics.
Boeing, Europe's Airbus Industrie and other manufacturers
currently use a Toray carbon fiber in the secondary
structural elements of aircraft.
   Toray's P2302 combines carbon fiber with epoxy resins. One
metric ton of the material costs around 20,000 yen ($126),
the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Landmark Land
   To Sell to Hon
   Much of Realty
   ---
   Deal Could Have a Value
   Of Up to $967 Million,
   People Near Firm Say
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LML
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Landmark Land Co. has entered into an agreement to sell
much of its real estate and resort holdings to California
developer Barry G. Hon, in a deal that could have a value of
as much as $967 million, according to people close to
Landmark.
   The sale, one of the largest real estate transactions this
year, would involve most of Landmark's premier golf-centered
resorts, which include PGA West, La Quinta and Mission Hills,
all located in the Palm Springs area.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Landmark, a thinly traded land and golf-course development
company based in Carmel, Calif., is 28%-owned by its chairman
Gerald G. Barton and 24%-owned by Olympia &amp; York Developments
Ltd., the Toronto conglomerate controlled by the Reichmann
brothers.
   The agreement is expected to be announced today.
   Landmark's real estate holdings are owned through its
savings and loan subsidiary, Oak Tree Savings, which is based
in New Orleans. The sale was triggered by the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989,
which raised the amount of capital that savings and loans had
to have in order to stay in the real estate business. As a
result of the act, a number of savings and loans have sold
their real estate at deflated prices.
   The sale to Mr. Hon, an Irvine, Calif., home builder and
land developer, appears to be fully valued. Mr. Hon's
company, Palos Verdes Land Holdings Inc., is best known for
developing the 2,743-acre Foot Hill Ranch in South Orange
County. When complete, the project will include 3,900 housing
units and approximately eight million square feet of office
and retail space. Mr. Hon couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Hon also reportedly owns 1,200 acres along the Palos
Verdes Peninsula, and is in the process of obtaining
development approvals for a planned community there.
   "Most of the thrift real estate sales we're seeing are
selling at below book value," said Jack Rodman, managing
partner at Kenneth Leventhal &amp; Co., a Los Angeles-based
accounting firm that advised Landmark. "The Landmark deal has
a 50% premium over book value, which is unusual in itself."
   Landmark stock jumped $2.125 a share to close at $17.50 in
American Stock Exchange composite trading Thursday, in
relatively heavy trading of 143,800 shares.
   "It sounds like this deal could bail out their S&amp;L," said
Kenneth Campbell, president of Audit Investments Inc., a
Montvale, N.J., investment advisory firm that follows real
estate companies. "I had always assumed the buyer would be
Japanese, since they're the ones paying the big numbers for
golf courses these days."
   Mr. Rodman said he expects Japanese companies to purchase
individual properties from Mr. Hon after the deal closes. No
Japanese purchaser emerged to buy the entire portfolio, he
said, because of the downturn in Japanese financial markets.
   Under the agreement, Mr. Hon would purchase the first part
of the portfolio in the second quarter for $497 million,
which would generate a gross pretax profit of about $270
million. Mr. Hon would also have the option to purchase a
second portfolio of properties in the second quarter of 1991
for $470 million. That sale would generate a gross pretax
profit of $200 million.
   Properties in the first phase include Landmark's Oak
Valley, Oak Summit, Greenspot and Moreno Valley Ranch
developments in California. Also included is the Carmel
Valley Ranch Resort, which Landmark had agreed to sell to
American International Golf Resorts Inc. for $60 million last
month. Mr. Hon would purchase the contract on that property
from American International.
   The second phase would include properties in Kiawah
Island, S.C.; West Palm Beach, Fla.; and Riverside and Placer
counties, Calif.
   Three quarters of the financing would be provided by
Landmark.
   The sale would leave the company with about $400 million
in real estate remaining in California, Oklahoma and
Louisiana. Most of those properties will be disposed of over
the next five years, said people close to the company.
   While many of Landmark's properties have received high
marks for their beauty and design, the company's fortunes
have sagged along with the economies of Oklahoma and
Louisiana. Even many of its golf courses that are considered
among the world's best have had negative cash flow, said Mr.
Campbell.
   The company posted a fourth-quarter loss of $20.5 million,
or $2.57 a share, in contrast to profit of $16.9 million, or
$2.09 a share, a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   New England's Battered Democratic Governors
   Have the Economy and Bad Footwork to Blame
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   HARTFORD, Conn. -- What's knocking out the Democratic
governors of New England?
   All three of them -- first Michael Dukakis of
Massachusetts, then William O'Neill of Connecticut and
finally Madeleine Kunin of Vermont -- are bowing out of
re-election bids. The result is that these states will plunge
into the 1990s without the political figures who dominated
them for most of the 1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The easy answer to the region's predominant political
riddle is the soft economy here in New England. Growth in
personal income lags behind the national average, the
high-tech and banking industries are in full-blown crises,
and the states are struggling with budget deficits -- all at
a time when the fires of taxpayer revolts are being stoked
and when governors are facing startling levels of political
resentment.
   "We've all had to confront this situation," says Gov.
Dukakis, "and we are all facing the usual unhappiness that
comes with it."
   But the region's economic woes also have served to
highlight other political difficulties the three have
suffered: Gov. Dukakis's disappointing presidential campaign,
which trumpeted his state's economic "miracle" at a time when
it was unraveling; Gov. O'Neill's management problems; and
Gov. Kunin's support for a state planning effort that town
after town bitterly rejected.
   The three are leaving their respective statehouses with
frustration over the political climate created by a decade of
Republican presidents who have elevated opposition to taxes
into a civic religion.
   "There has been a national climate painted about taxation
that makes the public want to listen to the easiest message,
and that's George Bush's message," says Gov. Kunin. "If
people hear that again and again, they start to wonder why we
don't behave that way at the state level."
   Here in Connecticut, Mr. O'Neill sounds a similar theme.
"The mood of the times is `no new taxes,' and you can't run a
government that way," says Mr. O'Neill, who sits below an old
seal of Connecticut in the governor's office. "Not only has
the federal government been irresponsible in not sending
money to the communities, it's been irresponsible in not
raising taxes when they're needed, and more irresponsible in
saying we don't need to raise taxes."
   The federal share of 60 major state programs dropped to
22% in 1988 from 36% in 1981. "The New Federalism is a way
for Washington to pass the buck -- not the dollar buck, but
the responsibility buck -- to the states," Mr. O'Neill
complains. "It's very difficult to run for office in this
kind of atmosphere. People resent raising taxes and don't
understand why I have to do it and Washington doesn't have
to."
   But Mr. O'Neill's critics argue that the governor
squandered a $1.3 billion surplus over four years. "There was
a boom in New England and unfortunately booms are followed by
busts," says Democratic Rep. Bruce Morrison, who is hoping to
succeed Mr. O'Neill. "None of these governors was able to
repeal the laws of economics or even to foresee that the
booms would end."
   Today, Mr. O'Neill estimates a $196 million fiscal-year
deficit, though legislative leaders' estimates run closer to
$220 million. State figures show that payroll positions
increased every year for the past decade -- a 23% increase in
the O'Neill years -- with payroll costs nearly tripling.
   "The way the Democrats spend and mismanage explains the
whole thing," says Republican state Rep. Gene Migliaro, a
former Democrat who is a 16-year veteran of the
Appropriations Committee. "It all caught up with them. You
can't spend what you don't have, and they finally woke up to
it."
   The economic problems and the invective are even harsher
in Massachusetts, where Mr. Dukakis is being criticized for
ignoring or papering over a weak state financial picture long
enough to win the 1988 Democratic presidential nomination.
   "People feel that Dukakis and the Democratic leadership
deceived them about the economy," says Alexander Tennant,
executive director of the Massachusetts Republican Party.
"He's the best thing that's ever happened to the Republican
Party here."
   Last week, Democratic state Rep. Richard Voke, chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee, estimated that the state
needed an extra $2.3 billion over the next 15 months, adding
that he envisioned a major tax package, large spending cuts
and a bond sale. The state's budget deficit now is estimated
at $900 million, though some in the Statehouse believe it may
be even higher.
   "Taxes are never popular, but given our relatively low
burden we have to do it," says Mr. Dukakis, who is leaving
after a dozen years -- "probably the maximum useful life of a
governor," in his estimation -- in office. "I hope people
will give us credit for standing up and doing the right
thing," he says. Massachusetts House Speaker George Keverian
told reporters and editors of the Boston Globe last week that
the House would pass a tax increase if Mr. Dukakis, whom he
described as "the most hated man in the state," would resign.
   The difficulties are being compounded by serious revenue
problems, with the state now projecting that it will actually
receive less this year than last. "These revenue declines,"
says Mr. Dukakis, "were predicted by nobody last year."
   Indeed, income-tax withholding is still slightly above
last year's levels, but corporate-tax receipts are down
nearly 15% and sales-tax receipts are down about 5%. "With
things this bad, you'd think the booze tax money would be
up," says Richard Manley, who directs the non-partisan
Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, "but even that's down."
   Amid the rubble, there's little sympathy for Mr. Dukakis,
who argues that "governors of other states who did not run
for the presidency are having problems." One private GOP poll
of a solidly Democratic state senate district in the central
Massachusetts city of Worcester shows the governor with an
unfavorable rating of 89%.
   "There's no way he could run," says Mr. Manley, who has
been unremittingly critical of the governor. "He's getting
blamed for a heck of a lot that he didn't do. There were a
lot of bad decisions made around here in the banking and
high-tech industries that he had nothing to do with, and the
Legislature deserves some blame. But the governor signed the
budget and there's a feeling he lied about the fiscal health
of the state when he was running for president."
   The phenomenon of three Democratic governors stepping down
simultaneously also underlines the risks of the job. "The
longer you're governor, the tougher it is," says Frank Bryan,
a University of Vermont specialist in state government. "In
Congress you survive by doing favors for people. As governor
you have to make tough decisions. You can get a lot done in
the governorship, but it's a political graveyard."
   Vermont's Gov. Kunin, who faces a revenue shortfall of $45
million, discovered these limits when she pressed towns on a
planning law, Act 200, designed to direct development, assure
the availability of affordable housing and protect
agricultural land. More than a hundred towns voted it down,
only a dozen accepted it, and she became so unpopular that
one Vermont town actually voted on whether to permit her to
speak at the town meeting.
   It's not just Democrats who are affected. New Hampshire's
Gov. Judd Gregg faces a budget deficit and a surprisingly
strong challenge from former Democratic state chairman Joseph
Grandmaison. Maine's Gov. John McKernan faces a fight from
Democratic Rep. Joseph Brennan, who wants to recapture Blaine
House, the governor's mansion he relinquished four years ago.
And Rhode Island's Edward DiPrete faces very low poll
ratings.
   "The Republican governors are not immune from all of
this," says David Moore, a University of New Hampshire
political scientist. "The economy is not good for incumbents,
and people like Gov. Gregg are finding that their performance
ratings aren't all that impressive."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Movers and Shakers of the 1990s
   Are Seeing Red and Going Dotty
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   For this season's power tie, think red with white polka
dots.
   On a recent newscast on the "NBC Nightly News," no fewer
than five people, including Secretary of State James A. Baker
III and anchor Tom Brokaw, wore dotted red ties. Even the guy
in the AT&amp;T commercial wore one, as did a subway mugging
victim interviewed later on "Inside Edition." On another
newscast, President Bush wore one.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I have noticed there is a kind of . . . generic uniform
around," consisting of said tie, a blue suit and a white
shirt, says Mr. Brokaw. Not to be upstaged, Dan Rather, Ted
Koppel and John Chancellor are among those who've been seen
wearing the tie. But Mr. Brokaw notes there wasn't any
power-tie premeditation involved in selecting the tie, which
happens to be the oldest one he has. But if the polka-dotted
red tie is, indeed, the power tie, then "I'm not getting my
share of power," says Mr. Brokaw.
   Esquire magazine's fashion director, Bob Beauchamp, traces
the emergence of the red-patterned tie to the presidential
campaign, where the uniform was, not surprisingly, red tie,
white shirt and blue suit. But, he says, "I don't know if
there is a power tie after the yellow tie" (the power-tie
color of the go-go '80s).
   Joseph Abboud, the men's designer noted for his splashier
tie designs, sees the red-patterned tie as a flight to
safety. "I can't tell the difference between the airline
pilots and the politicians anymore," says Mr. Abboud, who
designed the wardrobe of "Today" show host Bryant Gumbel for
the Olympics. Although Mr. Abboud isn't suggesting that men
start wearing ties with naked ladies on them, "we've got to
get these guys to be more daring."
   At Bigsby &amp; Kruthers, an upscale men's retailer in Chicago
with such power customers as basketball star Michael Jordan,
"Everybody's becoming a little more aggressive" in their
choice of ties, says Brent Lob, manager of the Water Tower
store. "People are turning to ties" to express themselves, he
says. But at the more traditional Brooks Brothers near Wall
Street, which has seen a resurgence in sales of polka dots,
"Red is the power color," says manager Ivan Clements.
   In any case, the wrong tie could be an albatross around
one's neck. As Mr. Brokaw says somewhat ruefully: "One thing
I've learned, no matter what you say, no matter what the news
is, more people will respond to your tie than anything else."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Study Finds Doctors Tend to Postpone
   Heart Surgery for Women, Raising Risk
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   By the time women with heart disease are referred to
surgeons for coronary bypass surgery they are much sicker
than men who are sent to by-pass surgery, researchers in Los
Angeles found in a new study.
   The finding helps explain why women seem to have twice the
risk of men of dying during or immediately after coronary
by-pass surgery. But the finding also hints that doctors may
not be as astute in diagnosing coronary heart disease in
women as they are in men or that they don't regard early
symptoms of heart disease as being as serious in women as in
men.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new study by researchers at Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center checked the medical records of almost 2,300 patients
who underwent coronary by-pass surgery at the center between
1982 and 1987. They found that the 4.6% of the 482 women died
as a result of the operation, compared with an operative
mortality of only 2.6% for the more than 1,800 men who had
the by-pass operation.
   This gender difference in operative mortality has been
seen in other medical centers. But previous studies blamed
the women's higher mortality on the fact that their hearts
and coronary arteries are smaller than men's, making the
operation technically more difficult. The operation involves
taking a blood vessel from some other part of the body and
stitching it to a coronary artery on the surface of the heart
so that it routs blood around a clogged portion of the
coronary artery.
   The notion of a technical difference was contradicted,
however, in the new study. In their report in the current
issue of the Annals of Internal Medicine, the Cedars-Sinai
researchers said they found no evidence that the surgery was
more difficult in women than men. The amount of time surgeons
had to keep the patient on the heart-lung machine was
actually shorter for women than men, suggesting there were
fewer technical problems for the women.
   Instead, the researchers found that the only factors that
correlated with the higher death rate for women was their
older age and greater degree of illness. The mean age of the
women at the time of surgery was 68.2 years, compared with 64
years for men. Almost two-thirds of the women were in the
advanced stages of coronary heart disease at the time they
were referred to surgery, compared with only 45% of the men.
Only 7% of the women were in the early stages of heart
disease, compared with 23% of the men.
   The Cedars-Sinai study by Steven S. Kahn and his
colleagues was launched to see if a sex bias in doctors'
referral of patients for by-pass surgery could account for
the operation being riskier for women. About two years ago
researchers at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New
York found indications that there is a sex bias in patients
undergoing X-ray studies of their coronary arteries prior to
by-pass surgery. They found that 10 times as many men as
women had undergone exercise stress tests and radioactive
heart scans before their doctors decided they needed by-pass
surgery.
   The new Cedars-Sinai study found similar evidence. For
instance, only 32% of the women had had an abnormal finding
on the exercise stress test in which the patient walks a
treadmill while an electrocardiogram is taken. By contrast,
48% of the male patients had had an abnormal stress test.
   This suggested that doctors may wait until a woman shows
clear-cut symptoms of coronary heart disease, such as
unpredictable chest pains known as unstable angina, before
sending her to surgery whereas they would send a male patient
to surgery on the basis of an abnormal stress test.
Alternatively, the researchers speculated, its possible that
once women develop symptoms of coronary heart disease they go
downhill much faster than men and thus are sicker by the time
they reach the operating room.
   "These findings suggest that women are referred for
coronary by-pass surgery later in the course of their disease
and for different reasons than men and that later referral
may significantly increase their chances for operative
death," Dr. Kahn and his colleagues concluded.
   In an accompanying editorial, Nanette K. Wenger of Emory
University medical school in Atlanta, suggested that doctors
may be more complacent about the signifigance of chest pains
in women than in men. She noted that early population studies
found that although angina chest pains were twice as common
among women as men, 75% of the men had heart attacks within
five years after developing the pains, while only 14% of the
women had heart attacks in that time. This led doctors to
believe angina pains weren't as serious in women as in men,
Dr. Wenger noted.
   Dr. Wenger argued that "this flawed myth of better
tolerance of angina {among women} fostered less attention to
women with this symptom, less concern with their preventive
care," and probably led doctors to pay less attention to the
stress test in women than in men.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Venezuela to Ease Foreign Investment
   In Energy Sector, Petroleos Chief Says
   ----
   By Julia Lichtblau
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6C
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Venezuela expects within the next few months
to have completed steps to facilitate foreign investment in
its oil and petrochemical industries, said Petroleos de
Venezuela S.A. president, Andres Sosa Pietri.
   At a luncheon of the Venezuelan American Association in
New York last week, Mr. Sosa Pietri said the state oil
company is seeking to encourage foreign investment in an
effort to triple capacity in the next five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The government is sponsoring a bill in Congress to permit
foreign involvement in a proposed $3.5 billion liquefied
natural gas project, Mr. Sosa Pietri said. That project,
which is expected to require the development of offshore gas
reserves, would be an important new outlet for Venezuela's
106 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
   Mr. Sosa Pietri said that five or six foreign companies
have made firm offers to join a Petroleos affiliate in the
project. A feasibility study is expected to be completed by
the end of May.
   Foreign participation in the Venezuelan oil industry has
been strictly limited since its nationalization during
Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez's previous
administration. But after his re-election in late 1988,
President Perez embarked on an economic overhaul package
intended to reduce the country's heavy foreign debt and
stimulate the local economy. That program has included
encouraging private sector participation in key industries,
allowing the market to set the exchange rate for the bolivar,
and lifting price controls on many goods.
   The encouragement of foreign investment in the energy
sector is still controversial in Venezuela, and some analysts
have expressed doubts that Congress would move proposals
through as fast as Mr. Sosa Pietri thinks they will.
   High tax rates are one obstacle to foreign investment that
the government is hoping to alleviate. Corporations are
generally taxed at a rate of 48%, while Petroleos struggles
under a composite tax burden of 82%. He said Congress is
considering legislation that would lower the corporate tax
rate to 35%.
   To help with plans to increase crude oil production
capacity, Venezuela also is considering revising rules that
prevent foreign participation in the upstream sector of
Venezuela's oil industry, Mr. Sosa Pietri said. New rules
could come by mid-May, he said.
   He didn't specify how the rules would be revised other
than to say that they wouldn't include concessions, which
aren't allowed by the constitution. However, he said
Petroleos hopes for "joint ventures from exploration all the
way through downstream."
   Venezuela also plans to expand its production of
orimulsion, a bitumen and water blend that competes with coal
at a price of about $5 a barrel, Mr. Sosa Pietri said. "A
series of agreements" will put exports at 100,000 barrels a
day by 1992, he said. That blend, developed by Petroleos and
the British Petroleum Co., will enable Venezuela to take
advantage of its 230 billion barrels of bitumen reserves in
Orinoco.
   Regarding Petroleos itself, he said that there is a
reorganization under way to "enhance the role of Petroleos as
a holding company, not an operating company," and to
strengthen the role of the affiliates.
   The Petroleos chief took pains to emphasize that Venezuela
sees its economic future tied to the health of the economies
of the U.S., Europe, and Japan, its main markets. Price
shocks aren't in Venezuela's interest, he stressed. "We
believe in price increases . . . that go along with world
inflation levels."
   Mr. Sosa Pietri said he didn't think that Venezuela's
membership in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would hamstring its plans to increase crude-oil
production capacity beyond its present OPEC quota. As demand
outstrips OPEC production capacity, the need for quotas will
disappear, Mr. Sosa Pietri said.
   Mr. Sosa Pietri, a Harvard University Law School graduate
who spent his career as a self-described "entrepreneur in
medium-sized companies" dealing with international markets,
also addressed the outcry accompanying his appointment.
President Perez was criticized for appointing an outsider to
the company, but Mr. Sosa Pietri said it reflected the
president's commitment to encouraging the private sector and
maintaining Petroleos as a commercial entity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Wells Rich Links With France's BDDP
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   RBK CPC SAA WPPGY WNEWS DJ
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wells, Rich, Greene, far behind in Madison Avenue's race
to develop a global presence, signed an agreement with Boulet
Dru Dupuy Petit in which the French agency will take a 40%
ownership in Wells Rich.
   At the same time, Wells Rich said founder Mary Wells
Lawrence, 61 years old, is passing the reins of the company
to Kenneth Olshan, currently chairman of Wells, Rich,
Greene/Worldwide. Mr. Olshan was named chairman and chief
executive officer of Wells Rich.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The arrangement with BDDP calls for members of Wells
Rich's management team to hold a minority stake -- its size
hasn't been determined -- in BDDP. Mr. Olshan, 56, and a few
other Wells Rich executives will serve on a BDDP-Wells Rich
executive committee.
   At a news conference at Wells Rich's Manhattan
headquarters, executives of both closely held agencies
described the association as a "perfect fit." BDDP, which
holds minority interests in agencies in Europe and the
Pacific Rim, has been looking for a North American partner;
Wells Rich, which has struggled with a number of affiliate
relationships overseas, badly needs a presence in the markets
in which BDDP is represented. Terms of the transaction
weren't disclosed.
   The agreement helps BDDP's efforts to build an
international network. BDDP, which is headed by Jean-Claude
Boulet, last year had unsuccessful discussions with WCRS
about purchasing its ad business. It also bid unsuccessfully
for London's Boase Massimi Pollitt.
   In recent years, most major agencies have aggressively
pursued international links to compete for the business of
multinational clients. For example, Foote, Cone &amp; Belding
Communications recently forged an alliance with France's
Publicis.
   Wells Rich said the BDDP affiliation will allow it to
continue to focus on its ad business in the U.S., but also
offer it an overseas network for its clients. Wells Rich,
which has billings of about $860 million, creates ads for
IBM, Hertz and Ford, among others.
   "We believe this is an excellent solution for us, for BDDP
and for our clients," Mr. Olshan said. "We share the same
values, goals and philosophies of our clients." He said the
initial reaction from clients has been positive and that
there aren't any major conflicts between the two agencies.
   BDDP Group, whose major European clients include Polaroid
and McDonald's, has billings of $1.4 billion.
   Wells Rich's entry into the international arena, however,
comes as Mrs. Lawrence is pulling herself further out of the
day-to-day operations of the agency. In recent years, she has
attended some new business pitches and various other events
but has spent a greater portion of her time at a house in
France.
   "There's simply no question that Ken is the leader for
Wells, Rich, Greene in the future," Mrs. Lawrence said. She
added: "This doesn't mean I'm going to the moon," and said
that she will continue to be in contact with Wells Rich
executives and will tend to major problems as they arise.
   Mrs. Lawrence said she will benefit from the sale of some
Wells Rich stock, although she declined to say how much. She
said she would keep a "substantial investment" in Wells Rich,
and would invest some of her stock in BDDP. But she said she
probably will sell all of her shares within five years or so.
   A legendary figure on Madison Avenue, Mrs. Lawrence
started in the business writing ads for a Youngstown, Ohio,
department store. After working at several New York agencies,
she helped found Wells Rich in 1966, and it soon became
highly regarded for its quirky creative work on such accounts
as Braniff Airlines, Alka-Seltzer and Benson &amp; Hedges
cigarettes. In the past few years, however, the shop's
reputation has sagged somewhat. It has suffered the loss of
many accounts, including a number of Procter &amp; Gamble brands.
   But some industry observers believe Wells Rich may be on
its way back up. The shop's recent new-business record is
strong, having picked up Hertz, Sheraton and Continental
Airlines. Wells Rich first made its reputation with an
airline account, some executives argue, and say it might use
Continental as a springboard back to fame.
   Although Mrs. Lawrence won't spend as much time at the
agency, she leaves behind three children on the staff: Jim,
an executive vice president, who is returning to New York
from the Detroit office to head up the Continental account;
Kathryn, a senior vice president, who oversees financial
planning; and State, a senior vice president who heads up the
P&amp;G Pringle's account.
   ---
   Hill Holliday Gets Reebok
                                                                                                       

   Reebok International selected Hill, Holliday, Connors,
Cosmopulos, Boston, as the agency for its $40 million
domestic ad account, industry executives said.
   Reebok put the account, which had been handled by
Chiat/Day/Mojo, up for review in January. Chiat Day declined
to participate in the review and resigned the account. But
later, after a management shake-up at Reebok, Chiat Day
joined the review. Some industry observers had expected Chiat
Day to emerge as the victor and continue to service the
business.
   Neither Reebok nor the agencies could be reached for
comment.
   Chiat Day is expected to continue to handle Reebok's
international advertising from its London office.
   The other finalists in the review were DDB Needham; Waring
& LaRosa; and Levine, Huntley, Schmidt &amp; Beaver.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI &amp; SAATCHI: Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Advertising resigned
Best Foods' estimated $10 million Mazola account and its
position as Best Foods' media buying agency of record. In the
past 14 months, Saatchi has lost Best Foods' Skippy and
Hellmann's brands to BBDO. Best Foods, a unit of CPC
International, said it didn't have any immediate plans for
the brand or the media assignment.
                                                                                                       

   NEW PRODUCT: Thomas J. Lipton, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
named Ogilvy &amp; Mather, a WPP Group agency, to handle a new
product assignment. Billings weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   YOUNG &amp; RUBICAM: Young &amp; Rubicam said it consolidated its
three agency groups in New York into a single unit. John
Glorieux and Jane Brite were named the office's new general
manager and associate general manager, respectively. Along
with George Guimaraes, the executives had been the general
managers of the three groups. Mr. Guimaraes is to be named to
a management post with Y&amp;R outside of New York.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Telerate Systems, New York, a unit of Dow
Jones &amp; Co., awarded its $1.1 million account to
Buckley/DeCerchio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   Bush Is Torn Between Amity to Kaifu,
   Fear of U.S. Ire About Japanese Trade
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush is in a quandary, caught
between his desire to reward a foreign friend, Japan's Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu, and his inclination to avoid
political firefights at home.
   The president's dilemma arises because of a politically
charged decision he must make by the end of this month:
whether to name Japan an unfair trading partner again, as he
did last year. If he does, he will set off a new round of
trade investigations and negotiations and renew the specter
of U.S. sanctions on Tokyo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The debate pits Bush adviser against Bush adviser. The
president earlier this year hosted Mr. Kaifu, Japan's new and
politically vulnerable leader, at a private dinner in Palm
Springs, Calif., and pressed him for basic change in Japan's
trade behavior. Mr. Kaifu has worked hard to build this
personal bond, even telephoning Mr. Bush twice within a week
this month to stress his efforts to make changes.
   Since then, Japan signed a ballyhooed agreement to lower
its structural trade barriers, and it agreed to give
Americans a better shot at selling satellites and
supercomputers in its markets. White House aides say Mr. Bush
would like to reward Mr. Kaifu's political courage.
   Yet if Mr. Bush doesn't cite Japan as an unfair trader, he
faces a political explosion in Congress, where even fellow
Republicans will charge he has let Japan off the hook. "Mr.
President, you must not let this happen," Republican Sen.
John Danforth warned the White House in a letter a few days
ago.
   The issue is so sensitive that none of the key
administration players will disclose the president's
position. But administration officials expect the
administration's chief "free trade" disciples, chief White
House economist Michael Boskin and Budget Director Richard
Darman, to argue that enough progress has been made in trade
talks with Japan that the U.S. shouldn't cite Tokyo again and
risk a protectionist war. The pair are likely to be supported
by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and Secretary of State
James Baker.
   Pushing hard to cite Japan again will be Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher, administration aides predict.
Somewhere between the two camps, officials say, is Trade
Representative Carla Hills, who pressed to cite Japan last
year but is more ambivalent this year.
   The balance in the debate is likely to be tipped by the
current difficult negotiations to open Japan's market to U.S.
wood products, senior Bush administration aides say. Wood
products were one of three areas targeted last year when
President Bush first named Japan as an unfair trader under
the so-called Super 301 provision of the 1988 U.S. trade law.
Agreements have been reached to satisfy U.S. complaints about
Japanese trade barriers in the other two areas cited,
satellites and supercomputers.
   If the wood-product negotiations also produce a
significant agreement by Japan to lower trade barriers, even
the trade warriors in the Commerce Department may be
convinced that Japan doesn't deserve to be slapped again
under Super 301, one senior administration aide said.
   U.S. officials said in Tokyo they made "significant
progress" in the wood negotiations but hadn't reached an
agreement. The officials said chances are good an accord will
be reached before the end of the month. But because of the
uncertainty, administration officials say there won't be a
decision on whether to cite Japan again as an unfair trader
until just before the April 30 statutory deadline.
   Central to the administration debate is the question of
what tactical approachconstant pressure or rewarding good
behavior -- will best produce further opening of Japan's
markets. A long list of U.S. industries, notably
semiconductors and auto parts, are pushing for more Super 301
actions against Japan to open up markets in their areas. They
argue that only last year's pressure produced the progress
made so far, and they say only continued pressure will
produce more concessions.
   Those businesses have powerful allies in the Commerce
Department, the Trade Representative's Office and among
Republicans on Capitol Hill. "I've never seen the mood of
Congress as frustrated and as impatient as it is today," says
Sen. John Heinz, a Pennsylvania Republican active on trade
issues. "My belief is that it would be very poorly received
in Congress if the administration were to blink" and not cite
Japan again as an unfair trader.
   But a growing segment of the administration argues that
citing Japan again might halt progress and imperil Prime
Minister Kaifu, seen by some Bush aides as a champion of
reforming Japan's trade practices.
   Mr. Kaifu, whose base within Japan's ruling party isn't
very wide or strong, has staked much of his political future
on improving trade relations with the U.S. and he has taken
intense political heat at home for making trade concessions
in the past few weeks. If Mr. Kaifu's only reward for
championing change is to be slapped again by the U.S., some
administration aides argue, he will lose credibility inside
Japan.
   President Bush, who hosted the prime minister at a dinner
in Palm Springs this year and grilled him about the need for
change in Japan's ways, is grateful for the political courage
Mr. Kaifu has shown so far and would like to reward him,
White House officials say. But Mr. Bush also hears the
political rumblings at home that say it's too soon to ease
the pressure. "We're not completely home free yet," says Sen.
Max Baucus of Montana, a leading Democratic hawk on trade.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Novell Holders Sue
   To Prevent Takeover
   By Lotus Development
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL LOTS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Lotus Development Corp. said
shareholders of Novell Inc. filed a lawsuit seeking to block
Lotus's proposed takeover of Novell.
   Lotus, a computer software maker, said the investors
charged that Novell's directors breached their fiduciary duty
to Novell shareholders in reaching the agreement, suggesting
the price was inadequate. Lotus is offering 41.6 million of
its shares, with a curent market value of about $1.38
billion, for Novell, a network software maker based in Provo,
Utah.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The shareholders claimed the suit, filed in Delaware
chancery court, qualifies as a class action on behalf of all
Novell holders. Lotus and Novell issued a statement saying
they believe the suit to be without merit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Latin Americans Are Keeping Lots of Cash Abroad,
   Fearful That Governments Will Seize Their Funds
   ---
   Bank Accounts Are Risky
   As Nations Wage Battle
   To Bring Inflation Down
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   RIO DE JANEIRO (AP) -- Locked in battle with inflation,
several Latin American governments unwittingly have struck
fear in the hearts of investors by seizing their accounts.
   Putting money in a Latin American bank is exciting but
risky business. Returns can be terrific: Recently, in Brazil,
a money-market fund was paying 105% a month. But a risk is
that the government might seize the account.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is why Latin Americans have more than an estimated
$200 billion in private money reportedly stashed away in
Switzerland, the Bahamas, Miami and other places.
   Latin American leaders have appealed to citizens to bring
their cash home. But recent government actions in this region
indicate there will be few takers.
   The latest Latin American financial "earthquake," as one
newspaper termed it, occurred in Brazil in March. President
Fernando Collor de Mello, on his first full day in office,
froze $115 billion of individual and corporate checking,
savings and money-market accounts and bank certificates of
deposit.
   Mr. Collor de Mello said the drastic "liquidity
reduction," approved by the Brazilian congress last week ,
was needed to reduce the nation's annual inflation rate of
over 4,850%.
   The government permitted withdrawals of just $1,200 for
checking and savings accounts. Those with money in mutual
funds, money-market accounts and CDs could draw only $600, or
20% of their balance, whichever was greater.
   The government promised to pay the rest back in 18 months,
with interest.
   The Brazilian leader said he was after "big speculators."
But the draconian measures in fact snared millions of
middle-class savers who saw their dreams of new cars or
down-payments on apartments suddenly put on hold.
   Carlos Geraldo Langoni, a former president of the
Brazilian central bank, said, "There's no doubt that the
measures seriously affected people's confidence in the local
savings and banking system. They furthered the belief that
for Latin Americans, the only real financial protection is
the U.S. dollar or some other strong currency."
   Clarice Pechman, a Brazilian foreign-exchange analyst,
estimates Brazilians have more than $40 billion outside the
country.
   "On the other hand," Mr. Langoni said in an interview
here, where he now is a private consultant, "Brazil couldn't
go on with four-digit inflation." He said, "If the new
economic plan meets with total success, maybe it will erase
the trauma."
   Argentina, Mexico, Chile and Bolivia also have decreed
"economic plans" that left ordinary savers stranded and
distraught. This has largely stymied government efforts to
get local investors to bring their money back from abroad.
   In January, Argentina, facing a monthly inflation rate of
600%, seized about $1.5 billion of seven-day, high-interest
bank CDs and converted them into 10-year government bonds.
   Argentines who don't want to wait until the year 2000 to
get their money back can sell off the bonds for cash. But
they get only about 30% of the original value.
   "They robbed me," said Raul Tucci, the owner of a small
Buenos Aires furniture factory, as he stood in line at a bank
that was handing out free cups of coffee to customers
agonizing over their frozen CDs.
   "I owe money for wood I bought. I can't pay it. I have to
close the factory and lay off my 50 workers. Who wants
coffee? I want my money."
   Mexico, in 1982, snatched some $10 billion in U.S. dollar
accounts in local banks, forcibly converted them into pesos,
and then devalued the peso by 30%. Savers lost $3 billion.
   Many Mexicans learned, the hard way, it wasn't safe to
keep their money at home. Those near the border quickly
opened accounts on the U.S. side or invested in real estate
in Texas.
   Unofficial estimates say Mexicans have $100 billion
outside the country.
   Recently, however, under the new, free market-oriented
president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, about $2.5 billion to
$3.5 billion in so-called "flight capital" has returned to
Mexico. Peso bank accounts now pay 20% in interest a year --
above the inflation rate.
   Bolivia in the 1980s tried to "undollarize" its economy.
It seized formerly legal U.S.-dollar accounts and turned the
balances into bolivianos, the local currency.
   The government claimed that at the official exchange rate,
nobody lost anything. But out on the street, bolivianos
supposedly worth a dollar fetched only 10 cents. The result
was a rush to deposit in safer currencies overseas.
   An exception to Latin American banking instability is
Uruguay. There, Swiss-style bank-secrecy laws are in effect.
   Of the estimated $60 billion in Argentine funds held
outside the country, some $2 billion is thought to be in
neighboring Uruguay.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ARGENTINA faced a monthly inflation rate of 71% in
January. Because of an error by the Associated Press, the
percentage figure was misstated in an earlier article about
Latin American countries struggling with inflation.
   (WSJ April 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mexican Unemployment Drops
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM
</CO>
<LP>
   MEXICO CITY -- Unemployment in Mexico declined in 1989,
the government news agency Notimex said.
   Open unemployment dropped to 2.4% for the first 11 months
of 1989, half a point below the December 1988 level, the
agency said, citing a Budget and Planning Department report.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The figure is considered conservative. Private economists
estimate combined unemployment and underemployment at around
40%.
   The biggest declines in joblessness were in the northern
cities of Monterrey and Torreon, along with Mexico City,
Merida, Orizaba and Puebla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Wholesale Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's wholesale prices in March jumped 0.7%
from the previous month and 3.9% from a year earlier, the
Bank of Japan said.
   The month-to-month increase was the largest since a 0.7%
rise in June 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Bank of Japan official attributed the steep increase to
the weak yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Producer Prices
   Declined 0.2%
   During March
   ---
   Food and Energy Costs Fell,
   Helping Bring Inflation
   Back to Moderate Range
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Food and energy prices continue to fall back
after their steep climbs of early this year, bringing
inflation back into a moderate range, new government price
statistics indicate.
   Producer prices dropped 0.2% in March, after showing no
change in February and soaring 1.8% in January, the Labor
Department reported Friday. After two months of sharp
increases, food prices slipped 0.6% last month. Energy prices
slid 2.4%, following a 5% plunge in February.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In late December, a bitter cold wave chilled much of the
nation, wiping out crops, sopping up energy supplies and
consequently sending food and energy prices soaring. The
latest price statistics "show that the unusual rise of prices
in January was, as we predicted, an aberration," said Richard
Rahn, chief economist at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce here.
   For the most part, analysts were relieved by the new price
figures. Dirk Van Dongen, president of the National
Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, whose members buy
goods from producers, said the report "gives us another
strong signal that inflationary pressures remain in check in
the economy."
   Excluding food and energy prices --  an approach many
economists believe better indicates price pressures in the
economy because those categories are highly volatile -- the
department's producer price index for finished goods rose a
moderate 0.3% in March.
   For the past year, overall producer price inflation has
been running at 4.4%, the department said.
   But some economists warned against becoming too complacent
about inflation. "I know there are a lot of forecasters out
there who think inflation isn't a problem, and when they see
these numbers they'll say they show it isn't a problem. But
we think it is," said Michael Penzer, senior economist at
Bank of America in San Francisco.
   The producer price index measures the prices factories and
other producers receive for their goods. "It doesn't include
services," Mr. Penzer said. "I think there is a problem on
the service side, especially because wages and benefits are
rising substantially."
   This week, the government will release its monthly report
on consumer prices. It covers the cost of services, as well
as goods, at the retail level.
   Many analysts expect inflation to moderate after the spike
at the beginning of the year. The Federal Reserve has been
battling inflation by maintaining high interest rates for a
couple of years now. The economy has slowed substantially as
a result of the central bank campaign, and some people have
begun to worry that the economy would have to fall into
recession in order to make further progress against
inflation.
   A Commerce Department report released Friday indicates
that recession isn't in the picture at the moment. The
department said business inventories shrank 0.4% in February,
while sales jumped 1.3%.
   A pile-up of inventories can set off a chain reaction that
leads to recession by prompting businesses to cut back on
orders, and factories to slow production, to rid their back
lots of excess stock. But there was no sign of that in
February. According to the Commerce Department report, it
would have taken only 1.48 months to sell off inventories,
compared with 1.51 months in January.
   In other good inflation news, the producer price index for
intermediate goods, materials with some processing, showed no
change in March after falling 0.7% the month before. The
index for crude goods tumbled 1.4% after growing 0.4% in
February.
   In addition to the drops in finished food and energy
prices, prices of women's clothing, passenger cars and
household flatware also fell. Gasoline prices slipped 2.8% on
top of a 2.3% decline the month before.
   Prices of men's and boys' clothing edged up. And one
exception to the general decline in energy prices was the
price of fuel oil, which jumped 10.6% after plummeting 30.2%
in February.
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Commerce Department's report on
business inventories and sales in February. The figures are
in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted:
                                                                                                       

                    (billions of dollars)
                                                                                                       

                                 Feb.     Jan.     Feb.
                                 1990     1990     1989
                                                                                                       

 Total business inventories .... 794.60   797.52   765.01
 Manufacturers ................. 373.91   374.44   359.06
 Retailers ..................... 231.67   233.70   224.02
 Wholesalers ................... 189.03   189.38   181.94

 Inventory/sales ratio .........   1.48     1.51     1.49
                                                                                                       

                     PRODUCER PRICES
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Labor Department's producer price indexes
(1982=100) for March, before seasonal adjustment, and the
percentage changes from March, 1989.
                                                                                                       

    Finished goods ....................   117.0   4.4%
       Minus food &amp; energy ............   125.3   3.8%
    Intermediate goods ................   112.4   0.8%
    Crude goods .......................   105.6   2.3%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Wall Street Pits Xoma and Centocor
   In Race to Market Septic Shock Drug
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C4
</SO>
<CO>
   XOMA CNTO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For some stock traders, the competition
between Xoma Corp. and Centocor Corp. is a story of mice and
men.
   Wall Street has pitted the two biotechnology companies
against each other in a highly publicized race to market
genetically engineered antibodies used to treat septic shock
syndrome, the sometimes deadly onslaught of infections that
can follow abdominal wounds, surgery and contamination of
catheters. Now treated with antibiotics, such infections are
estimated to strike 220,000 U.S. patients a year, killing
about 80,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Xoma's drug is derived from mice. Centocor's is made from
human antibodies, which, according to some investors, will
give Centocor a distinct advantage when it comes to selling
the products. Xoma's detractors also claim that Centocor's
drug is more effective in later, deadlier stages of the
ailment, though complete results of studies supporting those
claims won't be released until May 5.
   Of the two companies, Xoma offers investors the best
potential, says Montgomery Securities analyst Denise M.
Gilbert. The analyst recently advised investors to buy Xoma
shares, even though in the long run she thinks that Centocor
will edge out Xoma in sales of septic shock drugs. There's
room for two companies in the market, she says, and there's
little downside risk for Xoma shareholders.
   The growing drumbeat from Centocor's fans has hurt the
shares of Xoma, which is based in Berkeley, Calif.
   Xoma's stock has dropped 27% from a high of 26 1/2 to
Thursday's close of 19 1/4, since early January. That's when
Centocor executives first told securities analysts at a
Hambrecht &amp; Quist conference in San Francisco that results of
clinical trials of Centoxin, the drug it is developing in
competition with Xoma's Xomen-E5, were "very favorable." At
the same time, Centocor's shares have climbed 22% from 25 7/8
to Thursday's close of 31 1/2.
   Simultaneously, the number of Xoma shares sold short has
more than doubled to 1.9 million in mid-March, or about 14%
of the company's total outstanding, from 890,000 in
mid-December. Short-sellers are investors who sell borrowed
shares in the expectation of being able to replace them later
at a lower price. Xoma's chairman and chief executive
officer, Steven C. Mendell, explains that part of the short
selling may have been done by arbitragers who own one or both
of the company's two convertible debenture issues.
   Even though short selling often brings with it a whirlwind
of rumors, Mr. Mendell says he's not fazed. "I look at the
short situation as bullish," he says. As good news pushes up
a stock, he says, short sellers usually have to buy stock to
cover their positions.
   "I'm confident there will be positive news going forward,"
Mr. Mendell says. "We submitted a complete application to the
FDA and our feeling at this stage is that it can be approved
by the end of the year."
   Xoma's detractors aren't so sure. One short seller, who
declines to be identified, claims that a Stanford University
physician familiar with studies of Xoma's drug is convinced
that the Food and Drug Administration won't approve the drug
until next year at the earliest. Xoma, however, says the
physician isn't involved in the studies of its drug. At any
rate, the physician failed to return two phone calls to
verify the opinions attributed to him.
   Speculation about when, or if, Xoma will get approval for
its drug isn't the only uncertainty chasing the stock.
Centocor has raised questions about which drug is more
effective in cutting the death rate during the later stages
of septic shock syndrome. Some Centocor holders say they
think the scientific world will prefer human-based antibodies
rather than antibodies derived from mice.
   That isn't so clear at this point, says George Farrington,
a senior consultant with Wilkerson Group, a health care
management company. Mr. Farrington explains that the use of
antibodies derived from mice becomes risky if used over a
period of time, as previous studies have shown that the human
body rejects mouse monoclonal antibodies if used repeatedly.
But short-term doses such as the one or two over the course
of 24 hours that Xoma plans to use for the treatment of
septic shock syndrome haven't been shown to have a high rate
of rejection, he says.
   The competition between the two companies may boil down to
marketing muscle, according to Mr. Farrington. He says he
believes Xoma's six-month head start in submitting its
application to the FDA will guarantee approval before
Centocor. He notes that Xoma has a marketing agreement with
Pfizer Inc.'s Roerig unit, in which Pfizer gets 50% of the
Xomen E5-sales in exchange for putting its 750-member sales
force to work marketing the drug. On the other hand, he adds,
Centocor may be better able to home in on its market with a
small sales force dedicated solely to its own drug.
   Barry Feirstein, a money manager with Equitable Capital
Management Corp., a Xoma shareholder, says he's still betting
on Xoma because of its head start on Centocor. He says he
doesn't have anything against Centocor, but explains that his
fund can only invest in biotechnology companies that appear
to have products ready for market within 12 months.
Centocor's Centoxin, he estimates, probably won't be approved
until next year.
   Mr. Feirstein notes that Centocor plans to market Centoxin
itself. While that means Centocor will be able to reap all
the revenue from its Centoxin sales, it will mean heavy
initial start-up costs. He agrees with Roger Honour,
portfolio manager of Alliance Capital Management's $150
million technology fund, that the septic shock sydrome market
is big enough for both companies.
   Mr. Honour says he has been convinced by Montgomery's
analyst that Xoma is the better way to play this particular
biotechnology race. Under a worst-case scenario calculated by
the analyst, Xoma would get only 30% of an estimated $500
million market for the early and later stages of septic shock
syndrome. Even then, the stock would trade at $15 to $17 a
share in 12 months -- or about where it has been recently
trading, while Centocor's could trade as high as $40 to $44 a
share by her calculations.
   But under the analyst's best-case scenario, with the
companies splitting the market evenly between them, Xoma's
shares could trade as high as $37 to $38 a share a year from
now, while Centocor's could fall to $25 to $30 a share. That,
she says, even allows for the chance that both companies
won't get FDA approval until next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   U.S. Appeals Court Says Bias Suits
   Over Age May Go Beyond States
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Giving more clout to workers who allege age
discrimination, a U.S. appeals court said such complaints can
be taken to federal court even if a state agency rules that
no discrimination occurred.
   Other federal appeals courts have ruled both ways on the
issue. But because the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals
in New York is considered more influential on labor issues,
its decision is likely to guide judges in similar cases
around the country unless the decision is appealed further,
attorneys said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The appeals court reversed a lower-court ruling that had
barred a former vice president at Astoria Federal Savings &amp;
Loan from suing. The district judge had ruled that because
the New York State Division of Human Rights had rejected the
discrimination claim, the matter couldn't be brought to
federal court.
   Age-discrimination attorneys said that if the lower-court
decision had been allowed to stand, workers would have
avoided decisions on their cases by the state agencies, where
many age-discrimination cases currently are resolved.
   Federal law requires that if a state has its own
age-discrimination law, a worker must at least begin the
state proceedings before suing in federal court; the federal
suit can't be filed until 60 days after the state proceedings
begin, unless they are terminated earlier. Under the
lower-court decision, anyone who let a state agency decide an
age-discrimination case would be risking the right to pursue
the case later in federal court, said Lamont White, an
attorney with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission.
   The EEOC and the American Association of Retired Persons
filed friend-of-the-court briefs in support of the former
Astoria Federal employee, Angelo Solimino.
   In order to pursue a federal suit "you'd have to get out
of the state process as quickly as you could," said Cathy
Ventrell-Monsees, an attorney with the AARP.
   The appeals court agreed that it would be unfair to bar an
employee from suing in federal court just because a state
agency didn't find probable cause for a discrimination case.
The court said the federal age-discrimination law wasn't
meant to allow state agency's fact-finding decisions to stand
without judicial review.
   Anthony Atlas, an attorney for Astoria Federal, said no
decision has been made on whether to appeal. Leonard Flamm,
an attorney for Mr. Solimino, couldn't be reached for
comment.
   ---
   WOMEN LOSE BIG as a result of bias in the justice system,
a new Florida study shows.
   The extensive 2 1/2-year study ordered by the state's
Supreme Court showed that bias against women is "pervasive"
in the state's legal system. "People misunderstand gender
bias as the `sweetie and honey syndrome' -- that it's judges
calling women these names in court," says Florida Supreme
Court Justice Gerald Kogan, chairman of the commission.
"That's only a minute part of the problem."
   He said "a great majority" of the findings reflect a
national problem. Florida is the ninth state to issue a
report on the issue, and 21 other states are in the process
of analyzing gender bias in the courts, according to Lynn
Hecht Schafran, a New York attorney who was an adviser on the
project. " The overall pattern of systemic bias is repeated
from state to state," she says.
   The commission found, among other things, that:
   -- In divorces, men typically keep more than half of the
marital assets and walk away from a marriage with "an
enhanced earning capacity," but women and children are
economically harmed.
   -- Women serve more time in prison than men do for the
same crimes and have fewer innovative programs and facilities
at their disposal.
   -- Female lawyers are treated as inferiors by many lawyers
and judges in the courtroom.
   The commission is composed of lawyers, judges and a
trustee. In its 239-page report, it suggests that female
lawyers in Florida have a lot to be unhappy about. They are
short-changed on judgeships. As prosecutors, they make less
money than male counterparts and they are often assigned to
less important cases. Opposing male attorneys interrupt their
court presentations more frequently than they do other male
attorneys. Judges as women to prove their credentials.
   Many women can't afford adequate counsel in divorce cases,
the study found, and judges tend to minimize homemakers'
contributions. They also wrongly believe that middle-age
women with little job experience will quickly enter the work
force and therefore need little alimony.
   The commission found that longstanding beliefs persist
among many in the criminal justice system that domestic
violence against women is acceptable. Police are hesitant to
arrest offenders and prosecutors are reluctant to press
charges. Often, the victim is blamed, the commission's report
said.
   Male convicts are released from prison sooner than women
because of overcrowding. Women are prosecuted for
prostitution, but seldom are the men who sell and buy their
services, the report said.
   The commission recommended legislation and remedies, such
as the re-education of judges and lawyers and more emphasis
in law schools on studying such bias. It also calls for pay
equity in state court jobs.
   Other proposals call for a community-property law for the
state and allowing credit-card payments of child support.
   ---
   RIGHTS GROUP SUES INS over privately operated detention
center.
   The Lawyers Committee for Human Rights asked a federal
judge to force the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
turn over documents about a facility operated by Wackenhut
Corp. The committee claims the rights of people seeking
political asylum in the U.S. are being deprived at the
center. In the suit, which doesn't name Wackenhut as a
defendant, the committee said it needs the documents to
determine if standards set for the center are being met.
   Arthur Helton, director of the committee's refugee
project, said the center in Queens, N.Y., is mainly used to
detain people from Afghanistan, Sri Lanka and other countries
after they arrive at Kennedy International Airport. Mr.
Helton said the detainees are seeking political asylum
because they have been persecuted or tortured in their
countries.
   "Most of the cases ultimately win asylum, but most are
held in detention a year or two years before they win," he
said.
   Mr. Helton said conditions at the facility are inadequate
for people being held for long periods of time. He also said
that problems at the center, including its inconvenient
location, make it difficult for detainees to get legal
representation. He said the facility lacks outdoor exercise
facilities, language programs, and medical personnel who can
speak the detainees' languages.
   A spokesman for the INS said the Wackenhut center "is a
safe facility where humane treatment is the rule." He said
efforts are being made to make it easier for the detainees to
contact attorney.s
   ---
   THREE PARTNERS for banking and finance joined Paul,
Hastings, Janofsy &amp; Walker's New York office. Euclid Irving,
Marguerite Kahn and Brian Pusch, formerly partners at the New
York law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander &amp; Ferdon,
joined the 400-lawyer, Los Angeles-based law firm effective
April 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   LOTUS DEVELOPMENT Corp., Novell Inc. and WordPerfect Inc.
will assist one another in answering questions from
customers, but the service operations of each software
company will remain independent. In last Tuesday's edition
such efforts were described incorrectly.
   (See: "Technology: WordPerfect, Novell, Lotus to Combine
Customer Services" -- WSJ April 10, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FAA Is Set Back
   On Imposing Fines
   Over Safety Rules
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6H
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A federal appeals court barred the Federal
Aviation Administration from imposing civil fines of $50,000
or less on airlines for safety violations without first going
to court.
   A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the FAA improperly
adopted rules to establish the safety enforcement program
that was authorized by Congress as an experiment in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gregory Walden, chief counsel of the FAA, called the
decision "a setback" to agency enforcement efforts. "I
consider it significant," he said.
   Mr. Walden said that since the FAA adopted rules for the
enforcement program in September 1988, penalties have been
imposed in 1,800 cases, while another 3,800 cases have been
initiated. He said the ruling "may wreak havoc on the system"
if airlines or their employees try to reopen cases in which
penalties already have been imposed.
   The 1987 law increased to $10,000 from $1,000 the maximum
civil fine for each airline safety violation; as an
experiment, Congress said that for violations cumulatively
totaling less than $50,000, the FAA could impose the
penalties directly, without following the usual course of
referring the agency's complaints to U.S. attorneys' offices
to file suit in court. For fines of more than $50,000, the
FAA must still refer the cases to a U.S. attorney.
   But in a lawsuit filed by the major airlines' trade group,
the Air Transport Association of America, the appeals court
said the FAA improperly adopted rules to implement the
experiment. The appeals court said the agency failed to give
public notice of the proposed rules or to allow a period of
public comment.
   The Air Transport Association also argued that the
procedures adopted by the FAA are unfair, but the appeals
court didn't take a position on that issue. The decision,
written by Judge Harry Edwards, also didn't state whether
completed cases may be reopened to object to adoption of the
rules, meaning that issue will have to be tested in other
lawsuits.
   Judge Laurence Silberman dissented, saying the FAA rules
are "procedural" in nature and, therefore, may be adopted by
an agency without public notice and comment.
   The FAA's Mr. Walden said that of the 5,600 cases
initiated to date, 3,640 involved security violations by the
airlines or their employees. Many of these are cases in which
the FAA sends test objects, such as mock guns, through
airline security checkpoints to see whether detection devices
spot them.
   Other types of cases that the FAA has handled through the
enforcement program involve safety-related maintenance and
operational violations. The program generally doesn't apply
to cases in which safety violations may have caused or
contributed to causes of plane crashes; these cases are
handled by the National Transportation Safety Board and
probably involve fines of more than $50,000.
   Mr. Walden was unsure whether the FAA will now issue new
rules or whether it will appeal, either to the full 10-member
appeals court or to the Supreme Court.
   Meanwhile, Michael Sundermeyer, a Washington lawyer who
represented the Air Transport Association, said the
experimental enforcement program is due to expire on April
30, unless Congress extends it. The court ruling, he said,
may help dissuade Congress from extending the program. "The
consensus in the aviation community is that it has been
unfairly implemented," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   Verit's Leaders Play Financial Angel Role
   ---
   But Aid Candidates May
   Want to Check Out Halos
   ----
   By Jeff Rowe and Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   VER ATCX
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- The two European businessmen who head
Verit Industries, Malcolm Stockdale and John Carway, are
presenting themselves as financial angels to small, publicly
traded companies in need. But candidates for help might be
wondering whether their benefactors are all that angelic.
   Consider, for example, that Mr. Carway has a criminal
record in both Ireland and England, that a Verit auditor
dropped the account last year, challenging numerous Verit
practices, and that Messrs. Stockdale and Carway's
acquisitions are bewilderingly complex arrangements,
sometimes involving companies in the British Isle of Man tax
haven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consider too that one small shareholder claims to be
trying to get a federal investigation started into what he
alleges is a stock manipulation effort by the pair, designed
to siphon off the assets of companies they acquire.
   Nonsense, Mr. Carway says of the last issue. He says the
holder, Mark Anderson, a Los Angeles real estate developer,
made up the claims and used them in an attempt to extort
$500,000 from Verit. Mr. Anderson denies the allegation. No
suits have been filed.
   As for the criminal record, Mr. Carway disclosed it in
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission when he
acquired a 38% interest in Verit and became its president
last November. The 44-year-old Irishman claims he was a
victim of circumstances in both cases. He was given two
separate, one-year suspended sentences in 1985 after pleading
guilty to check fraud and to marijuana possession. The
bad-check conviction, he says, resulted from a 1978 Irish
bank strike that left him unaware of an incoming check that
had bounced. He says he has never used marijuana, but merely
was at a friend's London house during a raid.
   Several U.S. companies have jumped at the Stockdale-Carway
offers of help, including Iroquois Brands Ltd., Emerald Homes
Limited Partnership and Verit itself, which the two men have
begun using as an umbrella for all their acquisitions.
   The latest of the small, lightly traded public companies
to enter into a complicated transaction with Messrs.
Stockdale and Carway is American Toxxic Control Inc., based
in Whittier, Calif. Verit, which recently moved to Phoenix
from Sun Valley, Calif., announced last week that an
80%-owned Verit subsidiary had agreed in principle to merge
with American Toxxic in an exchange for stock of the Verit
unit. The unit, LaPointe Industries Inc., recently emerged
from the protection of Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code, reorganized as a shell company.
   Louis Purmort, American Toxxic's chairman and holder of
25% of its stock, says Verit has offered to help his company
restructure about $4 million of debt and gain a listing on
the American Stock Exchange. Verit will end up holding about
50% of the stock of a new American Toxxic, after the merged
concern changes its name back from LaPointe.
   "We'd been searching for somebody that had enough money to
help us with our acquisition program," Mr. Purmort says.
American Toxxic does about $25 million of business annually
treating industrial wastes. He says he was told of Mr.
Carway's record but isn't troubled, because he has been
impressed by the business accomplishments of Messrs.
Stockdale and Carway for more than a year.
   Mr. Carway says that until last November, his record kept
him in the shadows in his relationship with Mr. Stockdale.
Mr. Carway acquired Paradene Ltd., the Isle of Man company
that had controlled Verit for a year, because he says he "was
just tired of all this bloody flak" about the 1985
convictions, and asked himself, "Why should I have to hide
behind the door?" Recent Verit filings show he already had
been operating Wellsdene Ltd., an Isle of Man company that
Verit paid $320,000 for consulting work and, Verit's auditors
say, had agreed to be paid $1 million more.
   Mr. Carway says the Verit plan has been to acquire
companies in the construction, real estate and
waste-treatment industries and develop their operations.
   It was through Mr. Stockdale, Verit's 45-year-old chairman
and chief executive officer, that Verit gained control of
Iroquois from two other Isle of Man companies this year. Mr.
Stockdale is listed as "consultant and investment adviser" to
Hybrid Investments Ltd. and Meryl Investments Ltd., which
sold Verit their combined 35% stake.
   Mr. Stockdale, whose background is in the British mining
and construction industries, bought a majority interest in
Iroquois in 1988 from then Chairman Terence Fox, who had had
highly publicized problems related to charges of cocaine
possession, which eventually were dropped. Mr. Stockdale sold
Iroquois's pharmaceutical and vitamin businesses and merged
the company with Bio International Inc., a Utah shell he had
used to make all-stock acquisitions of some European concerns
involved in mining and construction equipment. Hybrid and
Meryl, which had sold Bio some of the operations, thus ended
up with Iroquois stock in the merger.
   "It's quite confusing," concedes Mr. Carway, who began his
career selling advertising in Europe. His principal residence
is a 400-year-old estate in County Clare, Ireland, but he has
been living lately in Phoenix.
   Questions of financial disclosure involving the tangle of
corporate entities resulted in a split between Verit and
Touche Ross &amp; Co., which quit the account days after Messrs.
Carway and Stockdale were named top officers. In its SEC
filing at the time, Verit said it hadn't disagreed with its
auditors, now part of Deloitte &amp; Touche. But in a three-page
letter to the SEC, Deloitte took issue with the Verit filing,
specifically questioning what it said could be inadequate
disclosure of consulting fees to pay Mr. Carway's Wellsdene,
and possible miscalculations on Verit's balance sheet.
   Verit, which says the SEC is studying the auditor dispute,
claimed in a later filing that it hadn't done anything wrong
and that there was a "personality conflict" with the auditor.
The SEC won't comment.
   The European activities of Messrs. Carway and Stockdale,
notably at the English conglomerate Eagle Trust PLC, were no
less complex and contentious. Last May, Mr. Stockdale's
Iroquois agreed to buy 13.1% of Eagle for $34.3 million. Mr.
Carway claims Iroquois backed out a few weeks later when it
found "materially false" representations in Eagle's books.
Legal actions filed in Britain allege that Mr. Stockdale, who
briefly was Eagle chairman, reneged on the deal.
   After taking control of Verit late last year, Messrs.
Carway and Stockdale soon entered the battered Arizona real
estate market through Emerald, Mr. Carway says, because "We
think we can get financing and build up the company." He says
other acquisitions are planned.
   So far, Verit has grown by issuing huge amounts of
convertible preferred. For example, it announced plans last
month to issue preferred that converts into 6.6 million
common shares in exchange for Emerald's California and Texas
divisions. Verit has 759,853 common shares outstanding. In
American Stock Exchange composite trading Thursday, Verit
shares closed at $3.625, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Decline in Quiet Trading
   As Index-Related Sales Depress Shares
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks ended broadly lower in thin trading Friday,
brought down mostly by index-related sales and a lack of any
news to encourage buying support, traders said.
   Stock exchanges in London and most other leading markets
were closed for the Good Friday holiday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was down
409.28 points at 29,213.92. The index added 182.92 points
Thursday.
   The Nikkei index finished the morning session Monday down
637.12 points at 28576.80 points.
   Most participants stayed out of the market ahead of the
weekend and because most overseas markets were closed for the
holiday, traders said. Friday's First Section volume was
estimated at 320 million shares, down from 430 million
Thursday.
   Declining issues clearly outnumbered advancing issues, 672
to 263, while 168 remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index (Topix) of all issues listed
in the First Section, which fell 1.96 points Thursday, fell
17.45 points, or 0.80%, to 2165.89.
   The Second Section index, which added 10.23 points
Thursday, outperformed the Nikkei and Topix indexes to close
at 3553.25, up 9.40 points, or 0.27%.
   "It's interesting that these smaller-cap shares continue
to do well," said a Japanese equity trader at a foreign
investment bank. "It reflects that several of these selected
issues were oversold," he added.
   Volume in the Second Section was estimated at 11 million
shares, up from 10 million Thursday.
   "Much of the decline was caused by index-related sales,"
said Liam Newberg, a market analyst at Merrill Lynch Japan
Inc.
   Many investors sought to drive up futures prices through
index-linked buying Thursday, the last trading day for April
options accounts. As a result, Friday's activity was
characterized by an unwinding of these positions through
index-linked selling, traders said.
   Participants "were a little alarmed" by the weaker yen and
a softer Japanese government bond market, Mr. Newberg said,
but he added that Friday's decline can largely be attributed
to holiday sentiment, rather than to bearish fundamentals.
   "No one wants to take a large position with the holiday
and the weekend," he said. Because there wasn't any fresh
news surrounding the dollar's continued gains against the
yen, the equity market didn't react to the Japanese
currency's weakness, Mr. Newberg said.
   The dollar closed in Tokyo at 158.45, above the 158.00 yen
in New York late Thursday and 158.00 yen in Tokyo Thursday.
   But one trader stressed that "the currency is still a
concern. . . and WPI {wholesale price index} data released
today indicate that inflation continues to be a problem."
   The Bank of Japan announced Friday that wholesale prices
jumped 0.7% in March from February, the largest increase
since a 0.7% rise in June 1989, and climbed 3.9% from a year
earlier. In February, overall wholesale prices edged up 0.1%
month-on-month for the third month in a row, while rising
3.5% from a year earlier.
   A Bank of Japan official attributed the steep rise in
overall wholesale prices in March to the effect of the yen's
weakness in foreign exchange markets on import and export
prices during the month.
   Individual companies' performances varied widely within
the sectors, emphasizing the lack of a solid trend and a
search for value Friday.
   A local financial daily's article Friday saying that
Japanese sausage and meat packers are in negotiations to
raise prices between 12% and 14% in May sparked buying in
several food company stocks in the morning, but the shares
ended mixed on the day.
   Nippon Meat slipped 40 yen (25 cents) to 1,660 yen
($10.50) and Marudai Food fell 10 yen to 1,120, while Nissin
Food gained 50 to 3,050.
   In addition, Toray Industries said Friday that one of its
advanced carbon-reinforced plastic products has been approved
by Boeing Co. for use in the primary structure of its
aircraft. The company's stock gained 22 to 788.
   Pharmaceuticals were mostly lower, except for Dainippon,
which gained 50 to 2,590, and Fuso, which surged 150 to
1,600.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Milan and lower
in Taipei and Seoul.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                               Apr 12    Apr 11      Year
                                                                                                       


   Britain ..................   659.9     657.6    -  8.5
   Canada ...................   389.9     390.4    -  9.8
   Japan ....................  1240.3    1241.0    - 25.1
   France ...................   587.8     584.7    +  3.7
   Germany ..................   306.3     303.3    +  7.4
   Hong Kong ................  2225.6    2212.7    +  6.1
   Switzerland ..............   205.0     204.3    -  7.1
   Australia ................   301.3     302.6    -  9.0
   World index ..............   487.9     486.04   - 14.0
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Rush to Endorse `Environmental' Goods
   Sparks Worry About Shopper Confusion
   ----
   By Randolph B. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Myriad groups are volunteering to bless certain products
with environmental seals of approval. But their altruistic
gestures toward the Earth may only muddy up the issue.
   A hodgepodge of federal, state and private
product-labeling initiatives promise to point consumers
toward goods that are recycled, recyclable, less polluting or
less wasteful. Proponents of such product endorsements,
similar to the Good Housekeeping Seal, say labels would
motivate consumers to make better choices and thereby
pressure industry to make fundamental changes in product and
packaging design.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But others fear too many labels could frustrate consumers,
and thus frustrate the environmental effort. "We will defeat
the whole purpose if we confuse consumers with so many
conflicting labels," says Jeanne Wirka, an analyst with the
Environmental Action Foundation, a Washington-based advocacy
group.
   The labeling idea is also a controversial one because one
person's notion of "environmentally sound" may not match
another's. An environmental label could leave itself open to
claims that it is unfair or misleading. The American Heart
Association ran into such a problem recently with its
ill-fated attempt at food labeling, a program that was
canceled almost as soon as it was announced.
   Government officials and some environmentalists are
concerned that private seal programs, such as one announced
last Friday by four grocery-store chains, may be rushing to
cash in on Earth Day-related publicity. "The public shouldn't
be misled into thinking that a green seal is going to
eliminate confusion," says Barry J. Cutler, director of the
Federal Trade Commission's bureau of consumer protection.
   Environmental labeling projects are plowing ahead,
nonetheless. Green Seal Inc., a private, nonprofit group
headed by Earth Day organizer Denis Hayes, hopes to launch a
national environmental-labeling program later this year. Mr.
Hayes says an independent board of scientists would set
standards and award seals to products causing "significantly"
less damage during manufacture, use and disposal.
Participation would be voluntary, with manufacturers paying
fees to wear the seal and have products tested by independent
laboratories.
   Simultaneously, Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D., N.J.) has
drafted legislation that would make the Environmental
Protection Agency review products and award a federal seal.
EPA officials, meanwhile, say they may include a separate
labeling initiative in proposed pollution-prevention
legislation.
   At the state level, two groups are working to establish
package-labeling regulations this year for adoption by 10
Northeast states, from Maine to Delaware. The Coalition of
Northeastern Governors and the Northeast Recycling Council
are drafting standards for labeling packaging, and possibly
products, as recyclable, reusable, recycled or
waste-reducing.
   Not waiting for others, some retail chains, such as
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Loblaw Cos., have adopted their own
environmental labeling.
   Jumping on the bandwagon last week were four Western
supermarket chains, which together announced a Green Cross
labeling program. The supermarkets, including Ralphs Grocery
Co., a California chain, say strict standards developed by a
private consultant will help promote recycling and reduce
confusion over misleading claims. Products and packaging will
have to contain at least 50% recycled consumer waste to
receive recycling seals, for instance. To win a Green Cross
environmental seal, products must fulfill recycling
requirements and the manufacturing process must not emit any
known carcinogens or chemicals causing birth defects, or
violate pollution laws.
   Some help in sorting through the labeling mess may come
within two to three months: The Federal Trade Commission and
an eight-state task force are expected to develop uniform
labeling guidelines as part of a continuing investigation of
manufacturers' environmental claims. Such guidelines would
help to clean up "a proliferation of different seals and
labels," says New York Attorney General Robert Abrams. The
threat of FTC action recently prompted Mobil Corp. to
announce that it will stop making "degradable" claims for its
Hefty trash bags. Other products are likely to follow suit.
   Although the guidelines will mostly help consumers choose
products that generate less waste when thrown out, they
probably won't address pollution caused by manufacture and
use. That's why Green Seal is proposing a complex
"cradle-to-grave" analysis of products. Industry critics,
however, say it would be difficult to make this
scientifically accurate without being impractical or
confusing. "We are extremely concerned that these
(seal-of-approval) programs could potentially make the
situation much worse," says Deborah D. Anderson,
environmental coordinator for Procter &amp; Gamble Co., the
Cincinnati-based consumer-products giant.
   Much is at stake if consumers reject products that don't
get seals. P&amp;G, which controls nearly half the $3.5 billion
U.S. market for disposable diapers, disputes Canada's recent
decision approving cloth diapers over disposables as "lacking
critical data," Ms. Anderson says.
   Inconsistency looms as the biggest potential problem, both
sides agree. If labeling among different agencies and
organizations conflicts, there is a danger that consumers
might ignore the labels or that manufacturers might refuse to
submit their products for approval in voluntary programs.
   In which direction to go is another issue. At the state
level alone there are disagreements over the best ways to
encourage recycling and waste-reduction. The Northeast states
are considering a proposal that would prohibit companies from
calling their packages "recyclable" unless the material was
actually being recycled at a rate of 50%. At current
recycling rates, only aluminum containers would qualify.
   Environmentalists say this high threshold would force
industry to rapidly expand collection and recycling programs
for glass, plastic and paper. But industry and some state
officials argue that a 50% standard would actually discourage
recycling because few products would qualify for labels that
would help consumers identify packaging that is recyclable.
New York state has proposed a 25% recycling standard as a
"reasonable compromise," says William Colden, chief of waste
reduction and recycling at New York's Department of
Environmental Conservation.
   The Northeast states are also considering a requirement
that any plastic packaging labeled "recycled" contain at
least 25% recycled material, including 15% from consumer
waste. Industry officials say that standard is too high and
would worsen a shortage of recycled plastic. "We can't get
enough now to meet our needs," says Tom Rattray, a packaging
official at P&amp;G.
   P&amp;G also worries that such rules might not recognize some
products it feels are deserving, such as the Downy
fabric-softener concentrate it is test marketing. Although it
isn't recyclable, the small carton cuts packaging waste 75%
because of its size, and therefore deserves a stamp of
approval, the company believes.
   William Ferretti, a New York state official who heads the
labeling initiative for the Coalition of Northeastern
Governors, says it's too early to predict the final
recommendations to the 10 states, but a labeling conference
will be held in June in hopes of reaching a consensus.
   "We want a national symbol, rather than each state having
its own labeling program," says Rod Lowman of the Council for
Solid Waste Solutions, which represents the packaging
industry.
   Although many environmentalists say government should
enforce minimum standards for package labeling and
advertising, some draw the line when it comes to approving
products with seals. Green Seal, for instance, says a private
program could approve products more rapidly and wouldn't be
subject to political pressures. Indeed, an Environmental
Protection Agency consultant recently recommended that a
labeling program be run by an independent organization, not
the EPA.
   To avoid delays, Green Seal says it might initially
endorse products whose benefits are undisputed, such as
recycled motor oil, toilet tissue made from 100% recycled
paper and super-efficient light bulbs, Mr. Hayes says. To
ensure credibility, the group won't accept industry funding
or allow anyone with vested interests to participate in
decisions. So far, directors of Green Seal have raised about
$120,000 toward a $700,000 first-year budget, Mr. Hayes says.
   EPA Deputy Administrator F. Henry Habicht says his
agency's main concern, likewise, is ensuring that criteria
for awarding seals are "reliable and objective." One option
is to have EPA provide funding and establish or review the
criteria, but leave decisions to an independent group, Mr.
Habicht says.
   ---
                Green Stamps of Approval
                                                                                                       

   Numerous groups and agencies are gearing up to offer
environmental seals. Here are three that already do:
                                                                                                       

 SPONSOR        TYPE         NUMBER OF PRODUCTS
                                                                                                       

 Blue Angel     West German  More than 3,100 products in 57
                Government   categories including
                             recyclables, returnables,
                             batteries, cars, water-saving
                             devices, low-waste hairsprays
                             and deodorants.
                                                                                                       

 Environmental  Canadian     Ten products in five
 Choice         Government   categories, including recycled
 (Est. 1988)                 motor oil, water-based paints,
                             products made from recycled
                             plastic, 50% recycled office
                             and copy papers.
                                                                                                       

 Wal-Mart       Wal-Mart     Signs in stores recommending
 (est. 1989,    Stores Inc., more than 100 products,
  1,400 stores  Bentonville, including detergents,
  in 28 states  Ark.         disposable diapers, cleaners,
                             packaging, fire logs, zippers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Windsor's Neff, Once Burned, Stands By His Stocks
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   John Neff has had some pretty lean years in his quarter
century as manager of the $8 billion Windsor Fund. But 1989
was the roughest year of all.
   "I was down 17 percentage points {relative to the
market}," notes the 58-year-old Mr. Neff, shaking his head in
disgust. "Never been down that much before."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Neff often sees value where others only see problems,
so he's often buying what the crowd is selling. But in 1989
he found himself wildly out of touch with the mood of the
market.
   "People were giving lip service to a soft landing {for the
economy}, but they weren't betting on it." he says. "That's
what killed us last year." Although he was up 15%, the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500 zoomed past him with a 31.6% total
return, which is price change plus dividends.
   After lagging behind the market so badly, many investors
might switch strategy. Not Mr. Neff. He's sticking with the
same strategy that has made him one of the country's
pre-eminent fund managers: buying stocks that trade at low
multiples of corporate earnings.
   For him, that currently means betting big-three quarters
of Windsor's portfolio -- on cyclical industries such as
autos and aluminum and on financial stocks like banks and
insurers.
   This year is likely to further test the mettle of Mr.
Neff, whose 20.7% annual return for Windsor's investors over
the past decade has comfortably beaten the 17.7% for the S&amp;P
500. With bond yields up, corporate earnings seemingly
stalled and leveraged buy-outs moribund, "the froth should be
off" the stock market, says Mr. Neff, who thinks a 15% or 20%
market drop is possible.
   Mr. Neff's dry spell began in January 1989, when Vanguard
Group reopened Windsor to new investors for five months. Some
$1.2 billion of new money poured in, flooding him with cash
just as the market was taking off. He entered 1989 with hefty
positions in the Big Three auto makers, International
Business Machines and Telefonica de Espana, all of which
trailed the market badly in 1989. Worse still was Bank of New
England, where problem loans have forced a halt in dividends
and pounded the shares to around $4, well below Windsor's $22
average cost.
   So far, 1990 hasn't been much kinder. Windsor lost 2.9% in
the first quarter, against a 2.3% loss for the average stock
fund. Recently, one of Mr. Neff's favorite thrifts, Golden
West Financial, was marked down 20% as indiscriminate selling
beat down the stocks of savings and loans.
   "We've been killed before," recalls Mr. Neff. Windsor
trailed the market badly in the early 1970s, as the
highflying "nifty 50" stocks zoomed and Mr. Neff's portfolio
plodded. Mr. Neff again lagged behind in 1980, as oil and
technology stocks soared.
   But 1989 was especially bad. The year's big stock market
winners were companies specializing in beverages, foods,
household products, telephones and medical drugs, the sort of
products that continue to sell even in a recession. "That
wasn't high-expectation type of merchandise," notes Mr. Neff.
Nonetheless, these companies, which make up almost a third of
the S&amp;P 500, were up 46% last year.
   Mr. Neff's portfolio, by contrast, has been heavily
weighted toward the auto makers, financial companies such as
insurers, banks and thrifts and cyclical commodity companies
such as Lyondell Petrochemical, Alcan Aluminium, Bethlehem
Steel and International Paper. In part, this reflects Mr.
Neff's belief that there will indeed be a "soft landing" for
the economy.
   But those sectors are also where Mr. Neff has found his
bargains with low price-earnings multiples, or P/Es. Mr.
Neff's portfolio now trades at six times his own estimates of
1990 earnings. He notes that his estimates are aggressive,
and says the consensus of Wall Street analysts would probably
put his portfolio at 7.5 times estimated 1990 earnings. But
either way, Mr. Neff's holdings are well below the S&amp;P 500's
14 times estimated 1990 earnings.
   Mr. Neff also looks for high dividend yields, and the
average yield on his holdings is currently 5.7%. In addition
to the dividends, Mr. Neff reckons his companies could see
earnings advance 9.9% this year, if his aggressive estimates
prove true.
   Even if Mr. Neff's stocks remain mired at their current
lowly P/Es and his estimates prove, say, two percentage
points too optimistic, his shareholders could still do very
nicely. A company that enjoys 8% earnings growth, but stays
stuck at the same P/E, would by definition see its stock
price advance 8%.
   That, plus the 5.7% yield, translates into a healthy 13.7%
annual return. But the big payoff comes if a company's
earnings growth garners attention from Wall Street analysts
and brokers, who then help shove up the stock price.
   Since the start of the year, Mr. Neff has lowered his cash
position. But he still has 16% of Windsor's assets in
intermediate-term government bonds, certificates of deposit
and the corporate IOUs known as commercial paper. Even as he
sits on a hunk of cash, Mr. Neff is still bullish on
individual stocks.
   Windsor's biggest position is Ford Motor, which earned
$9.06 a share last year (after nonrecurring items). Mr. Neff
estimates the company should earn between $8 and $9 a share
this year, despite a poor first quarter. He also thinks the
longer-term outlook for auto makers is anything but grim.
   "The Big Three have given up about eight percentage points
in market penetration {in cars} to the Japanese," notes Mr.
Neff. "In the same time, they've improved their penetration
in trucks by eight percentage points. So what, you say?
Trucks are growing a hell of a lot faster than cars."
   Mr. Neff has a hefty stake in Citicorp, the country's
biggest bank. He is much taken with the bank's consumer
banking business, particularly its credit card operation.
"They'll earn $3 a share this year on the consumer side," he
estimates. Mr. Neff reckons that Citicorp's consumer banking
business can grow at 15% to 20% a year, and is worth maybe 10
to 12 times its $3 earnings. If his match is right, Citicorp,
which closed last Thursday at 24 7/8, is trading for less
than the value of its consumer banking business.
   Overall, Mr. Neff thinks that Citicorp will earn between
$4 and $4.50 a share this year, if it's a bad year. ("It
looks like we'll have a bad year," he adds.)
   Among insurers, Mr. Neff is betting on Cigna, a big
multiline insurer. Cigna should benefit, he says, as rate
increases are applied to the commercial property and casualty
insurance policies coming up for renewal over the next 12
months.
   But what really piqued Mr. Neff's interest was the
turnaround at Cigna's group health operation, particularly
its health maintenance organization and its preferred
provider organization, which are attracting corporate clients
anxious to limit burgeoning health costs.
   Mr. Neff thinks Cigna should earn between $6 and $7.50
this year. "The reason it's so wide is because I don't know
what will happen on the catastrophe side," he explains.
   So what will it take for the market's view of Cigna,
Citicorp and Ford to coincide with that of John Neff? For
value investors like Mr. Neff, that's the irritating
imponderable. "Eventually right wins out," says Mr. Neff,
"but you have to show a little patience in this business."
   Mr. Neff has been managing Windsor, now the country's
second-largest stock fund, since 1964. He also runs two other
funds. One is a mutual fund, $120 million Vanguard High Yield
Stock Fund, which like Windsor is closed to new investors.
Mr. Neff says neither fund is likely to be reopened.
   Those who want to invest with Mr. Neff should check out
the third fund he runs, $275 million Gemini II, a closed-end
fund that trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Unlike a
regular mutual fund, a closed-end issues only a fixed number
of shares, which then trade publicly just like any other
stock, meaning they can trade higher or lower than the
per-share portfolio value.
   Gemini II is even more peculiar than most closed-ends.
It's a so-called dual-purpose fund, which means it has two
classes of shares outstanding, income shares and capital
shares. The income shareholders get all the dividends that
the fund collects, while the capital shareholders benefit
from any capital gains. Taken together, Gemini II's capital
and income shares are trading at a 5% premium to net asset
value.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Goldman Sets
   Fund for Firms
   In Distress
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Goldman Sachs -- famed for its cozy
relationships with clients -- is launching the most ambitious
effort on the Street to invest in the rough and tumble world
of bankrupt and other distressed securities.
   Goldman is trying to raise at least $500 million,
including $100 million of its own, for a fund that would
invest large amounts of cash in a small number of financially
troubled companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The effort has raised eyebrows among bankruptcy investors,
who question whether a securities firm known for shunning
hostile takeovers will prosper in the often-hostile world of
restructurings.
   Bankruptcy specialists say Goldman is straying from its
turf. They question whether the firm will be able to raise
money for such ventures. They also appear less than eager to
have Goldman as competition.
   Goldman isn't alone in trying to raise money for
distressed companies, but its prospective fund is the biggest
and -- for its brethren on Wall Street -- the most
significant. Investment banks are hungry to get into the
business of cleaning up the debt-ridden balance sheets they
helped create in the 1980s, but raising money for such
ventures hasn't proved easy.
   "Everyone is looking to see if Goldman can pull it off,"
says Chriss Street of the Reorganized Securities Group in Los
Angeles. "If they can, everyone else will announce
something."
   Goldman's aim is no less than to test the thesis of the
day -- namely, that Wall Street can make money from investing
in, or restructuring, the walking wounded survivors (or
non-survivors) of the leveraged buy-out era. Although Goldman
has been an adviser to Southland, a textbook case of the
problem it aims to cure, the investment bank's record on LBOs
is better than most.
   The potential market, Goldman's sales memorandum notes, is
stocked with victims of "LBO misjudgments, over-optimistic
projections and over-valuations."
   The market is likely to grow in an economic downturn.
   "It's the flip side of the Milken Revolution," says David
Schulte, managing partner of Chilmark Partners in Chicago,
who is co-sponsoring a competing turnaround fund that is
aiming to raise at least $250 million.
   So far, the thesis has attracted more talk than actual
investment. "For all the discussion of such funds there has
been very little investor appetite," says Wilbur Ross, senior
managing director of Rothschild Inc. and a specialist in
restructurings.
   Goldman's bankers say they can't comment during the
offering period. But judging from the terms of its sales
memorandum, Goldman is optimistic. It is banking on raising
at least $100 million by June 15 -- less than 90 days from
the date of its private placement offering memorandum, which
is dated March 22. And it is committed to raising more money
than others have attempted or to giving the funds back. T.
Rowe Price, for instance, took about a year to raise $107
million for its Recovery Fund.
   Goldman's fund is the Water Street Corporate Recovery Fund
I. The name suggests that Goldman aims for II and III down
the road. It is aimed at institutions willing to invest a
minimum of $5 million for four to seven years.
   The sales memo says the firm plans to buy securities of
financially troubled companies "on a basis that may enable it
to influence the recapitalization of those companies." It
aims, in other words, to buy big enough stakes in securities
-- usually bonds -- to be able to force things in its favor
when companies are restructured.
   Martin J. Whitman, a longtime bankruptcy investor, says,
"The business as we do it has confrontation built into it.
It's very hard to be successful if your mind-set is to work
with management. The whiteshoe firms aren't equipped to do
it."
   Mr. Whitman doesn't snipe at Goldman's resources, or at
its name. But, he notes, Goldman prides itself on not doing
hostile deals, and workouts are rarely friendly.
   Goldman acknowledges in its memo that in acting as both an
investment banker and as an investor, it may have to tread
through a thicket of conflicts of interests. It notes, for
instance, a "Chinese Wall" problem; Water Street might be
unable to invest in securities if Goldman has inside
information on them.
   The memo is silent on whether Water Street will buy bonds
of Goldman clients. But, it says, the fund's adviser "will
take into consideration (Goldman's relationships with
clients) in its management of the Fund."
   Presumably, it will look for companies troubled by excess
debt rather than by inferior management. According to the
memo, Goldman believes the combined power of the fund's
capital, Goldman's nose for value and Goldman's investment
banking talents should produce dynamic results.
   The fund plans to "assume an active investment role,
acquire substantial positions and seize initiatives," the
memo says. "Its ability to recognize values must be coupled
with the investment banking capability to effect
restructurings."
   Skeptics note that the fund's managers are corporate
finance generalists more than loan-workout specialists and
that Goldman's own record in investing in distressed
companies appears to be spotty. It has, apparently, prospered
in Penrod Drilling, but not in Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel.
   Goldman's competition, on the other hand, includes
longtime bankruptcy specialists. Mr. Schulte, for instance,
is raising money with Sam Zell. Both men are veteran
"workout" artists, experts in restructuring problem loans.
Joseph, Littlejohn &amp; Levy, also a workout specialist, is
trying to raise $300 million, for another fund to be managed
by Lancer Industries.
   Both funds would seek distressed companies for investments
and operate them for the long term. The Zell fund, raising
money with Merrill Lynch, has a lifetime of 10 to 12 years.
"We will stick around and operate," Mr. Zell says. "This
isn't a flip deal."
   The time horizon of Water Street is shorter than Mr.
Zell's. Water Street's investments would be held, it expects,
from one to three years. It appears to be looking for
companies with management in place -- but in need of
financial engineering.
   Goldman's bankers, were they available to speak,
presumably would add that the firm is no stranger to advising
workout clients. Goldman's sales pitch, in its memo, also
cites its LBO fund, the Broad Street Investment Fund. By
Goldman's estimate, the fund has been earning better than a
35% annual compound return since 1986. The implicit pitch is
that if Goldman didn't stumble too often in the LBO era, it
should be able to play doctor to those who did.
   ---
                 Bankruptcies Balloon . . .
                                                                                                       

   Assets of public companies entering bankruptcy proceedings
                                                                                                       

     YEAR     NO. OF COMPANIES    ASSETS IN MILLIONS
                                                                                                       

     1986           159             $12,729
     1987           113              40,654
     1988           126              43,518
     1989           133              66,584
                                                                                                       

   Source: Bankruptcy DataSource
                                                                                                       

              . . . Creating Big Vultures
                                                                                                       

 Magten Asset Management Corp.,
    New York ....................   $600 million
 Morgen's Waterfall, Vintiadis
    &amp; Co., New York .............   $200 million
 Oppenheimer &amp; Co., New York ....   $170 million
 T. Rowe Price Associates,

 Foothill Group, Los Angeles ....   $100 million
                                                                                                       

   Source: Company reports
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   April Fool:
   Tax Protesters Mail
   False Income Reports
   On Their Adversaries
   ---
   Phony Form 1099s List Sums
   Supposedly Paid to Judges
   Or Other Public Officials
   ---
   Indictments in New Mexico
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   FARMINGTON, N.M. -- This mile-high city of 37,000 has long
been a stamping ground not only for folks of law-abiding
independence, but also for small bands of fervidly contrary
tax protesters who do Uncle Sam out of his due as a matter of
principle.
   And it's here, where New Mexico's sparsely settled
northwest corner meets Arizona, Utah and Colorado, that the
first details of an insidious new trick on the Internal
Revenue Service are emerging. It's one that has led to
indictments in this state as well as to criminal
investigations nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tax collectors have long had to contend with cheats
and protesters who exaggerate the number of their dependents
or claim big contributions to spurious churches. But this new
strategy isn't designed to evade taxes.
   These protesters are trying to turn one of the IRS's best
enforcement weapons, the Form 1099 report of income paid,
against the tax agency itself -- and against anyone they have
a grudge against.
   Banks that pay interest, companies that pay dividends and
other payers of nonwage compensation have to tell the IRS
about it, on a Form 1099. They also send a copy to the
recipient. If the recipient doesn't reflect this income on
his federal tax return, an IRS computer flags the
discrepancy. The IRS then automatically sends a notice to the
taxpayer, and if he doesn't give a satisfactory explanation,
an audit may result.
   This matching program is an increasingly important element
of tax enforcement. Last year, the IRS got more than 750
million 1099 income statements.
   What the protesters do is file false 1099s reporting
payments of extravagant sums to unsuspecting law-enforcement
and government officials, judges and private citizens, who
would be liable for huge taxes and penalties if the reports
were true. The purpose apparently is to provoke needless
audits of the targets that could be costly and time-consuming
both for them and for the IRS. "This could be a stick of
dynamite in the system," frets Lawrence B. Gibbs, a former
IRS commissioner.
   "People who do this are trying not only to disrupt the IRS
but our whole form of government," adds William L. Lutz, the
U.S. Attorney in Albuquerque. For Mr. Lutz, it's not just a
professional concern. He and the IRS received 1099 forms
falsely reporting the payment to him of $32,334,010.58 in
1989.
   In Albany, N.Y., New York State Tax Commissioner James W.
Wetzler says he, four others in his department and an
official of another state agency found copies of false 1099s
in their mail a couple of months ago. He called the IRS. Mr.
Wetzler says he is "impressed by the speed with which the IRS
got on this case," but he declines to say more because of a
criminal investigation that has resulted.
   IRS officials in Washington don't want to talk about the
scheme, either. Among the things they won't comment on is an
indication that IRS Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg Jr. himself
has been a target of a bogus 1099.
   The IRS does say that since about a year ago, it has
identified more than 2,000 fraudulent 1099s, received from at
least 92 sources. They have shown up in all seven of the IRS
regions and in 22 of the 64 IRS districts. The tax agency
says it means to corral the culprits, and to that end is
aggressively pursuing 40 criminal investigations in locales
around the country, which it won't name.
   The first results of these investigations have been seen
here in New Mexico. A federal grand jury in Albuquerque
handed up indictments in February alleging the filing of 49
false 1099s by four men and two women from the Farmington
area. The maximum penalty upon conviction is five years in
prison and a $250,000 fine for each fraudulent 1099.
   "For anyone who thinks this is just a prank, the
indictments in New Mexico ought to serve as a stern warning,"
says former IRS Commissioner Gibbs.
   The IRS director of public affairs, Ellen Murphy, says the
agency is concerned about a threat to the tax system. "We
want to make sure that the purity and integrity of tax data
are maintained, and we will take all necessary steps to do
that," she declares. IRS service centers have special
detection units trained to spot suspicious documents before
they get into the processing system, Ms. Murphy says. She
urges taxpayers who receive questionable 1099s to call the
IRS and ask to speak to a criminal investigator.
   What sketchy details there are about the scheme come from
Albuquerque, 180 miles southeast of here, and involve
Farmington-area people with histories of resisting federal
taxation. False 1099s first popped up in New Mexico last
summer during the tax-evasion prosecution of a couple who
eventually pleaded guilty of evasion in January. By February,
when the grand jury issued the first false-1099 indictments
(the couple weren't named), investigators had counted over
140 phony forms.
   Targets of false 1099s have included a federal judge in
Albuquerque, U.S. magistrates, IRS agents and current and
former federal prosecutors. In at least some instances, the
defendants listed themselves on 1099s sent to the IRS service
center in Austin, Texas, as payers of amounts ranging from
$26,854.55 to $16,167,005.29.
   Because both the IRS and the defendants are tight-lipped,
it is not clear why a filer of a false 1099 would give his
own name, rather than a fictitious one, as the payer. Nor is
it clear why the filer would list such a large sum, rather
than a more plausible smaller sum.
   On at least some 1099s, the filers had written "request
denied" in the box for the target's Social Security number.
There is a $50 civil penalty for failing to provide one's
number for use on a 1099.
   Two defendants are fugitives. The other four are in jail
awaiting trials that may begin next month and that may
involve unorthodox defenses. Apart from rejecting any IRS
claims, the four refuse to recognize the authority of either
the grand jury or the federal court. They demand that the
U.S. Attorney speak for them and not for the IRS. All four
stood mute at arraignments and refused legal aid; magistrates
entered not-guilty pleas for them.
   Defendant Jean R. Canon, a 47-year-old retired Air Force
master sergeant, once worked as a computer operator at San
Juan College in Farmington. He balked at having taxes
withheld from his pay and quit after the IRS put a levy on
his paycheck for back taxes three years ago. The indictment
accuses him of fraudulently claiming on 1099s to have paid
millions of dollars to 16 recipients.
   Besides a Farmington bank and two of its employees, the
named recipients include the community college, its
president, four trustees, and three college employees, among
them the payroll clerk who carried out the IRS levy.
   The payroll worker, Peggy A. Horner-Jenkins, says she
believes the blow was aimed at the college, not her. "I do
wish this situation was over with," she says. "You don't know
what they'll do next."
   The chairman of the college board of trustees, Sidney
Martin, also is the treasurer of San Juan County, where
Farmington is located. "I didn't realize how serious this
could be until I talked to my attorney," he recalls. "Then
the IRS agents told me I was lucky they got it {the 1099}
before it got into the computer."
   Mr. Canon is being held in a county detention center just
north of Albuquerque. A self-assured man of medium height and
build whose thinning dark hair falls toward thick glasses, he
denies in an interview there that he is part of any organized
group. He says he wants to know who is really behind the
confiscation of his property.
   Discussion of 1099s is off limits. But he explains in
conversational tones, "They've been using racketeering
procedures against me to avoid the truth from coming out. I'm
the injured party." He mentions that he is beginning to think
the IRS "is a tool for somebody else -- maybe somebody higher
up, maybe local."
   Clinton P. Williams, 65, and his wife, Peggy R. Williams,
are being held on charges of filing 1099s falsely reporting
income paid to Federal Judge Juan G. Burciaga of Albuquerque,
who sentenced them to prison in 1984; U.S. Attorney Lutz, and
four other public servants. The Williamses were imprisoned
after a 1984 conviction for willfully failing to file
returns. In February, during a magistrate's routine initial
presentation of the false-1099 charges, Mr. Williams objected
to the proceedings so persistently that the magistrate had
him gagged.
   The other defendant in custody is Graigory David Olson.
Officials say that the indictments against the two fugitives
are sealed.
   Last week, the grand jury added to the indictments new
charges that the defendants filed false refund claims on tax
returns last fall. Mr. and Mrs. Williams claimed a refund of
$136,384,080.10, Mr. Canon sought $29,004,625.24, and Mr.
Olson filed for $159,146.96.
   Reed L. Frost, a Farmington lawyer and part-time U.S.
magistrate, received a 1099 for $16,167,005.29 from each of
the Williamses, the indictments say. Musing generally over
obsessive tax protesters here in the Four Corners plateau
country, Mr. Frost says, "We all need something that is
important in our lives. I get the impression that this is a
cause in their lives, perhaps a moral issue."
   Mr. Williams, an erstwhile Farmington real-estate man, and
his wife list a rooming house over a Main Street billiard
parlor as their residence. But a nearby office behind the
Frontier Barber Shop in a small one-story building is the
center of their activities, and it may have yielded up to the
IRS the secret of the 1099 scheme's origins.
   Mr. and Mrs. Williams have been representatives of the
National Commodity and Barter Association, a Denver-based
organization that advocates opposition to the federal income
tax and that has engaged in running court battles with the
IRS over a decade. At brief magistrate's hearings in
Albuquerque in March, an IRS investigator from Denver, Bruce
Mason, testified that he had searched the couple's NCBA
office last September. He said he found tax-protest
literature, copies of 1099s that the IRS service center had
received, a computer holding many names, and a variety of
office machines.
   The investigator testified that he also found
videocassettes explaining "how to file 1099s against victims
they don't agree with and how to submit them to the IRS to
get their victims audited and any harassment that might
have."
   The IRS declines to say whether it has identified the
source of the videocassettes or to comment on whether they
are thought to be linked to the NCBA.
   John Voss, the NCBA director, said in a telephone
interview last week that he had been out of touch with Mr.
and Mrs. Williams since at least the middle of last year and
that he hadn't heard about the Albuquerque indictments. "That
1099 thing is a new one on me," he said. "There's nothing in
our material about that kind of thing. It sounds like a kind
of strange activity."
   Here in Farmington, the glass door of the NCBA office is
locked. On the wall just inside can be seen a big poster for
a movie called "Harry's War." The promotional pitch: "The IRS
wouldn't admit they made a mistake on Harry Johnson's taxes
and Harry had no choice but to fight back."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Troubles in the Corporation and on Campus
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Two frequent contributors to this page have just published
books about disruption in major American institutions, the
corporation and the university. Their underlying theme is job
security.
   Amanda Bennett, who heads up a team of journalists
covering management issues for The Wall Street Journal, has
applied her reportorial skills to surveying the end of the
postwar heyday for middle management in "The Death of the
Organization Man" (Morrow, 270 pages, $19.95). Ms. Bennett
shows how the perk-padded paradise described in William H.
Whyte's 1956 best-seller "The Organization Man" went to hell
in the '80s. People who had staked everything on loyalty to a
Fortune 500 company found themselves out on their own,
severed to meet cutback quotas forced by Japanese
competition, post-raid reorganizations and similar bolts from
the blue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Because this wholesale pummeling of big business's chicken
colonels was the dark side of the major financial news of
recent years, this book amounts to a general business history
of the period told through the wretched biographies of its
frontline casualties. Without sentimentalizing their fates,
Ms. Bennett has interviewed dozens and dozens of organization
men and women now forcibly converted into entrepreneurs,
consultants or early retirees. For the most part, she has
concealed their true names, in order to quote them fully and
give poignant life to what was, after all, a major convulsion
in middle-class American life. With all her reporter's
distance and willingness to see the positive effects of
downsizing on the corporate economy, Ms. Bennett has, in
effect, devoted much energy to telling us about a mass
firing: 3.1 million jobs lost in eight years.
   It was enough to shake a tough senior exec. Donald Frey,
former chairman of Bell &amp; Howell Co., told Ms. Bennett that
"a classical economist is someone who never had to close a
plant and put his friends on the street. I survived, and my
friends survived, but I hated the process. All the theory
goes out the window, when you've known the people and their
families by name over many years and you have to tell them
that there's no job next month."
   Nothing of the sort blighted employment in American
academic life. Instead, tenure crept over the radical
graduate students of the '60s like a sheltering robe. Today,
with the anachronistic predictability of a Beatles record,
they continue to reproduce the New Left message of their
youth, having added the mystagogic patois of French
deconstructionism and the politicizing yawp of feminism and
Third World me-tooism to their subversive repertoire. This,
in short, is Roger Kimball's stern analysis of the present
danger on campus in "Tenured Radicals: How Politics Has
Corrupted Our Higher Education" (Harper &amp; Row, 204 pages,
$18.95).
   Mr. Kimball, who reviews art exhibitions for this page and
also is managing editor of the New Criterion, views with
alarm a world in which English teachers zealously shape their
syllabi according to a system of literary affirmative action
that gives a boost to women writers and writers from other
cultures at the inevitable expense of Shakespeare, Milton and
Dickens. And so he attacks the professors who have attacked
the traditional "canon" of writers once held up to students
as pillars of "their" Western tradition.
   Although it may seem as if Mr. Kimball follows squarely in
the wake of Allan Bloom's "Closing of the American Mind," he
has, while aiming at many of the same targets in academia,
focused more sharply on an interrelated set of evils he
argues beset our intellectual life, from the Stanford Western
Civ brouhaha to the neo-Marxist gobblydegook of the art
magazine October, to the "new sophistry" in literary
criticism and architecture.
   This is an angry and pugnacious book, but Mr. Kimball's
tone is calm, even quizzical, and he proceeds methodically,
starting out as an inquiring reporter, quoting chapter and
verse and public lecture, but ending in amazement at the
willful perversity of the Mandarins he has undertaken to
expose.
   People for whom Stanley Fish, Paul De Man, Geoffrey H.
Hartman, Rosalind Krauss and Peter Eisenman already represent
the embodiment of a deep crisis in the humanities will find
Mr. Kimball's accounts of their views and work an articulate
and compendious reminder of everything they hate in the
current highbrow scene. Others, who leap stairs two at a time
in their lust to hear a deconstructionist lecture on Kwakiutl
lesbian verse, will abominate Mr. Kimball as a white male
elitist entirely too pleased with his skill at writing clear
prose and as a capitalist dupe who purports to be defending
common sense and traditional values in order to attack the
right of oppressed societies to have their cultures put at
the heart of curricula in the Ivy League.
   Perhaps the way to resolve this apparently hopeless
polarization is to deconstruct Mr. Kimball. Any educational
system that could have produced someone of his range and
rhetorical skill can't be in a state of total collapse.
Shakespeare still is in print, and hundreds of thousands of
Ms. Bennett's early retirees have the time to read him.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iacocca Compensation Rose 10.8% in '89
   Due to Chrysler Chairman's Stock Options
   ----
   By Melinda Grenier Guiles
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee A.
Iacocca received 10.8% more in total compensation in 1989
than in 1988, largely because he took in more from exercising
stock options.
   Mr. Iacocca's total compensation last year was $3,976,359,
with $2,413,600, or about 61% of the total, coming from stock
options, according to the No. 3 U.S. auto maker's proxy
statement. His salary rose 2.7% to $889,151, while the bonus
applied to 1988 earnings fell 12.5% to $525,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Iacocca also received 6,174 shares of Chrysler stock
valued at $148,608 under the auto maker's long-term incentive
plan. In the preceding year, his long-term incentive
compensation was 7,056 shares with a value of $159,254.
   Chrysler has said it isn't paying any bonuses on 1989
earnings because it didn't make enough money to pay
profit-sharing to hourly employees. Chrysler traditionally
pays bonuses in the spring for the preceding year.
   Gerald Greenwald, Chrysler vice chairman, was the
company's second highest-paid executive, with total
compensation of $1,133,637, roughly flat with a year earlier.
His salary, like Mr. Iacocca's, rose 2.7% to $650,972, while
his bonus from 1988 earnings fell 16.7% to $375,000.
   Mr. Greenwald didn't exercise any stock options in 1989,
but did receive 4,473 shares of Chrysler stock valued at
$107,665 under the long-term incentive plan, down 6.7% from
1988.
   The proxy statement shows Chrysler suspended corporate
contributions to its salaried employee savings plan on Oct.
1. The plan was suspended as "a money-saving operation," a
company spokesman said. The savings will be counted toward
the $1.5 billion Chrysler has pledged to cut by year end from
costs.
   Chrysler previously suspended payments during 1987,
reinstating them in July 1988. "That, historically, is one of
the things that has gone in and out depending on the health
of the company," the spokesman said. Chrysler reported a net
loss of $664 million for the fourth quarter, after a $577
million charge for, among other things, closing plants and
discontinuing certain car lines. Analysts expect Chrysler did
little better than break even in the quarter that ended March
30.
   The proxy statement also says Chrysler gave Allen E.
Paulson 146,520 shares of Chrysler stock prior to Chrysler's
March sale of its Gulfstream Aerospace unit to a group
controlled by Mr. Paulson and Forstmann Little &amp; Co. The
stock was to settle an employment contract with Mr. Paulson,
the chairman of Gulfstream, that could have awarded him as
many as 1,406,250 Chrysler shares for meeting certain
performance goals.
   The proxy statement also discloses Chrysler has begun
paying $5,000 of its annual $20,000 directors' fee in company
stock instead of paying the entire fee in cash. The move is
consistent with Mr. Iacocca's efforts to get company
executives to own more Chrysler shares. And according to the
statement, Chrysler bought materials, supplies and services
from more than 16,000 U.S. and Canadian companies in 1989.
That's 11.1% fewer than in 1988; the amount paid to all
suppliers world-wide dropped only fractionally, however, to
$21.9 billion from $22.1 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Front-Page Thriller
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Your March 14 page-one story by William M. Carley on the
Russian sub sinking was a masterpiece of writing and skillful
crafting.
   It was every bit as fascinating as a Tom Clancy book,
without the excessive technical descriptions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jerry H. Tolbert
   Houston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Antique Fishing Bait
   Is Making Investors
   Of Nostalgic Anglers
   ---
   Frog Traps and Mermaid Plugs
   Snag Big Bucks, but All
   That Glitters Is Not Sold
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- When it comes to fishing lures, Seth Rosenbaum
has a bigger appetite than most fish.
   By his own reckoning, Mr. Rosenbaum, a computer consultant
from New York City's borough of Queens, has accumulated about
20,000 of the fish-fooling devices. Some resemble natural
baits, such as minnows or mice. Others have been hammered
from metal into abstract serpentine curves. Lures by the
thousands line the walls of his walk-in closet, while his
pants and jackets hang in disarray on a rack in his bedroom.
Still other lures spill over his kitchen counter or lie on
the floor in tangled jumbles of hooks and feathers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This Dennis-the-Menace mess, however, is worth a small
fortune. Although most lures don't yet bring the same prices
as Navaho rugs or Mission style furniture, one small metal
fish lure called a Haskell Minnow sold for $20,350 two years
ago. More recently, Mr. Rosenbaum says he rejected a $4,000
offer for a minnow-shaped "Jersey Expert."
   To the amusement of many sportsmen, old fishing lures are
becoming big business in the burgeoning collectibles field.
There is a national lure club with more than 3,000 members,
an auction house committed to building the market, and an
ever increasing number of new books available on the topic.
There is even a National Fishing Tackle Museum in Arcadia,
Okla., although it has yet to benefit from the craze. In
fact, so few folks visit that the museum's owner is offering
it for sale for $1.2 million.
   "This is a fascinating hobby if you get bit by the bug,"
drawls Clyde Harbin, a collector who has narrated four
videotapes aimed at the lure market. "The only problem is
that you can't get enough of the good ones."
   Nobody knows when lure manufacturing started in this
country, but Vermont fisherman Julio T. Buel received the
first lure patent in 1852. Legend has it that Mr. Buel
accidentally dropped an ordinary spoon in the water, only to
watch in awe as a nice-sized trout swallowed it. This
breakthrough in lure research enabled him to build a
successful factory in Whitehall, N.Y., and his graceful metal
lures can be seen in a museum there.
   Following Mr. Buel's lead, fishermen by the thousands
filed patents for their own sure-fire fish catchers. Archer
Wakeman's Skeleton Bait resembled a miniature helicopter with
hooks attached. Harry Comstock's wooden bodied Flying
Helgramite looked like a deranged insect.
   Many old lure companies started making their baits from
cedar, on hand-operated lathes. The lures were later primed
to prevent them from swelling and cracking when they got wet.
Only then did factory hands paint them and attach hooks.
Every color represented a manufacturing step, including the
addition of gill marks around the face. The eyes, usually
made of glass, were imported from Germany.
   "The old lures had a lot more character than the plastic
ones most fishermen use today," says Paul Caruso, an
obsessive collector who despite running only a modest
fishing-tackle store in Connecticut, last year paid $5,500
for a Miller's Reversible Minnow. "A modern lure usually has
a plastic seam. A hundred years ago, some lures were made
with German silver. You can't compare the quality."
   Many lure makers had a sense of whimsy. There are
bare-breasted Mermaid lures, lures shaped like beer bottles
and fiendishly cruel lures which keep live frogs trapped in
place for hungry bass to swallow. Many have exotic names,
such as the bat-like South Bend Vacuum Bait, or the
pencil-shaped Woods Poppa-Doodle or the Paw Paw Weedless Wow,
a frog lure designed to avoid snagging on lily pads.
   "A lot of what I collect now was really designed to catch
fishermen, not fish," says Richard Streater, a lure historian
who travels the West Coast giving lure chats. "The general
public doesn't care when a plug was made, but if the legs
kick or the eyes blink, that's entertainment."
   Fishing tackle buffs say lure collectors tend to be
blue-collar workers who enjoy fishing and the outdoors.
"Usually they are a little zany," says Bob Lang, an
engineering professor and professional cataloger of fishing
memorabilia. "Fly collectors are serious and soft-spoken; rod
collectors are intense and extremely critical; reel
collectors are technical minded. But lure collectors like to
huddle in corners, tell stories, and swap their Creek Chub
Beetles." Creek Chub Beetles were made in Indiana and looked
like squat ladybugs with pearl-finish attachments.
   Old lures may catch collectors, but they won't be used for
catching fish, since water is an old plug's worst enemy.
Nostalgia, not practicality, drives this market. "A lot of
collectors are reliving their childhood," says Mr. Lang.
"When they were kids, they'd walk into a tackle shop, gaze at
all these wonderful things, and only have 39 cents in their
pockets. Today they can afford them."
   Others see lures as a poor man's investment opportunity,
and they stalk local flea markets and antique stores for
bargains. "Half the thrill is the hunt," says Albert Munger,
who works for the city of Philadelphia. "Collectors I know
are up at 4 a.m. and out at the flea markets with their
flashlights. We're talking about real diehards." Mr. Munger
keeps several thousand lures on his bedroom walls, much to
the chagrin of his wife.
   The idea of paying money for old lures is a new concept.
Back in the 1970s, lure collectors traded with each other,
swapping lures and reels like kids with baseball cards. Even
in the early 1980s, a really expensive lure cost only $30.
Most sold for $5 or $10 apiece.
   All that changed dramatically about five years ago, says
Raymond Carver, president of the National Fishing Lure
Collector's Club, when Maine auctioneer Richard Oliver
visited one of the national shows.
   "When I first met him and his entourage, they conveyed the
idea that this was a fantastic hobby and that demand would
increase faster than supply," says Mr. Carver. "He said he
was going to show us what this stuff is really worth. He did,
unfortunately."
   Much to Mr. Carver's dismay, fishing lures began
attracting as many investors as collectors, and as it did,
prices rose. Now Mr. Carver says he is hard-pressed to add to
his own collection because he doesn't want to pay $500 or
more for the hard-to-find plugs which interest him.
   "Lure collecting used to be something you did with
friends," says Mr. Carver. "Now it's become a question of
supply, demand, and merchandising." Mr. Oliver agrees that he
may well have created the lure market, but says many of those
who have sold lures through his company are glad he did so.
   Contrary to what most collectors seem to think, however,
basic laws of supply and demand also apply to the lure
market. Every time an old lure brings a spectacular price,
folks around the country scramble like mad through their
attics or basements looking for similar baits.
   The results can be wild swings in prices, especially when
there are more lures than collectors. Knowledgeable dealers,
for example, say that the Haskell Minnow which sold for
$20,350 is now worth less than half of that amount. Why?
Because as many as 35 to 40 such plugs have since been found.
   But the diehard lure mongers like Seth Rosenbaum don't
really care. "I'm in the position of somebody who has bought
a $600 stock for $2," says Mr. Rosenbaum. "If it drops $100,
what's the difference? I'm a collector at heart."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Germany Didn't Invent War
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Reader Henry R. Friedberg (letters, March 29) accuses
British historian Paul Johnson of being blind to history when
he (Mr. Johnson) asserts that we need not fear a united
Germany. Mr. Friedberg then informs us, "Germans have been
aggressive since they first appeared in history." Also, he
appears to single out West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's
refusal to guarantee the Oder-Neisse Line as the Polish
border in advance of a peace conference as evidence of German
aggressive intentions. Perhaps it is Mr. Friedberg who is
blind to history.
   He gives us no evidence of the aggressive nature of
Germans. Maybe he has in mind World Wars I and II. If so,
does he believe history began with the advent of the 20th
century? Is he not aware that the Soviet Union, as we know it
today, came about through military conquests? Has he never
heard of Napoleon Bonaparte and his wars of aggression?
(Perhaps he was actually a German in disguise.) Who put
together the largest overseas empire the world has seen if
not Britain? Or does Mr. Friedberg imagine that the colonials
welcomed British rule? Many more specific examples of
non-German aggression could be cited. What history tells us,
even if it fails to inform Mr. Friedberg, is that every
nation in Europe, at one time or another, has warred upon its
neighbors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also, Mr. Friedberg, with his knowledge of history, should
be aware of why Germans might reasonably object to the
Oder-Neisse Line as the Polish border. After all, beyond that
line lie territories that have been populated by Germans,
governed by Germans, and infused with German customs and
culture for 800 years. In contrast, consider that the first
English settlement in what is now the United States was
established about 400 years ago. Imagine, for a moment, how
we Americans would feel if all of our lands east of the
Appalachian Mountains were confiscated and placed under a
foreign government.
   But Mr. Friedberg no doubt would say that Germany should
pay for the destruction and loss of life it caused in World
War II, and that is true and that is the purpose of
reparations. The German government has accepted this burden
and paid hundreds of millions of deutsche marks in
compensation to both individuals and other governments and is
committed to paying many millions more in the future. What is
generally not known is that West Germany has given far more
humanitarian assistance in direct financial grants and
in-kind assistance to Poland than any other Western country.
And, no doubt, it will pay reparations to Poland and other
countries long after the conclusion of a peace treaty. But
have a part of its territory confiscated? That is reparations
forever]
   It is often said that Adolf Hitler was not born in
Braunau, Austria, his natural birthplace, but at Versailles.
The Treaty of Versailles humiliated and impoverished the
German people and laid the groundwork for World War II. What
is now needed to conclude a just World War II treaty and
establish lasting peace is statesmanship; what we are likely
to get is a political settlement that repeats the errors of
the past.
   Whatever the outcome of peace negotiations, I believe it
highly unlikely that a future conflict will be instigated by
the Germans. Anti-war sentiment in Germany is very strong.
But if that unfortunate event should come to pass, a future
historian of Mr. Friedberg's insight can again place the
blame on German aggression rather than seeking out the root
causes of the conflict.
   Charles A. Auer
   Oxford, Ohio
   ---
   As a West German citizen I am proud of the recent
developments in our Eastern brother country and feel very
offended by Mr. Friedberg's letter. "Vae victis" still seems
to be the motto of this outdated hard-liner.
   Anyone seriously versed in European current events is
cognizant of the naivete of statements justifying a military
threat by a reunified Germany toward Europe. Any military
strategist with only limited insight and experience will
inform Mr. Friedberg about the improbability -- the
impossibility -- of conquering Europe with an army of 600,000
troops. West Germany, in opposition to suggestions and
encouragements from NATO and in particular from the U.S. to
increase the size of its army, is in fact about to reduce the
number of its troops. It is interesting to note that in the
postwar era the relationship between West Germany and its
NATO partners has strengthened to such an extent that the
trust and confidence implied in a suggestion for military
increases supersede any apprehension of a military threat.
   With regard to Mr. Friedberg's concern about Germany's
military aggressiveness, a quick review of West Germany's
military behavior demonstrates nonaggression toward any group
or nation.
   It is time for people like Mr. Friedberg to rid themselves
of their archaic/slanted view of the German people and admit
to the friendship and political bond that have developed
between our two nations. The foundation of both our
countries' constitutions is rooted in democracy, an
inalienable freedom that recent history has demonstrated
cannot be suppressed.
   Hanns-Christian Neumann
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   San Francisco's Vast Tourist Industry
   Still Feels Aftershocks From Earthquake
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6J
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Six months after the earthquake, San
Francisco's $3.4 billion-a-year tourist trade, the city's
largest industry, is still feeling aftershocks.
   Merchants in Chinatown and Fisherman's Wharf report
business remains down since the Oct. 17 quake. They blame
lingering fears that have scared off leisure travelers, and
still-damaged freeways that are causing regional visitors to
go elsewhere for entertainment and shopping.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Spring, the season of the Chinese New Year, is typically
the busiest time of year in Chinatown. But businesses there
have seen sales drop 15% to 40%, says Rose Pak, consultant to
the city's Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Restaurants, gift
shops, and even small Chinese bakeries and produce markets
have been affected, she says.
   "Besides the overall decline in tourists, there's been a
decided drop in bedroom-community business," says Ms. Pak.
"It's too cumbersome now. We're worried the change in pattern
will become a habit, and they'll never come in anymore."
   "It's truly a mess to come into the city and drive
around," says Al Falchi, owner of the Waterfront restaurant,
which has seen business fall about 10%. "There are so many
detours, you don't know where you're going."
   Businesses have been hurt by the closure since the quake
of the major freeway artery leading to Chinatown, Fisherman's
Wharf and North Beach, a popular neighborhood dominated by
Italian restaurants.
   To repair and strengthen the existing double-decker
freeway structure would cost about $32 million and take about
eight months. But Mayor Art Agnos has suggested a plan to
raze the structure and replace it with an underground
freeway, which would cost between $100 million and $120
million, and take about five years to complete.
   The current structure, built in the late 1950s, "would be
considered a monstrosity on the Thames or the Seine," says
Art Silverman, the mayor's deputy press secretary. "The mayor
feels the earthquake has given us the opportunity to get rid
of an eyesore." Tearing it down would ease safety concerns,
he says, and the city believes federal funds would pay for
most of the proposed new project.
   San Francisco's board of supervisors is scheduled to vote
on the mayor's proposal today. But Ms. Pak says at least 700
Chinatown merchants will be shutting down their businesses to
attend the meeting and oppose the proposal.
   Most city hotels suffered only minor earthquake damage,
and are in full operation, though occupancy rates are down.
(The Hyatt Regency at the San Francisco Airport, however, has
been closed since the quake for repairs and reinforcement. It
is scheduled to reopen July 1.)
   Occupancy fell sharply after the quake; Fisherman's Wharf
hotels, which before the quake boasted the city's highest
occupancy rates, were down 7% for the year, says Jay Scott,
hotel analyst with Laventhol &amp; Horwath. Citywide, the
occupancy rate for 1989 was 70%, compared with 72% the year
before. For the first quarter of this year, the rate was 68%.
   Convention and business travel has rebounded, although
fewer spouses are coming along for the trip. Independent
tourists, who account for about a third of hotel rooms, "have
been very reluctant to come back," Mr. Scott says. Besides
quake fears, he says overall belt-tightening in travel, and
higher airfares, may have contributed to the drop in leisure
travelers. The prime tourist season, now approaching, "will
tell how much the memory of the quake has faded and how good
a marketing job the city has done."
   Even though some merchants have tripled marketing budgets,
"there's no question some may close their doors," says
Alessandro Baccari, executive secretary of the Fisherman's
Wharf Association, which represents major retailers and 144
restaurants. Despite trying gimmicks ranging from a fish
festival to a live satellite telecast from the Wharf to
Australia, merchants have seen business fall 25% to 30%.
   Even a half-year later, San Francisco still finds it tough
to counter the television images of the fire and devastated
homes in the Marina district, and of the Bay Bridge. "The
media showed the same pictures, over and over," Mr. Baccari
complains. "People say `My God, you've sunk into the bay, the
whole city's destroyed . . . We keep saying, `We're all
right. We want you. We need you.' "
   Mother Nature shouldn't take all the blame for tourism
woes, says Sharon Rooney, spokeswoman for the San Francisco
Convention and Visitors Bureau. "People are laying things at
foot of earthquake that don't belong there." Part of the
reason for lower occupany rates may be that about 2,000 new
hotel rooms have been added in the city in less than a year.
The San Francisco Marriott, the city's second-largest hotel
with 1,500 rooms, opened the day of the earthquake.
   Yet, she concedes misconceptions continue to hurt tourism.
She recently received a clip from a Texas newspaper reporting
that the Golden Gate bridge was back up. (The Bay Bridge,
which links San Francisco to Oakland, was damaged by the
quake. The Golden Gate bridge was intact.) "People see our
skyline and think, `Those buildings are going to fall on me.'
We know that the buildings swing. Other people have to be
educated."
   And despite the perception, based on erroneous early
reports, that hundreds died in the quake, she notes 62 people
were actually killed, 13 of them in San Francisco. And she
adds, "not a single tourist was injured. We're trying to
stress that."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   The Queenan Valuation:
   Funny]] Nit-Picking]]]
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   I expect more from your fine newspaper than puerile
hatchet jobs such as Joe Queenan's review of Robert Ludlum's
"The Bourne Ultimatum" (Leisure &amp; Arts, March 22). Mr.
Queenan appears to me to be upset because he cannot follow
the plot shifts and subtle nuances typical of a Ludlum novel.
I must also take from his comments that the wisdom of the
analogical tales contained in "Leadership Secrets of Attila
the Hun" completely escaped him.
   Mr. Queenan's nit-picking of Mr. Ludlum's work (too many
exclamation points]]]]]]]) reminds me of nothing so much as
the scene in the movie "Amadeus" where Mozart's music is
criticized by an envious fellow composer for containing "too
many notes."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And regarding Mr. Queenan's use of his "fine-tooth comb"
to eliminate potentially flattering prose from his work, my
guess is that he can look forward to reading banners culled
from his article that proclaim Mr. Ludlum's work "a victory"
(third paragraph), "loaded" (fifth paragraph), and "sizzling"
(fifth paragraph). Say it ain't so, Joe.
   Mark Haywood
   Harrisburg, Pa.
   ---
   I hate to be the one to break it to Mr. Queenan, but his
comb is missing a few teeth. Despite his scathing (and
thoroughly enjoyable) review, he has once again unwittingly
provided a publisher with the perfect book-jacket gem:
"Sizzling novel of international intrigue."
   Anne-Marie J. Leake
   Richmond, Va.
   ---
   This is a fan letter] Give us more Joe Queenan]] He's
funny]]] He's literate]]]] His mugging of Robert Ludlum was
the best thing in the March 22 edition]]]]]
   Robert R. Meury
   New York
   ---
   Recently, a friend threatened to publish an alleged book
review by that world-renowned writer, Joe Queenan of
Tarrytown, N.Y. Unfortunately, my friend made good on his
threat and I can recall many parts of this inane, oafish and
idiotic agglomeration of words in the guise of a legitimate
book review. While the threat was serious, and I left town to
avoid it, my reading of The Wall Street Journal left me fully
exposed to Mr. Queenan's quarrelsome quill.
   Alas, as an inveterate Ludlum reader, I plunged through
Mr. Queenan's thoroughly awful review. For many years, I, and
many others, have enjoyed perusing Mr. Ludlum's latest in the
manner of its writing: with tongue firmly placed in cheek.
Although friends had told me that there were those alive who
couldn't enjoy Mr. Ludlum's high parody of suspense novels, I
did not believe these mythical characters actually existed.
Suddenly and without warning, the Journal allots space to Mr.
Queenan.
   There is a true tragedy in this story. You have wasted Mr.
Queenan's priceless time, the time of those of us who
expected an honest review of "The Bourne Ultimatum," and
valuable space in one of my favorite publications. In the
future, please assign Mr. Queenan to grave subjects that do
not require him to unearth his sense of humor.
   Steven D. Edgett
   Mill Valley, Calif.
   ---
   Here's what will be on the back cover of all future
printings of "The Bourne Conundrum": "Another enchanting
moment" . . . The Wall Street Journal.
   Just wait]]] You . . . have helped them . . . again]]]
   Congratulations on a devastatingly accurate review of Mr.
Ludlum's writing.
   Rod Brooker
   Tampa, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Marketers Find
   College Crowd
   A Tough Test
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA TMB T X-LVI MO
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   Selling to college students is no frolicking frat party.
   Trans World Airlines Inc. has learned as much with a
discount promotion it figured was sure-fire. With the
purchase of a $15 card, students get 10% off on all its
flights. Alas, just 3,000 signed up last year. How could
students pass up such a bargain?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Because they don't know about it, contends Michael DeBoer,
a vice president at A+ Marketing Corp., Hartsdale, N.Y., one
of a number of college-marketing consulting firms that have
sprung up. The airline advertises the cards through brochures
at travel agencies, and, Mr. DeBoer says, students don't use
travel agents. "It's being promoted totally wrong," he
contends.
   If it's missing the mark with the much-coveted campus
crowd, TWA isn't alone. College students are tricky to snag.
They're always pressed for time, removed from many marketing
channels, inherently skeptical and increasingly
sophisticated. Many have a new-found independence away from
home, and so want to be treated as adults, yet have different
interests than people out in the workaday world. What's more,
trends and tastes change with every graduating class, if not
each semester, making it tough for advertising executives to
keep up with them.
   A common pitfall, according to many college-marketing
specialists, is for advertisers to wrongly assume they can
reach students through their mainstream promotions. Tambrands
Inc. came across badly in a focus group with an ad for its
First Response home pregnancy test. The ad featured a happy
couple, with the man asking, "So which is it, yes or no?" and
the woman responding, "Now, why do you think I'm smiling?"
   Students in the focus group said the scenario implied that
the test was positive -- which to most students is a big
negative. Following the advice of the group, Tambrands
changed its ads to address students' concern -- anxiety over
a possible pregnancy. The ads now say, in part: "Until you
know, nothing else matters."
   Too often, marketing executives lump students in an "under
35" category or approach the market as they remember it from
their college days. "A lot of executives will take their own
experience or their kids' and project that onto the market,"
says Stuart Himmelfarb, president of CollegeTrack Inc.,
another marketing specialist. "Since we've all been through
college, we tend to think things haven't changed that much."
   There's little doubt that the college market is worth
pursuing. There are 13 million college students nationwide,
many of them affluent and prone to duplicate their
classmates' purchases. CollegeTrack Inc. calculates there are
7.4 million full-time undergraduate students in the U.S., and
they have average disposable income of $114 a month. The
opportunity for building product loyalty is also great: Every
satisfied customer is a potential buyer for decades to come.
   Yet many companies spend their ad dollars in the wrong
place. Although TWA says it believes its marketing effort
through travel agencies "is a cost effective" technique, Mr.
DeBoer says putting up posters at schools and advertising in
college newspapers would be a better way to reach students.
   Tambrands originally ran its First Response ads in class
directories, which are used during registration, when
students are selecting courses. Collegiate Advantage Inc., a
college-market consulting firm in Boston, saw the ads and
approached the company with suggestions for new advertising
outlets, saying that directories are better for advertising
things like computers and calculators. Now, Tambrands puts
its new ads in college newspapers.
   Perhaps the biggest mistake companies make in their
approach to the market is talking down to students, according
to marketing specialists. Miller Brewing Co. had to cancel a
16-page glossy advertising supplement that was running in
student newspapers last spring after students at several
universities expressed outrage at the beer company's
promotion. Students complained in letters to the editor that
the supplement, titled Beachin' Times, was insulting,
presenting college life as one where party animals chase
"unbelievable babes," "sleep 'til noon" and don't know
sentence structure.
   "I think a lot of companies think people are dumb and
uneducated and that the lowest common denominator is the best
route to take in ads. But it's offensive to these kids," says
Bill Tragos, chief executive officer of TBWA Advertising
Inc., a New York advertising agency.
   "Of any consumer group, college students are the most
critical," says Frederick Elkind, vice president and director
of TrendSights, a division of ad agency Ogilvy &amp; Mather Inc.
"If you do things that border on silly or insulting, they can
really be turned off."
   Miller has since switched its student promotions to
point-of-purchase advertising during the traditional
spring-break period. This year, the company has set up a
"Miller Welcome Center" under a giant tent in Daytona Beach,
Fla., where students can play games and make a music video
for free. Miller is advertising the promotions on local
Florida radio stations.
   So what does score well with the college crowd? Not
surprisingly, one way to reach students is with students
themselves.
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., which has in-house
specialists on college marketing, scored big with its student
testimonial ads in campus newspapers. The ads, which stress
the importance of long-distance calls as the connection to
home, use real students in real campus-life situations and
have received applause in student focus groups nationwide.
   Levi Strauss &amp; Co.'s 501 jeans promotions have also been a
hit in student polls. The documentary-style ads show young
adults in various parts of the country doing things
characteristic of that region, such as boating in a Louisiana
bayou.
   "In about half of the {promotions}, the kids in the ads
are real students off the street," says Dan Chew, a marketing
manager for Levi Strauss. Since the campaign began in 1984,
sales of 501 jeans -- whose market is mostly college-age
people -- have more than doubled, the company says.
   Sexy ads also sell on campus, advertisers have found,
especially when they're mixed with the unexpected. Calvin
Klein Cosmetics Co.'s television ad for Eternity, a
fragrance, appeals to college students, research shows. In
it, a man asks a woman, "Would you still love me if I were a
woman?" The woman responds: "Of course. If I could be your
man."
   Besides being sexy, "They're rather avant-garde," says
Sherman Agins, executive vice president at CollegeTrack.
"Students are more accepting of that kind of approach than
the mainstream."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Many Pennsylvania Firms, Labor Groups
   Oppose Adoption of Anti-Takeover Bill
   ----
   By Vindu P. Goel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   As Pennsylvania prepares to adopt the most stringent
anti-takeover law in the nation, some of the state's major
corporations and labor groups are openly questioning the
wisdom of such a move.
   Passage of a final version of the bill this week seems
secure, so executives and employees can count on strong
protection against hostile takeovers and other challenges.
But despite the measure's pro-corporate stance and the
business-labor alliance backing it, some Pennsylvania
companies and labor organizations now acknowledge that they
fear the possible consequences. Indeed, a number of them are
likely to choose to be excluded from coverage by the law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last Wednesday, for example, the chairman and chief
executive officer of VF Corp., Lawrence R. Pugh, wrote to
Gov. Robert P. Casey urging him not to sign the bill. "I
agree that corporations should be given proper time to
respond to raiders," wrote Mr. Pugh. "I do not agree that
there should be legislation that protects weak management
from shareholders."
   Meanwhile, such leading employers as Westinghouse Electric
Corp. and H.J. Heinz Co. are trying to distance themselves
from the legislation. In addition, some smaller, private
firms, which wouldn't be subject to most of the bill's
provisions, are uneasy. Even the chairman of the Pennsylvania
Chamber of Business and Industry, the group that drafted the
bill and has lobbied heavily to get it through the
legislature, now says he has doubts about whether he wants
the law to apply to his own company.
   The proposed statute would garnish the profits of
short-term shareholders who sell after a failed attempt to
"control" the company, restrict voting rights of large
holders in proxy fights and guarantee severance pay for
employees who lose their jobs after a takeover. What's more,
the new law would let boards base decisions not only on
shareholders' interests, but also on the interests of
employees, customers, suppliers and the community. A recent
House amendment to the bill would also insulate directors
from lawsuits by any group claiming its interests were
ignored.
   For a small firm, the fiduciary duty changes could mean
financial disaster. "You have to assure the shareholders that
the directors will act in their best interests," said Robert
Heise, lobbyist for the Berks County Chamber of Commerce. "If
you can't show that to investors, they may not want to
invest."
   In addition, says Mr. Heise, smaller companies fear the
precedent set by the bill's guaranteed severance benefits for
employees. "It will give our opponents, labor, a leg to stand
on for other mandated benefits," Mr. Heise says.
   The Berks County business group so strongly opposed the
bill that on March 30, its directors voted 20-3 to become the
first -- and so far, only -- local chamber to break ranks
with the powerful state chamber.
   But other companies discomforted by the bill are unwilling
to directly challenge their more enthusiastic corporate
colleagues that favor the bill, including Armstrong World
Industries Inc., Scott Paper Co., AMP Inc. and PPG Industries
Inc.
   "I can't think of anyone who wants to be leading a
charge," says Donald E. Meads, chairman of Philadelphia First
Group Inc., a private merchant bank. Mr. Meads, who was
chairman and chief executive of CertainTeed Corp. when a
French firm acquired control of it in 1978, says he is
philosophically opposed to anti-takeover legislation.
   Sympathy is particularly strong for Armstrong, the object
of a proxy contest and possible takeover bid from the
Belzberg family of Canada. Speedy passage of the bill, with
its restrictions on proxy fights for control of a company,
could well help Armstrong in its battle with the Belzbergs at
its April 30 annual meeting.
   So rather than oppose the legislation outright,
Westinghouse, Pennsylvania's largest public company, worked
to secure opt-out clauses in the proposed law so any company
could duck the provisions within the first 90 days after
enactment. "This bill, SB1310, goes too far. There is
adequate legislation on the books today as far as
Westinghouse is concerned," says Robert F. Pugliese,
Westinghouse's executive vice president, legal and corporate
affairs.
   Many companies worry about the potential threat to capital
from enacting what some investors see as anti-shareholder
legislation. The Belzbergs, who lead the opposition, are
understandably crying foul: The family has made a fortune
from runs on such U.S. corporations as Ashland Oil Inc. and
USG Corp. But institutional investors have also threatened to
pull their money out of Pennsylvania companies if shareholder
rights -- and the possibility of high profits from corporate
buy-outs -- are restricted.
   Indeed, money managers and pension funds representing more
than a quarter of the country's institutional money -- about
half a trillion dollars' worth -- have formally declared that
they may divest themselves of shares in Pennsylvania
corporations if the law is passed.
   "If they do, that could have a negative effect on the
value on the stock held by our shareholders," said Mr. Pugh,
VF's chairman. According to a study by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, share prices in Ohio declined an average
of 2% after less restrictive anti-takeover legislation was
passed.
   The threat to share prices puts the state's employee
pension funds in an awkward position. Although the state
AFL-CIO and United Steelworkers union have joined the Chamber
of Business and Industry in backing the bill, some funds in
the state are dubious. "I've looked into this for over a
month, and it's still a confusing situation," says Don
Morabito, chief lobbyist for the Pennsylvania State Education
Association, representing 85,000 teachers and their pensions.
   Certainly, the bill carries great political appeal for
state legislators and Gov. Casey, who faces an election this
year. Although the governor is officially withholding
judgment until he sees the final version of the bill, a few
weeks ago he told residents of Lancaster, Armstrong's
headquarters, that he expects to be able to sign it. And last
Thursday, the state AFL-CIO endorsed Mr. Casey in the
Democratic primary.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   ACCOB DOW LLY
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Faucet Demands Get
   Creative Juices Flowing
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   PLUMBING suppliers are making it easier to turn on the
water.
   Responding to new rules about the disabled and to
complaints from young and old, manufacturers are redesigning
faucets and introducing high-tech devices that don't have to
be touched.
   Kohler offers a T-shaped handle for ease of gripping. KWC
AG, a Swiss company, designs a spherical handle with finger
grooves. Distributed by WSMC of Costa Mesa, Calif., the
handle is supposed to permit easy turning even for wet, soapy
hands.
   James Datka, marketing manager at American Standard, sees
"a trend away" from knobs to lever faucets, which can be
turned with a mere slap. Delta Faucet now makes most of its
handles comply with federal standards for the handicapped.
   No-touch, infra-red faucets have sensors that react when
they detect an object in their energy field. Hygienic and
frugal with water, infra-red technology is becoming popular
in public washrooms. Drawbacks have kept them out of homes:
You can't adjust the water volume, and infrared sometimes is
triggered by a stray beam of sunlight.
   Ultra-sound technology avoids the sunlight problem, says
Klaus Baumann, president of DAL American Inc., a faucet maker
in Michigan City, Ind.
   American homeowners still put faucet form ahead of
function, says Donald Norman, a cognitive scientist at the
University of California/San Diego. "They use faucets," he
says, "the way they use wristwatches -- to make statements
about themselves."
                                                                                                       

   Designers Draw a Line
   At Certain Products
                                                                                                       

   DESIGNERS sometimes have ideals that prevent them from
sharing ideas.
   Read Viemeister of Yellow Springs, Ohio, refuses to design
highway billboards. They're "a blight on the landscape," he
says. Milton Glaser of New York won't design cigarette
packaging.
   Several years ago, Anita Hersh, a partner in New York's
Lister Butler, led a successful effort to prevent her firm
from designing beer packaging for Coors Brewing Co. At the
time, she believes, Coors was anti-labor and racially
discriminatory. In addition, Ms. Hersh claims company
patriarch Adolph Coors supported anti-Semitic causes. Coors
"is better now," she adds.
   (Swede Johnson, Coors's vice president for corporate
affairs, replies: "I'm delighted Ms. Hersh thinks we're doing
better.")
   Schecter Group recently turned down a request to design
packaging for an electronic toy that Chief Alvin Schecter
deemed "exploitive" of children. Meanwhile, the New
York-based group designed herbicide and pesticide packaging
for DowElanco, a merger of parts of Dow Chemical and Eli
Lilly. But Schecter persuaded the new company to "take
responsibility" for the chemicals inside by putting its name
more prominently on the package.
   Source/Inc. of Chicago refused to work on a high-proof
alcoholic beverage that a longstanding client wanted to aim
at the college market. William O'Connor, a partner, believes
that prosperous design firms are probably the only ones that
can afford to turn down work on moral grounds. "I don't know
what we would have done about that drink if we hadn't had
other work," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Map Makers Take Off
   In New Directions
                                                                                                       

   MAP MAKERS try new ways to draw attention and convey
information.
   Access Press Ltd. of New York has published a road atlas
that divides the U.S. into 250-mile squares, a comfortable
day's drive, instead of states. Unlike most other atlases, it
uses one scale throughout. White roads against a dark
background are supposed to make the maps easier to read, even
at twilight.
   Designer Richard Saul Wurman says he undertook the atlas
after planning a trip across the U.S., "only to find that
there were absolutely no road maps I could understand."
   New York's VanDam Inc. brings out "The Cosmos Unfolds," a
series of "ecoguides" to the rain forest, ocean, universe,
desert, Mars and the Moon, combining science and history. The
guides, made of stiff paper, unfold to six times their
original area and automatically spring back to their folds
when the user's done.
   MicroGuide, a Teaneck, N.J., company, makes credit-card
size maps of the New York subway system, Washington, D.C.,
and other spots. The maps pop into a box shape to be viewed
through a built-in magnifying lens.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   TO HELP SAVE the rain forest, Nienkamper Furniture of
Toronto introduces office furniture that looks like it's made
from tropical hardwoods but is actually from composites of
maple and other plentiful woods. . . . The Hermitage Museum,
the Soviet Union's most important, picks Pentagram Design of
London, New York and San Francisco to do its main catalogs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midway Airlines Slates
   Increases in Service
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   MDW
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Midway Airlines said it plans to boost service
to Philadelphia, Los Angeles and Cleveland from its hub here.
   The carrier said that on May 1 it will add two round-trip
flights to Philadelphia International Airport, where it late
last year started a second hub operation. The increase brings
to eight the number of Midway daily round trips between
Philadelphia and Chicago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Effective June 1, the airline will also add a daily
round-trip flight to Los Angeles International Airport,
giving it five daily nonstop round trips to that city. It
will additionally add a sixth daily round-trip flight between
Chicago and Cleveland.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cabletron Will Report Large Increases
   In Profit and Sales for Fiscal Fourth Period
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6I
</SO>
<CO>
   CS SNPX
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Riding a wave of growth in computer networks, Cabletron
Systems Inc. will report sharply higher sales and net income
for the fourth quarter ended Feb. 28, said Robert Levine,
president and chief executive officer.
   Cabletron, based in Rochester, N.H., will report profit of
about $6 million, or 23 cents a share, on an increase in
revenue to about $30 million, Mr. Levine said. Year-earlier
net was $3.9 million, or 16 cents a share, on revenue of
$18.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year, net is believed to have nearly doubled, to
$22 million, or 87 cents a share, from $11.9 million, or 48
cents a share, in fiscal 1989. Revenue is put at about $104
million, up from $54.8 million.
   Cabletron develops, manufactures and installs cabling,
network-management software and data concentrators to connect
personal computers and workstations. The market has been
growing rapidly and is forecast to reach more than $750
million within three years, according to consultant Forrester
Research Inc., Cambridge, Mass.
   Cabletron, which went public last year at $15.50 a share,
saw its stock fall as low as $7 before mounting a strong
comeback in recent months. Analysts questioned the company's
relatively young, unseasoned management team and Cabletron's
ability to keep pace with changing technology.
   In an interview, Mr. Levine, 32 years old, said he and
co-founder and Chairman Craig Benson, 36, are working to
recruit managers and had increased the engineering and
software development staff sharply. "We know our limitations,
and we are going to have to add some professional managers as
the company continues to grow," he said.
   Mr. Levine, who directed the transformation of Cabletron
from a low-tech cable installer to a network-equipment maker,
added that the company hasn't marketed itself very well. He
plans to step up spending on marketing this year and hopes to
expand European operations, which now account for about 20%
of total sales.
   Cabletron has steadily increased its investments in
product development and recently unveiled a line of
fiber-optic plug-in boards for Apple and IBM-compatible
personal computer networks. Mr. Levine said Case Western
Reserve University has already installed a large, fiber-optic
computer network using the devices, which range in price from
$399 to $949 a card.
   Cabletron's largest customer is Sun Microsystems Inc., the
big Mountain View, Calif., workstation maker. Sun accounted
for about 4% of Cabletron's revenue in fiscal 1989, Mr.
Levine said. Other customers and resellers include American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph, Silicon Graphics and Unisys, he added.
   Mary A. Modahl of Forrester Research said Cabletron is in
a three-way tie for market share with SynOptics and Tandem
Computers' Ungermann-Bass unit. She says SynOptics, with 1989
revenue of $77.3 million, probably has somewhat more market
momentum than Cabletron.
   "Cabletron is in a very hot market, but few people on Wall
Street have ever heard of them," she said. "They've combined
a no-nonsense cable-pulling business with some impressive
technology."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Genetics Institute Says
   Loss Grew in Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6F
</SO>
<CO>
   GENI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Genetics Institute Inc. said its
first-quarter loss widened and revenue fell.
   The biotechnology concern said the loss widened to $7
million, or 57 cents a share, from $3.9 million, or 28 cents
a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 44% to $8.6 million
from $12.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman said first-quarter results were hampered by
lower shipments of the company's anemia drug, erythropoeitin,
or EPO. She also said that the results didn't include any
revenue from the manufacture or sale of an immunity-building
protein sold a year ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EUROP FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   THE WELL-BEING OF JAPAN
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japan ranked highest among a group of industrialized
countries in economic well-being last year but ranked low in
living conditions, a survey by Japan's Economic Planning
Agency said.
   In the survey, the agency examined a variety of economic
and non-economic data related to living conditions and
converted them into a numerical score, with 50 being the
average for a group of six nations -- Japan, the U.S.,
Britain, West Germany, France and Sweden. Japan ranked
highest in the group in economic well-being with a score of
60.3, mainly because of its high savings rate and robust
economic growth, the agency said.
   Japan's score in the broad category of environment and
safety was above average at 55.0, while family life stood at
55.4. However, Japan ranked lowest in sewage, size of houses
and the number of paid vacation days used, the agency said.
   Only 39% of Japanese people live in homes serviced by
public sewage treatment plants, compared with 64% in France
and 91% in West Germany in 1983, the agency said.
                                                                                                       

   ECONOMIC CRIMES
                                                                                                       

   A Shanghai court sentenced four people to death and four
others to life in prison for economic crimes, that city's
Liberation Daily reported. The paper said two others were
given sentences of three to five years. All 10 were tried
together, and their crimes included embezzling, receiving
bribes for signing contracts and demanding large amounts in
compensation from foreign businessmen unable to meet
contracts, the paper said, adding that the graft involved
totaled $274,000.

   U.S.-KOREAN AVIATION TALKS
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. and South Korea ended five days of aviation talks
Friday without agreement on major issues, South Korea's
Transportation Ministry said. But ministry officials said
differences were narrowed in some unspecified areas and the
two sides agreed to meet later. Officials said the U.S.
delegation, citing opposition by U.S. airlines, refused a
South Korean request that Korean Air Lines be allowed to add
Chicago, San Francisco, Dallas and Atlanta to its air routes
in the U.S. KAL now flies to Honolulu, Los Angeles, New York
and Anchorage.
                                                                                                       

   AIDS IN KENYA
                                                                                                       

   Almost 85% of a group of Nairobi prostitutes recently
tested were found to carry the AIDS virus, Kenya's health
minister said. The minister, Mwai Kibaki, told parliament the
results were found in a random test of 200 prostitutes by
government researchers, the Daily Nation newspaper reported.
He reportedly gave no dates for the testing.
                                                                                                       

   BUYING INTO A MOSCOW HOTEL
                                                                                                       

   South Korea's Samsung Group will buy 51% of the stock of
Moscow's Sports Hotel, Samsung officials said. The price
wasn't given. Officials said it was the first South Korean
acquisition of a Soviet hotel since the two countries, which
have no full diplomatic ties, began active trade and other
exchanges in 1988. Samsung said it also agreed to provide a
$20 million loan to finance renovation of the 20-story hotel.
Hotel Shilla, a Samsung subsidiary, will run the Moscow hotel
after its renovation, which is scheduled to be completed by
the end of this year.
                                                                                                       

   DUTCH RECYCLING
                                                                                                       

   In the Netherlands, one of the world's most densly
populated nations, about 350,000 cars are consigned each year
to junkyards that are nearly filled to capacity. But an
auto-demolishers' group believes recycling will eliminate
Dutch auto graveyards within the next decade. "We can achieve
this by dismantling the cars, sorting out the usable parts,
and offering them to the {auto parts} industry," Chris
Engelbert, chairman of the Auto Demolishers' Lobby said.
"Tires can be ground up and used in asphalt-road surfacing .
. . and plastic can be recast into new bumpers and auto gas
tanks."
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE BIRTH CONTROL
                                                                                                       

   China, worried by predictions of a record baby boom adding
to its billion-plus population, is renewing its foundering
one-child-per-family campaign.
   "Now we are facing the biggest boom ever in the numbers of
women of child-bearing age," said Shen Guoxiang, an official
of the State Family Planning Commission. He said a national
meeting on birth control in February decreed that education
and propaganda be intensified to encourage the one-child
family.
   The expected baby boom is a consequence of unchecked
procreation under the rule of Mao Tse-tung, who once called
birth control "bloodless genocide." Only after Mao's death in
1976 were widespread population curbs introduced.
   In the year 2000, there will be 340 million Chinese women
of child-bearing age, up 35 million from last year's figure.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Members of Earthtrust, a Hawaii-based conservationist
group, said they have persuaded residents of Taiwan's Penghu
islands to stop killing dolphins for food. The
conservationists said they've been teaching the islanders how
to keep dolphins in captivity for tourists. . . . The Soviet
Peace Fund will try to raise funds for victims of the
Chernobyl nuclear-plant accident with a 24-hour telethon on
April 26, the fourth anniversary of the disaster. Chess
master Anatoly Karpov, chairman of the fund, said the
telethon will be broadcast from Moscow on Soviet state
television.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World's Workers
   Still Chained --
   To Home Country
   ----
   By Richard Edwards
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   In the rush to integrate the world's economy, one element
has been forgotten: labor. Why? The conventional wisdom is
that labor is a fixed factor because workers do not want to
move. Only those compelled by economic necessity (or
political repression) will leave home.
   But this view is surely wrong. It is roughly equivalent to
saying that the poor have no taste for luxury goods and
therefore do not buy them. If labor is such a naturally
immobile factor, why do we need stringent laws inhibiting
immigration? In fact, workers are prevented from exploiting
the full potential of their labor by formal and informal
barriers to transnational mobility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mobility restrictions are least severe for the most
unskilled workers (who may migrate clandestinely) and for the
very top of the management ladder. But for employees in the
broad middle categories of semi-skilled, skilled and educated
labor, the barriers are highly limiting.
   The problem of mobility is not the same as that of
permanent immigration. A Briton who wants to work for a few
years in Italy does not necessarily want to become an
Italian. He may just want to make more money, or live in
Turin for a while or broaden his professional outlook.
   After 1992, Britons will be able to work in Italy without
obtaining visas. But Americans won't -- nor will Italians be
free to work in the U.S. But imagine a new regime in which
workers would be free to move in search of work, while
remaining citizens of their home countries.
   The great differences in level of development, incomes and
labor histories and expectations -- not to mention national
political and security considerations -- might make it
unrealistic, at first, to extend such broad mobility to every
country. But what objection could there be to such an
arrangement among the most developed countries -- say, the 24
members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development? Roughly comparable levels of development, living
standards, protection of workers' rights and shared
democratic political traditions suggest great possibilities
for cross-national mobility among these countries. The world
might then re-create the kind of freedom to move across
borders that once characterized the Roman world or the
Atlantic community of the 18th century.
   To achieve this freedom, simple repeal of formal barriers
will not suffice. Just as free trade has had to be
accompanied by measures to harmonize tax laws, insurance
regulations, product safety standards, copyright and patent
rules and a host of other informal obstacles, so labor
mobility would require the removal of informal obstacles.
That means:
   -- A simple and quick system for issuing work visas,
similar to the system that now exists for tourist visas.
   -- Recognition of foreign qualifications. What is needed
is not some supra-national bureaucratic classification system
that is unlikely to be effective anyway, but rather a way to
make skills internationally transferable by making them
transparent and translatable.
   -- Clear information about and quick access to social
security coverage. (In most OECD countries, social security
also includes health care.) Workers who consider migrating
face intimidating uncertainty about their rights and
eligibilities under nationally operated social security
systems. These systems are highly bureaucratic and difficult
to deal with, and even though in recent years various
bilateral treaties have been reached to ensure that migrating
workers receive proper credit for pension payments, many
foreign workers, one suspects, simply have their "voluntary"
contributions deducted from their paychecks and never
collect.
   Simple lack of information is one problem. Providing
proper documentation is another. Why not equip workers with
"social security passports" that would be universally
accepted as documentation, and credit their payments to
workers' homecountry retirement accounts?
   National governments have restricted the geographical
freedom of workers. Practical reforms can roll back these
restrictions. Geographic mobility ought to be thought of as
one of the most fundamental freedoms for labor, as it was for
the serfs who struggled centuries ago for the right to work
where they chose.
   ---
   Mr. Edwards is chairman of the economics department at the
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Executive Unit
   Buys FPA Properties
   For $39.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FEXC FPO
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- First Executive Corp. said its Executive
Life Insurance Co. subsidiary acquired several real estate
projects from FPA Corp., a Huntingdon Valley, Pa., real
estate developer, in exchange for FPA debt totaling $39.7
million.
   Executive Life said it plans to sell the properties. The
FPA debt includes $21.3 million principal amount of 12 5/8%
senior notes due 1993 and $18.5 million principal amount of
14 1/2% subordinated debentures due 2000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The properties include 45 single-family lots and two model
homes in Boca Raton, Fla., 47 acres of undeveloped property
within the Boca Golf &amp; Tennis Club and 600 acres of
undeveloped land at Palm-Aire Country Club, Sarasota, Fla.
Executive Life also acquired three condominium apartment
sites in Pompano, Fla., a newly issued $4 million seven-year
subordinated note bearing interest at the prime rate, and a
three-year option to acquire 400,000 shares of FPA at $4 a
share under certain circumstances.
   Fred Carr, First Executive's chairman and chief executive
officer, said the two FPA debt issues hadn't been written
down and weren't in default.
   Worries have widened about First Executive and Executive
Life because of their large junk-bond holdings. First
Executive units held $8.05 billion of junk bonds, of which
$244.9 million was in or near default as of December,
according to documents filed with state insurance
commissions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cypress Expects
   To Report 16%
   Profit Increase
   ---
   Chip Sales of All Sorts Stage
   First-Quarter Rebound;
   Industry May Improve
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   CY
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Cypress Semiconductor Inc., one of Silicon Valley's most
profitable chip-maker start-ups, has resumed an upward profit
surge after a sluggish year-end quarter.
   Cypress expects to report today net income of $8.3
million, or 22 cents a share, for the first quarter ended
April 2, up 16% from $7.1 million, or 19 cents a share, a
year earlier, Cypress President T. J. Rodgers said in an
interview. Cypress's chip sales picked up across the board
during the quarter, following a drop in orders late last year
caused when personal-computer makers cut back production, he
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The San Jose, Calif., company's rebound mirrors an
improvement in the chip industry's leading indicator last
week and could augur better times for semiconductor makers.
"We've just broken out of a stagnant period," said Mr.
Rodgers. After cutting inventories, "a lot of customers are
starting to buy again," he said.
   Cypress's first-quarter sales were $52.8 million, up 14%
from $46.2 million in the year-earlier quarter, Mr. Rodgers
said. Much of the rebound came from chip distributors, who
sell chips to smaller companies, he said, while sales to
personal-computer companies remained sluggish.
   Cypress has made its name -- and its profits -- by
targeting niches that Japanese chip juggernauts have ignored
as too small, and by making a large variety of
high-performance chips for those niches. The company now
makes 171 different chips, and expects to expand its
offerings to 210 by year end.
   Many of those chips have been less susceptible to the chip
slump that plagued other semiconductor companies in 1989. And
they have allowed Cypress to maintain high profit margins
matched by few other chip makers. Often cited as a
quintessential entrepreneurial company, Cypress had an
operating profit ratio of 21% of sales for its first quarter,
and gross margins of 61%. "The reason we're financially
stable is that we have a lot of eggs, with no single
vulnerable point," he said.
   Cypress said it expects to add at least one major product
line this year, and is exploring different ways of entering
the market for so-called digital-signal processor chips, used
in hi-fi equipment and many other products. The company also
said it will enter the fast-growing market for
microcontrollers -- "brain" chips used to command machines
such as printers and disk drives -- with a new chip that uses
Sun Microsystems Inc.'s Sparc architecture.
   Cypress expects profit to continue to grow at a healthy,
if not torrid, pace. The company had orders of $54 million in
the first quarter, up from $41 million in the immediately
prior quarter, when bookings fell 33%. For chip companies,
increased bookings in one quarter usually presage increased
sales in the following quarters.
   What's more, certain chips that weren't in demand late
last year suddenly are in heavy demand, Mr. Rodgers said.
Customers placing orders for high-density versions of chips
called static random-access memories, for example, must wait
13 weeks for delivery, he said. Late last year, delivery of
the chips was almost immediate.
   For the quarter ending July 2, Mr. Rodgers said he was
"comfortable" with analysts' estimates that the company would
post net of about $8.8 million, or 22 cents to 23 cents a
share, compared with $7.6 million, or 20 cents a share, in
the year-earlier quarter. He said he was also comfortable
with analysts' estimates of between $55 million and $57
million in revenue for the quarter.
   Contributing to increased profits this year will be sales
overseas, Mr. Rodgers said. Several big companies in Japan,
where Cypress did 5% of its sales last year, plan to use
Cypress chips in new mainframe computers and supercomputers.
Those chip sales and others will push Japanese sales to 7.5%
of Cypress's total sales for 1990, he said.
   Cypress ended the first quarter with $95.5 million in cash
and equivalents. About $25 million will go toward the
company's plan to buy back two million of its shares to apply
toward employee incentive programs, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CPC International Inc.
   Reports 17% Increase
   In First-Quarter Profit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CPC
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ENGLEWOOD CLIFFS, N.J. -- CPC International Inc. reported
first-quarter earnings climbed 17% on 7.3% higher sales.
   CPC, which manufactures a number of prominent food brands,
posted first-quarter net income of $78.9 million, or $1.01 a
share, compared with $67.7 million, or 86 cents a share, in
the year-earlier period. Sales advanced to $1.35 billion,
from $1.26 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's North American consumer foods lines saw
operating profit rise 12% on 3% higher sales. These lines
were led by Mazola corn oil, Mueller's pasta, Niagara starch
and Knorr soups and sauces, CPC said.
   European consumer foods earnings edged up 1% on 8% higher
sales. Currency translations damped results, CPC said.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Thursday, CPC
shares rose $1.50 to $72.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bank of New England
   Told to Pay $10 Million
   In Charterbank Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   NEB
</CO>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Bank of New England Corp. said a Massachusetts
state court ordered it to pay about $10 million to 13
minority shareholders in Charterbank, a Plymouth, Mass., bank
that was taken over in 1984 by a company later acquired by
Bank of New England.
   Bank of New England spokesmen confirmed details of the
ruling by Suffolk County Superior Court, but said it had no
immediate comment because the ruling was under review.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Charterbank holders had challenged the terms of the
takeover of Charterbank by Conifer Group in 1984. Bank of New
England inherited the lawsuit when it purchased Conifer in
1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gateway Bank Unit
   Takes Over a Thrift
   Under Pact With RTC
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   GTWY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NORWALK, Conn. -- Gateway Financial Corp. said its Gateway
Bank subsidiary took over Columbia Federal Savings Bank, a
failed Westport, Conn., thrift.
   Under an agreement with Resolution Trust Corp., the
government agency that manages failed thrifts, Gateway is
assuming all Columbia deposits and secured liabilities, which
total about $149 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gateway also is assuming $114.7 million of Columbia's
assets, including about $87.9 million in residential mortgage
and consumer loans as well as $24.6 million in cash and
securities, the government said.
   Gateway isn't acquiring any of Columbia's currently
identified non-performing loans, nor is Gateway paying any
cash to take over the troubled thrift. The government will
pay Gateway about $40 million and will keep about $8.7
million of Columbia's assets.
   Columbia Federal has been in conservatorship under the
U.S. government since February 1989. Gateway will reopen all
six branches of Columbia Federal as Gateway branches today.
Before the takeover, Gateway had 23 branches in Fairfield
County.
   Gateway, which has about $1.4 billion in assets and a
capital ratio of more than 8%, said the takeover would
increase its market share and broaden its geographical
coverage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Indonesia Gives Rice Farming a Facelift
   ---
   Pesticides Are Succeeded
   By Pest Management
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   YOGYAKARTA, Indonesia -- Farmers here call it the same
word they use for medicine. The government taught them for 20
years that the more obat, or pesticides, they sprayed, the
healthier their rice crops would be. It was inexpensive too:
The government sold a dollar's worth for only 15 cents.
   It seemed to work. With new hybrid seeds, irrigation
water, and plenty of fertilizer and obat, rice yields soared.
In 1976, Indonesia was the world's biggest rice importer. By
1983, it was growing enough rice to feed itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Then on Nov. 5, 1986, President Suharto issued a startling
decree: no more obat. Chemical sprays, he said, were doing
more harm than good. Specifically, they were helping
populations of one rice pest, the brown planthopper, to
explode. Therefore, he said, he was banning 57 highly toxic
insecticides from use on rice.
   Indonesia, he declared would henceforth use the
"alternative agriculture" techniques of integrated pest
management, or IPM, to control rice pests: essentially,
letting good bugs control bad bugs, with milder pesticides
held for emergencies.
   The Suharto decree is only beginning to be felt, but 3 1/2
years later the president remains deeply committed to cutting
back on agricultural chemicals, according to four of his
cabinet ministers.
   IPM experiments have been set up in other countries, but
Indonesia's is the most closely watched because of its size
and scope. As IPM promoters point out, conversion to
pesticide-free agriculture has occurred among a limited
number of specialized "organic" farmers in the U.S., but this
isn't that. This is the president of the world's fifth
most-populous nation and third largest rice-producing nation
(after China and India) reversing a tenet on growing the food
on which its economy and stability depend.
   (Last September the National Academy of Sciences
recommended similar steps toward "alternative agriculture"
for U.S. farmers. U.S. Department of Agriculture agreed,
saying that emphasis on "natural" farming methods and
de-emphasis on chemicals would gradually become the norm if
farmers are to reduce the high costs, erosion and pollution
problems associated with agricultural chemicals.)
   "Our farmers . . . have been encouraged to use pesticides
to protect their crops," says Johannes B. Sumarlin, who as
Indonesia's planning minister helped sell IPM to Suharto.
"Now we are telling them they cannot do this, that they are
to rely primarily on the natural enemies of rice destroying
pests to control them.
   "The broad use of pesticides, part of the agricultural
program in Indonesia and other rice-growing nations for some
20 years, does more harm than good because it does more to
eliminate the natural enemies of pests than the pests
themselves."
   Since the Suharto decree, say senior ministers, overall
pesticide use has dropped, rice yields haven't suffered and
major insect infestations haven't occurred. Test plots show
that farmers can increase yields without routine spraying. A
nationwide training program is under way to train IPM
teachers, pest monitors and extension agents. The goal is to
train 2.5 million of Indonesia's 10 million land-owning rice
farmers by the end of 1994.
   To break farmers of the habit of routine spraying, the
government reduced pesticide subsidies in stages, eliminating
them completely in January 1989. This saved the government
$100 million a year in subsidies and also caused retail
pesticide prices to rise, making farmers consider the cost of
a habit that was once almost free.
   Suharto banned the 57 most toxic of 66 insecticides in
common use in Indonesia, all of them broad-spectrum
organophosphates. Their makers had about half of the $170
million Indonesian market in crop pesticides. Although these
compounds can still be sold for use on vegetables and
plantation crops, production has plummeted. The country's
biggest producer, P.T. Bayer Indonesia, a unit of West
Germany's Bayer AG, dropped to 6,490 tons in 1987 from 11,697
tons in 1986. Other big producers reported production
declines averaging 50%. Cans and bottles of these pesticides
must be labeled, "Banned for use on rice," though shopkeepers
interviewed in several villages in Central Java said many
farmers ignore the label.
   Pesticide makers criticized the ban on organophosphates,
saying farmers needed them to fight other harmful rice pests
such as stemborers and leaffolders. But they generally
applauded the new "deregulated" market. By eliminating
subsidies, the government largely took itself out of
pesticide distribution, causing manufacturers to set up
marketing and promotion systems down into the villages.
   The nine pesticides still allowed for use on rice fields
are narrow-spectrum carbamates that generally kill specific
insects, and one Japanese chemical that inhibits the molting
process in planthopper larvae but doesn't kill planthopper
predators. Tokyo gave Indonesia $16 million to buy a year's
supply from the Japanese company that makes it.
   What compelled Suharto's 1986 reversal was a tiny
rice-destroying insect called the brown planthopper, the most
serious insect pest in rice. It sucks the sap of the rice
plant, weakening it, and spreads plant viruses. Planthopper
epidemics struck in the late 1970s in India, Indonesia,
Malaysia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, the Solomon Islands,
Thailand and Vietnam.
   The insect spread rapidly because modern rice varieties
are planted close together and, when fertilized and
irrigated, grow lots more leaves and stalks than traditional
varieties. Irrigation gives the ability to grow rice all year
round, so there's no fallow dry season to break the
planthopper's lifecycle.
   Also, insecticide spraying killed the hopper's natural
predators and parasites. Roughly 120 species of insects and
spiders eat planthoppers or otherwise kill them. By 1986, a
planthopper outbreak threatened to make a mockery of the
Suharto regime's proudest achievement: rice self-sufficiency.
More and more pesticides did less and less good, and a
general election was coming up.
   Indonesian and foreign scientists convinced senior
ministers who, in turn, convinced Suharto that spraying was
actually worsening the outbreaks by killing the leafhoppers'
natural enemies but not leafhopper eggs. The eggs hatched,
unhindered by natural enemies. Populations exploded.
   U.S. entomologist Peter Kenmore, the United Nations Food
and Agricultural Organization's chief IPM promoter, praises
the "political will" of Indonesia's leaders, saying they are
giving the country "the most modern, flexible, and
scientifically sound field pest management system of any
country in the Third World."
   Mr. Kenmore said that the contribution of pesticides to
the enormous growth in rice yields had been overrated. He
attributes 50% of yield increases to irrigation, which allows
steady water levels year round. An additional 20% to 30% of
increased yields is due to fertilizer, he says, while the new
hybrid seeds probably account for 10%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking The Economy:
   Weather Rains on Analysts' Forecasts
   For First-Quarter Growth, Inflation
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There's more opportunity this week to blame
Mother Nature for some recent off-key forecasts on the
economy's pace of growth and inflation.
   Economists, who have been revising first-quarter forecasts
right and left as March data materializes, say consumer
prices should be tamer, industrial production and capacity
utilization should hold firm, housing starts should slip back
to normally depressed levels, and the February trade deficit
should improve substantially. Most of the week's data are due
out tomorrow and much of the month-to-month changes are
pegged to anomalies of weather.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We're one of the largest industrialized countries, yet a
little warm weather here or there seems to affect us as much
as a small agricultural economy," said Samuel D. Kahan,
economist at Fuji Securities Inc., Chicago. It all adds up to
some unforeseen strength in first-quarter numbers, he said.
"But is it real?"
   In recent weeks, several economists have raised their
first-quarter forecasts, citing weather and other special
factors. "The first quarter turned out to be stronger than we
thought," said David Wyss, chief financial economist at DRI/
McGraw Hill, Lexington, Mass. He now estimates real gross
national product grew at about a 2% rate in the first
quarter. DRI "borrowed" most of the higher growth estimate
from the second quarter. "We now think the two quarters will
be more or less the same size, rather than a weak first
quarter and a strong second quarter," he said.
   Extremely cold weather in December sent fuel and food
costs soaring in a wave that hasn't yet fully retraced
itself. And, January's unusually mild weather boosted
employment, throwing many jobs and output forecasts out of
whack.
   March consumer prices are expected to rise only a modest
0.2% or so, though some economists say the number may
actually slide into the negative. Friday's
better-than-expected report on March producer prices showed
the first drop in wholesale prices in seven months. Much of
the improvement in both indexes is believed to be a rebound
from sharply higher fuel and food costs because of frigid
weather early in the year.
   The March consumer price index is also expected to benefit
from a fallback in clothing prices. In February, the CPI rose
0.5%, partly because of a 3.3% jump in apparel costs. The
latest reading is also expected to benefit from lower
gasoline prices that weren't fully passed through in the
February index.
   A drop in oil imports -- another weather-related factor --
is expected to help the February trade imbalance. The deficit
is believed to have narrowed to about $8 billion from
January's $9.3 billion, according to a survey by MMS
International Inc., a unit of McGraw-Hill, New York.
   March housing starts, on the other hand, are expected to
fall back to an annual rate of about 1.4 million units after
a step-up in building to take advantage of the earlier mild
weather.
   Industrial production is expected to expand a bit, despite
lingering declines in manufacturing employment, said Morgan
Stanley Co. economist Stephen S. Roach. Much of the firmness
stems from a weather-related rebound in utility production,
Mr. Roach said in his weekly commentary. He expects a 0.3%
increase in output, a bit stronger than the consensus view,
which calls for a 0.1% upgrade. Output rose 0.6% in February.
   Benchmark revisions in March industrial production and its
offshoot capacity utilization reset the base year to 1987
from 1977 and adjust the industry mix to reflect the more
recent data. Not surprisingly, the biggest change in the
business mix came in the computer sector, according to a
recent article in the latest Federal Reserve Bulletin. It
said the revised annual growth rate of business equipment was
"quite a bit stronger" than previously shown because of
sharply faster growth of office and computing machines. The
changes bring the Fed's data closer in line with the Commerce
Department's revised reading on computer growth.
   ---
                  Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended April 6
                                                                                                       

                                                CHANGE
                                                (from prior
                                     TOTAL       period)
                                                                                                       

   Money supply
    M1 -- Week ended
    April 2 (in billions)           $808.3      +$3.4
                                                                                                       

    M2 -- Week ended
    April 2 (in billions)         $3,269.0      -$4.0
                                                                                                       

    M3 -- Week ended
    April 2 (in billions)         $4,062.3      -$7.1
                                                                                                       


   March (in billions)             $148.55      -0.6%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended March 31             338,000      -1.2%
                                                                                                       

   Business inventories
   February (in billions)          $794.60      -0.4%
                                                                                                       

   Producer price index
   March                            117.0%      -0.2%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Consumer price index (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Industrial production (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Capacity utilization (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Tues.)
   Early April
                                                                                                       

   Housing starts (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Housing permits (Tues.)
   March
                                                                                                       

   Trade deficit (Wed.)
   February
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims (Thurs.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Wanted: A Corporate Champion
   ----
   By John F. Budd Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   I saw "Roger and Me," the muckraking documentary that
recycles the hackneyed theme of the pitiless corporate giant
vs. the beloved working-class community -- and was
frightened. I read "Barbarians at the Gate" (written by two
of this newspaper's reporters), the best seller about
corporate greed -- and was revolted. I reviewed Harvard Prof.
Michael Jensen's sanctimonious "Eclipse of the Public
Corporation" -- and was enraged.
   Where are the corporate champions? Is there no one in
corporate America capable of intellectually challenging this
sophistic blitzkrieg on the integrity of business?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the late 1970s General Electric's Reginald Jones or Du
Pont's Irving Shapiro would no doubt have been quick to take
to the pen or podium to dissect these simplistic caricatures
of reality.
   Are today's business leaders too preoccupied with
restructuring, or the Japanese, to take on these
disinformationists?
   It's not so much that Michael Moore, director of "Roger
and Me," by a tricky re-arranging of events distorted the
history of both Flint, Mich., and GM. What concerns me is
that no CEO has stood up to address the larger issue: the
manipulative thrust of the film, which was meant to rekindle
class warfare.
   After a brief period of lauding the achievements of the
entrepreneurial spirit in the early to mid-1980s, we seem to
be coming full circle to the anti-business climate of the
1960s and 1970s. And there's been no serious or scholarly
confrontation by business itself of the implied thesis that a
decay of morality and values in corporate America is rampant.
   I suspect that the star-studded class of CEOs of the 1980s
-- Walter Wriston, David Rockefeller, John DeButts, et al.,
would long ago have risen to the bait. There are plenty of
positives in the American business story in the decade just
ended. In fact, for anyone who clearly looks at the facts,
there is reason for unfashionable optimism about America's
future.
   One lesson the 1980s should have taught American business
leaders is the pivotal importance of corporate credibility.
Achieving it, sustaining it, protecting it is not a damage
control matter. It has to be a daily activity. It demands
visible, candid, even visionary leadership.
   Abstracts like integrity and values generally have little
agenda space as business copes with quantitative issues --
competition, costs, quality, legal headaches, etc. With the
third millennium now within reasonable strategic planning
distance, an Industry Week survey (in addition to others) of
CEO pronouncements about the issues of the new decade showed
a disturbing absence of concern for these troubling,
insidious undercurrents that question the value and relevance
of capitalism.
   Why are other issues considered more important? Trade is a
tangible problem; trust, an intangible. But of no less
importance when one notes that a Carnegie Mellon study
indicates fully one-third of 400 senior executives surveyed
distrust their direct bosses and 55% do not believe top
management. A survey of 611 executives by New Forum Group, a
Boston-based consulting firm, shows a significant gap between
what the CEO thinks he's communicating and what his
executives hear. A full 82% of the CEOs feel that their
strategy is clear and understood. But less than one-third of
the chief operating officers and vice presidents agree.
   If there is, as the year-end cover story in Fortune
magazine indicated, a major "trust gap" existing between top
management and the rest of the company, why isn't this given
any priority in planning?
   The speeches and writings of today's leadership on
concrete issues are incisive and far-seeing. But on
philosophical issues they are largely mute. The Bully Pulpit
has been debased.
   Of course, perceptions are devilishly hard to pin down, to
reverse or to neutralize. Yet, left unchallenged, they create
an environment of cynicism that can, ultimately, create havoc
for any one company, any one CEO. They can easily move from
general perceptions into specific barriers to effective
management, such as mistrust of senior management, or the
lack of confidence in its competence.
   Executives must recognize the need to identify and accept
the validity of these qualitative issues and address them as
forthrightly as they do the quantitative ones. Each
management decision has an element of the qualitative
inherent in it.
   Human resources isn't just about pay, child care or drugs.
It is also about rebuilding the social contract between
employers and employees shredded by layoffs, takeovers and
restructurings.
   CEOs shouldn't be expected to know all the answers, but
they should at least be aware of the questions and be of a
mind to tackle them publicly.
   This may end up being the real issue of the 1990s. Will
CEOs have the intellectual sophistication to respond to these
subtle but dangerous currents?
   ---
   Mr. Budd is vice chairman of Carl Byoir &amp; Associates, a
management consulting firm in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pentagon Plans
   Call for Big Cuts
   Into Late 1990s
   ---
   Active Duty Army Forces
   World-Wide Could Face
   Reduction of About 25%
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Defense Department's latest spending
plans call for cutting active duty Army troops and front-line
Air Force jet fighters by almost 25% by 1998, according to
Pentagon and congressional aides.
   The budget-cutting proposals, which still must be approved
by Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and President Bush, are
about twice as large as reductions envisioned in the
military's current five-year plan through 1995. Mr. Cheney is
likely to use the recommendations in preparing a long-term
spending blueprint, which would seek to protect high-tech
weaponry at the expense of personnel and existing hardware,
according to these aides.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Congress probably will demand significantly faster and
deeper cuts in military programs, especially from the Army,
which under the latest proposals maintains its roughly
one-third share of the Pentagon's overall budget through the
late 1990s.
   Under proposals submitted by Army leaders to Secretary
Cheney, total active-duty strength would fall to about
580,000 soldiers over the next eight years from the current
764,000. This would amount to a one-quarter reduction of Army
forces world-wide, according to people familiar with the
details, which were first reported by the Associated Press.
Over the same period, the size of the National Guard and Army
reserve forces is slated to fall to 645,000 from 776,000.
   By agreeing to slash personnel, Army leaders are betting
they can stave off deep reductions in maintenance and
training accounts for the remaining troops. They also
apparently hope to save their most cherished acquisition
programs, including plans to spend about $40 billion to
purchase a new generation of light attack helicopters and
untold billions of dollars to develop and field replacements
for the heavy Abrams tanks and several armored vehicles.
   Gen. Carl Vuono, the Army's chief of staff, has told
lawmakers that without the new helicopters, the Army "is
going to go into the 21st century with 30-year-old
technology." The light scout helicopter, facing increasing
criticism on Capitol Hill, is being developed by two
competing teams of contractors: McDonnell Douglas Corp. and a
Textron Inc. unit are pitted against Boeing Co. and a unit of
United Technologies Corp.
   At the same time, however, Gen. Vuono and other top
Pentagon officials are strongly resisting congressional
demands for faster withdrawals of U.S. troops from West
Germany prior to completion of U.S.-Soviet arms-control
talks. Among other things, Mr. Cheney still has to decide how
large a portion of the contemplated active-duty cuts will
come from Europe over the long run and whether reserve forces
should face proportionately smaller cuts as Gen. Vuono and
Army Secretary Michael Stone advocate.
   For the Air Force, Mr. Cheney is putting the finishing
touches on plans reducing the number of fighter wings to 28
from the current 35, according to congressional and Pentagon
aides. A tactical fighter wing has as many as 72 aircraft,
and such cuts would require phasing out well over 300
high-performance aircraft from active duty by the late 1990s.
Previous plans announced by the Pentagon talked about
eliminating a maximum of five such frontline Air Force units
by the mid-1990s.
   To try to save its multibillion-dollar plans to purchase
fleets of radar-evading B-2 Stealth bombers, new Stealth
fighters and C-17 transport planes, the Air Force is
considering cutting another 45,000 uniformed personnel by the
late 1990s, according to Pentagon and congressional budget
analysts.
   Moreover, Air Force Secretary Donald Rice is leaning
toward putting some of the service's most trusted hardware on
the chopping block, including reducing F-16 production and
possibly phasing out all purchases after 1998 of the fighter
built by General Dynamics Corp.
   Taken all together, the spending proposals being reviewed
by Secretary Cheney make up the most far-reaching package of
personnel and acquisition cuts prepared by high-level
Pentagon planners since Communist governments in Eastern
Europe began toppling last fall.
   The Navy, which has been fighting hard to keep the budget
knife from its 14 aircraft carriers, is expected to face
smaller proposed percentage reductions in personnel and
shipbuilding accounts than the other services. But Mr. Cheney
has ordered a review of Trident submarine production and has
hinted that as many as 50 older Navy surface ships and
submarines may be retired from the fleet during the next six
or seven years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boone Pickens Gets Zero
   Partner's Fee This Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MLP
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Oilman T. Boone Pickens Jr. lost more than a big
distribution check when his Mesa Limited Partnership stopped
its annual payment to unit-holders earlier this year. He also
lost his general partner's fee.
   According to the company's recently mailed proxy
statement, Mr. Pickens, as the general partner of the oil and
gas master limited partnership, is entitled to receive 1% of
the partnership's cash distribution. That amounted to $1.6
million in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After scrounging for several years to make the
distribution, Mesa halted it with the February payout because
its cash flow wasn't nearly enough to cover it. As a result,
the general partner's fee drops to zero.
   "I get some fees if we make money on something," such as
securities gains or acquisitions, says Mr. Pickens. "But
other than that, I'm a cheap employee this year."
   In addition to losing the general partner fee, Mr. Pickens
also loses about $10.5 million in annual distribution for the
approximately seven million Mesa units he owns.
   But the move doesn't exactly leave him poor. Last year,
along with the general partner's fee, he also received about
$2.3 million in fees from securities and futures contract
gains and acquisitions fees. A proposed Mesa unit-option
plan, up for unit-holder approval at the May 17 unit-holders'
meeting, would give him options to buy two million more Mesa
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SmithKline Unit Suspends
   Production at French Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SBE
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS (AP) -- A drug company halted production at its
factory and ordered its products removed from drugstore
shelves after tests indicated contamination of some of its
medicine with sulfuric acid.
   Smith Kline &amp; French, a subsidiary of the
British-U.S.company SmithKline Beecham PLC, said it was
suspending all exports of Zentel, an anti-parasite medicine
sold in many African, Asian and South American countries
under the name Albendazole.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said traces of sulfuric acid were found in a
bottle of Zentel after threats by an unknown person demanding
$1 million. The firm said efforts would be made to recall
Zentel shipped overseas since the first threat was made in
early April.
   Zentel is produced only for export, but the company
announced a temporary halt to production of all medicine at
its factory in Limay, outside Paris. The concern also imposed
a quarantine on sales of all products made at the factory
since March 15.
   The firm said police were investigating.
   The company didn't provide further details of the
contamination.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Romanian Official Expects
   Resistance to Privatization
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BUCHAREST -- A Romanian official responsible for
privatization said he expects resistance to the process from
factory managers unfamiliar with market mechanisms after 43
years of Communist rule.
   A decree of the provisional government legalizing free
enterprise in Romania took effect last month. The government
is seeking joint ventures and other cooperation with foreign
companies to gain experience and access to foreign capital,
said Adrian Severin, state secretary for privatization in the
Economy Ministry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Communist thinking still prevalent in factories could
slow the process of introducing private enterprise and market
mechanisms, Mr. Severin told a news conference.
   "Factory managers say privatization is bad and that they
need a `wise man' to tell them which way to go and what to
produce," Mr. Severin said.
   The government, however, is determined to decentralize the
economy and pass on to a market economy, the official said.
   He said Romanians will have to be educated about the
advantages of a market economy if it is to work.
   "People associate privatization with misery," he said.
"People should understand that privatization is good."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   `Sour' Crude-Oil Contract Appears a Tasty Idea
   To Some Exchanges; Singapore May Offer One
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Now that even natural gas is being traded in the
fuel-futures market, can a "sour" crude contract be far
behind?
   Probably not. The petroleum futures exchanges are
seriously studying the addition of a contract to represent
the sour crudes -- those with high sulfur content. "Sour
crude is a high priority," said an official of the
International Petroleum Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The London-based exchange is looking at several
possibilities among the sour grades -- perhaps even a package
of crudes. But the most likely candidate for the contract is
the Dubai sour crude, perhaps to be traded on the Singapore
exchange. Dubai is an important Middle East petroleum --
already ranked among the world's benchmark crudes -- that is
produced in the United Arab Emirates.
   Two other benchmark crudes currently are traded in the
futures market. The North Sea's Brent is listed on London's
International Petroleum Exchange. West Texas Intermediate,
the U.S. benchmark crude, is on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.
   As a futures commodity, West Texas Intermediate has been a
smashing success. It isn't unusual for a day's volume in WTI
futures trading to number more than 100,000 contracts of
1,000 barrels each. That's nearly double the petroleum the
world actually uses each day.
   But both WTI and Brent are light "sweet" crudes, low in
density and in sulfur. Priced at a premium, they yield more
preferred fuels such as gasoline. Also, they are important
for environmental reasons. They pollute less than high-sulfur
oil.
   As a result, the sour crudes are responsible for the
current oil glut. The refiners mainly want sweet oil. That
has meant a widening gap between the prices paid for the
sweet and sour crudes, currently as much as $4 or $5 a
barrel. "The sweet crudes have decoupled from the sours,"
said Humphrey Harrison, a London-based oil analyst, "but
there is still a need for a futures market for sour crudes."
   Indeed, the world's future oil needs will have to be met
more and more by the sour crudes. There isn't going to be
much choice.
   The world's crude stream is growing heavier. Most reserves
that will have to be tapped in the years ahead are in the
Middle East and are considered heavy, or dense, crudes. Most
are high in sulfur. Six of every 10 barrels produced by the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries are in the
heavy or sour crude categories.
   Dubai is a relatively light crude. Its density is on par
with that of Arabian Light. Still, the sulfur content makes
it a sour crude. But whether it's Dubai or not, oil analysts
expect that a sour crude will be added by one of the
petroleum exchanges soon.
   The betting is on Singapore. The Singapore International
Monetary Exchange, or Simex, is succeeding in the futures
trading of a high-sulfur residual fuel oil contract launched
more than a year ago. There have been some problems, but the
Simex contract is doing much better than similar heavy
fuel-oil trading offered on the International Petroleum
Exchange or the New York Merc. The Rotterdam Energy Futures
Exchange in Holland abandoned its fuel oil contract recently.
   The Simex will get considerable support if it does offer a
crude contract. The government and a growing community of oil
traders in Singapore back the idea, and the island
city-state's refineries process a lot of crude from the
Middle East.
   The Simex itself already has endorsed the introduction of
a Dubai contract, although there are certain remaining
approvals to be obtained. Such a sour-crude contract could be
traded soon. "We are looking at a time frame of sometime
before June 1," Frankie Lim Choo Beng, the Simex vice
president-energy futures, said in a recent interview.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   If the dollar resumes climbing, it will be "the death
knell" for gold, says William O'Neill, director of futures
research at Elders Futures Inc. in New York.
   Dinsa Mehta, chief bullion trader for Chase Manhattan
Bank, says this is a testing time for gold: "Gold needs a
convincing move to the upside to dissipate the negative
sentiment that has built up." June-delivery gold rose $1.30
an ounce Thursday to $379.70.
   Frank Taucher notes in his "1990 Supertrader's Almanac"
that over the past five years, if one contract of
June-delivery gold were sold on April 15 (April 16 this year)
and bought back May 31, an average profit of $968 would have
been reaped (before commissions). The worst paper loss
experienced on a daily closing-price basis was $560. Mr.
Taucher cautions that seasonal trades don't necessarily
repeat each year. But he believes that traders contemplating
entering any market should be aware of seasonal patterns.

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   According to Michael Frawley, metals trader at PaineWebber
Inc. in New York, the market will be watching two barometers
due out tomorrow: the stockpile levels to be announced by the
London Metals Exchange and the disclosure of the offers to
sell copper to the U.S. Mint.
   The London Metals Exchange usually announces its warehouse
stocks Monday but because the exchange is closed today for
Easter, the data will be released tomorrow. Last week, rumors
of an impending increase in stockpiles kept the market on
edge.
   Periodically, Mr. Frawley said, the Mint accepts for
purchase 4,000 tons of copper for its coin manufacturing
operations. On Tuesday at 11 a.m. EST when the Mint opens
offers, he said, speculators will be watching closely to see
the prices at which copper has been tendered to the Mint.
   The tender "is a good indication of how strong the market
is, and I think it will set the tone for the balance of the
week," says Mr. Frawley. Copper has a tendency to peak around
this time of the year, he adds.
   Mr. Taucher confirms that belief. He says in his almanac
that over the past five years, if May-delivery copper were
sold April 15 (April 16 this year) and bought back April 30,
an average profit of $788 a contract would have been realized
(before commissions). The worst paper loss experienced on a
daily closing-price basis was $138.
   Seasonal trading is used by many traders in the commodity
markets. Usually it is combined with other technical trading
techniques to determine precise entry and exit points.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Cattle traders this week will formulate their estimates of
the size of the herd being fattened for slaughter in 13 major
cattle-producing states.
   On Friday, the Agriculture Department is slated to release
its quarterly survey after the close of trading.
   The early speculation is that the department will probably
report that the number of cattle on feedlots on April 1 rose
slightly from the same 1989 date.
   The department is also expected to report that the number
of young cattle placed on feedlots, as well as the number of
fattened cattle sold from feedlots to slaughterhouses, fell
during the quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   RJR Says It Plans to Sell
   Nabisco's Pet-Snacks Line
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Nabisco Brands Inc. said it plans to sell its
pet-snacks division to concentrate on other food lines.
   The division, which makes Milk-Bone dog biscuits, has
annual sales of about $150 million, said John Manfredi, a
senior vice president at Nabisco, a unit of RJR Nabisco Inc.
He described the division as "very profitable," but wouldn't
disclose earnings. The operation consists of a plant in
Buffalo, N.Y., with 275 employees, and a kennel with 12
workers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Manfredi said Nabisco Foods Co., the division's
parent, had reviewed the performance of all its food lines
and had decided that the pet-snacks division "didn't meet our
strategic fit."
   He said talks with potential buyers haven't started. He
declined to estimate the sale price or how long it might take
to sell the division. Mr. Manfredi added that no decision had
been made as to how proceeds from the sale would be used.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Las Vegas Shopping Center
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Kabutodecom Inc. and a U.S. partner will build a
shopping center in Las Vegas, Nev., an official of the
Japanese real estate developer said.
   Kabutodecom's subsidiary, Kabuto International Nevada, and
Johnson Development of New Mexico will jointly build the
project. Kabuto International will manage the completed
shopping center.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The project is expected to cost the equivalent of 10
billion yen ($63 million). The official wouldn't specify what
funding each company would contribute.
   The target date for opening the shopping center is May
1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BTR Gets 64.1% of Norton
   In Tender Offer for Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NRT U.BTR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS (IND)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- ER Holdings Inc., a unit of BTR PLC,
said it has received 11,843,089 shares in its $1.64 billion,
or $75-a-share, offer for Norton Co.
   BTR said that together with 325,000 Norton shares
previously held, it had 64.1% of the Norton common
outstanding. The company earlier indicated it expected to
receive between 50% and 70% of the shares in the offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Norton, a Worcester, Mass., abrasives maker, is fighting
the tender offer; the company is looking for an alternative
suitor or investor to thwart BTR's bid. The company has also
lobbied Massachusetts lawmakers to pass a law that could
delay the installation of new directors in the proxy fight
BTR is waging against Norton. The proxy vote is scheduled at
an annual meeting April 26.
   BTR, a British conglomerate, also said it has extended the
tender offer until 9 p.m. eastern time April 27. The offer
was scheduled to expire at midnight April 12.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   One Man's Quest:
   Sen. Kerrey's Return
   To Vietnam Opens
   Wounds Old and New
   ---
   Two Decades After Leaving,
   A War Hero Comes Back
   On a Fact-Finding Mission
   ---
   Beggars and Bomb Craters
   ----
   By Dennis Farney
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   HANOI, Vietnam -- "The Operator."
   That is how Bob Kerrey once saw himself. He was a Navy
SEAL then, trained to kill with a blow or a bullet. Friends
say he had "a SEAL personality" -- can-do, supremely
self-assured, even cocky. He had the cool ability to distance
himself from the killing and the suffering.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But that was 21 years ago, before an enemy grenade came
flying out of the predawn darkness during a commando raid.
Before his lower right leg was torn apart. Before Vietnam,
the defining event of his life.
   Last week, the Operator came back -- now a 46-year-old
United States senator from Nebraska on a fact-finding tour
for the Foreign Relations Committee. Now being weighed by
Democrats in Washington as a potential presidential
candidate, he is in some ways still cocky, still can-do.
   But in a fundamental way, the man who returned was not the
man who had left. Mr. Kerrey is now acutely sensitized to
pain. He would witness an abundance of it on his Southeast
Asia trip. He saw and felt such things, he said, "that if I
had stopped to look very long I might not have been able to
go back to the United States. I would just become too
engaged."
   Sen. Kerrey delivered that summation as he stood in the
gray mist of an early Hanoi morning. Soon, he would attend
Easter Sunday Mass and be besieged outside the church by
clutching beggars -- children, mostly, and women with
infants. Then he would fly out of this country, his military
plane lifting above the bomb craters that still pockmark the
brilliant green fields.
   Just now, though, he was watching a stiff-legged
Vietnamese war veteran play badminton. The veteran had been
shot through the knee, but in compensation his opponent
allowed him to use a racket in each hand. The whole trip was
like that moment -- full of present pain and reminders of
past pain.
   In Cambodia, the senator visited a hospital filled with
children on intravenous tubes. In his presence, a girl of
about seven abruptly vomited up black fluid, twitched and
died. In Thailand, he helicoptered through the heat and the
haze toward mountains that reared up like those of ancient
Chinese scroll paintings. A mile away from Cambodia and its
smoldering civil war, he walked stoically and wordlessly
through an outdoor hospital ward filled with amputees.
   In Thailand, he became the highest-ranking U.S. visitor to
a refugee camp controlled by the Khmer Rouge. Touring the
camp, the senator, whose lower leg has been replaced by a
prosthesis, passed by one-legged men who had no prosthesis.
He heard tales of leprosy, tuberculosis and sporadic
artillery shelling of the camp from across the border.
   Then, inside a sweltering shelter, he had a tense, terse
exchange with three cold-eyed Khmer Rouge officials --
political descendants of those Communists who snuffed out at
least one million of their fellow countrymen in the Cambodian
Killing Fields of 1975 to 1978.
   "No one {in the U.S.} mourns the driving of the Khmer
Rouge out of Cambodia," he told the men across the table.
(The Vietnamese pushed them to the Cambodian-Thailand border
after invading in 1978.) Cold-eyed himself, he probed for
some hint of remorse for the genocide.
   "We were so young," volunteered one Khmer Rouge official.
   It wasn't enough. The senator stiffly said goodbye and
returned to his helicopter. "I think they would go back into
the Fields in about five minutes, those guys," he burst out.
   For Mr. Kerrey, this trip was as much a journey of the
self as it was a fact-finding mission -- a chance to further
integrate, and apply, his Vietnam experience.
   Despite the intensifying interest he is generating in
Washington, he went out of his way to discourage publicity on
this trip. He turned down the television networks, the news
magazines, several newspapers. In the end, he took only
correspondents from The Wall Street Journal and the Omaha
World-Herald. And at times we seemed to discomfit him.
   While visiting the amputee ward, he was approached by Gary
Parrott, an ex-SEAL and close friend who had joined the
traveling group. Mr. Parrott, looking for some way to offer
hope to a Cambodian amputee, suggested: "You ought to show
him what you've got." (The senator's prosthesis enables him
to run and walk with scarcely a trace of a limp.)
   "Yeah, if I can get alone," muttered Mr. Kerrey. But the
chance never came.
   The journey, however, did offer this intuitive, outspoken
senator a chance to test tentative foreign policy
assumptions. His central thesis is that even as U.S.-Soviet
tensions ease dramatically, both countries, along with China,
continue to treat Vietnam and Cambodia as Cold War pawns. The
pawns themselves not only tolerate but encourage this
behavior. The only losers, he believes, are the people.
   "Sometimes, you've got to get beyond the ideology and
focus on humanitarianism," he said.
   In Cambodia, he startled his hosts, who tried to bottle
him up in a Phnom Penh government guest house, by borrowing a
bicycle from a maintenance man and pedaling down to the
market. He disconcerted his Hanoi hosts by insisting on
attending Mass, even though he belongs to a Presbyterian
church back home. By wandering around and asking questions,
he discovered that Vietnam's cardinal is under virtual house
arrest.
   In one remarkably frank exchange with Foreign Minister
Nguyen Co Thach, he chided Vietnam for winning its war of
independence only to suppress the independence of its own
citizens. "Some of us believed we were fighting for the
freedom of the Vietnamese people," he said in one of his few
allusions to his own war activities. Mr. Thach, witty and
urbane, parried.
   "I like to let the dreamers dream," Mr. Kerrey said. "Only
at night," admonished Mr. Thach. "Day and night," insisted
Mr. Kerrey.
   While his wartime experiences were seldom mentioned, they
never seemed far from the senator's mind. He entered
Southeast Asia last week by commercial jet, a decided
contrast to his entry in January 1969. Then it was by a
converted cargo plane. He remembers disembarking in the warm
darkness, then nervously holding his weapon at the ready as
he and other new arrivals were driven up the coast. By
daylight, though, he concluded that nervousness had been
unwarranted: "We could see guys surfing along the beach."
   Less than three months later, he led a pre-dawn assault
against an enemy unit on the island of Hon Tre. He and his
men scaled a cliff. They began to advance. Then things went
terribly wrong.
   A firefight erupted. The grenade came out of nowhere. Bob
Kerrey never saw the man who got him. The rest of his small
unit was evacuated with relatively minor wounds; Mr. Kerrey,
who remained behind until all his men had been rescued, would
eventually receive the Congressional Medal of Honor from
President Nixon.
   But first there would be the below-the-knee amputation,
the long journey of pain, a protracted lesson in humility. It
began in a Naval hospital in Japan. Angry at his fate, angry
at the medical personnel, he was not a model patient. "I've
got to get out of here," he lashed out. The next thing he
knew, he recalls, a burly male nurse appeared at his bedside,
ripped him out of bed, carried him through the hospital ward
-- and dumped him on the grass outside. It was a brutal, but
effective, warning against self-pity.
   His electoral career has represented the political
coming-of-age of the Vietnam generation. Some Democratic
professionals see his almost unique credentials --
particularly his war-hero record, which would neutralize any
Republican charges that Democrats are soft on national
security -- as potential salvation. As governor of Nebraska,
divorced and the father of two, he had a much-publicized
relationship with actress Debra Winger; it only seems to have
added to his political appeal.
   He's already taken criticism for being too impulsive, too
erratic. "Cosmic Bob," Newsweek magazine called him recently.
A "non-linear personality" -- that's how staffers described
him when he was governor. He has a healthy ego. Yet he can
talk of the wish to live more like Mother Teresa. "She
needn't fear losing anything," he says wistfully, "because
she's given it all away." This trip seemed, in some ways, an
attempt to meld those sentiments with his ambitions.
   In Hanoi, he found a city of gracious boulevards but faded
elegance, a primitive city where bicycles throng the streets
and calloused hands work the fields on the outskirts. Sen.
Kerrey's schedule also included a visit to that secular
shrine of Vietnam, the mausoleum of Ho Chi Minh. The body is
spotlighted, and an honor guard stands at attention in the
semi-darkness. Then the senator was off in a horn-honking,
bicycle-dodging motorcade for meetings with government
officials.
   He found those officials eager for outside capital,
especially now that the Soviet Union seems to be trimming its
aid, and anxious for the U.S. to relax economic pressures.
   His hosts took him to a war monument near the site where
Naval pilot and now Sen. John McCain was captured after his
plane went down. Mr. McCain was to endure five and a half
years of captivity and torture. The monument shows a U.S.
airman on his knees, head bowed and hands upraised in
surrender.
   "His name is spelled wrong," Sen. Kerrey informed Foreign
Minister Thach. "The wrong name in the right place," replied
Mr. Thach. "I think," Sen. Kerrey replied dryly, "he would
agree."
   One of his main goals was to deliver a warning to
officials: He repeatedly argued that the Cambodian government
installed after Vietnam's invasion is vulnerable to charges
that it is nothing more than a puppet. That, he said, gives
the Khmer Rouge a potent rallying point. In the end, Sen.
Kerrey said he felt somewhat more encouraged about the
possibility of an agreement on Cambodia.
   Much of Mr. Kerrey's message was reconciliation. "Part of
what America must do in coming to terms with Vietnam is to
come to terms with the Vietnamese people," he said. In a
meeting with Vietnamese Prime Minister Do Muoi, he likened
the U.S. and Vietnam to "a couple that has gone through a
bitter divorce. They have divided the property. They have
fought over the children. They now live in separate houses.
Both must say, `We made mistakes.'"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Orange-co Inc.:
   Sale Is Planned for Acres
   Of Citrus, Additional Assets
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C3
</SO>
<CO>
   OJ SRE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Orange-co Inc. said it plans to sell about 5,600 acres of
citrus property and several other assets to focus on
improving the profitability of its remaining citrus holdings.
   Lake Hamilton, Fla., Orange-co, one of the nation's
largest citrus producers, said the moves would leave it with
about 17,900 citrus acres, which have an estimated value of
$100 million. The company said all, or most, of the expected
gain from the asset sales would be sheltered by its existing
net operating loss carry-forward, which stands in excess of
$40 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that when it has successfully completed
restructuring its assets, it will be essentially debt-free,
with an improved cash flow and cash position.
   Orange-co, which is 52%-owned by Stoneridge Resources Inc.
in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., also released its fiscal
second-quarter earnings for the period ended Feb. 28. The
company posted a net loss of $5.2 million, or 51 cents a
share, compared with net income of $994,000, or 10 cents a
share, a year earlier. Sales fell to $30.3 million, from
$36.2 million.
   Orange-co said the loss stemmed from charges related to
the freeze that struck Florida in late December in addition
to losses associated with the sale of non-citrus-related
investments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                        U.S TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $16.4 billion of three-month and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                          CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                           Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co. -- $100 million of first
mortgage bonds, via competitive bidding.
                                                                                                       

                      One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Allstate Municipal Income Opportunities Trust III -- 18.5
million shares of beneficial interest, via Dean Witter
Capital Markets.
   Blackstone Advantage Term Trust Inc. -- initial 10 million
common shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Fingerhut Cos. -- initial six million common shares, via
Smith Barney Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Granite Construction Inc. -- initial 2.25 million common
shares, via Smith Barney.
   Pacific-European Growth Fund Inc. -- five million common
shares, via Piper Jaffray &amp; Hopwood Inc.
   PaineWebber Group Inc. -- initial 3.5 million Nikkei call
warrants, via PaineWebber.
   PaineWebber Group Inc. -- initial five million Nikkei put
warrants, via PaineWebber.
   Pool Energy Services Co. -- initial 10.5 million common
shares, via Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   Safeway Stores Inc. -- initial 10 million common shares,
via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Stor Furnishings International Inc. -- initial 2.25
million common shares, via Robertson Stephens &amp; Co.
   Sullivan Dental Products Inc. -- initial one million
common shares, via Dain Bosworth Inc.
   Telebit Corp. -- initial 2,090,000 common shares, via
Cowen &amp; Co.
   Wahlco Environmental Systems Inc. -- initial 3.1 million
common shares, via Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                            Today
                                                                                                       

   King County, Wash. -- $130 million of unlimited tax
general obligation bonds, 1990 Series A, and limited tax
general obligation bonds, 1990 Series B, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                           Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Texas Public Finance Authority -- $88.3 million of general
obligtion bonds, 1990 Improvement Series A, via competitive
bid.
                                                                                                       

                          Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, Ga. -- $85
million of sales tax revenue bonds, Series L, via competitive
bid.
                                                                                                       

                          Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Texas A&amp;M University System Board Of Regents -- $50
million of variable rate program, permanent university fund
subordinate lien notes, Series A, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                      One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut -- $75 million of College Savings Plan general
obligation capital appreciation bonds, via a Smith Barney
group.
   Louisiana -- $260 million of gasoline and fuels tax
revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, with capital appreciation
bonds, via a Goldman Sachs group.
   Puerto Rico Housing Finance Authority -- $173 million of
multifamily mortgage revenue bonds, Portfolio A, Series I,
via a Citicorp Securities Markets Inc. group.
   Santa Clara County Traffic Authority -- $274.9 million of
sales tax revenue bonds, Series 1990, via a Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. group.
   Tennessee Housing Development Agency -- $75 million of
homeownership program revenue bonds, Issue P and Q, via a
Smith Barney Harris group.
   Wisconsin -- $66.8 million of general obligation bonds,
Higher Education Series, 1990 Series D, via a Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bush Calls Soviet Threat
   To Lithuania `Disturbing'
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   HAMILTON, Bermuda -- President Bush said he found a new
Soviet ultimatum to Lithuania "deeply disturbing," but he
declined to say whether he was considering steps to counter
threatened economic sanctions.
   In a joint news conference with British Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher, whom he met Friday for a day of talks,
President Bush sounded his oft-repeated call for negotiations
over the republic's drive to break from the Soviet Union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Friday, Soviet leaders seemed to step up their threats
against the republic. In a letter to Lithuania's president,
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev vowed to block shipments of
unspecified "essential" goods within 48 hours if the republic
didn't halt its independence moves. It is believed Mr.
Gorbachev was referring to such goods as oil, natural gas and
coal, which are readily converted into hard currency.
   (As Moscow's deadline for concessions from Lithuania went
unheeded yesterday, the Kremlin warned Washington against
risking a return to Cold War tensions over Lithuania's
independence claim.)
   Calling reports of the Gorbachev letter to Lithuania's
leaders "deeply disturbing," Mr. Bush said on Friday that
"now is no time for escalation; it's time for talk." But
asked what steps the U.S. would take if the sanctions were
imposed, Mr. Bush said he didn't have enough information
about the specifics of the Soviet threat to respond.
   Prime Minister Thatcher used somewhat stronger language,
saying that while she wasn't "lecturing" Mr. Gorbachev, she
was entitled to express a view, and that "this isn't a
problem that should be solved by force and which cannot be
solved by force."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sun Electric Corp.:
   Firm Calls for Redemption
   Of Its Subordinated Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   SE
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sun Electric Corp., Crystal Lake, Ill., called for
redemption on May 14 of its $14.4 million aggregate principal
amount of 8% convertible subordinated debentures due May
2006.
   The maker of auto-test and diagnostic equipment said
holders will receive $1,056 principal amount, plus $39.78 in
accrued interest, for a total of $1,095.78 per $1,000
principal amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Holders may, until 5 p.m. EDT May 9, convert their
debentures in Sun Electric common shares at a price of
$11.875 a share, or about 84.21 shares of common per $1,000
principal amount. On Thursday, the company noted, Sun
Electric's closing price was $16.75 each.
   As long as the market price of the company's common stock
is at least $13.125 a share, debenture-holders who convert to
common will receive stock with a market value in excess of
the amount of cash they would receive through the redemption
procedures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dodge Drops His Lawsuit
   Against Dun &amp; Bradstreet
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Software entrepreneur Frank H. Dodge dropped a
previously disclosed lawsuit in Massachusetts that alleged
Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp. and the software company he founded
were interfering with his efforts to get re-established in
the industry.
   Through his attorneys, Mr. Dodge filed a notice of
voluntary dismissal in state Superior Court in Cambridge,
Mass., late Friday. The action came a day after the court had
declined to issue a preliminary injunction against Dun &amp;
Bradstreet that Mr. Dodge had sought as part of his lawsuit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, a Dun &amp; Bradstreet spokesman hailed the move as
a vindication. Mr. Dodge left the company earlier this year.
As reported, he had alleged that Dun &amp; Bradstreet fired him
without cause as president and chief executive of the
McCormack &amp; Dodge software unit. Thus, the suit argued, he
wasn't bound by an agreement that bars him from competing
against the software company for a year. Dun &amp; Bradstreet
responded that Mr. Dodge resigned and therefore was subject
to the terms of the agreement.
   Mr. Dodge and a co-founder sold McCormack &amp; Dodge to Dun &amp;
Bradstreet in 1983, and he had stayed on as president.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd.:
   Plan Outlined to Diversify
   Into Non-Steel Enterprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SMM
</CO>
<LP>
   Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. said it plans to emphasize
diversification away from the steel business over the next
three years, while working to increase its efficiency in that
sector.
   The company intends to commit 100 billion yen ($632
million) to development of non-steel enterprises between
fiscal 1990 and fiscal 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Like many of Japan's steelmakers, Sumitomo has committed
itself to building revenue from areas such as engineering,
electronics and advanced materials. The industry has faced
stiff competition from other Asian nations.
   Sumitomo plans to increase sales from non-steel businesses
such as engineering and electronics to 320 billion yen. The
company's total sales amounted to 1.223 trillion yen in
fiscal 1988, the last year for which final figures are
available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Credit-Card Bonds Are Hot, but May Be Stingy on Yield
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   S CCI
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bonds backed by credit-card debt are one of
Wall Street's hottest products.
   So far this year, more than $6 billion of the securities
have been sold to both institutional and individual
investors. Later this month, Citibank is expected to issue
$250 million of credit-card securities in a deal targeted to
individuals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But while sales continue to soar, a few analysts have
begun to question whether the interest rates on some
credit-card securities are high enough to compensate
investors for the risk they are taking.
   After all, they note, credit-card debt is unsecured, and
some economists believe Americans are stretched so thin that
a severe economic recession could cause credit-card defaults
to soar. Meanwhile, the issuers, mostly commercial banks and
retailers, aren't in the best of shape these days, either.
   The latest splash of cold water comes from Fitch Investors
Service, which is moving aggressively to establish itself as
major force in the credit-rating business. Fitch recently
downgraded to double-A from triple-A the rating on $1 billion
of credit-card securities issued by Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.
   Further, Fitch warns in a new report, the triple-A rating
assigned to several other credit-card debt offerings may be
too generous. It isn't that the credit agency thinks the
securities are a bad investment. Fitch is simply spreading
the word that the triple-A -- the rating assigned to
International Business Machines Corp., General Electric Co.
and the federal government -- may be too good in some cases
for bonds backed by bills for everything from shoes for the
kids to a night on the town.
   Credit-card securities are created by pooling a large
amount of consumer debt into one package and structuring it
in a way that resembles a bond. Investors are promised a
fixed interest rate, which is paid either monthly or
quarterly.
   Most credit-card debt would be rated on the same level
with high-risk, high-yield junk bonds if it weren't for
"credit enhancements" that are intended to increase the
safety of the securities.
   The most popular credit enhancer is excess cash flow or
"over-collateralization." Consider a recent $1.4 billion
offering by Citibank, the biggest seller of credit-card debt.
Citibank charges annual interest rates of about 20% on its
Visa and MasterCard credit cards, which have a default rate
of about 4.6%. Citibank is paying credit-card investors
coupon rates of as much as 9.5% for the senior portion of the
issue, and spending about 2% for servicing charges. That
leaves a cushion, or "excess cash flow," of nearly four
percentage points.
   For further protection, some asset-backed deals come with
other enhancements, such as a letter of credit from a
top-rated bank or guarantees from a bond-insurance company.
   Recently, however, many issuers have been using still
another credit-enhancement technique, the
"senior-subordinated structure." It is this technique, the
fastest-growing type of credit enhancement, that is at the
heart of Fitch's concern.
   The senior-subordinated structure offers two levels of
ownership interest in the credit-card receivables: a
higher-rated senior portion that carries very little risk and
a much smaller, lower-rated subordinated portion. If things
go wrong, the subordinated portion absorbs most of the risk.
Of course, if default rates are lower than expected, this
subordinated portion can be more profitable.
   Fitch likes the senior-subordinated structure, as long as
it is sold to a third party. But in the case of the recently
downgraded Sears issue, Sears kept the subordinated structure
itself. As a result, from a legal perspective, investors'
protection isn't as strong as it is with most other
asset-backed bonds, Fitch says.
   Fitch concedes that there wouldn't be any problem except
in the "unlikely event" that Sears joined such other
merchants as Federated Department Stores and Bonwit Teller in
bankruptcy court. Its concern, says Fitch analyst Neil Baron,
is that if there were a bankruptcy-law filing, it is possible
the credit-card receivables and other Sears assets could be
consolidated. And that could hurt investors, who might have
to stand in line with other creditors, he says.
   To some, the credit agency's concern is far-fetched. No
one, not even Fitch, is suggesting that Sears is anywhere
near bankruptcy.
   For its part, Sears says it is displeased by the Fitch
downgrading. It notes that Fitch's two bigger rivals in the
credit-rating business, Moody's Investors Service and
Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., both affirmed the triple-A ratings
on Sears's credit-card securities, although they give Sears
itself a single-A rating. (Moody's did say, however, that it
may take a closer look at the Sears credit-card securities
from a legal perspective.)
   Still, even some industry insiders are critical of the
Sears deal. Their fear is that other, less-reputable
companies may adopt the same credit-enhancement approach,
which is potentially more vulnerable to abuse.
   "It is in our best interest to see that this market
develops in a positive way," says John Caouette, chief
executive of Capital Markets Assurance Corp., a
financial-guaranty insurance subsidiary of Citicorp,
Citibank's parent. "Investors are vulnerable when you leave
the servicing of the deal in the same hands of the guy who
they bought it from in the first place."
   Some others say they are relieved someone has raised the
question of whether yields on credit-card securities are high
enough to compensate for the risks.
   "Credit-card debt has never traded like other triple-A
securities, because the market has been saying for some time
that they don't view them that way," says Allan Berliant,
investment officer at Hartford Life Insurance Co. For
investors, "it's harder to get the same comfort level" with
credit-card securities as with more traditional bonds.
   For example, credit-card securities with two-year
maturities currently are quoted at yields of more than 9.2%,
which is nearly three-quarters of a percentage point higher
than yields on two-year Treasury notes. In comparison, the
yields on two-year securities issued by IBM and GE are about
four-tenths of a percentage point higher than comparable
Treasurys.
   Mr. Berliant, however, believes that may not be high
enough. One of his major concerns is that there isn't enough
information provided to investors about the securities.
   "If I have questions about IBM, I can call the company's
treasurer and there's a lot of public information about IBM,"
said Mr. Berliant. "But with credit cards, there's a lot we
just don't know."
   ---
                      Industry Giants
                                                                                                       

   Biggest sellers of securities backed by credit cards
                                                                                                       

                                   AMOUNT      NUMBER
                                   ISSUED      OF
 ISSUER                          (in millions) ISSUES
                                                                                                       

 Citibank                          $10,495      19
 Sears Roebuck                       5,250      13
 Maryland Bank                       3,800       8
 First National Bank of Chicago      2,100       4
 Chemical Bank                       1,200       3
 Security Pacific                      750       1
 Bank of America                       700       2
 J.C. Penney                           600       2
 Lomas Bank                            550       2
 Manufacturers Hanover                 475       1
                                                                                                       

 TOTAL FOR TOP 10                  $25,920      55
 TOTAL ALL ISSUERS                 $28,835      68
                                                                                                       

   Source: Chemical Securities Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MGM/UA Communications Co.:
   Fiscal Second-Quarter Loss
   Narrowed to $9.8 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM/UA Communications Co., Culver City, Calif., said a
jump in home video and pay-television revenue and a reduction
in overhead expenses helped narrow its fiscal second-quarter
net loss to $9.8 million, or 19 cents a share, from a deficit
of $14.7 million, or 29 cents a share, a year earlier.
   Last month, Pathe Communications Corp., the main
investment arm of the Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti,
began a tender offer to acquire MGM for $20 a share, or about
$1.2 billion. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading
Thursday, MGM closed at $18.50, up 12.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the second quarter ended Feb. 28 decreased 27%
to $176.8 million from $241.9 million. MGM cited a lack of
feature films in theatrical release.
   For the fiscal first half, MGM posted a net loss of $11.9
million, or 23 cents a share, including an extraordinary gain
of $1.6 million, or three cents a share, from early
retirement of debt. The deficit narrowed from a year-earlier
net loss of $54.2 million, or $1.08 a share. Revenue fell
5.8% to $388.3 million from $412.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Turkey Ponders Building `Peace Pipeline'
   ---
   Diverting Rivers Would
   Provide Drinking Water
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   ISTANBUL -- Across the barren winter highlands of eastern
Turkey lay range after range of snowbound mountains, a huge
potential source of water, Turkey says, for the parched
Arabian peninsula to the south.
   Two Turkish rivers, the Ceyhan and the Seyhan, flow
little-used down to the Mediterranean, and Turks wax
eloquently about diverting them into a "peace pipeline" to
bring drinking water to millions in Syria, Jordan, Saudi
Arabia and other Persian-Gulf states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's an ideal like its name, peace. It's not just for the
benefit of one country but in the interest of all," said
Tevfik Okyayuz, the Turkish Foreign Ministry's water
specialist. "What we are saying is, let's trust each other."
   Unfortunately, trust is as scarce in the Middle East as
water, which is becoming a hot political topic as demand for
it rises. This was clearly demonstrated recently when Turkey
stopped the flow of the Euphrates River for a month to begin
filling the Ataturk Dam lake, the third and largest dam
Turkey has built on the river. Both Syria and Iraq protested
the cutoff.
   The Ataturk Dam is part of Turkey's mammoth Southeast
Anatolian Project, or GAP. That project isn't related to the
peace pipeline, which so far had advanced no further than a
preliminary study and a burst of diplomatic traffic two years
ago.
   Turkish leaders dusted off the peace pipeline idea
recently in an effort to deflect criticism of its cutoff of
the Euphrates. Plans for the pipeline call for its eastern
and western branches to run for a total of 5,000 kilometers
(3,100 miles).
   But the peace pipeline's feasibility may fade from the
utopian to the unreal if its original planned output of 70
cubic meters (91 cubic yards) of water a second drops by as
much as half as southeast Turkey's domestic needs grow,
predicts Dogu Ergil, an Ankara University water specialist.
   For many who go for up to a week without running water in
Turkey's big western cities, it is ironic that the original
water export figure is four times the amount consumed by the
seven million inhabitants in the country's biggest city,
Istanbul.
   "I lived in Saudi Arabia seven years and never had a water
cut. Now I'm here in Istanbul in the middle of a rainstorm
and have had no water for three days," said an executive with
Brown &amp; Root Engineering &amp; Construction International,
consultants to the peace-pipeline project.
   While some potential Arab customers like the idea of the
peace pipeline, the key state, Saudi Arabia, is against it
despite growing water needs, people close to the project say.
   Saudi Arabia would receive over a third of the water and
is a main potential source of financing, but is said to be
wary of both the probable $15 billion cost and the fact that
the pipeline will pass through Jordan and Syria. Damascus
showed its lack of respect for pipeline accords in 1982 when
it cut Iraq's oil pipeline to the Mediterranean at the height
of the Gulf war.
   "It's easy to say the water is just supplemental to start
with. The Saudis are afraid of becoming dependent," said the
Brown &amp; Root executive, who didn't want to be identified.
   But the basic dams to supply the peace pipeline are
already in place in southeast Turkey, the water surplus
exists and the water probably would be cheaper than that
produced by desalination plants -- or derived from icebergs
the Saudis plan to tow in from the antarctic.
   So Turkey is biding its time, aware that industrialization
and growing populations are making the Arab world ever
thirstier. Also, regional cooperation is making some headway.
Turkish officials say construction is due to begin soon on a
precedent-setting electricity grid between Turkey, Syria,
Iraq, Jordan and Egypt.
   A senior Western diplomat in Ankara said that work on the
peace pipeline was unlikely to begin in the next few years
but that he was convinced Arab needs meant the pipeline would
one day be built.
   Added Tony Allan of London's School of Oriental and
African Studies: "Water tables are falling. In Syria, more
ground water is being used than surface water. It's a
dramatically difficult problem all over the region. We even
have a new word for it: hydropolitics."
   Nowhere is hydropolitics more evident than in GAP. Turkey
has pledged to keep the Euphrates' flow to downstream Syria
at 500 cubic meters a second, which experts say is about a
third less than usual in recent years. But if Turkey ever
finishes all the 21 dams of GAP, the Euphrates certainly will
drop far more, according to Turkish experts and London
analysts.
   Officials in Ankara plead ignorance of the figures for the
Euphrates flow before the first GAP dam started filling in
the early 1970s. But in Birecik, a Turkish town on the
Euphrates close to the Syrian border, everyone knows that the
level has already fallen far in those 20 years.
   Several meters above the current level of the muddy river,
Birecik townsman Omer Suleyman runs his hand along the stone
wall of the town's medieval Ulu mosque to show how high the
water of the Euphrates used to rise. "When the river level
reached a black stone marker in the mosque courtyard, we
would send urgent flood-warning messages downstream to
Syria," said the 65-year-old Mr. Suleyman.
   Syria should be so lucky now. Even if the floods used to
cause widespread damage, the Euphrates supplies almost all
northern Syria's surface water and most of its hydroelectric
power.
   "Syria is stuck . . . . This year's cut was compensated
for and is in fact rather irrelevant compared to the question
of the long-term flow. Lakes equivalent to the total volume
of Lake Nasser in Egypt are filling upstream," Mr. Allan
said.
   GAP also includes water projects on the Tigris River,
which flows to the east of the Euphrates from Turkey into
Iraq. But Tigris projects mainly will be hydroelectric dams
that won't divert water for irrigation. Access to the Tigris,
whose flow is increased in Iraq by downstream tributaries,
spares Iraq the worst effects of cuts in the Euphrates. In
addition, Iraqi hydraulic projects at the Tharther basin
between the two rivers aim to further reduce Iraq's exposure
to low flow from the Euphrates.
   Syria completely cut the Euphrates' flow to Iraq in the
mid-1970s when it started filling its own Thawra Dam lake, a
move that pushed Baghdad and Damascus to the brink of war.
Repeated Iraqi protests at Turkey's recent cut were met by
Ankara with offers of $800 million of export credits and
remarks that Baghdad should make a water agreement with
Damascus. "The problem is not between us and them nthe
Iraqism, it's between Iraq and Syria," said Turkish State
Minister Kamran Inan.
   Representatives of the three nations met recently in
Ankara to discuss the use of Euphrates River water, but no
new agreements were reached.
   A hand on the sluice gates of an increasingly precious
resource is well appreciated in Turkey, which has had a hard
economic fight to survive since the republic was declared in
1923. Turkey, a poor country before a boom in tourism and
manufactured exports this decade, has few natural resources.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Leigh Instruments Ltd.:
   Plessey Co. Unit in Canada
   Seeks Bankruptcy Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6D
</SO>
<CO>
   U.GEL G.SIE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Leigh Instruments Ltd., a Canadian subsidiary of Plessey
Co. of Britain, filed for bankruptcy-law protection with
debts of more than 100 million Canadian dollars (US$86
million).
   Leigh, a Kanata, Ontario, defense contractor, was acquired
by Plessey in 1988. Plessey is jointly owned by General
Electric Co. of Britain, an electronics and industrial
engineering company, and Siemens AG of West Germany, an
electronics concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leigh issued layoff notices to its 750 employees at its
Ontario plants and offices at Toronto, Kanata and Carleton
Place. The company's creditors are unsecured with Canadian
banks carrying a substantial amount of the debt. Peat Marwick
Thorne Inc., Toronto, was named trustee for the filing.
   Leigh executives blamed their financial problems on cost
overruns on defense contracts. The company estimated it had a
loss of about C$73 million on sales of C$63 million in the
year ended March 31.
   Leigh has supplied communications equipment for Canadian
destroyers and for Canada's F-18 fighter planes. The company
also produced ground-based navigation systems, flight data
recorders and safety-related avionics equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japonica Partners
   Makes Tender Offer
   For Allegheny Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   AG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- New York investors Japonica Partners
launched a tender offer for about $134 million principal
amount for various debt securities of Allegheny International
Inc.
   Japonica, which recently acquired enough bank claims to
make it Allegheny's largest creditor, said the total purchase
price of the securities involved in the tender offer is about
$56.6 million. Allegheny, the maker of Sunbeam and Oster
appliances, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection
against creditors in February 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Allegheny and Japonica Partners have proposed rival plans
to bring Allegheny out of those proceedings. Allegheny's
plan, which consists of paying claims in stock, failed to
receive approval by two-thirds majority after Japonica voted
against it. Japonica's plan consists of paying creditors in
cash through a $655 million buy-out of the company. Both
plans are scheduled for hearings later this month.
   The securities involved in the tender offer include:
Allegheny's 9% subordinated sinking fund debentures due 1989
for 39.8% of their principal amount; 10 3/4% subordinated
sinking fund debentures due 1999 for 41% of their principal
amount; and 10.4% subordinated sinking fund debentures due
2002 for 27.7% of their principal amount. The tender offer
also includes the 9% sinking fund debentures of Allegheny's
Chemetron unit due 1994 for 83.8% of their principal amount.
   Allegheny said it didn't have any comment on Japonica's
tender offer.
   Japonica said the tender offer, which began Saturday, is
subject to certain conditions, excluding financing. It didn't
disclose the conditions. The offer is scheduled to expire at
5:01 p.m. EDT May 15.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- TIE/Communications Inc.:
   Fourth-Quarter Net Loss
   Was Wider After Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   TIE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TIE/Communications Inc., Seymour, Conn., reported a
widened fourth-quarter net loss after a number of charges.
   The deficit widened to $59.1 million, or $1.74 a share,
from $4.4 million, or 17 cents a share, in the year-earlier
period. Sales sank 23% to $48.4 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The distributor of phone systems charged $18 million to
close a plant and to restructure its Canadian operation; $7.5
million to write down inventory; $6.8 million for "domestic
restructuring charges on operations"; and $21.7 million for
intangible assets.
   A spokeswoman for TIE was unavailable for elaboration.
   On Wednesday, TIE announced that it bought the preferred
stock held by HCR Partners, an affiliate of Chicago's
Pritzker family, for $46.5 million of notes. The company paid
$15 million of this Friday. The rest is payable over six
years, with the first payment due May 1, 1991.
   HCR also received warrants to buy one million TIE common
shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Roy Rogers Fried Chicken Is Migrating
   To Hardee's, but Banner Is to Be Plucked
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Imasco Ltd. said its Hardee's subsidiary, the
No. 3 hamburger chain in the U.S., plans to keep the Roy
Rogers brand alive by adding the newly acquired chain's fried
fresh chicken product and name to Hardee's menu.
   The move to add "bone-in" chicken to its product roster
marks a first by a major burger chain. But it reflects the
fast-food industry's relentless drive to find new products
that can boost sales in a slowing market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Putting the Roy Rogers brand name on the Hardee's menu
while otherwise erasing Roy Rogers as a restaurant banner
would also be an innovation. But, notes an industry
consultant, millions of dollars were spent creating the Roy
Rogers brand. "Why would you want to walk away from that?"
asks Robert Ross, an associate at Technomic Inc. of Chicago.
   Executives at Hardee's Montreal parent are enthusiastic,
but they caution that Hardee's still must run market tests
and solve difficult operational problems.
   "There's a lot of excitement," says Purdy Crawford,
chairman, president and chief executive of Imasco, in part
because it's "something we didn't put a lot of value on in
terms of evaluating the acquisition."
   Hardee's agreed in January to acquire the 600-restaurant
Roy Rogers chain from Marriott Corp. for about $365 million.
   "We have a strong breakfast and tend to be weak in
late-day and early evening," Mr. Crawford said. "This is why
the Roy Rogers products are so important for us."
   "Bone-in" chicken -- fresh chicken pieces fried intact --
is considered a distinct product segment in the fast-food
industry and is the lead product of such chains as Kentucky
Fried Chicken. The big burger chains, including Hardee's, so
far limit their chicken menus to assorted boneless filet,
patty and nugget products.
   Hardee's is currently testing the fried chicken at an
outlet in Rocky Mount, N.C., where Hardee's is based. The
test is to determine the equipment and operational changes
required. Then "we're going to test market it pretty quick,"
Mr. Crawford said.
   Imasco executives and Hardee's franchisees are also doing
their own impromptu taste tests. "I personally visited twice
last week along with our R&amp;D people," said Steve McManus,
senior vice-president operations at Spartan Food Systems, a
subsidiary of TW Services Inc. Spartan is Hardee's largest
franchisee with 467 outlets.
   "We think it's an excellent product," Mr. McManus said.
However, frying fresh chicken could be expensive because of
the new equipment required, he said. Spread over the entire
chain the investment in new equipment could be substantial.
Hardee's has 3,300 outlets.
   But Spartan is "anxious to see" the results of intensive
market tests. "Everyone in our industry is looking for a
boost at dinner." Mr. McManus said. "This could be something
big, if it works."
   Hardee's also expects to gain early-morning sales at the
Roy Rogers outlets as it converts them to the Hardee's banner
and menu. Breakfasts account for about 25% of sales at
Hardee's and only 5% at Roy Rogers, said Raymond Guyatt,
Imasco chief financial officer.
   Hardee's outlets are concentrated in the South and
Midwest. Roy Rogers is strong in the Northeast, especially in
New York, Philadelphia, Washington, and Baltimore. Hardee's
will convert Roy Rogers market by market, beginning with
Baltimore.
   There is a chance a few Roy Rogers outlets will continue
to operate under that banner. Imasco has promised Roy Rogers
franchisees they can keep the name if they absolutely insist.
Of 600 Roy Rogers, 237 are franchised.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Circle Express Inc.'s
   Former Chief Named
   In Conspiracy Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C7
</SO>
<CO>
   CEXX
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   INDIANAPOLIS -- The founder and former chairman and chief
executive officer of Circle Express Inc. was charged in a
federal information with conspiring to provide false
statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Arthur L. Belford, who left Circle Express last year, is
accused of misrepresenting the trucking concern's financial
condition in annual and quarterly SEC and shareholders'
reports in 1986 and 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1988 Mr. Belford, who had resigned from the company
once before, returned to the concern and Circle Express
restated its 1987 and first-quarter 1988 earnings. The
restatements reflected sharply reduced earnings for those
periods compared with those previously reported.
   The new earnings report triggered an investigation by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation that led to the federal
charges. The FBI said Mr. Belford and another, unnamed former
officer and director of Circle Express agreed to misstate
financial information for 1986 and 1987 by manipulating
insurance reserves.
   The information also charges Mr. Belford with
misappropriating "substantial amounts" of corporate assets
through misuse of the company's credit cards, airplane,
condominium and funds. Financial statements failed to
disclose these expenditures, according to the information.
   Circle Express shares were voluntarily removed from public
over-the-counter trading by the National Association of
Securities Dealers last May when shareholder equity fell
below Nasdaq requirements. The company now is under new
management headed by Alfred F. Fasola Jr. of the Taggart
Group, a New Jersey-based investment firm made up of former
officers of Purolator Corp. It recently announced that its
bondholders and banks had accepted a financial restructuring
that would swap a large portion of its $72 million of debt
for equity in the reorganized company.
   Mr. Fasola said he was "not surprised" by Friday's
charges, which he said didn't relate to the current
management.
   "We were aware of some of the problems regarding prior
management when we were brought in to turn this company
around," Mr. Fasola said. With all of the past management
gone, Circle Express is "concentrating on the future,"
according to Mr. Fasola.
   If convicted, Mr. Belford faces a possible penalty of up
to five years' imprisonment and a fine of up to $250,000.
Neither he nor his attorney returned phone calls seeking
comment. An assistant U.S. attorney in Indianapolis wouldn't
say who the former officer was, whether the person would be
indicted or whether he or she would be a cooperating witness
against Mr. Belford.
   The FBI said the investigation into what it called "a
massive deception of the investing public" is continuing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Gives IBM
   $238.7 Million Job
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM TTRA MD ML RTN JEC ETCO WSTNA HAL
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- International Business Machines Corp.
received a $238.7 million Air Force contract for aircraft
electronics.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ten companies received $50 million contracts each from the
Air Force for hazardous-waste research. They were: Roy F.
Weston Inc., Earth Technology Corp., Engineering-Science, ICF
Technology Inc., Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., Law
Environmental Inc., NUS Corp., O'Brien &amp; Gere Engineers Inc.,
Radian Corp. and Tetra Tech Inc.
                                                                                                       

   McDonnell Douglas Corp. got a $25.5 million Air Force
contract for F-15E aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon Co. received a $21.7 million Army contract for
Stinger missiles.
                                                                                                       

   Martin Marietta Corp. was awarded a $14.9 million Army
contract for mortar ammunition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Intermetrics Expects
   To Post 69% Net Fall
   For the 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6G
</SO>
<CO>
   IMET
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- Intermetrics Inc., citing increased
competition and a slowdown in government defense spending,
said it expects to report net income fell 69% in the fourth
quarter ended Feb. 28 to about $215,000, or six cents a
share, from $695,000, or 20 cents a share, a year earlier.
   The company estimated revenue at $12 million, compared
with $12.5 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph A. Saponaro, president and chief executive officer,
said in an interview that full-year net fell 46% to about
$1.5 million, or 43 cents a share, from $2.8 million, or 79
cents a share, in fiscal 1989. Revenue fell 7.3% to about $46
million from $49.6 million. The results are in line with
analysts' projections, the company said.
   Intermetrics provides software for government projects
including anti-submarine warfare systems, navigation systems,
the space shuttle and the Federal Aviation Administration. It
also makes software development tools for commercial
customers.
   Mr. Saponaro said government delays in funding its awarded
contracts cost Intermetrics about $3 million in anticipated
revenue for the year. In addition, the company encountered
unexpected problems in consolidating its product lines with
those of Whitesmiths Ltd., a software developer acquired in
October 1988. The consolidation problems have been corrected,
he said.
   Intermetrics ended the year with a $49 million backlog,
compared with a $26 million backlog in fiscal 1989.
   Intermetrics recently declared a special one-time dividend
of 80 cents a share and an initial annual dividend of 20
cents a share to shareholders of record April 30. Both
dividends, Mr. Saponaro said, are payable May 22.
   Mr. Saponaro said he sees "no fantastic growth" in the
current fiscal year. Instead, Intermetrics will concentrate
on positioning itself more competitively in an increasingly
crowded marketplace. The company sees no change in the next
three years from its current business ratio of 25% commercial
products and 75% government contracts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Drug-Trade Drama
   ----
   By Martha Bayles
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   It's high time "Mobil Masterpiece Theatre" changed its
name. Even when the producers of this long-lived series adapt
a literary work nowadays, they never pick a masterpiece.
Since most of the presentations are created from scratch, and
helped along by Mobil's scratch, a more accurate title would
be, "Subsidized British Imports."
   Having said that, I now can turn to more important
matters, like "Traffik," the International Emmy Award-winning
miniseries about the heroin trade that begins with a special
two-hour episode this Sunday (April 22, 9-11 p.m. EDT) and
continues through May 20 (9-10 p.m. EDT, on PBS; check local
listings). Filmed on location in the mountains of northern
Pakistan, Karachi, Hamburg and London, this five-part
dramatic series is an impressive production with lofty
ambitions, not all of them realized.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to writer Simon Moore, "Traffik" tries to paint
a picture of the drug trade that is both morally nuanced and
sweeping in scope. "What we wanted to do," he said in a
recent interview, is "not show it in the usual
black-and-white morality, but . . . force people to think a
little more closely about it as a world industry."
   On the first point, moral nuance, the film succeeds. It
has some pure villains, such as Tariq Butt (Talat Hussain),
the Karachi kingpin whose style of "doing business" is both
sadistic and tyrannical. And it has some pure victims, such
as the wife of the poppy farmer Fazal, whose life is merely a
bargaining chip in Butt's game. But the majority of the
characters occupy the shadowlands between honor,
self-interest and survival.
   Take Fazal (Jamal Shah), the peasant who loses his poppy
fields in a government raid. One-dimensionally noble at
first, he develops into a complex mix of desperation,
calculation and pride. Similar ingredients make up the
character of Helen (Lindsay Duncan), the wife of Butt's
German connection, who eventually decides, after the arrest
of her husband, to carry on with the trade. For her, greed is
mingled with an iron will and a fierce desire to protect her
children.
   "Traffik" also succeeds in spanning the international
dimension of the drug problem in a way that is striking, and
unsettling, to Americans who think of it in terms of the U.S.
and Latin America. And the globe-spanning is done with
impressive technical skill, switching between settings
without the usual "location shots." The film really does
achieve director Alastair Reid's stated goal of letting the
viewer know instantly where he is, "even if all he can see is
an ashtray."
   Mr. Moore also expressed the hope that "Traffik" would
avoid cliches: "Cop on the trail of the drug scam or junkies
in the doorway is the typical point of view taken by
television," he states in a recent press release. "Neither,
it seemed to me, particularly illuminated anything about the
subject." He has a point: Most anti-drug films do focus on
cops, scams and junkies. But why is that? And does "Traffik"
really improve on the formula?
   The answer to the first question has to do with the
ambivalence most of us feel toward authority. We expect
authority to deliver us from evil, so we favor cops who are
tough on pushers. But we also distrust authority, so we favor
cops who rebel against corrupt or timid superiors. In fact,
"Traffik" gives us just such a cop in Ulli (Fritz
Muller-Scherz), the shrewd, lummox of a Hamburg narc who
bends the rules trying to snare Helen.
   But "Traffik" also departs from the cop formula, notably
in its portrayal of Jack Lithgow (Bill Paterson), a British
cabinet minister whose efforts to block the supply of heroin
from Pakistan are complicated by his discovery that his
daughter Caroline (Julia Ormond) has become hooked on heroin
while living the fast life at Cambridge.
   Jack's first reaction to Caroline's addiction will be
immediately applauded by those Americans who advocate "tough
love" as the only effective form of parental intervention.
Unlike Jack's wife, whose timorous efforts to placate her
daughter have only facilitated the latter's habit, Jack
forces Caroline into immediate withdrawal, imposes stern
discipline and finally commits her to a private clinic.
   If Mr. Moore thinks "tough love" is a new theme, then let
me recommend several recent made-for-TV movies that have
taught us Yanks to root for the strict parent who refuses to
be conned by a pathetic son or daughter whose will has been
eroded by drugs. By now, most of us pay lip service, at
least, to the notion that it is not always smart to
"understand" our children the way Jack's wife "understands"
Caroline.
   But as the story unfolds, we realize we are not supposed
to be rooting for Jack. After all, he's not just a concerned
father, he's also a government official whose workaholic life
style and bureaucratic ambition have led him to neglect both
his wife and his daughter. From this angle, it appears that
Caroline's addiction is Jack's fault, and that his drastic
actions are nothing but the clumsy efforts of an insensitive
father to make up for lost time.
   What should Jack do? Should he go to Pakistan to fight the
supply of drugs, or should he stay home and fight the demand
for drugs as exemplified by Caroline? It's too bad this
conflict receives so much emphasis in "Traffik," because it
confuses two logically separate questions: the public-policy
question of whether government should focus on supply or
demand, and the personal question of whether Jack should save
his career or his family.
   In my opinion, the makers of "Traffik" succumb to this
confusion because they, too, feel ambivalent toward
authority. They sympathize with Jack's attempt to control his
lying, stealing, suffering child. But they cannot abide the
thought of a government crackdown on addicts in general.
Perforce, they make Jack a rebel who refuses to go along with
half-measures and who blames "society" for driving people to
drugs -- a pseudo-resolution that is, to say the least,
unworthy of the rest of this fine film.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Lehtinen, U.S. Attorney in Miami, Poses
   Variety of Problems for Administration
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Dexter Lehtinen spells trouble for the Bush
administration.
   Since the U.S. attorney in Miami was named to his post on
an interim basis in June 1988, a steady stream of disgruntled
lawyers have left. The departures have raised concerns at the
Justice Department about the management of one of the main
outposts in the federal war on drugs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Meanwhile, Mr. Lehtinen's nomination to the prosecutor's
job has sunk into the murky politics of Capitol Hill. Some
observers predict it may never emerge for a Senate vote
because neither Democrats nor Republicans want a public
airing of charges that Mr. Lehtinen physically bullied a
former wife and a former woman friend. Mr. Lehtinen has
denied the allegations.
   Mr. Lehtinen came to national attention in January when
deposed Panamanian ruler Manuel Noriega was brought to Miami
for trial on drug racketeering charges. Mr. Lehtinen
immediately announced that he would supervise the politically
charged prosecution. Just as quickly, questions arose about
Mr. Lehtinen's courtroom skills, his temperament and why he
hadn't ever been formally nominated to the job. Within weeks,
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh nudged Mr. Lehtinen off the
Noriega case.
   When he received the interim appointment during the Reagan
administration, the prosecutor had only recently returned to
legal practice after nearly eight years as a state
legislator. Since then, the decorated Vietnam veteran has
built a reputation for shouting fits and public humiliation
of subordinates. A number of prosecutors have left the Miami
office, with at least five experienced lawyers departing in
February alone.
   Former subordinates complain about Mr. Lehtinen's emphasis
on absolute personal loyalty. "You can't think about
disagreeing or questioning anything," says one former
prosecutor. "With Dexter, you're either with him or against
him."
   Mr. Lehtinen, in contrast, cites establishment of a strict
"chain of command" as one of his major accomplishments. He
says the prosecutor turnover rate in Miami has actually
decreased during his tenure. He also claims to have increased
employee productivity and to have brought more drug,
organized crime and public corruption cases than his
predecessors. (Such comparisons are difficult because the
overall size of the office has grown steadily.)
   Mr. Lehtinen says his record has been distorted by
self-interested former employees and the media. "There is no
controversy," he says. "It doesn't exist."
   Top aides to Attorney General Thornburgh have a different
view. They're worried about morale problems in the Miami
office and about domestic violence allegations against Mr.
Lehtinen. Publicly, Mr. Thornburgh's aides say they have "no
problems" with the nomination. But privately they try to
absolve the attorney general of responsibility, insisting the
decision was made at the White House.
   Why would President Bush proceed with this seemingly risky
nomination? For one thing, Mr. Lehtinen has the backing of
Sen. Connie Mack (R., Fla.) and the president's son, Jeb
Bush, who is active in Florida politics. The administration
also wants to show support for Mr. Lehtinen's wife, Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, a conservative GOP congresswoman popular with
Miami's Cuban-American population.
   In addition, the White House is counting on the Senate
tradition of rubber-stamping U.S. attorney nominations,
despite the considerable power the 94 regional federal
prosecutors wield in deploying the government's massive law
enforcement arsenal. In Mr. Lehtinen's case, the chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, Joseph Biden, hasn't decided
yet whether to break precedent and hold a public hearing, let
alone lead any opposition. Some observers believe that the
Delaware Democrat, who attempts to keep the peace on a deeply
divided committee, doesn't relish the prospect of a messy
battle over Mr. Lehtinen's private life.
   According to some Washington sources, anxiety on both
sides could produce a compromise: The Judiciary Committee
would sit on the nomination until after Ms. Ros-Lehtinen's
re-election bid in November. If she wins, the White House
would withdraw her husband's nomination and quietly offer him
a position that doesn't require Senate confirmation.
   What would be lost in the process, however, would be a
clear verdict on whether Mr. Lehtinen deserved to be
appointed to the U.S. attorney job in the first place.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Uncle Sam Is Launching Pilot Program
   For Employees Wanting to Work at Home
   ----
   By Katherine Walsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6K
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The fact that Emily Tull works out of her
home isn't unusual. What is unusual is who she works for.
   Mrs. Tull's employer is the federal government. A building
management specialist for the General Services
Administration, she is one of a limited number of federal
civilian employees who aren't required to punch in down at
the old Department of Whatever. But if a pilot program the
government is launching proves successful, Mrs. Tull may
eventually be joined by thousands of other federal workers
for whom "commuting" may mean little more than a trip down
the hall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Years after the private sector began experimenting with
the notion of telecommuting, the nation's largest employer is
belatedly about to join the trend. If all goes according to
plan, the year-long nationwide experimental program will go
into effect by August. Devised by the GSA, the Office of
Personnel Management and representatives of other federal
agencies, it will allow some 1,500 to 2,000 employees who
perform what government officials call "portable work" --
computer programmers, clerk-typists, claims examiners and
attorneys, among others -- to divide their work week between
the central office and their home or a satellite office.
   The reason the government is experimenting with the
so-called "flexiplace" (for flexible workplace) program has
less to do with government beneficence than with population
trends.
   Faced with a shrinking labor pool and rising competition
from the private sector, government officials see the
flexible workplace as a possible answer. "We needed to find a
way to enhance our ability to recruit and retain employees,"
says Wendell Joice, a personnel research psychologist at the
OPM. "We needed a carrot."
   Gil Gordon, a Monmouth Junction, N.J., telecommuting
consultant, says the government's decision to move toward a
flexible-workplace program is inevitable, given the rising
competition in the labor markets. But he warns that it isn't
a cure-all. "It's more of an issue for the federal government
because of the salary gap," he says.
   While telecommuting has grown in the private sector, it
has never met the projections of some of its more optimistic
boosters. But a successful federal program could well give
the idea a shot in the arm. "The federal government is seen
as the most staid employer," says Mr. Joice, and if it can
offer an efficient, workable telecommuting program, anyone
can.
   If anything, says Thomas Cowley, a GSA official, setting
up a flexible-workplace program is probably more complicated
for the government than it would be for most private
businesses. That is because of the extensive set of
civil-service rules and regulations under which the
government's two million civilian employees labor. These
spell out -- sometimes in very specific fashion -- such
things as scheduling, worker's compensation and appropriation
of funds for office equipment.
   According to the program's guidelines, agencies are
allowed to establish their own procedures for certifying
employee time and attendance, but those procedures must
follow standards set by the General Accounting Office's
Policy and Procedures Manual for the Guidance of Federal
Agencies.
   Figuring overtime poses another problem, especially for
lower-level employees. Under the Fair Labor Standards Act,
workers are entitled to overtime for work over 40 hours a
week, even if the extra work is voluntary, when it's
reasonable to believe the employer knew the work was being
performed. Federal workers, though, only get overtime if it
is approved by their agencies. Thus, government policy makers
setting up the flexible-workplace program will have to figure
out just what work will be paid for and what won't.
   But the officials expect that the benefits the government
will reap from the program will outweigh any such
complications. Maxcine Sterling, coordinator of the GSA's
flexiplace program, says the government expects to benefit in
a variety of ways if the program gets going in a big way.
Agencies would need less office space; employee morale would
be better; and workers who for personal reasons might
otherwise contemplate quitting might stay on.
   For instance, when the GSA's Mrs. Tull and her husband
adopted a baby last spring, she promised the baby's
birthmother that she wouldn't work outside the home. A
part-time job still would have required her to go to the
office several times a week; without some more flexible
arrangement, she says, she would have had to quit. Instead,
she says, everybody has won. She was able to keep her
promise, and "the office retained my expertise and the
training they put into me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Long-Term Credit Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   J.LTC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan Ltd. said it
established a subsidiary in New York to arrange leveraged
leases between local investors and debt providers.
   A bank spokesman declined to comment further on the new
unit, to be called Capstar Partners Inc. A formal
announcement is planned for today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Bid to Slow Global Warming Could Cost
   U.S. $200 Billion a Year, Bush Aide Says
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the president's Council of
Economic Advisers said that substantially reducing gases that
some scientists believe will cause the Earth to warm
catastrophically could cost the U.S. as much as $200 billion
a year and batter economies world-wide.
   "The stakes are very high economically," said Michael
Boskin, CEA chairman. "You'd likely wind up seeing a sharp
reduction of economic growth" around the globe if the
so-called greenhouse gases are to be reduced by 20% during
the next 15 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Boskin's comments reflect an attempt by the Bush
administration to refocus the debate over possible global
warming from the effects on the environment to the potential
costs of any clean-up. The president has invited 17 nations
to a two-day conference on global warming that begins here
tomorrow; the U.S. and Japan are expected during the meetings
to emphasize the potentially staggering costs of reducing
greenhouse gas emissions.
   Environmentalists contend that the administration's tactic
will slow any effort to combat global warming. "What they're
doing is backing away from commitments already made," said
Rafe Pomerance, a senior associate at the World Resources
Institute, a Washington environmental research organization.
"They have absolutely no plans to do anything about global
warming."
   Bush administration officials deny that. William Reilly,
chief of the Environmental Protection Agency, said he expects
the U.S. to begin preliminary negotiations on a global
warming compact by the end of the year. He called
calculations of the economic effect of curbing greenhouse
gases the "significant missing dimension" in international
talks so far on the subject.
   Climate scientists say the world may be heating because of
the rapid increase in the atmosphere of carbon dioxide and
other gases produced by human development. These gases trap
heat in the atmosphere and block it from escaping into space.
During the past century, the earth has warmed about 0.5
degree Celsius, according to White House Science Adviser
Allan Bromley, but it isn't clear how much of that rise is
due to human activity.
   Mr. Boskin, one of the three co-chairmen of the
global-change conference, played down the significance of the
potential heating. A rise of a few degrees Celsius would be
similar to the change from moving from Boston to Washington,
and might even benefit U.S. agriculture, he said.
   He also argued that people could use technology to adjust
to the warmer weather. "For example, air conditioning has
made previously less-hospitable climes much more hospitable,"
he said.
   David Rind, a climate specialist at the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration's Goddard Institute for
Space Studies, said that computer models predict a rise of
between about two degrees and six degrees Celsius if the
amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere doubles, as
expected, in the next century. Even a rise of two degrees
would increase droughts in Florida and the southern-most
parts of the U.S., Central America and large parts of Africa
and South America. A four-degree rise would be a "disaster,"
leading to droughts in most of the U.S., he said.
   The earth usually changes temperature exceptionally
slowly. At the peak of the ice age 15,000 years ago, the
earth was on average only four degrees Celsius colder than it
is today. What makes global warming so menacing, he said, is
that it would vastly accelerate the pace of environmental
change.
   Mr. Boskin said he and his staff hadn't done original
research on the costs of greenhouse warming, but had reviewed
a "substantial number" of U.S. computer models. Cutting
emissions 20% by the year 2005, as has been suggested by
countries in Western Europe, would cost the U.S. "trillions
of dollars -- $100 billion to $200 billion a year would be in
the ballpark," he estimated.
   "It would mean a period of substantially higher
unemployment and lower economic growth," he said, because the
U.S. would have to switch to "much more expensive forms of
energy."
   Even stabilizing carbon dioxide emissions would deal a big
blow to the economy, Mr. Boskin predicted. The last time U.S.
emissions of the gas didn't grow was after the Arab oil
embargo quadrupled the cost of oil and the economy plummeted.
   William Nordhaus, a Yale University economist who served
on the CEA under President Carter, estimated the cost of
stabilizing greenhouse gas emissions overall during the next
40 years at about $50 billion a year for the U.S. and $150
billion annually for the rest of the world. During the past
year, Mr. Nordhaus conducted research into the costs of
trying to limit global warming.
   Slowing the increase of greenhouse gases so they grow at a
rate 20% less than predicted would cost little, he said, and
might "actually have benefits" economically.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Williams-Sonoma Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6K
</SO>
<CO>
   WSGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Williams-Sonoma Inc. said it reached an
agreement in principle to purchase California Closet Inc., of
Woodland Hills, Calif. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Williams-Sonoma, a kitchenware retailer, said the
acquisition would be on a pooling-of-interest basis.
California Closet sells the service of organizing closets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Thursday, April 12, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                             Stock    N.A.   Stock   % Fund
  Name                       Exch.   Value   Price    Diff.
                                                                                                       

 Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

 Adams Express               NYSE    18.03   15 7/8  -11.95
 Baker Fentress              NYSE    24.00   19 3/4  -17.71
 Blue Chip Value             NYSE     7.31    6 5/8  - 9.37
 Clemente Global Gro         NYSE   b11.27    9 3/8  -16.81
 Gemini II Capital           NYSE     9.54   12 3/4  +33.65
 Gemini II Income            NYSE    15.75   13 5/8  -13.49
 General Amer Invest         NYSE    22.28   18 3/4  -15.84
 Growth Stock Outlook        NYSE    10.14    9 1/2  - 6.31
 Lehman Corp.                NYSE    15.01   12 1/2  -16.72
 Liberty All-Star Eqty       NYSE     9.32    8 1/8  -12.82
 Niagara Share Corp.         NYSE    16.97   14 1/2  -14.56
 Nicholas-Applegate          NYSE    11.18   10 3/8  - 7.20
 Quest For Value Cap         NYSE    17.30   13 3/4  -20.52
 Quest For Value Inco        NYSE    11.78   13      +10.36
 Royce Value Trust           NYSE    10.25    9 3/8  - 8.54
 Schafer Value Trust         NYSE    10.67   10 1/4  - 3.94
 Source Capital              NYSE    40.51   40 3/4  + 0.59
 Tri-Continental Corp.       NYSE    27.23   23      -15.53
 Worldwide Value             NYSE    17.86   16 1/8  - 9.71
 Zweig Fund                  NYSE    10.67   11 5/8  + 8.95
                                                                                                       

 Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

 CIM High Yield Secs         AMEX     6.84    5 7/8  -14.11
 Municipal High Inco         NYSE     9.47    9 3/8  - 1.00
 Zenix Income Fund           NYSE     6.29    6 1/2  + 3.34
                                                                                                       

 Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

 America's All Seasn         OTC      5.82    4 5/8  -20.53

                                                                                                       

 Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

 Alliance New Europe Fd      NYSE    11.14   11 1/8  - 0.13
 American Capital Conv       NYSE    21.88   19 3/8  -11.45
 ASA Ltd                     NYSE  bc65.25   49 3/8  -24.33
 Asia Pacific                NYSE    15.27   13      -14.87
 Austria Fund                NYSE    16.20   14      -13.58
 Bancroft Convertible        AMEX    20.59   17 3/4  -13.79
 Bergstrom Capital           AMEX    59.42   57 3/4  - 2.81
 Brazil                      NYSE   x17.74    9 1/8  -48.56
 Castle Convertible          AMEX    21.49   18 1/2  -13.91
 Central Fund Canada         AMEX    b5.05    5      - 1.0
 Central Securities          AMEX    11.33    9 3/8  -17.26
 Chile Fund                  NYSE   y16.51   19      +15.08
 Couns Tandem Secs           NYSE    11.69   11      - 5.90
 Cypress Fund                AMEX     9.85    9 3/8  - 4.82
 Duff&amp;Phelps Sel Utils       NYSE     8.22    8 1/4  + 0.36
 Ellsw Conv Gr&amp;Inc           AMEX     8.39    7 3/8  -12.10
 Engex                       AMEX    11.58    8 7/8  -23.36
 1stAustralia                AMEX     9.52    8 3/8  -12.03
 First Financial Fund        NYSE     6.78    6 1/2  - 4.13
 First Iberian               AMEX     9.98   10 7/8  + 8.97
 First Philippine Fund       NYSE    11.21    9 1/2  -15.25
 Future Germany Fund         NYSE    17.47   14 1/2  -17.00
 Gabelli Equity Trust        NYSE    12.01   12      - 0.08
 Germany Fund                NYSE    13.61   15 3/8  +12.97
 Global Utilities Fund       NYSE    10.87    9 3/8  -13.75
 Growth Fund Spain           NYSE    11.19    9 1/2  -15.10
 GT Greater Europe Fd        NYSE    14.08   15 1/8  + 7.42
 H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv          NYSE    10.98    9 3/8  -14.62
 Helvetia Fd (Swiss)         NYSE    12.69   13 3/8  + 5.40
 India Growth Fund           NYSE   f12.63   13 3/4  + 8.87
 Indonesia Fund              NYSE    14.10   16 1/8  +14.36
 Inefficient Market Fund     AMEX    11.00   11 1/8  + 1.14
 Irish Investment Fd         NYSE    10.96   11 1/4  + 2.65
 Italy Fund                  NYSE   b13.92   13      - 6.61
 Japan OTC Equity Fund       NYSE   b11.10   13 1/2  +21.62
 Malaysia Fund               NYSE    13.44   14 3/8  + 6.96
 Mexico Fund                 NYSE   b13.69   13 1/4  - 3.21
 New Germany Fund            NYSE    14.83   14      - 5.60
 Patriot Prem Div Fd         NYSE     8.98   10 3/8  +15.53
 Patriot Prem Div Fd II      NYSE    10.41   11      + 5.67
 Petrol &amp; Resources          NYSE    29.88   27 1/4  - 8.80
 Pilgrim Regional            NYSE     9.33    8 5/8  - 7.56
 Putnam Dividend Inco        NYSE    10.60   11 3/8  + 7.31
 Portugal Fund               NYSE    13.06   12 5/8  - 3.33
 Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd       AMEX     6.83    6 5/8  - 3.00
 ROC Taiwan Fund             NYSE    14.86   11      -25.98
 Scudder New Asia            NYSE    16.07   12 7/8  -19.88
 Scudder New Europe          NYSE    11.64   10      -14.09
 SE Savings Inst Fd          OTC     b8.38    8      - 4.53
 Spain Fund                  NYSE    13.03   16 1/2  +26.63
 Taiwan Fund                 NYSE   b23.93   22 7/8  - 4.41
 TCW Convertible Secs        NYSE    b7.94    8 1/4  + 3.90
 TempletonEmMkts             AMEX   b14.42   13 3/4  - 4.65

 Thai Fund                   NYSE    17.87   20 3/8  +14.02
 Turkish Inv Fund            NYSE    13.92   10 1/2  -24.57
 United Kingdom Fund         NYSE    10.25    8 3/4  -14.63
 Z-Seven                     OTC     13.12   13 1/2  + 2.90
                                                                                                       

 b-As of Thursday's close.
 c-Translated at Commercial Rand exchange rate.
 f-As of Wednesday's close.
 x-NAV would be 9.01 and difference would be +1.28, if
possible Brazil tax not included in Wed. price.
 y-Nav on 4/6/90 16.76. price.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Vancouver Stock Promoter Under a Cloud
   ----
   By Gary Lamphier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Some would argue the
high-risk Vancouver Stock Exchange is dominated by two
things: gold exploration and "The Pez."
   Right now, the outlook for gold plays is upbeat, as dozens
of fledgling exchange-listed outfits gear up for spring
drilling programs on the heels of a big discovery last year.
But times aren't so rosy for Murray "The Pez" Pezim, the
flamboyant 69-year-old stock promoter whose name is
synonymous with Vancouver's venture capital market, which has
in recent years been plagued by stock scandals and bad press.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tomorrow, Mr. Pezim, chairman of Vancouver's Prime
Resources Group Inc., is to appear with two associates before
British Columbia securities regulators, to face allegations
that they violated insider trading rules.
   Among other things, British Columbia superintendent of
brokers Wade Nesmith alleged Mr. Pezim, along with Prime
chief executive officer John Ivany and senior vice president
Lawrence Page, engineered several share transactions last
summer between Prime's predecessor and Calpine Resources
Corp., without properly disclosing drilling results from
Calpine's 50%-owned Eskay Creek gold project, in northwest
British Columbia.
   Messrs. Pezim, Ivany, and Page, who also served as Calpine
directors or officers before the companies merged last week,
vehemently deny the charges.
   The purchases allowed Prime to buy effective control of
Calpine at 3.70 Canadian dollars (US$3.19) a share or less,
well below Calpine's peak price of more than C$9 in
September, which it reached after key drilling results were
disclosed. Calpine's shares subsequently settled in the C$6
range, prior to last week's merger.
   If found in violation of stock market rules, Mr. Pezim
could lose his trading rights and be barred from acting as an
officer or director of any company listed on the Vancouver
exchange, including the 50 or so companies in which Prime,
his flagship, has an interest.
   Effectively, The Pez could be out of action just as
seasonal exploration activity picks up -- and, with it, the
need for financing dollars and promoters.
   "The hearing could not have come at a worse time for the
market, especially Eskay Creek," says John Woods, editor of
Stockwatch, a news service that tracks stocks on the
Vancouver exchange. "If Mr. Pezim's energy is going to be
diverted fending off regulatory actions stemming from actions
last year," he says, "that will tie him up this year, and it
puts a cloud of confusion over Eskay Creek."
   Brokers say Mr. Pezim's regulatory dust-up already has
shrunk trading volumes on the Vancouver exchange, where the
Prime group generated about 19% of all activity during the
last half of 1989, according to Gregory Walsh, an attorney
for the superintendent of brokers.
   Daily volume, which set a 12-month high of 25.6 million
shares March 30 -- the same day the allegations against Mr.
Pezim were disclosed -- has since faded, averaging 14 million
shares a day last week.
   "Investors always do one thing when they're concerned,
whether it's in Toronto, New York, or Vancouver. They pull
back," says David Levi, of C.M. Oliver &amp; Co., a local
brokerage firm. "Murray has got a very high profile.
Everybody is just waiting to see what happens" at the
hearings, he says.
   Mr. Pezim has lashed out at Mr. Nesmith, the regulator,
who made the allegations after a protracted, six-month
investigation. "Would you like to be charged with rape and
found innocent?" the scrappy Mr. Pezim asked reporters after
the charges were made. "If he (Mr. Nesmith) wants to make
this a public affair, he's going to get it."
   Mr. Nesmith says he only wants a full public hearing of
the charges, at which the evidence "will speak for itself."
   Since he gave up life as a butcher to sell stocks four
decades ago, Mr. Pezim has had more ups and downs than a
weatherman. He was riding a wave of good news last August,
when he wound up on the winning side of an eight-year legal
battle over ownership of the huge Page-Williams gold mine in
Ontario.
   Mr. Pezim lost control of the company that owned the mine
in 1984, when he was forced to sell part of his stake to Ned
Goodman, who became chairman of what is now Toronto's Corona
Corp. Page-Williams, at Hemlo, Ontario, has helped Corona
become one of North America's biggest gold producers. It's
also Prime's largest holder, with a 28.1% undiluted stake.
Mr. Pezim owned 12% last fall, though his current stake isn't
clear.
   Mr. Pezim promptly scored a second big hit in August, when
Calpine announced impressive drilling results at Eskay Creek.
News of the find sent trading volumes soaring to record
heights on the beleaguered Vancouver exchange.
   The resurgent activity was led by Calpine and Prime,
followed by a flotilla of Prime-linked stocks, including some
with property near Eskay Creek.
   Mr. Pezim is generally admired among Vancouver's brokers,
who rely on him to stir up investor interest. His knack for
finding gold has also helped dull memories of his many flops,
such as Pezzaz greeting cards, which contained audiocassette
messages from celebrities, or another venture that made
monogrammed apples.
   Mr. Pezim isn't one to shrink from adulation.
   "I'm the greatest," a buoyant Mr. Pezim told reporters
back in September, after cementing his rising celebrity
status by bailing out Vancouver's troubled pro football team.
   The mood appears to have changed, for both Mr. Pezim and
his favorite market, however. Stockwatch's Mr. Woods says
companies linked to the Eskay Creek area will have trouble
raising new equity, as long as the hearings last and Mr.
Pezim's status is unclear. Mr. Nesmith figures the hearings
may last a couple of weeks, though he won't say how long it
could take to render a decision.
   "It's a double-edged sword, unfortunately," says Frank
Giustra, of Yorkton-Continental Securities Inc. "From an
enforcement and credibility point of view, the hearings are a
positive move" for the exchange, he says, which is trying to
clean up its image. "But from the point of view of what it
does to the volumes of Eskay Creek stocks, it's obviously a
negative."
   Though things look dicey for the moment for Mr. Pezim, Mr.
Woods says the resilient Pez can't be counted out.
   "According to (Mr.) Pezim, his phone has stopped ringing,
his financings are stalled, his house is for sale and he's
out of business," says Mr. Woods. "But as long as he's front
and center in the publicity department, he's far from out of
business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   CDE JGF RTI AMI FIL MNC MUSA MCHS DELE CALGF
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange, the American
Stock Exchange and the National Market System of the
over-the-counter market each announced three new listings.
The Amex also announced trading on one new option.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the Big Board, Coeur d'Alene Mines Corp., a Coeur
d'Alene, Idaho, producer of silver and gold, will begin
trading Wednesday, under the symbol CDE. The company
previously traded on the American Stock Exchange.
                                                                                                       

   Jakarta Growth Fund Inc. joined the Big Board under the
symbol JGF in an initial public offering. The New York
closed-end investment company works primarily with equity
securities of Indonesian companies and other firms that
derive a large portion of the revenue from Indonesia.
                                                                                                       

   RMI Titanium Co. had an initial public offering under the
symbol RTI. The Niles, Ohio, company is an integrated
producer of titanium products. On the American Stock
Exchange, American Medical Holdings Inc. will begin trading
today on a "when issue" basis under the symbol AMI.WI. The
Beverly Hills, Calif., company operates general acute care
and psychiatric hospitals internationally and is a holding
company for American Medical International Inc. American
Medical International, which previously traded on the Big
Board, became a unit of American Medical Holdings April 12.
                                                                                                       

   Del Electronics Corp. will start trading Wednesday, under
the symbol DEL. The Mount Vernon, N.Y., company makes
high-voltage power conversion systems and components. The
company previously traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   Sanifill Inc., a Houston waste management company, had an
initial public offering under the symbol FIL. Options in MNC
Financial Inc. began trading on the Amex under the symbol
MNC. The multibank holding company offers retail, wholesale
and international banking services in Maryland, Virginia,
Delaware and Washington, D.C. On the national market system
of the over-the-counter market, Cal Graphite Corp. will
commence trading Tuesday, under the symbol CALGF. The Lively,
Ontario, company does acquisition and exploration of mineral
properties.
                                                                                                       

   Martech USA Inc. will also begin trading tomorrow under
the symbol MUSA. The Anchorage, Alaska, company provides
pollution control and other marine and onshore field-related
environmental services.
                                                                                                       

   Micro Healthsystems Inc. will also start trading tomorrow
under the symbol MCHS. The West Orange, N.J., concern
designs, installs and supports health care facilities and
software management systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Study Shatters
   Stereotypes About
   Poor Children
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Children under age six are more likely to be poor than any
other age group in America, and more than half of them have
at least one working parent, reside outside urban areas and
live in small families, according to a Columbia University
study.
   The study's findings contradict some stereotypes about
poverty as an affliction in the main of welfare-dependent
inner-city children. Only 28% of poor children under age six
live in families that rely solely on public assistance, the
study says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The university's National Center for Children in Poverty
report called on policymakers and others to view the issue
"through a new lens" and recommended comprehensive efforts to
prevent and reduce the problems of poor children.
   In total, five million children under age six live in
families with incomes below the federal poverty line, or
nearly one of every four young children in the U.S.,
according to the study. Another 2.7 million children in that
age group live in "near-poor" families with incomes slightly
above the poverty line. Of the five million poor children,
42% were white, 32% were black, 21% were Hispanic and 5% were
other minorities. Though the largest group of poor children
are white, minorities are more likely to be poor. In 1987,
48% of young black children were poor, while only 13% of
young white children were poor.
   The poverty rate for children under age six was 23% in
1987, higher than the rate for any other age group and nearly
double the rate for the elderly. In all, the number of poor
children under six grew by about 50% between 1979 and 1983;
that number has since declined slightly.
   The report, which drew on existing literature and original
analyses of data, also noted that though 46% of poor children
under age six lived in central cities, 28% lived in suburban
areas and 26% in rural areas. And though children under six
living with single mothers are more likely to be poor than
those living with two parents, 38% of poor young children
live in married-couple families.
   In addition, 53% of poor children under age six had at
least one parent who was working or looking for work, and 51%
lived in families with two or fewer children.
   Robert Greenstein, director of the nonprofit Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities, praised the report for bringing
together research that shatters mistaken stereotypes.
   "The extent to which poor families with children are
working poor families and the extent to which they live in
rural areas is really not widely appreciated," he said. "The
degree to which most poor families do not live in high
poverty areas in central cities probably would come as a
surprise to most Americans."
   The center, established last year, received funds from the
Ford Foundation and Carnegie Corporation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hallmark Cards Inc.:
   Buy-Back Offer Extended
   For Univision Junk Bonds
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hallmark Cards Inc., Kansas City, Mo., extended its offer
to 5 p.m. EDT tomorrow to buy back at a discount $270 million
of junk bonds issued by its Univision Holdings Inc. unit.
   The offer had been scheduled to expire at 12:01 a.m. last
Friday. Hallmark's move wasn't a surprise: A majority group
of holders hadn't agreed to accept the offer until late
Thursday evening.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hallmark's tender offer is conditioned on receipt of at
least 90% of the bonds in each of the two classes
outstanding. On Friday, Hallmark said that holders of
Univision's senior subordinated discount notes, due 1998, had
either tendered or given notice of guaranteed delivery "in
excess of 90%" of the $165 million principal amount
outstanding. Holders of Univision's $105 million in
subordinated debentures, due 1999, had tendered or guaranteed
delivery of about 85% of the outstanding total, Hallmark
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Laventhol Is Reducing Profit Pay-Outs
   To Partners; Layoffs Also Are Planned
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Laventhol &amp; Horwath, the seventh-biggest U.S.
accounting firm, is reducing profit pay-outs to partners and
planning layoffs, according to Robert N. Levine, the firm's
executive partner-elect.
   Mr. Levine, who will assume the top post at the
Philadelphia-based firm on June 1 but who is effectively
running the firm's operations now, said that a quarterly
profit distribution made to partners in mid-April has been
reduced by half. The reason, he said, was that big litigation
payments have reduced taxable income and tax liabilities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This distribution is normally given to partners to pay
their quarterly taxes and since their taxes won't be so high,
we reduced the pay-out," Mr. Levine said. He denied
speculation in the accounting industry that the firm is in
deep trouble but conceded that some layoffs are imminent at
the firm's 51 U.S. offices.
   There has been speculation in industry circles that from
10% to 15% of the firm's 425 partners, 3,500 professional
staff members and 1,200 administrative employees, would be
given notice. Last year Laventhol had more than 450 partners.
Mr. Levine said the new reductions won't be as high as 10%.
"We will do what we have to do to make the firm profitable,"
he said. "We won't be dealing with people in terms of numbers
but in terms of performance."
   Mr. Levine said that he "is very pleased with operating
results in February and March," which he said exceeded the
year-earlier figures. "Our income is the best it's ever been
and we have satisfactory capital for all our needs," he
added. "We're simply making some personnel adjustments, which
are normal at tax season this time of the year." He said that
revenue for the fiscal year ended last Jan. 31 was about $345
million, up 5.2% from the previous year.
   In response to a query, he said that the firm's total
operating profit prior to litigation costs in the year ended
Jan. 31 declined 9% from a year earlier. In the year ended
Jan. 31, 1989, operating profit dropped about 6% from the
year earlier, he said. In the year ended Jan. 31, 1988, such
profit was flat with the year before, he said. "But the
per-partner profit decline is less because of the reduction
in partners each year," he added.
   In response to a query that the firm was losing major
clients, Mr. Levine said, "We are looking at our client base
and we are beginning to weed out clients based on risks to
the firm and profitability of the specific engagement."
   Mr. Levine denied reports that the firm had lost some of
its bank lines of credit. "We are borrowed up to our full
line with three banks but that's usual this time of the
year," he said. Laventhol keeps major credit lines with
Fidelity Bank in Philadelphia and Chase Manhattan Bank in New
York. A smaller credit line is kept with State Street Bank in
Boston.
   Laventhol has been hit by big lawsuits, resulting in
massive pay-outs for allegedly sloppy audit and
financial-preparation work. Last December, Laventhol settled
a class-action lawsuit with investors of several fraudulent
limited partnerships for $13.5 million, to be paid out in
three equal installments over the next three years. Insurance
covered only $4.4 million of the settlement. Laventhol had
prepared audited financial statements for the partnerships.
   An out-of-court settlement in Chicago last October with
nine creditor banks in a holding-company bankruptcy
proceeding cost Laventhol at least $30 million, of which
about $20 million was covered by insurance. And in 1988,
Laventhol paid $15 million in an out-of-court settlement of
an anti-racketeering class-action suit, making Laventhol the
first accounting firm to lose a jury trial under the federal
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law.
   Reports have also been circulating that many partners and
executives in important practice areas are leaving the firm.
Mr. Levine acknowledged that an early-retirement program had
been initiated with a group of partners, and a number have
accepted the offer. "In the Northeast, where our real-estate
practice has been hurt by the economy, we've had staff
reductions that have followed the economy," he said.
   But Steven Matthews, a former partner who left Laventhol
on March 1 to form his own actuarial and employee-benefits
consulting firm in Phoenix, Ariz., said that he and three
other partners left Laventhol "because of the litigation
problems." Mr. Matthews joined Laventhol three and a half
years ago when Laventhol acquired his consulting firm.
   Mr. Matthews said that Laventhol "has been purging
partners from its offices who were not considered effective
and it's safe to assume that these types of reductions will
continue." He said that Laventhol withheld its monthly
payment of $9,000 in February to himself and the three other
partners who left.
   "Laventhol told us that because of the litigation, we
weren't getting our monthly pay-outs because we were
leaving," Mr. Matthews said. "We don't think this is fair,
but we're currently negotiating return of our capital
accounts so we don't want to make problems." He also said
that Laventhol told him and the three other partners who left
that they won't get their April bonus for work performed in
1989 "because of dollars committed to the litigation
reserves."
   Mr. Levine said he couldn't comment specifically on Mr.
Matthews's experiences in leaving the firm. "We lost some
people who find they are dissatisfied with a big-firm
environment," Mr. Levine said.
   Mr. Matthews, who now heads Matthews, Malone &amp; Associates,
said he knows of seven or eight additional Laventhol partners
who plan to leave the firm because of its litigation woes.
Such problems threaten to reduce earnings and partners'
capital. Several key partners in the consulting and
hospitality practices in Chicago and Boston have already said
they were leaving to form their own firms or join other
organizations.
   Almost all major accounting firms are experiencing profit
pressures, with revenue growth for the major firms slowing to
12.8% in 1989 from 17.25% a year earlier, according to
Bowman's Accounting Report. Thus, Laventhol's added
litigation woes have only decreased its ability to cope with
the already existing challenges of slower revenue growth and
increased competition, said Arthur Bowman, publisher of the
Atlanta-based newsletter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook --
   Steady Inflation:
   Does Anyone Care?
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The business people of Richmond, Ind., had a
lot on their minds last week when they had breakfast with
former Federal Reserve Governor Andrew Brimmer. There was the
thrift crisis, interest rates, the recession threat, Japan,
Rust Belt unemployment and the peace dividend. But to Mr.
Brimmer's surprise, not a single mention of inflation.
   Inflation hasn't gone away, however. In the past 12
months, consumer prices have risen 5.3%. That's higher than
the inflation rate that drove President Nixon to impose wage
and price controls in 1971. It's also higher than the rate
that moved the Fed to firm up its credit policy two years
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yet hardly anyone besides Fed policy makers, who are paid
to worry about inflation, seems to care. In the latest Wall
Street Journal/NBC poll, inflation ranked well behind the
budget deficit, unemployment and the trade deficit as the
most pressing economic problem of the day.
                                                                                                       

   The survey indicated that most Americans put job security
ahead of conducting a possibly painful all-out war on
inflation. Meanwhile, business groups are generally silent on
the subject, calling instead for lower interest rates. The
president seems more interested in keeping the economy
growing than in breaking the back of inflation. Few in
Congress support a bill to make ending inflation the Fed's
main goal.
                                                                                                       

   Such attitudes are dangerous, Mr. Brimmer claims, because
"it's exactly at times like this that one has to be on guard
against inflation: It's a creeping disease."
   But is this really so? The underlying inflation rate --
calculated by excluding volatile food and energy prices from
the consumer price index -- has been remarkably stable since
1983, fluctuating between 4% and 4.5%, except for a jump to
5% in 1984. Most economists see inflation in the same range
for 1990. On Friday the government said producer prices fell
0.2% last month, but increased 4.4% in the past year.
   "It's almost a straight line -- that's already violated
some economic thinking," says Donald Ratajczak, a Georgia
State University economist considered an authority on
inflation.
   In the past, a little inflation often has led to worse
inflation, with producers charging more and workers demanding
more. Consumers also have fed the spiral by hoarding in
anticipation of further price increases.
                                                                                                       

   But now, the inflation snowball is rolling along without
getting any bigger, perhaps because of adroit monetary
policy, perhaps because global competition restrains price
increases, perhaps because unions are weaker.
                                                                                                       

   So perhaps most Americans are correct not to care about
inflation. After all, so long as the current inflation rate
persists, families with fixed-rate loans can continue paying
the same monthly amounts, even though inflation erodes the
value of the repaid dollars. The same benefit applies for
firms laden with fixed-rate debt, of which there are many.
   "If we had a few years of inflation like we had in 1979,
Campeau would be on easy street," says James Smith, a
University of North Carolina economist. James Tobin, a
Nobel-laureate economist at Yale, reckons that sharply
declining inflation would hurt many borrowers who went into
hock assuming inflation would continue in the 4% to 5% range.
And Daniel Krumm, chairman of Maytag Corp., says, "I don't
endorse 4.5% inflation, but I think it's manageable."
   Still, there are many reasons for concern. Even if
inflation remains unchanged, some economists warn this would
take a toll. "I used to say, let's settle down at 5% and
level out there," says Herbert Stein, a former chairman of
the Council of Economic Advisors. But now, he believes, this
isn't "really a tenable position in the long run," since
"ordinary people don't count on it" and are "going to be
surprised when they settle down for retirement or have to
send their kids to college."
                                                                                                       

   Even at a pace well below that of the early 1980s,
inflation tends to encourage still more borrowing in an
already leveraged economy. It erodes living standards of
those on fixed incomes and of those whose wages don't match
price increases. It distorts prices as economic signals,
making it difficult to distinguish real scarcity from the
overall price spiral. It creates uncertainty, which tends to
drive up interest rates. And it risks a resurgence of
inflationary expectations, with hedge-buying shoppers
anticipating -- as well as helping to initiate -- ever larger
price increases.
                                                                                                       

   Whatever their merits, such considerations aren't
persuading many people at a time when economic growth has
slowed and a quarter of a million factory jobs have been lost
in the past year. Subduing inflation is likely to require
some pain. Still, the Fed says it remains committed to the
goal. But for now at least, it has few allies, and so its
fight will probably be a lonely, difficult undertaking.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hartmarx Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HMX
</CO>
<LP>
   HARTMARX Corp. (Chicago) -- Miles A. Marsh, president and
chief operating officer of Whitman Corp.; and Jeffrey A.
Cole, president and chief executive officer of CNC Holding
Corp., were named directors of this apparel maker and
retailer, succeeding two retiring members.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LAVENTHOL &amp; HORWATH is cutting quarterly profit pay-outs
to partners and planning layoffs, according to the accounting
firm's executive partner-elect, Robert Levine. But he denied
reports that Laventhol, the nation's seventh-biggest
accounting firm, is in deep trouble. Laventhol has been hit
by big lawsuits, resulting in major payouts for allegedly
sloppy audit and financial-preparation work.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Inflation moderated in March as lower food and energy
costs helped cause a 0.2% drop in producer prices. Excluding
the volatile food and energy sectors, prices rose a modest
0.3% for the month. Despite the improvement, some economists
warned that inflation remains a threat.
   ---
   Torchmark indicated it would halt efforts to acquire
American General if its slate of board nominees was defeated
at American General's annual meeting May 2. Torchmark began
the proxy fight two weeks ago after dropping a $6.3 billion
bid.
   ---
   Landmark Land has agreed to sell much of its real estate
and resort holdings to California developer Barry Hon for as
much as $967 million, sources said. The sale, triggered by
the thrift-bailout law, is one of the biggest real-estate
deals this year.
   ---
   Ad agency Wells Rich agreed to affiliate with a French
agency, Boulet Dru Dupuy Petit, in which the two will take
stakes in each other. Also, agency founder Mary Wells
Lawrence is stepping down. Kenneth Olshan was named chairman
and chief executive.
   ---
   Boeing said it will largely fund development of the 767-X
jet itself, giving three Japanese firms a far smaller role in
the $3 billion project. The announcement, ending months of
speculation, also means more U.S. companies could become
involved.
   ---
   Eastern Air's unsecured creditors spurned an 11th hour
debt-repayment offer from the troubled carrier. Instead, the
group pressed efforts to get rid of Eastern's management and
have a trustee run the airline. Eastern has said that any
appointment of a trustee would be its "death knell."
   ---
   Workers can take age discrimination complaints to federal
court even if a state agency rules that no discrimination
occurred, a federal appeals court said. The decision is
likely to influence other cases around the U.S.
   ---
   A strict anti-takeover law is expected to be adopted in
Pennsylvania this week, though some big corporations and
labor groups are questioning the wisdom of the move. Even
some backers are having second thoughts.
   ---
   Chrysler Chairman Iacocca received 10.8% more in total
compensation last year than in 1988, mainly because of stock
options. His 1989 compensation was nearly $4 million.
   ---
   Hardee's plans to keep the Roy Rogers brand alive by
adding the newly acquired chain's fried fresh chicken product
to its menu.
   ---
   Markets --
   Most financial markets were closed Friday in observance of
Good Friday.
   Dollar: 158.70 yen, up 0.52; 1.6722 marks, off 0.0002.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Stefanel S.p.A.:
   Accord Is Signed to Open
   10 Stores in Hungary in '90
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST BNG
</CO>
<LP>
   Italian sportwear group Stefanel S.p.A. said it signed an
agreement with Tradex, a private Hungarian company, to launch
a chain of ten franchise stores in Hungary by the end of the
year.
   The first store was opened Friday in Budapest; the second
is due to open within weeks in the tourist center of Siofax
on Lake Balaton, Stefanel said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the agreement, Stefanel will sell in Hungary the
same collections available contemporaneously in Milan, Paris
and New York. The company said the accord marks the first
time a Western clothing manufacturer has agreed to market its
most recent designs in Eastern Europe in local currency.
   Separately, Benetton Group S.p.A. said it opened its first
Soviet outlet on Red Square in Moscow. The store is managed
by the Elegant joint venture, which is 65% Italian. Two more
stores are projected to open in Moscow, as well as a
distribution center that will manage sales of Benetton
products in the Soviet Union and set up stores in Kiev,
Leningrad and Riga.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FDA Study Finds Trace of Sulfa Drug,
   A Possible Carcinogen, in Milk Samples
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Food and Drug Administration study
revealed small amounts of a potential carcinogen in milk
samples from two cities.
   The level of contamination, one to three parts per
billion, was termed "tiny" by FDA spokesman Jeff Nesbit.
"Clearly there's no public health risk at those levels," he
added. However, some FDA officials have publicly expressed
concern in the past about levels of the substance below one
part per billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The contaminant is sulfamethazine, a sulfa drug used in
veterinary medicine. It has been found to cause thyroid
cancer in rats and mice at high dosage levels. The FDA has
banned the drug for dairy cattle, and plans to propose a
further ban for beef cattle and pigs.
   The FDA study found traces of the drug in three out of 70
milk samples collected nationwide. It also found traces of
other sulfa drugs in 57 out of the 70 samples, also at levels
from one to three parts per billion.
   The tests were conducted last January after surveys by The
Wall Street Journal and the Center for Science in the Public
Interest found widespread milk contamination by sulfa drugs.
The FDA's latest tests used milk samples from cartons taken
from stores in 14 cities. The three sulfamethazine-tainted
samples were found in samples from New York City and Kansas
City, Mo.
   The new findings contradict an earlier summary of the
FDA's test results released in February. An FDA news release
then stated that the test revealed "no residues of any
antibiotics, including sulfa drugs," and said that "no
sulfamethazine" had been found.
   "FDA intentionally misled the public," charged Rep. Ted
Weiss (D., N.Y.) in a statement released by his office
Friday. Rep. Weiss chaired congressional hearings on the
matter two months ago.
   FDA spokesman Bill Grigg said, "The information that was
provided at the time was what we had at the time." He said
that the FDA's initial concern was whether sulfa drug
contamination was more than 10 parts per billion, the level
at which the FDA is required to take action.
   At an FDA advisory committee meeting last October, Dr.
Richard Teske, deputy director of the agency's Center for
Veterinary Medicine, suggested that sulfamethazine could pose
a cancer risk "in the low parts-per-billion range, or perhaps
even in the sub-parts-per billion range."
   Experts now express concern about the 57 other sulfa drug
traces found in the milk samples. No hard data show these
other sulfa drugs to be carcinogens. But according to Joe
Settipani, a dissident FDA scientist involved in the
development of testing procedures, "any scientist would tell
you that because of the very close structural analogy" with
sulfamethazine, these other drugs may also pose cancer risks.
   Lisa Lefferts, staff scientist for the Center for Science
in the Public Interest, said the FDA needs to extend its
sulfa drug ban beyond sulfamethazine and encourage
development of new animal drugs "so that farmers have safe
and effective drugs to use."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LITHUANIA FAILED to meet a Kremlin deadline to end its
independence bid.
   Leaders of the breakaway Baltic republic ignored
Gorbachev's ultimatum, made Friday, to rescind within 48
hours laws promoting secession or face the cutoff of supplies
of major products. The Soviet president didn't specify what
materials, but Lithuania buys oil and natural gas only from
Moscow. It wasn't clear how the Kremlin, which has declared
illegal the republic's March 11 proclamation of independence,
would implement the economic blockade. In Soviet Armenia, Red
Army tanks and armored vehicles rolled through Yerevan after
a crowd tried to storm KGB headquarters.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pope John Paul II, in an Easter message, expressed hope
that Lithuania would achieve independence through
"respectful" talks with Moscow.
   ---
   The Pentagon's spending plans call for cutting active duty
Army troops and frontline Air Force jet fighters by almost
25% by 1998, according to Defense Department and
congressional aides. The latest proposals are about twice as
large as reductions envisioned in the military's current
five-year plan through 1995.
   ---
   Police in China arrested a lone protester in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square as he attempted to lay a wreath with an
inscription to "heroes who died for democracy." The arrest
came on the first anniversary of former Communist Party chief
Hu's death. Hundreds of police patrolled the capital's plaza
to discourage other shows of dissent.
   ---
   Black factional fighting raged in South Africa's Natal
province, despite tight security measures. Police said 20
people were killed in the latest clashes. In Britain, black
nationalist Mandela arrived for a visit to London and ignored
an invitation to meet with Prime Minister Thatcher, who has
eased anti-apartheid sanctions on Pretoria.
                                                                                                       

   South Africa's de Klerk plans to make a "statement of
intent" this week to eliminate remaining apartheid laws, the
Sunday Star of Johannesburg reported. The president is to
hold black-white power-sharing talks with the African
National Congress next month.
   ---
   Protesters in Nepal stormed an academy in Katmandu, where
opposition and government leaders opened talks about
revamping the Himalayan nation's political system. Police
confronted the demonstrators demanding immediate freedom and
democracy.
   ---
   India's security forces clashed with Moslem militants in
the disputed Kashmir region. The Kashmiri independence drive
has prompted India and Pakistan to accuse each other of
trying to provoke a war. In New Delhi, police issued a
warning for the public to be on the lookout for bombs. Three
devices have exploded in the past week.
   ---
   Bush and Thatcher held a day of talks Friday in Bermuda
that focused on EastWest relations and the future of NATO
amid the changes sweeping Eastern Europe. The two leaders
also criticized Gorbachev's ultimatum to Lithuania, which the
president described as "deeply disturbing."
   ---
   The Bush administration eased visa restrictions on
foreigners infected with the AIDS virus, allowing the
visitors to attend certain conferences on special 10-day
visas. Current immigration rules classify AIDS as a
contagious disease, and the U.S. didn't show any sign of
moving to end a policy that activists consider
discriminatory.
   ---
   A Columbia University study found that children under age
six are more likely to be poor than any other U.S. age group,
and more than half have at least one working parent and
reside outside urban areas. The findings contradict some
stereotypes about poverty as an affliction of
welfare-dependent inner-city children.
   ---
   NASA installed a new auxiliary power unit in the space
shuttle Discovery and began recharging the batteries of the
Hubble Space Telescope. The spacecraft is scheduled to lift
off April 25, following an aborted attempt last week. Once
placed in orbit, the telescope will be used to study stars
and galaxies at the edge of the universe.
   ---
   An FDA study found small amounts of a potential carcinogen
in milk samples from New York City and Kansas City, Mo. The
trace level of the sulfa drug was termed "tiny" by an agency
spokesman, who said there wasn't any health risk. But the
findings contradict an earlier summary of the FDA's test
results released in February.
   ---
   Rebel Philippine soldiers threatened to do battle with the
U.S. if Washington intervenes in the country's affairs. In a
statement circulated in Manila military camps, the leaders of
December's coup attempt called President Aquino a U.S. puppet
who can't implement political change.
   ---
   Died: Greta Garbo, 84, legendary Swedish-born screen
actress known for her passion for privacy as well as for such
films as "Grand Hotel" and "Ninotchka," in New York. . . .
Spark M. Matsunaga, 73, Democratic U.S. senator of Hawaii, in
Toronto, of complications from prostate cancer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wyoming National Bancorp.:
   Firm Accepts Lower Price
   For Sale to Norwest Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C7
</SO>
<CO>
   WYNB NOB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Norwest Corp. said Wyoming National Bancorp. agreed to a
reduced $19-a-share, or $41 million, acquisition proposal.
   In March, Norwest, Minneapolis, signed a letter of intent
to acquire Wyoming National for $20 a share, or $43 million.
But April 6 -- when the companies had said they would
determine whether to proceed with the transaction -- Norwest
said only that it was "continuing discussions" with the
Casper, Wyo., company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The latest proposal is subject to signing a definitive
agreement, and approval by regulators and Wyoming National
holders.
   Wyoming National has assets of $450 million, and owns six
banks in the state. Norwest has assets of $24.3 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Nissho Iwai Corp.:
   Japan Trading Firm Raises
   Its Sales Outlook for Year
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NIW
</CO>
<LP>
   Nissho Iwai Corp. raised its sales outlook for the year,
saying it expects to report 35% growth in consolidated sales
to 15.5 trillion yen ($98 billion).
   The Tokyo trading company also said it expects to report
unconsolidated sales increased 36% to 15 trillion yen in the
year ended March 31. The forecasts are up from predictions of
18% growth in both consolidated sales to 13.5 trillion yen
and unconsolidated sales to 13 trillion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company didn't give any reasons for the revision.
   Expectations for growth in pretax profit and earnings were
unchanged. Pretax profit is seen up 13% at 50 billion yen on
a consolidated basis and up 1.4% to 32 billion yen on an
unconsolidated basis.
   Net income is expected to have grown 31% to 17 billion yen
on a consolidated basis and about 37% to nine billion yen on
an unconsolidated basis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Trans Financial Bancorp Inc.:
   Bank Holding Firm Seeks
   Approval for Purchase Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6B
</SO>
<CO>
   TRFI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Trans Financial Bancorp Inc. said it is seeking approval
of the Office of Thrift Supervision to make a bid for First
Financial of Russellville Inc., the parent of First Federal
Savings &amp; Loan Association of Russellville, Ky.
   No formal offer has been made, but the Bowling Green, Ky.,
bank holding company indicated that it would offer about $23
a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   First Financial has 363,630 shares outstanding, giving the
transaction an indicated value of about $8.4 million. Trans
Financial said there is no guarantee that either the federal
thrift office or First Financial's board will approve the
proposal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Recent Slackening in Japanese Demand
   For Dollars Is Making Traders Edgy
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A recent slackening in Japanese demand for
dollars is making foreign-exchange traders edgy, but they
doubt the U.S. currency will tumble from its current high
plateau any time soon.
   "It won't be the turn in the trend" if Japanese investors
shy away from the dollar for a bit longer, says Nori Kato, a
trader at Industrial Bank of Japan Trust Co., New York. "The
general trend" of dollar strength against the yen "is still
intact."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although there has been broad-based buying of the dollar
in recent months because of a lack of confidence in Japan's
government, financial markets and monetary policy, Japanese
market participants have played a major role in dealings.
   The dollar's rise from 143.95 yen at the end of last year
to a 39-month peak of 160.30 yen April 12 was spurred by
Japanese buying. The aggressive purchases, currency analysts
say, reflect changes in long-term positions and a scramble
for investment opportunities outside Japan that are more
attractive than those in the domestic markets.
   However, Japanese investors' dollar buying lightened
noticeably just before major monetary officials convened in
Paris April 7. And it hasn't gotten back to full blast even
though there is skepticism about the resolve of global
central banks to curb the dollar's strength against the yen,
traders say.
   Consequently, the dollar has become stalled at its higher
levels and has grown more vulnerable to profit-taking.
   Early Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was trading at 159.05
yen, up from Friday's Tokyo close of 158.42 yen.
   Demand from Japanese investors "seems to be satisfied for
the time being," says Keith Cheveralls, foreign exchange
manager at the Nippon Credit Bank, New York. There's "no real
indication" of what the Japanese will do next, he says.
   While there are still many forecasts for a decisive dollar
rise above 160 yen by summer, some traders suspect that such
a move wouldn't be fueled by heavy Japanese buying.
   "They're not really desperate" to purchase dollars, says
Mr. Kato.
   He suspects Japan's higher interest rates are finally
beginning to keep capital in the nation, possibly by
encouraging Japanese banks to make yen loans and take
advantage of the rate rise that has occurred in the past
year.
   But at no time soon is capital outflow expected to cease
as a problem for Japan and the yen, not with Japan's interest
rates and financial markets still unattractive to most global
investors and Japanese investors keen on obtaining foreign
assets.
   Primarily because of that outlook, the mood about the
dollar remains positive, traders say.
   Late Friday in New York, the dollar traded at 158.70 yen
and 1.6722 marks, compared with 158.18 and 1.6724,
respectively, at Thursday's close.
   The "critical issue" isn't whether or not the U.S.
financial markets will continue to draw Japanese capital;
it's a question of how much capital U.S. interest rates will
be able to lure, says Roger Shields, chief international
economist at Chemical Bank.
   U.S. interest rates, he says, will probably stay firm
despite continued hints of weak economic growth.
   As for central banks, any efforts to undermine the dollar
will be futile if the resolve behind the actions remains
questionable, traders say.
   Even though the Group of Seven industrial nations termed
the yen's weakness "undesirable" at their meeting in Paris,
it is widely believed the Bank of Japan may have to fight
pretty much single-handedly to solve what is regarded as a
Japanese problem. The G-7 are the U.S., Japan, West Germany,
Britain, France, Canada and Italy.
   The Bank of Japan's struggle to prop up the yen will
probably require it to undertake the bulk of any dollar
selling in "concerted" attacks. It probably also will have to
raise its 5.25% discount rate soon without any aid from the
Federal Reserve in terms of easier monetary policy, currency
analysts say.
   It will "undermine any yen rally" if the market perceives
that the Bank of Japan is working alone to boost the yen,
says Mr. Cheveralls of Nippon Credit Bank. "The solution must
come primarily from Tokyo," he says, but cooperation among
the major industrial nations would help.
   If demand keeps dwindling, the Bank of Japan may not have
to work very hard to depress the dollar in the near term.
   "Shorter-term speculators will be disappointed" and may
take profits if the dollar doesn't rise, says John Lyman, a
senior customer dealer at Bank of Tokyo Ltd., New York. "What
we need now is new demand."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN GM FNM FRE MER
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, April 13, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 3/16% high, 7 1/2% low, 7 1/2% near
closing bid, 7 3/4% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 8.15% 15 to 29 days; 8.175% 30 to 59 days;
8.15% 60 to 89 days; 8.125% 90 to 119 days; 8.10% 120 to 149
days; 8.05% 150 to 179; 8.0% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.77% one month; 7.83% two
months; 7.86% three months; 7.93% six months; 8.20% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.25%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
6.25%; Switzerland 11%; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, April 9, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.80% 13 weeks; 7.80% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.42%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages; 8%,
2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages. Source:
Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.29%, standard conventional
fixed-rate d/mortgages; 9.00%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Clocking Immigration Sanctions
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   There's an obscure provision in the Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration bill that could quickly erase one of the worst
parts of the 1986 law -- but only if someone notices. The
forgotten provision says that once there's been an official
finding that Simpson-Mazzoli led to discrimination against
minority workers, Congress can get an expedited vote within
30 days to repeal the sanctions against employers for hiring
illegals.
   In late March, the General Accounting Office found
widespread discrimination. Thus, the one good chance to
repeal sanctions runs up to April 29. And indeed, an unusual
alliance of Senators Ted Kennedy and Orrin Hatch has
introduced a resolution to repeal employer sanctions. Yet few
Congressmen have heard from businesspeople urging a vote to
repeal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Simpson-Mazzoli is the modern era's Prohibition -- a
misguided attempt to "control the borders." The bill
deputized all employers as immigration cops by requiring that
they somehow make sure their employees are in the country
legally. One problem is that you could gather all the
country's immigration lawyers into one room and they couldn't
reach a conclusion about which noncitizens are allowed to
work or how to spot forged documents.
   The difficulty employers have complying with the law has
even led to calls for a national identification card, but the
fundamental problem remains that the law created perverse
incentives. Think of Simpson-Mazzoli as the first legislation
since Jim Crow where the government is so closely aligned
with a process that produces discrimination. The law
encourages what we'd call preventive discrimination.
Employers know that overavoidance -- discriminating against
foreign-sounding job applicants -- is the safest way to avoid
fines or jail. If all your employees look and speak as if
their ancestors stepped off the Mayflower, you probably won't
go to jail.
   So it's no surprise that the General Accounting Office
found "widespread discrimination" against job applicants
either because they weren't citizens or because they had a
"foreign appearance or accent," especially Hispanics and
Asians. The study, which began the time clock on 30-day
repeal, estimated that almost 20% of firms discriminate. Its
provisions led to such absurdities as author Gore Vidal, who
lives in Rome, being asked for proof of citizenship before he
could appear as a guest on the Johnny Carson show. Companies
from Wendy's to Wal-Mart have been fined for offenses.
   The punishments can be severe. Eleven employees of the
Piedmont Quilting Corp. of Walhalla, South Carolina, were
indicted last year for immigration violations involving
faulty records and hiring 85 illegal aliens. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service distributed a press release noting
that the company could be fined $60 million and that Chairman
Alfred Mizhir and 10 others could be sent to jail for 653
years each. The INS has never been known for subtlety. The
company has paid a half-million-dollar fine. Mr. Mizhir
pleaded to 120 counts and is waiting to see if he'll be the
first employer to be jailed under the new law.
   Jail aside, there is something absurd about the idea of
criminalizing voluntary agreements, such as employment. The
truth is that "illegal" immigrants fill many jobs throughout
the economy, from agriculture in the West to food services in
the East. We are now in the midst of a labor shortage, which
Congress seems to want to make worse. The easiest way to
ensure economic growth, Julian Simon argues in "The Economic
Consequences of Immigration," is for the U.S. to take in a
million more legal immigrants every year. Removing the
employer sanctions is the first step to a more open
immigration policy.
   Why have business groups been so mouselike on repealing
sanctions? Probably because no one likes the idea of pleading
guilty to discrimination in order to get a law changed --
even if the discrimination is the result of a perverse law.
Other groups have urged repeal, though, including the U.S.
Civil Rights Commission, the American Bar Association (which
once supported sanctions) and many Hispanic groups.
   Backers of the Kennedy-Hatch resolution say unless there's
a big push in the next several days, this opportunity to fix
the law will slip by. If this happens, expect the INS to
bring many more cases against employers in the comfort of
knowing there's little reason to worry. Without the
discipline of a forced quick vote, Congress won't get around
to reforming the employer sanctions any time soon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Detective Business Is Booming in Japan
   ---
   `Need to Know' Increase
   In Land of the Rising Sun
   ----
   By Kathryn Graven
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- When the U.S. manager of a small high-tech
company sought to hire his first Japanese salesman, he was
advised to put a detective on the case. The executive
reluctantly agreed.
   The investigator's report was chock-full of information,
and some of it -- including how much the candidate paid for
his house or what sort of relationship he had with his wife
and neighbors -- was of questionable relevance to the
American. "I learned more about this guy than I ever wanted,"
the manager says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the process, the executive also learned one of Japan's
secrets: Nosing around in other people's business has long
been big business.
   And it's getting bigger. Part of the reason is the rising
number of foreign companies that are setting up shop in
Japan. Detectives say recent increases in mid-career
job-hopping, much of which involves foreign companies, have
given their industry a boost. Newcomers may even discover
they are targets of investigations.
   The growing affluence of the Japanese also has swelled
demand for detectives' services. Business in background
checks on prospective Japanese business partners, employees,
and future sons-in-law or daughters-in-law has never been
better.
   More spouses are having their mates investigated, thanks
in part to a rash of television dramas depicting men running
off with women in their office, or dejected wives sneaking
around while their husbands work overtime.
   Japan's 1,000 detective agencies aren't numerous compared
with other countries, but many outfits elsewhere are one-man
offices. In Japan, it isn't uncommon for a detective agency
to have 20 investigators. The Teikoku Private Detective
Agency is a conglomerate, with some 500 full-time
investigators, 51 offices in Japan and one overseas branch in
Seoul, South Korea.
   "Japanese people are very concerned about roots," explains
Midori Sato, president of Sato Midori Research Inc. At 69
years old, she is one of Japan's most-experienced private
investigators. "In the countryside, you know who's father did
what and if he went to jail. But in Tokyo, you don't even
know who lives next door to you."
   Many Japanese consider it rude to confront delicate
matters directly. So those who need to know why someone quit
a job, whether a student really graduated from a prestigious
university, or if there are any skeletons in a would-be
in-law's closet, hire a detective.
   Such information matters more here than in other places.
The flip side of lifetime employment is that it's difficult
to fire someone. New hires had better be clean. The stigma of
divorce is still so strong that protective parents want their
children to make the right choice the first time.
   Mrs. Sato, who has done hundreds of investigations for
still-common arranged marriages, knows just how crucial such
a choice can be.
   In 1959, she was asked to check out Michiko Shoda. After
an intense 20-day probe, Mrs. Sato filed a glowing report:
"She was a good student . . . a wonderful personality. She
was almighty." As the person requesting the investigation
didn't seem out of the ordinary, Mrs. Sato was surprised to
learn a few months later that Miss Shoda was engaged to Crown
Prince Akihito and would one day become empress.
   Today, Mrs. Sato's 20-person firm, like many others, is
going global. Worried Japanese parents pay a minimum of
500,000 yen ($3,300) to find out if their child attending
school in the U.S. is really studying in a library before
examinations. Mrs. Sato recently calmed one Japanese couple
distraught over their daughter's plan to marry a
Chinese-American from Los Angeles. With the help of a U.S.
investigator, she concluded that "he came from a good
family."
   Mac Jeffery, a U.S. businessman formerly stationed in
Tokyo, found out what it's like to be the object of an
investigation. He was dating a Japanese woman while her
parents, unaware of the affair, were trying to arrange a
match with a Japanese.
   The woman went along with her parents until one of the
suitors got serious, ran a check on her and discovered she
had an American boyfriend. When he learned that he had been
followed, Mr. Jeffery fumed at the invasion of privacy.
   "The first thing that went through my mind was, `Oh, my
God, have I done anything delinquent lately?' " he recalls.
"But then I just thought this happens all the time in Japan."
   That tale at least had a happy ending: A few months later,
Mr. Jeffery married the woman.
   Many agencies find there's still lots of yen to be made in
the bread-and-butter business of detectives everywhere:
chasing illicit affairs.
   Katsuki Umiymama and Takao Kato are rookies learning the
trade by staking out a subject. The two young detectives from
the Kishimoto Research Agency were hired by a distressed
housewife to investigate her husband, whom she suspects is
having an affair with a family friend.
   On a recent evening, the detectives parked their red
Nissan outside a downtown Tokyo newspaper company and waited
for their man to emerge.
   Neither one expected much action tonight. That's because
the previous night was a huge success: They tailed their man
to a nearby restaurant and then photographed him dining with
his mistress. Settling in for a long night, Mr. Umiyama, 19,
cranked up the radio and wondered aloud: "Do you think anyone
would deliver pizza to a parked car?"
   After five hours without seeing their man, 25-year-old Mr.
Kato called the boss on his portable telephone and reported:
"I guess he really is working late tonight."
   Such seamy associations still tend to overshadow the
commercial and cultural side of the business. "Detectives
don't have a very good image," says a Japanese banker.
Indeed, there are plenty of cases of shady detectives using
hot information to blackmail clients.
   The police say clamping down is difficult because, unlike
many other countries, Japan doesn't require detectives to be
licensed. For their part, private investigators are trying to
upgrade their image with a newly formed industry association.
   Private eyes have a long history in Japan. While many of
the oldest detective agencies began as compilers of Japanese
versions of Who's Who, business really took off after World
War II. As people rushed to jobs in the big cities,
background checks on small and medium-sized companies and job
candidates became standard.
   Michinao Kodama traces the industry's roots back further,
to the ancient Japanese art of ninjutsu. Ninja were spies
trained to enter enemy territory to obtain information for
their masters.
   For 20 years, Mr. Kodama has been trying to instill the
ninja spirit in young investigators at his school for
detectives in western Tokyo.
   In a three-month course, students learn research,
shadowing and disguise techniques. More advanced students
focus on corporate spying skills: how to get on with senior
company officials and discreetly pick their brains for
information about a new product or strategy. Mr. Kodama
refuses to divulge his techniques to outsiders. In another
security measure, students aren't told one another's names or
backgrounds.
   That makes for rather bizarre graduation ceremonies.
Instead of reading the names on the diploma, Mr. Kodama tests
the students with a silent roll call. "If you don't know how
to read the teacher's eyes and face and know its your turn
you're not ready to be a detective," he says.
   So far, about 1,000 students have passed the test,
including Jack Torrance, a private eye from California. Mr.
Torrance, enrolled in Mr. Kodama's school in 1980 to hone his
skills for the local market. "The Japanese are masters at
shadowing," he says.
   Believed to be the only resident foreign detective in
Japan, Mr. Torrance operates from an office he calls
Baskerville House -- to give the place that Sherlock Holmes
touch. He divides his time between foreign and Japanese
clients and isn't afraid to take on cases involving the
Yakuza, a Japanese organized-crime syndicate.
   Oddly enough, Mr. Torrance says being a foreigner is his
greatest asset. "Foreigners see another foreigner, and they
remember everything. But the Japanese never really see
foreigners."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Simpson Saved
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   In the popular new TV series "The Simpsons" the family's
baby is noteworthy mainly for the extraordinary, nonstop
sucking sound she makes with a pacifier, which seems to have
become permanently attached to her mouth. This mysterious
phenomenon now appears to have been explained. We have just
read that the government has recalled some 47,000 baby
pacifiers. The problem with the so-called "bib to bowl"
Sterilized Pacifier is that its guards and shields don't have
air-ventilation holes, as the law requires, thereby
presenting the threat of suffocation. This surely is just the
device that Baby Simpson is attached to, and we are sure that
Homer and Marge will be the first to respond to the
government's recall and spare America from their baby's
awful, unremitting sucking.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Taiwan's New Friends
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   Communist China has patched up its 30-year quarrel with
the Soviets -- at least temporarily -- only to open a new
rift in its global relations. There seems to be a quarrel
with Lesotho. This tiny African kingdom's offense was not,
say, shooting unarmed students. It was something far more
offensive to Communist Party sensibilities in Beijing.
Lesotho -- as did Grenada, Belize and Liberia last year --
has just established diplomatic relations with the Republic
of China on Taiwan.
   That produced the spectacle of Beijing's Foreign Ministry
deploring Lesotho's "totally wrong" decision and declaring
that the People's Republic couldn't tolerate any country with
which it had relations also having official links with
Taiwan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Well, perhaps a few foreign shores trembled at this blast,
but the days have passed and Lesotho is still standing. By
our lights it has gained stature for coming to grips with the
same kind of practicalities once invoked as an argument for
the West to recognize Communist China.
   Grenada, Belize, Liberia and Lesotho did not seek to break
formal ties with the mainland; they merely sought to
recognize that in the race for modernization, Taiwan is
quantum jumps ahead of the People's Republic. While the
Beijing regime fiddles with fixed prices and shoots
democratic dissidents, Taiwan has become a major player in
the world economy and a contender for membership in the club
of democracies.
   This is hardly a diplomatic juggernaut at work here;
combined, the four countries have fewer than five million
people. But it's hard to believe that these will be the last
countries to try Taipei's policy of "dual recognition." And
it must be especially galling to Beijing that two of the four
renegade nations are from sub-Saharan Africa, a region with
which the PRC claims a special bond.
   Given the condition of the rival governments, Lesotho's
decision looks sensible. Over the past two decades, Taiwan
has been the world's fastest-growing economy. The ROC is so
eager to make friends, and so rich -- it has more than $70
billion in foreign reserves -- that for Grenada and the
others this looks like one diplomatic gamble that will yield
a jackpot.
   Already Taiwan has promised Lesotho and Liberia hefty aid
packages, a generosity that Beijing derided as "silver bullet
diplomacy to buy hearts and minds." We would endorse trade,
not aid, as the best deal Taiwan has to offer such countries.
The point, however, is that the PRC, economically and
politically bankrupt, is in no position to buy anybody.
   For developing nations in particular, Taiwan's example and
friendship are more alluring than Beijing's bluster and
bankruptcy. The Pacific island of Palau has said, for
instance, that upon independence it will recognize Taiwan,
not the People's Republic. The Philippines has recently
upgraded its office and is considering strengthening its ties
further. Trade delegations from Southeast Asia are beating a
path to Taipei.
   Beijing's effort to freeze out Taiwan diplomatically
should be recognized for what it is: a clumsy way of
deflecting attention away from the fact that Taiwan has
succeeded where the mainland has failed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lands' End Sees
   Steep Profit Drop
   For April Quarter
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   LE
</CO>
<LP>
   Lands' End Inc. can't seem to get itself back on course.
   The Dodgeville, Wis., catalog company, which recently
reported its first annual decline in profit since going
public in 1986, said earnings for its fiscal first quarter,
ending April 30, would fall sharply to between $1.6 million
and $2.4 million, or eight cents to 12 cents a share. Only a
month ago, Lands' End predicted first-quarter earnings would
be "no better" than its year-earlier results of $4.7 million,
or 23 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement came on Good Friday, when the markets
were closed. Lands' End's stock has been sliding for months
on news that its sales growth is slowing and profit is under
pressure. Some analysts also warn that Lands' End, which
sells classic casual clothing, is losing ground to trendier
catalogs and stores and is being hurt by its own reluctance
to drop tired styles.
   Richard C. Anderson, president and chief executive
officer, attributed the grimmer first-quarter outlook to
lower-than-anticipated sales and the fact that more goods
than last year are now being sold at discount prices. He
wasn't available for comment.
   But a spokesman said Lands' End is trying to clear out
inventory by quickly identifying slow sellers and marking
down prices instead of waiting until the end of each season
to liquidate leftover goods. He said the company started its
fiscal first quarter with inventories 28% higher than last
year's.
   Lands' End predicted that sales for the first quarter
would be "only marginally better" than the year-ago $108
million. The company previously had said only that sales in
the first quarter would rise less than 10%.
   The spokesman attributed the slowdown in sales partly to
sluggish consumer spending that has been pinching many
retailers. But, he also noted, "We're working to bring more
new products into the book and make it more efficient."
   The spokesman declined to comment on what the poor
first-quarter showing portends for the rest of the fiscal
year. The period is usually the slowest for retailers, and
the spokesman said "we can certainly recover from something
like this." But, he added, "It's really too early to know
what the implications are for the full year."
   Even before Friday's announcement, analysts weren't
expecting a banner year. Their profit forecasts ranged from
$1.48 a share to $1.77 a share, representing increases of
anywhere from 2% to 22%. In its heyday, Lands' End posted 30%
increases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Torchmark to Halt Acquisition Bid
   For American General if Slate Fails
   ----
   By Rick Christie
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TMK AGC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Torchmark Corp. indicated it would halt attempts to
acquire American General Corp. if Torchmark's slate of
nominees for American General's board is defeated at the
latter's annual meeting.
   The new condition means that the end of Torchmark's
three-week-old battle for control of American General could
come as early as the May 2 meeting. Torchmark, a Birmingham,
Ala.-based insurance and financial services company, had
initially bid $50 a share, or about $6.3 billion in cash and
stock for the Houston-based insurer in late March. One week
later, Torchmark withdrew the bid, saying American General
hadn't responded to its offer in time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, however, Torchmark proposed its own
slate of five independent nominees for American General's
board. Moreover, it introduced a resolution seeking to force
American General's board to sell or merge the company. The
moves, coupled with battles already emerging on legal and
regulatory fronts, signaled that the fight for American
General could be a long and messy affair.
   In discussing the new condition, which was set forth over
the weekend in an amended proxy statement, Torchmark's
president, Jon W. Rotenstreich, said that the resolution
seeking a sale or merger of American General is non-binding
and that the current board could ignore it altogether. "Thus,
if {shareholders} don't elect the independent nominees, we'll
have to think heavily about re-considering any further bids,"
he said. "Because for us to make another offer would fall on
deaf ears."
   Although Torchmark's options now appear to be riding on a
single shareholder vote, Mr. Rotenstreich said he is
optimistic that the company will prevail in getting both the
resolution adopted and its nominees elected to American
General's 15-member board. He said Torchmark has already
begun lobbying American General's institutional holders for
support. The group controls about 69% of American General's
common shares.
   "We're prepared not to {pursue the merger} if it's not in
the shareholders' interest," Mr. Rotenstreich said. "However,
no one's told us why it's not."
   Torchmark's slate of nominees has already encountered
considerable opposition. On April 6, a U.S. District Court
judge in Houston barred Torchmark from soliciting proxies for
its slate, saying the company had missed a 60-day deadline
for submitting the nominees. Last week, however, a federal
appeals court stayed that decision, opening the door for
Torchmark to proceed with its proxy fight.
   Last Friday, American General said it plans to battle
Torchmark's slate of nominees on several fronts. The company
said it will ask a federal appeals court at a hearing set for
April 30 to uphold the original decision barring Torchmark's
solicitation of proxies for its slate.
   In addition, American General said it has "been in
communication" with insurance regulators in 10 states where
it does business. The company contends that Torchmark must
win state regulatory approvals before it can propose a slate
because changing directors implies a change in control of the
company.
   "We expect a number of states will be issuing their views
in writing and scheduling proceedings by {this} week," an
American General spokesman said.
   Executives at American General said yesterday they hadn't
been informed of Torchmark's new condition and declined to
comment. But a person close to the company called the new
condition "another attempt by Torchmark to manipulate and
confuse the situation" and an effort "to bolster their
position by making out that they've been treated unfairly."
   ---
   Karen Blumenthal in Dallas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Gives 3 Japanese Companies
   Only Small Role in Developing 767-X
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   BA LK GQ ROK J.MHI J.KWH J.FJH JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co., ending months of speculation, said three
Japanese aerospace companies would together serve as a sort
of super-subcontractor on the 767-X airplane, but their role
will fall far short of being an equity partner on the
project.
   Although the Japanese still will put up some cash for the
767-X and some of their profits will be tied to the overall
success of the plane, the tentative arrangement means that
Boeing essentially will be funding the estimated $3 billion
development program out of its own pocket.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The setup also means that there is likely to be more work
left on the 767-X for U.S. companies, particularly defense
contractors that are looking for ways to keep their factories
pumping in the face of the declining military budget. Boeing
singled out Lockheed Corp., Grumman Corp. and Rockwell
International Corp. as finding themselves with a shrinking
number of Pentagon contracts.
   The Japanese firms, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.,
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. and Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd., have for 12 years supplied Boeing with major parts for
the 767, including fuselage panels, landing-gear doors and
drag-reducing forms called fairings. All told, those parts
are equivalent to about 15% of the value of the twin-jet's
airframe.
   On the 767-X, the companies will build the same sorts of
equipment, equal to as much as 20% of the plane's structure.
In addition, Japanese representatives will be stationed in
the 767-X program office in Seattle, which will give them an
expanded insight into how the plane is coming along.
   "It's a step up from what they're doing on the 767, but
not a big step," said Lawrence Clarkson, senior vice
president, government and international affairs, at Boeing's
commercial aircraft unit.
   Indeed, unlike true equity participants, the Japanese
won't be entitled to straight revenue-sharing on the 767-X,
which is to be designated the 777 once orders are placed,
launching what could well emerge into an entire family of
medium-range to long-range planes. They also won't be
entitled to peruse Boeing's books.
   Most important, the Japanese firms won't be privy to key
technological procedures from which they could glean how all
the subassemblies of the 767-X will be integrated to make the
complete plane. And although they will be aware of the
airlines with which Boeing is haggling over 767-X orders,
they won't attend meetings with those carriers or be allowed
to come to internal marketing sessions.
   In short, the Japanese will be observers, not
decision-makers. Many industry-watchers and news reports had
for months asserted that the Japanese role would be much
greater, though sources indicated to this newspaper several
weeks ago that the possibility of partnership on the 767-X
was growing more remote.
   The final outcome is welcome news to those who worried
that if the Japanese had been granted more to do on the
767-X, they could have used it to begin building their own
formidable aerospace industry. Aircraft-making remains one of
the few high-tech areas in which the U.S. has a leg up on its
economic competitors around the globe, and General Dynamics
Corp.'s recent co-development pact with Mitsubishi on the FSX
fighter consequently drew the ire of many Washington
lawmakers.
   Yet Mr. Clarkson dismissed such fears as largely
xenophobic and short-sighted, maintaining that technology is
inevitably "a fleeting thing." And he said those concerns
played no part in the Japanese refraining from an equity
partnership, which would have given them practically
unfettered access to all phases of the project.
   "We told them that if they wanted to be equity partners,
they would have to put up 25%," Mr. Clarkson said. "They
thought it was just more than they could handle right now"
given their commitments on the FSX, as well as on a recently
struck, open-ended joint venture agreement between Mitsubishi
and Daimler-Benz AG, West Germany's largest industrial group.
Officials at the three Japanese companies couldn't be reached
immediately.
   Mr. Clarkson said that while he believes Japan has its eye
on space and will be an important contributor of supersonic
transports one day, Japan is content for now to play second
fiddle in the commercial airliner market. "This is not like
selling cars," he said, citing the ill-fated attempt by Japan
in the 1960s to develop a 60-seat propeller plane, the YS-11.
   But Clyde Prestowitz Jr., a former senior Commerce
Department official, attacked such thinking as misguided.
"Boeing is either being arrogant, ignorant or just blowing
smoke," he said.
   "Aerospace is probably the Japanese single most important
target," Mr. Prestowitz said, noting that also last week,
Japan's Toray Industries Inc. announced that one of its
advanced carbon-reinforced plastics had been approved by
Boeing for use in the primary structure of its aircraft.
   Mr. Prestowitz, who now serves as president of the
Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington think tank, also
scoffed at the notion that the Japanese companies or their
government sponsor, the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry, didn't feel comfortable coming up with a 25%
position in the 767-X. "They spill a billion dollars at
breakfast," he said, adding that the Japanese had no trouble
pledging a 25% stake in the 7J7, a potentially multibillion
dollar 1986 venture with Boeing that has been put on the back
burner.
   But Mr. Clarkson countered that the 350-seat 767-X, which
is bigger than the 767 but smaller than the 747 jumbo jet, is
of a different scale than the 150-seat propfan 7J7. In fact,
he said, one of the engine casings on the 767-X will be of
roughly the same diameter as the body of the 7J7.
   ---
   Steve Wilhelm contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pension Plans Invest
   In Troubled Securities
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
04/16/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GM IP BTI WLA
</CO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Big money is beginning to circle vulture
funds. Now even the traditionally cautious pension plans are
getting into the act.
   Vulture funds, which feed on the securities of companies
that are in or near bankruptcy-law proceedings, have long
attracted money from wealthy people, insurers and Wall Street
partners investing for their own accounts. More recently,
endowments such as Yale University's and the Rockefeller
Foundation have been buyers. And now the $40 billion General
Motors Corp. pension fund has invested. So has International
Paper Co.'s $2.2 billion pension fund.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Warner-Lambert Co., "We foresaw there would be a lot of
problems with leveraged buy-outs and felt there would be a
big supply" of troubled securities, says Fred G. Weiss, head
of the $1.3 billion pension fund. Distressed securities --
such as bonds and bank loans on which a company has missed
interest payments, as well as those of concerns in
bankruptcy-law proceedings, among other problems -- had
chalked up an "outstanding track record," he says, so the
pharmaceutical company put $10 million into a vulture fund
last year.
   Batus Inc., the U.S. arm of Britain's B.A.T Industries
PLC, also has allocated $10 million to the field, convinced
that "a lot of LBOs would disintegrate over time," says
Thomas J. Hartlage, director of Batus's pension fund.
   Most vulture managers won't buy a stake in a distressed
security unless they can expect to make 30% a year, says Mary
Ann Johnson, president of New Canaan, Conn.-based Tremont
Partners Inc., which is organizing a bankruptcy fund to be
managed by several vulture firms.
   These expected returns can be reduced by failures and
unexpectedly long waits before receiving payouts. Vulture
investors usually "will get something between 18% and 25%
{annual return}, and that's extremely attractive," she says.
   Yet the influx of vulture players may reduce profit
opportunities, some investors say. "You've seen some of it
already," Warner-Lambert's Mr. Weiss says. "There are an
increasing number of players in this, and some of the deals
are being priced more steeply than they would otherwise."
   Indeed, some skeptics believe that by the time pension
funds target an area for investment, many of the best
opportunities are gone. "That should tell you that this is
the top of the market," says Peter Langerman, executive vice
president of Short Hills, N.J.-based Mutual Series Fund Inc.,
which does some bankruptcy investing. Attracting pension
funds' interest, he says, "is like being on the cover of
Sports Illustrated. It's a jinx."
   With the appetite of institutions whetted because of the
high returns, relative to traditional investing, the air is
full of vulture-fund operators trying to attract investors.
Twenty separate groups have raised a total of $1.07 billion
for funds and partnerships investing in turnaround situations
and troubled securities; they and others are trying to raise
almost $1 billion more, according to a recent tally by
Buyouts, a Needham, Mass., newsletter.
   Hundreds of millions of dollars more have been allocated
to distressed securities by investment firms and money
managers such as New York-based Magten Asset Management Inc.
that don't operate special funds.
   "Most of the investment banks are building up a trading
capability in this area or a turnaround advisory group or
both," says George Putnam III, publisher of Boston-based
Bankruptcy DataSource, which tracks companies in
bankruptcy-law proceedings. "This is one of the few growth
areas on Wall Street."
   But while interest in vulture investing is running at an
all-time high, it is still a drop in the bucket, compared
with other specialized investing areas such as venture
capital. Vulture investing "is growing, but my sense is that
the amount of money seeking troubled securities isn't growing
nearly as fast as the supply of troubled securities," Mr.
Putnam says.
   Indeed, despite expectations of a rising number of
distressed securities from high-yield, below-investment-grade
"junk" bond casualties -- and still more opportunities if the
economy swings into recession -- vulture investing is likely
to make up only a tiny part of even the most adventuresome
institutional portfolios. Many pension funds are barred from
holding bankrupt securities or even those rated below
investment grade.
   The mere mention of the term bankruptcy scares other
investors, large and small. "We don't use the word
bankruptcies; we always say reorganizations," says Norman G.
Herbert, investment officer for the University of Michigan
endowment, which has allocated a total of $10 million to
three vulture funds. One reason for his emphasis: Companies
in bankruptcy-law proceedings can be hurt by cash squeezes
but often have adequate assets to pay their debts, he says.
   Nevertheless, there is no escaping the high risks of
vulture investing. Carefully negotiated restructurings can
blow apart at any time. Assets listed on the books may be
nowhere to be found. Legal proceedings are unpredictable and
can drag on for years before investors get paid for their
holdings.
   Veteran vultures say they are taking all this into
account. "What determines risk is the price of a security,"
says David Breazzano, portfolio manager of the Baltimorebased
T. Rowe Price Recovery Fund. International Business Machines
Corp., now trading at about 107, "to me is a very risky stock
at $200 a share, but at $50 a share, there isn't a lot of
risk. What it all boils down to is that if you're buying it
at a price below the asset values of the issuer, you're
probably pretty safe."
   Timing also can be critical. Just after Eastern Airlines
entered bankruptcy-law proceedings a year ago, Mr. Breazzano
says, he paid between 40 and 60 cents for each dollar face
amount of some Eastern debt issues. Four months later, he
sold them for about 80 cents on the dollar, despite the
potential for further gains, as the airline was promising to
pay creditors in full.
   But those plans collapsed and the Eastern debt issues now
sell for less than 20 cents on the dollar. Because of the
pledge to pay creditors in full, "The people we sold to
thought they were taking less risk, but they got blindsided,"
Mr. Breazzano says, adding: "You can get hammered."
   Vultures fall into two camps, depending on whether they
try to gain control of the companies in which they invest.
Control-type vultures buy large enough chunks of a company so
they can install their own management team, expecting to
profit by shaping up the troubled company's operations. Such
intensive work usually limits these vultures to only a few
investments at a time.
   So-called portfolio vultures go in for a larger number of
smaller investments. They don't want control, though they may
become company directors or members of creditor committees,
often taking turns in assuming the lead role to stretch their
manpower. Some are even more passive, shunning any insider
role in bankruptcy-law proceedings that could limit their
trading freedom.
   Some vultures have junk-bond backgrounds, but veterans say
the investing techniques for the two areas are very
different. Junk-bond holders expect to receive interest and
principal payments on time, while vultures know not to count
on either. Instead, vultures have to be expert in legal
proceedings, because their profit will depend on the outcome
of the reorganization.
   Fairfield, Conn.-based Common Fund, which invests money
for more than 600 college endowments, considered buying junk
bonds for the first time last year, but instead put $50
million in bankrupt securities. Fund President George Keane
says he is enthusiastic about the results so far, which
"suggest there are better returns at lower risk with bankrupt
securities than junk bonds."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900416-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900416-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
04/13/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   INTC STB HLT NELL JAYJ PCH CPC TRR NYTA GR KU
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                       ACTUAL     ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME          EPS     30-DAY     120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Intel Corp.          $ .73  $ .66  (5)  $.66 (22)   10.61
  Southeast Banking    (1.76) (2.09) (4) (1.87) (4)     ...
  Hilton Hotels          .52    ...        .40  (6)   30.00
  Nellcor Inc            .28    ...        .24  (7)   16.67
  Jay Jacobs Inc.        .16    ...        .14  (5)   14.29
  Potlatch Corp         1.28    ...       1.20  (7)    6.67
  CPC Intl Inc          1.01    ...        .96  (9)    5.21
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  TRC Cos              ($.10)   ...      ($.04) (3)     ...
  New York Times Co      .22    ...        .34  (8)   35.29
  Goodrich B F           .56    ...        .77  (6)   27.27
  Kentucky Utils         .54    ...        .58  (3)    6.90
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
