<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Rock `n' Roll
   Gadget Maker
   Takes on Japan
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HAR
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SALT LAKE CITY -- John Johnson has managed to transform
his passion for rock into a company on a roll.
   Mr. Johnson is co-founder and president of DOD Electronics
Corp., a rock 'n' roll gadget maker that produces "signal
processors," devices controlled by microchips that
electronically alter sounds. They provide, for example, the
buzz-saw bite that allows heavy-metal guitarists to assault
the ears of America's youth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DOD's products, marketed notably under the Digitech label,
have been so successful that the company is leading another
assault as well: It heads a pack of U.S. upstarts reclaiming
a niche of the consumer electronics market that seemed
forever lost to large Japanese rivals such as Yamaha Corp.
and Roland Corp.
   Recent trade magazine surveys show that as many as five of
the 10 best-selling guitar signal processors, known as guitar
pedals, were made by U.S. companies (four of them by DOD),
while eight of the 10 top-selling multi-effects processors
were made in the U.S. (two of them by DOD). Five years ago,
the Japanese virtually owned the guitar-pedal business, and
the market didn't exist for multi-effects processors,
stereo-sized units capable of blending several sound effects
at once.
   DOD's successful counteroffensive against the Japanese
manufacturing juggernaut makes it a rare beast among small
U.S. companies. Others that have succeeded, such as Micron
Technology Inc., a semiconductor maker, and Harley Davidson
Inc., the motorcycle manufacturer, have had help from Uncle
Sam.
   DOD has slugged its way to the top alone, boosting its
sales tenfold to about $30 million in the past five years and
grabbing about 10% of the $300 million music
signal-processing market. Another company going it alone is
Go-Video Inc., a maker of dual-deck videocassette recorders
that's suing five Japanese electronics companies in federal
court in Phoenix, Ariz., on charges that they conspired to
block marketing of its machines.
   DOD's methods are instructive for others venturing into
treacherous waters. Rather than "turning Japanese," DOD seems
to have capitalized on the old-fashioned American virtue of
innovation, combined with a business-school approach and a
willingness to learn from the competition. The result: a
rapid stream of low-cost, high-quality products that have set
the pace in a market so fickle that product life is sometimes
measured in months.
   DOD's line of gadgets, which sell from $59 to $800,
typically cost 30% less than Japanese competitors. They're
cheap enough for garage-band muscians, and they're also
popping up in high places. Keyboard players for Michael
Jackson use Digitech signal processors, while the metal band
White Snake gets its crunchy sounds with DOD guitar pedals
that allow "programmable distortion."
   "There is no doubt that they have come up with some very
clever products," says Tom Beckmen, president of Roland's
U.S. marketer and distributor. For products in the $400 to
$500 range, "they are currently the significant supplier." By
some industry estimates, DOD already may have overtaken
Roland and its Boss label as the No. 1 seller of guitar
pedals, a niche of the market Roland once easily controlled.
   Music retailers say that orders for the Digitech DSP-21, a
device introduced in January that allows guitar players to
blend as many as ten effects at once, are so crisp that it
seems certain to become the industry's top-selling
multi-effects processor this year. Overall, DOD's line has
expanded to 120 products, a 45% increase in the last four
years alone.
   This string of recent successes may be why DOD attracted
the attention in March of Harman International Industries
Inc., the Washington, D.C., music-equipment giant. Harman
acquired DOD from Mr. Johnson and other investors but plans
to operate it as a "completely autonomous" subsidiary, with
Mr. Johnson and DOD's management intact, a Harman spokesman
said. Harman, which already owns several loud speaker labels,
including JBL and Infinity, won't say what it paid for DOD,
but its investment reflects "an admiration for a company that
has done very well in carving out a strong niche," says
Bernard Girod, a Harman executive vice president.
   Indeed, the company's success seems both a credit to the
42-year-old Mr. Johnson's aggressive creativity and to his
view of rock sound-effects equipment as a native art form. "I
doubt if either of the presidents of Yamaha or Roland back in
Japan started their companies because they sat listening to
the sound on the opening guitar chord of (The Beatles') `A
Hard Day's Night' and wondering, `How did they do that?'" he
says. Mr. Johnson, himself a guitarist, co-founded DOD in
1974, when he was unable to find commercially available
equipment that would allow him to emulate rock studio sounds.
   DOD has stayed close to its roots: In a company with 285
employees, there are 19 bands -- 20 if you count the company
band in which Mr. Johnson sometimes performs. Managers put up
with posters of heavy-metal bands on the walls of DOD's
testing department and even impromptu jam sessions by
guitar-playing technicians.
   But while corporate attire may be jeans and sneakers, DOD
has brought in marketing and accounting MBAs, who happen to
be guitar players, to run sales and business offices. It also
has mimicked the Japanese zeal for quality, boasting a return
rate on products of less than half of 1%.
   "It's an innovative company that backs its products
completely," says Don Kelsey, the northern California manager
for Guitar Center, a high-volume music store chain in which
DOD products must vie aggressively for space with those made
by Roland, Yamaha and others.
   The U.S. signal processing industry could easily have gone
the route of the nation's television manufacturing industry.
A cluster of small U.S. companies created and dominated the
market through the 1960s. In the 1970s, the Japanese invaded
in force with efficient manufacturing and shrewd marketing,
deluging consumers with high-quality products at cheap
prices. DOD was among a few U.S. firms to hang on, plodding
along with what Mr. Johnson calls "a lot of `me too' kind of
stuff."
   In the early 1980s, U.S. survivors like DOD began to sense
opportunity from two converging factors, the price advantages
offered by the escalating value of yen against the dollar and
the marriage of digital audio-recording technology to
high-powered chips to create a new generation of "smart"
signal processors capable of generating a wealth of sound
effects. A key aspect of the new devices is the software that
runs them, "and software development tends to be an American
strength," says Tom Mulhern, technology editor for Guitar
Player, a trade magazine.
   DOD began its successful offensive against the Japanese in
1982, after Mr. Johnson woke up one morning and decided,
"We've got too many musicians in this company not to become a
leader." While the Japanese typically had counted on
high-volume discount chains to move their merchandise, Mr.
Johnson courted the chains and also induced numerous
mom-and-pop music stores into the fold with fatter markups
and product warranties that the Japanese weren't offering. He
used independent sales representatives to sign up retailers,
paying annual commissions reportedly as high as $150,000.
Today, DOD's 2,200-store network of dealers is among the
nation's largest.
   At the same time, Mr. Johnson boosted DOD's engineering
staff from one to 10 -- most of them musicians -- and brought
in two sophisticated robotic-inserting machines to cut labor
costs while speeding up circuit board production. Moreover,
the company recently added computer-aided-design stations to
handle the customizing of the computer chips that power its
signal processors. The result: The tedious work of
programming computer chips with the complex series of
algorithms that digitally create sound effects can now be
done in a matter of days, instead of months.
   Despite DOD's effective moves, the Japanese aren't going
away, and nobody knows that better than John Johnson. The
Harman investment, indeed, will provide DOD with some
additional manufacturing expertise and capital that Mr.
Johnson thinks will be necessary for his goal, which he only
half-jokingly describes as "total market domination."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Time Warner Signs Up Prodigy
   For Big Cross-Media Campaign
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX S IBM WPPGY MO
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Time Warner, which has been trumpeting its ability to
offer advertisers media packages cutting across its
magazines, videos and other services, has finally found its
first big taker: Prodigy, the videotext-service joint venture
between Sears Roebuck and International Business Machines.
   Next month, subscribers of Time, People, Money and certain
issues of Sports Illustrated will be greeted with customized
ads that welcome them by name and tell them the name and
address of the nearest Prodigy dealer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the deal goes a few steps further.
   Time also has coordinated the airing of TV commercials on
cable networks promoting the issues that feature the "special
advertising message from Prodigy." Newspaper stands will have
signs promoting the ads -- and the issues. Shoppers in malls
with which Time has ad contracts will see ads urging them to
visit the mall's Prodigy outlet. Readers who stop in and try
out Prodigy will get a gift -- their choice of a Sports
Illustrated "football bloopers" video or software developed
by Money magazine.
   American Isuzu Motors last year was the first advertiser
to run personalized ads in Time's magazines. But that service
hasn't attracted quite as many takers as Time initially
forecast, leading some industry executives to question
whether it is a short-term gimmick or a marketing tool that
is here to stay. Time predicted there would be at least a
dozen such deals in 1990, but there will probably only be
about seven or eight.
   Nevertheless, the Prodigy deal is big news for Time and
represents the most far-reaching marketing deal it has ever
struck with an advertiser. The multidimensional nature of the
program goes far beyond Isuzu's personalized-ad deal.
   "We didn't just throw together a couple of magazines, a
mall poster and some ad time on CNN -- all of which we have
access to," says Richard Heinemann, newly appointed vice
president of advertising for Time Inc. Magazines. "We've
pulled together a number of different events, but they all
work together to create a total marketing effect."
   Prodigy says it was attracted to Time because it offered a
splashy venue to get out the message that its service is
available nationwide. "We needed to have a highly visible,
high-impact event that would create a lot of attention," says
Stephen Walden, director of membership marketing at Prodigy.
   Surprisingly, Mr. Walden and executives at its ad agency,
WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson unit, boast about the cost
efficiency of the deal with Time. Because of the cooperative
advertising nature of the deal -- the magazines get plugged
in the commercials just like Prodigy, for example -- Time's
fee was attractive, Mr. Walden says, while declining to
disclose the terms.
   Regardless, such marketing packages aren't cheap. The
process of selective binding alone, which is required to make
personalized ads in magazines, is terribly expensive. Most
advertisers, some industry executives argue, don't have the
budgets to cover such fancy ad programs. Others can spring
for a big spread only every once in a while.
   "Maybe only a few people will end up using this, and it
will turn out to be a financial catastrophe," says Robert
Cohen, president of Robert Cohen Associates, a magazine
consulting firm in New York. "But I think advertisers are
looking for value-added services, and this could be a
tremendously competitive advantage for Time Warner."
   That's what Time is betting on, even in today's tight
media environment. Executives at the company say it is close
to finalizing at least two similar contracts, and those may
well tap resources that Time got in its merger with Warner,
such as video production, books or syndicated TV. And Time
predicts about 50% of the advertisers who use the
personalized ad service this year will sign up again next
year.
   "We feel very good about the program," says Bruce Judson,
Time's director of marketing. "It's not for everybody, . . .
but we think this can help advertisers get the greatest bang
for their marketing dollar."
   ---
   Benson &amp; Hedges De-Nic
                                                                                                       

   Philip Morris will unveil Benson &amp; Hedges De-Nic, a brand
with virtually no nicotine, on Oct. 1 in Phoenix, Ariz.
   The test marketing of the new cigarette under the umbrella
of one of Philip Morris's most upscale brands represents an
effort by the tobacco maker to hang onto the young and trendy
set -- and to win over smokers concerned about nicotine.
   Philip Morris has also been testing a low-nicotine version
of its Merit brand. But the moves are risky. The availability
of these very-low nicotine cigarettes may prove most
effective at reminding smokers of the risks of standard
cigarettes.
   "Every time a coffee drinker sees an ad for decaffeinated
coffee, it suggests that coffee isn't very good for you,"
says Al Ries, chairman of Trout &amp; Ries, a Greenwich, Conn.,
marketing consultancy. The same thing will happen with these
smokes, he says, and the move will further depress overall
cigarette sales.
   The advertising for the new cigarette has been created by
Leo Burnett. The agency also handles Next, Philip Morris's
first low-nicotine smoke, which has been in test market since
1988. The ads will introduce Benson &amp; Hedges De-Nic in
modern-looking white and light blue packaging.
   The campaign comes as Leo Burnett has also been asked to
look in on the flagship Benson &amp; Hedges brand, which has been
plagued by declining market share despite high-profile
advertising from Wells, Rich, Greene. Although Philip Morris
won't comment officially, insiders say Leo Burnett is
suggesting ways of upgrading the quality of individual ads.
   Wells Rich, though, has come up with yet another campaign
for the brand, and Philip Morris plans to put it through a
series of ad tests soon. The new ads are expected to
particularly target men age 25 to 35, a group that has been
forsaking the brand in droves. Philip Morris hopes to have
the new campaign in place by the beginning of the year.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   KOALA SPRINGS: Koala Springs, Fremont, Calif., will keep
its $4 million to $5 million account at Goldberg Moser
O'Neill, the former San Francisco office of Chiat/Day/Mojo.
Chiat/Day, when it sold that office to management this past
summer, said the Koala Springs business would move to its Los
Angeles office.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Gemstar Development Corp., Los Angeles,
awarded the ad account for VCR Plus+, its VCR-programming
product, to J. Walter Thompson, Los Angeles. Billings weren't
disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Duro-Test Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DURO-TEST Corp. (Fairfield N.J.) -- Dan E. Picini was
named president and chief operating officer, new posts at
this maker of lighting products. Mr. Picini, 57 years old,
had been vice president and general manager for GTE
Sylvania's U.S. lighting division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Says Airbus
   Has Little Chance
   To Be Profitable
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ABI EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Commerce Department report said that
heavily subsidized Airbus Industrie has little chance of ever
becoming profitable and that its continued operations could
permanently injure the U.S. aerospace industry.
   The report was disclosed as U.S. trade negotiators stepped
up their efforts to persuade four European governments to
give up further financial support for the aerospace companies
that make up the Airbus consortium. The U.S. has threatened
to file a formal complaint with the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade if the issue isn't resolved by Sept. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The report, prepared by Gellman Research Associates Inc.
of Jenkintown, Pa., and adopted by the department, said there
is "little likelihood" of Airbus ever paying back an
estimated $13.5 billion in loans and other subsidies from the
French, German, British and Spanish governments. By the year
2008, Airbus could have a cumulative negative cash flow of
$30 billion in 1990 dollars, the report predicted.
   "None of Airbus' projects, past, present and in
development, appears to be commercially viable," the report
concluded. The European governments claim that the consortium
could become profitable as a result of the currently strong
demand for passenger airliners.
   The report criticized the Airbus partnership as
anti-competitive. The report said the three largest civil
aircraft makers in Europe have removed themselves as
potential joint venture partners with companies from the U.S.
and elsewhere unless the activity involves the entire
consortium.
   Continued Airbus subsidies could cut sharply into the
profits of U.S. manufacturers, forcing them to either seek
foreign capital or give up further chunks of the airliner
market, the report said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Anthony Industries Debentures
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ANT
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Anthony Industries said its board
authorized the redemption on Oct. 15 of its 11 1/4%
convertible subordinated debentures due Jan. 31, 2000, of
which about $9 million principal amount are outstanding.
   For each $100 principal amount of debentures, holders may
receive $100 plus accrued interest; convert them by Oct. 15
into Anthony common stock at a price of $7.90 a share; or
sell them in the open market. About 1.1 million shares are
subject to issuance on conversion of the debentures. The
diversified maker of recreational and industrial products
also said its board approved a stock repurchase of up to the
number of shares issued on conversion of the debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Johnson Controls Inc.
   Is Reviewing Options
   On Battery Business
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   JCI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- Johnson Controls Inc., the U.S.'s largest
maker of automotive batteries, said it may sell all or part
of its slow-growth battery business.
   The company said it retained Salomon Brothers to explore
options for the battery group, which in fiscal 1989 earned
$34 million on sales of $659 million. Johnson Controls said
that besides possibly selling all or part of the business, it
could link up with a partner or opt to keep the business. The
company didn't set a deadline for the review.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman said the decision to review its options on
batteries reflects the dim outlook for the kind of profit
growth Johnson Controls is seeking for its segments, which
also include facility-management services, auto seats, and
plastic containers. In the year ended Sept. 30, the company
earned $97.5 million, or $2.55 a share, on sales of $3.68
billion.
   "While we are looking for slightly improved earnings in
fiscal 1990 and 1991, the battery business's participation in
a slow-growth market will preclude the desired kind of profit
growth," the spokeswoman said. The U.S. automobile industry
has been in a 3 1/2-year-long sales slide.
   Officials also believe that while long-term prospects for
batteries are good, the business will require a "relatively
high rate of capital expenditures over the next several
years," she said. Johnson Controls spent $44 million in
capital-spending funds in fiscal 1989 on the battery group,
which operates 17 U.S. plants and has 5,500 employees.
Overall capital spending last year was $192 million.
   About 85% of Johnson Controls' battery sales are for the
replacement market. The company makes all the batteries for
Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., the largest replacement-battery
retailer. But Johnson Controls also is an original-equipment
supplier to every major domestic and foreign auto maker
except General Motors Corp., which supplies its own
batteries. Excluding GM, Johnson Controls has an estimated
50% share of the original-equipment battery market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Paramount Communications Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PCI
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARAMOUNT COMMUNICATIONS Inc. (New York) -- Ronald L.
Nelson, 38-year-old chief financial officer of this
entertainment and publishing concern, was named to the
additional post of executive vice president, filling the
strategic planning post vacated last month when Michael Hope
resigned to pursue other interests. Mr. Nelson will continue
to oversee investor relations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota to Build
   Plant in U.S.,
   Reflecting Gains
   ---
   Location of the Company's
   Second U.S. Car Facility
   Hasn't Been Chosen Yet
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- Toyota Motor Corp. plans to build a
second car-assembly plant in the U.S., and will announce the
site in the next 30 to 60 days.
   The move comes as Japan's auto makers, thanks to their
eight existing "transplants" in the U.S., are making gains in
the American auto market that Detroit's Big Three
manufacturers didn't imagine possible just a few years ago.
Japanese auto makers took a 34% share of U.S. car sales last
month, a record for the group. That exceeded the market share
of industry leader General Motors Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Including cars sold by the Big Three that were made in
Japanese-owned or managed plants, the Japanese built 39% of
the autos sold in the U.S. in August.
   So far this year Japan's auto makers have nearly 30% of
the U.S. car market, up from about 25% in the first eight
months of last year. Toyota itself has been especially
strong. Its market share in the U.S. has surged to 9.2% so
far this year, up from about 6.8% a year ago.
   Toyota's new car-assembly plant might be built adjacent to
its existing factory in Georgetown, Ky., said James Olson,
vice president of external affairs for the company's U.S.
marketing arm. But he said several other sites also are being
considered. All are within easy reach of the corps of
auto-parts suppliers located along the Interstate 75 corridor
between Detroit and Nashville, Tenn.
   It isn't clear what car model or models Toyota will build
at the plant, which could be open within two years of the
announcement. Toyota builds the compact Camry model at its
Kentucky plant and some Corolla subcompacts at its
joint-venture factory with GM in Fremont, Calif. In addition,
Toyota is putting a truck-assembly line in the Fremont
factory that will build 100,000 compact pickups a year
beginning next July. Toyota also has an assembly plant in
Canada.
   While Toyota hasn't previously acknowledged its intention
to build another U.S. assembly plant, it has hinted at the
possibility. Toyota officials had said they want to boost
U.S. sales to about 1.5 million cars and trucks a year by
1995, up from the current 950,000, and to build about half of
those vehicles in the U.S. and Canada. Those goals implied
that another plant would be necessary.
   Japanese auto makers started building plants in the U.S.
in the early 1980s because of governmental restrictions on
exports of their cars to the American market. Big Three
executives welcomed the move -- in fact, they actively
demanded it -- because they figured such plants would provide
a "level playing field" and end the Japanese advantage in
production costs. But now, Big Three executives concede that
the Japanese transplants have a cost advantage of about $600
a car.
   "What we really have is tremendous competition from the
transplants," said Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee A. Iacocca in
a recent interview. "I don't have a perfect answer for that,
okay?" Indeed, Chrysler has closed three U.S. assembly
plants, one-third of its total, in the past two years.
   Other Japanese car companies also are boosting their U.S.
production capacity.
   Nissan Motor Co., for example, is greatly expanding the
size of its production facilities in Smyrna, Tenn. Honda
Motor Co. opened its second U.S. assembly plant last fall,
and is gradually accelerating toward two-shift production
there. In all, Japanese auto makers will be able to build
about three million vehicles in the U.S. and Canada by 1995.
   This rapid expansion isn't without risks, however. Many
auto-industry officials, including some Japanese executives,
believe that not all the transplants will prosper. One they
cite as potentially vulnerable is the Indiana joint-venture
plant owned by Fuji Heavy Industries and Isuzu Motor Co. Both
companies have suffered from sluggish sales in the U.S. And
because the factory builds a car for Fuji's Subaru subsidiary
and a truck for Isuzu, its abilities to achieve economies of
scale are limited.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Uranium Resources Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   URIX
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Uranium Resources Inc. said a subsidiary signed
a long-term contract with a major U.S. electric utility to
provide about 1.2 million pounds of uranium oxide in the
1992-1997 period.
   The uranium mining company estimated the value of the
contract at $20 million, based on projections of deliveries
and price escalations. The company declined to name the
utility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Affiliated Publications Seeks to Diversify
   ---
   Boston Globe Publisher
   Eyes Entertainment, Media
   ----
   By Bill Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13E
</SO>
<CO>
   AFP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOSTON -- Nobody in the newspaper business has managed a
more fortuitous diversification than Affiliated Publications
Inc., publisher of the Boston Globe.
   It turned an $80 million investment in McCaw
Communications Inc., that began back in 1981 into a $2.6
billion bonanza for shareholders when it spun off its
holdings in the cellular company in May 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But now McCaw is gone and the Globe is mired in the
weakened New England economy. So Affiliated is trying to
diversify again. Through acquisitions, it is building a
specialty magazine subsidiary specializing in entertainment
and media. In July it added AdWeek, the No. 2 publication in
the advertising field to its BPI Communications Inc.
subsidiary, which also includes Billboard, the recording
industry bible, and Hollywood Reporter, a daily movie
newspaper.
   Affiliated executives concede that specialty publishing
doesn't offer the once-in-a-lifetime returns of McCaw. But
Arthur Kingsbury, executive vice president, says the
magazines "will make us less dependent on the New England
economy, and entertainment happens to be a growing industry."
   "Analysts have been impressed with Affiliated's management
and the (magazine) subsidiary," says J. Kendrick Noble, an
analyst with PaineWebber Inc. But the New England economy may
continue to decline and Mr. Noble expects Affiliated's
earnings from continuing operations to drop for the third
year in a row.
   Last year, Affiliated reported profit from continuing
operations of $43.6 million or 63 cents a share, a 16%
decline from the prior year. Losses from the McCaw
investment, accounted for as discontinued operations, made
Affiliated's net income $16.4 million, or 23 cents a share.
Revenue for the year was $542.1 million, up 1.4% from the
previous year. Specialty publishing accounted for 20% of
revenue.
   In the first half of this year, profit from continuing
operations fell 35% to $13.9 million, or 20 cents a share, on
a 1.3% revenue decline to $265.8 million.
   Newspaper companies traditionally have been
acquisition-minded. "When they're doing well, they generate
so much money they have to buy something," says Cornelius
V.V. Sewell of Argus Research. "Newspapers don't grow a
helluva lot, and circulation doesn't grow at all." Newspapers
used to buy other newspapers but prices have been driven sky
high. Moving into other fields is risky, however, because
publishers' skills don't always help in other businesses.
"These days, nobody's diversifications are doing much on the
plus side," says Mr. Sewell.
   Affiliated got into specialty publishing in 1987, selling
some radio stations and buying Billboard and a number of
smaller magazines for $100 million.
   Gerald Hobbs, who remains as president of BPI
Communications, says Affiliated was an appealing acquirer
because its arms-length relationship with McCaw "indicated
their willingness to let us operate autonomously."
   Magazine analysts say the AdWeek purchase looks like a
good deal. Industry sources say Affiliated paid $17 million
in cash and assumed about the same amount of debt for 80% of
the magazine. The company had been unprofitable because of
heavy interest costs incurred when one founder bought out his
two partners, but Mr. Kingsbury says it is profitable on an
operating basis.
   Affiliated's expertise in circulation, advertising sales
and production meshes well with its magazines, Mr. Kingsbury
says. However, the magazines won't boost results immediately.
For one thing, the advertising slowdown that hurts the Globe
hurts publications like AdWeek as well.
   For another, Affiliated is still investing in the unit. It
is building up an entertainment newswire which recycles
stories from Billboard, Hollywood Reporter and the Globe to
some 50 newspapers that subscribe to the service. That
service won't be profitable until 1991, Mr. Kingsbury says.
   Affiliated's specialty group also is starting an
innovative computer service that can listen to radio stations
and pick out when and where particular records are played.
Mr. Kingsbury predicts the service will be purchased by
record companies trying to determine which stations are
playing their new releases to target their promotion dollars.
Later, the service can be expanded to monitor television for
advertisers seeking to audit the playing of their commercials
and to monitor competitors.
   Mr. Kingsbury is noncommittal about further acquisitions
although he says, "we always have an ear to the ground."
However, he notes that following the AdWeek purchase
Affiliated has a record $150 million in debt. That leaves
Affiliated's debt at about 16% of its stock market
capitalization, still below the newspaper industry average of
21%.
   In specialty publishing, as in most other fields, the
leading magazine is usually much more successful than
competitors and much more costly to buy. Affiliated is
betting that by putting together such No. 2 publications as
Hollywood Reporter and AdWeek, with Billboard, a No. 1 in its
field, it can create a top group. "Our coverage is adequate
to say we're the leading information provider in the
entertainment field," Mr. Kingsbury says.
   Nevertheless, it will take substantial additional
acquisitions before specialty publications are large enough
to make up for the decline at the Globe.
   New England's slump is clearly visible in the newspaper's
results. High-margin classified advertising has been
hammered, falling 17% in the second quarter, as helpwanted
advertising from the area's computer makers, defense firms
and financial services firms evaporated. Real estate ads are
down sharply as well, only partly offset by an increase in
ads from auctioneers for foreclosed properties. Overall
advertising lineage was down 10.4% in the second quarter.
   Mr. Kingsbury says that despite the current advertising
problems, "I'm quite bullish on the Globe." Despite the
competition of News Corp.'s tabloid Boston Herald, the
Globe's daily circulation has edged up in each of the last
two years, rising to 521,932 in the period ended July 1.
Sunday circulation appears to have hit a plateau at 787,396,
but is increasingly profitable thanks to a price increase to
$1.50 from $1.25.
   And with many of the once fast-growing suburban papers
forced to retrench recently, Mr. Kingsbury says: "When this
market turns around, we'll be stronger going out than when we
came in." The Globe has now created five zoned editions with
regional stories and lower advertising rates to attract local
grocers and other advertisers who couldn't previously afford
the Globe.
   As a newspaper, some critics charge that the Globe has
lost its luster. Once routinely ranked as one of the nation's
top five newspapers, the Globe now may have slipped out of
the top 10, says Mark Jurkowitz, media critic for the weekly
Boston Phoenix. "In terms of national reputation, they're
waning," he says.
   The Globe has been shut out in recent Pulitzer Prize
awards after winning seven from 1980 to 1985. It was widely
criticized for perceived boosterism of Gov. Michael Dukakis's
presidential campaign. And the Globe, along with the rest of
the Boston media and law enforcement, was fooled in the case
in which Charles Stuart shot his wife and claimed she was the
victim of a black mugger. Mr. Jurkowitz says Globe editors
are worried about how the paper will be portrayed in a coming
TV movie of the event. A writer from the rival Herald is
working as a consultant on the movie.
   However, the Globe remains the biggest, most influential
and best paper in New England. When the economy turns, it can
return to being one of the most profitable newspapers in the
country. "With luck that will be 1991, but there are those
who say 1992," says Mr. Kingsbury. "At this point there's no
point to being anything but cautious."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Imasco Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   IMASCO FINANCIAL Corp., Montreal, an indirectly held unit
of Imasco Ltd., said it will redeem at a cost of 300 million
Canadian dollars (US$260 million) all of its issued and
Series A C$2.25 First preferred shares outstanding at C$25
per share. An Imasco Financial spokesman said the company
will likely refinance the C$300 million of debt using
commercial paper.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   After They've Seen Paree
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   Chancellor Helmut Kohl once told us that getting Soviet
troops to leave East Germany may prove to be more of a
problem for the Soviet Union than for Germany. A two-day
protest demonstration last week by wives of Russian soldiers
billeted near Burg supports his point.
   The wives weren't complaining about what some Soviet
generals have termed the "loss of Germany." Rather, they had
heard about their prospects when the 200th Motorized Rifle
Regiment motors back home to Russia, and they don't like
them. Garrison life in East Germany isn't great but it is
better than what they face.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some returning Red Army units are living in tent cities
while they build new housing for themselves and their
families. Something like that is planned for the 200th. The
Russian winter is coming on. The wives are demanding to know
where their children will be educated and how other amenities
will be supplied. What with food shortages, things are bad
enough these days even for Russians who have homes and
schools.
   Stories of Soviet soldiers trying to avoid repatriation
are floating around Germany. Some are offering to sell
uniforms or even weapons to raise Deutsche marks. A Radio
Free Europe source in Munich reports a fairly constant flow
of Soviets showing up to ask advice on how to defect. With
the East-West barriers down and Deutsche marks in their
pockets, the soldiers have little to stop them from making
such contacts other than disapproving officers. But obviously
the officers aren't happy either.
   There are ample historical precedents for conquering
armies developing a preference for the conquered nation over
a return to the homeland. Many Russians draw their lineage
from conquering tribes from the Nordic lands or from the
East. Conquest often means that the homeland falls into
neglect. Something like that has happened in the Soviet
empire.
   While Chancellor Kohl correctly says that troop
repatriation presents more problems for Mr. Gorbachev than
for Germany, it will be expensive for Germany. A German
official last week said that his country has agreed to build
apartments for Russian soldiers returning home from Germany.
But the Germans think the price tag the Russians are putting
on the project -- 10 billion Deutsche marks or $6.5 billion
-- is much too high. The Russians also are demanding that all
U.S., British and French troops leave West Berlin when the
Soviet troops have been fully withdrawn. That is stalling
final acknowledgment of German reunification.
   Bargaining is what diplomats do. But the Russian wives,
quite rightly, want to know when someone actually is going to
start building a house.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Roadway Express Boosts Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ROAD
</CO>
<IN>
TRUCKING (TRK)
</IN>
<LP>
   AKRON, Ohio -- Roadway Express Inc., citing a continued
rise in fuel prices, said it would increase its fuel
surcharge to 1.7% from 1.2%. The motor carrier said the
increase is subject to Interstate Commerce Commission review
and would be effective Sept. 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Societe Generale Iran Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST F.SGF
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Societe Generale said it signed a cooperation
agreement with the Central Bank of Iran and the Iranian
national petrochemical company, under which the French bank
will arrange financing for $1.8 billion of petrochemical
projects in Iran.
   Among the projects are the rebuilding of the petrochemical
facility at Bandar Khomeini, damaged during the Iran-Iraq
war, a chemical fertilizer factory in eastern Iran and the
second phase of a petrochemicals complex at Arak.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Olsten Corp.:
   Employment Firm Agrees
   To Acquire Upjohn Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   OLS UPJ
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Olsten Corp., in a move that would triple its home
health-care business, said it agreed to acquire Upjohn
HealthCare Services Inc., a unit of Upjohn Co.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but some analysts estimated the
transaction value at $60 million to $70 million. The unit,
which provides home health-care and supplemental staffing to
hospitals and nursing homes, accounted for $182 million, or
about 6%, of Upjohn's total 1989 revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With the acquisition, Olsten of Westbury, N.Y., obtains a
national network of home health-care offices already in place
and a new foothold in Canada. For Upjohn, the Kalamazoo,
Mich., maker of ethical drugs, the sale effectively ends its
arduous efforts to lift a business that's been a drain on
profits.
   "This particular division was a problem area for Upjohn,"
said Jerry Levine, analyst with Merrill Lynch. "It never made
a lot of money for them and it didn't have synergy with the
company's plans."
   For Olsten, however, the acquisition allows it to
"effectively blanket North America with offices,"said Frank
N. Liguori, the company's chief executive officer. "It saves
us years of internal growth and development."
   Olsten, which provides temporary personnel for the office
and home health-care markets, earned $18 million on revenue
of $580 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amcore Financial Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13F
</SO>
<CO>
   AMFI
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROCKFORD, Ill. -- Amcore Financial Inc. said its board has
authorized the purchase of as much as $6 million of its
common stock from time to time through the open market or
privately negotiated purchases.
   The bank holding company said the program is in addition
to a $2 million buyback announced last June. Amcore said
about $1.6 million of common stock has been purchased under
the prior authorization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amcore, which currently has 6.5 million common shares
outstanding, said any shares purchased will become treasury
stock and will be used for general corporate purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mitsubishi Electric Corp.:
   Firm's U.S. Plant to Double
   Production of Car Phones
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MBE
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mitsubishi Electric Corp. plans to double production
capacity of car phones at its Atlanta, Ga., plant to 400,000
units in fiscal 1991 to meet growing U.S. demand, a company
spokesman said.
   The Tokyo company aims to maintain its share of roughly
10% of the U.S. market by expanding the line at the plant.
The products are part of the newest car phone systems, which
transmit voices digitally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   More Federal Wind
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Continuing our anomalous but predictable history of
national energy "strategies," the Bush administration has
decided that the best way to reduce the danger of oil-supply
disruptions in the Middle East is to -- produce more oil]
("Energy Department Unveils Strategy to Cut U. S. Dependence
on Mideast Oil," Aug. 16.)
   Citing such bold actions as fully inflating tires, car
pooling and increased oil production from offshore California
and the North Slope of Alaska, the administration has
followed the path of least resistance, and least controversy,
in failing to address the country's dangerous reliance on
foreign oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hydro, wind, geothermal, biomass and solar power currently
account for 10% of America's energy needs. A conservative
report -- issued, incidentally, by the Department of Energy
-- concludes that renewables could provide nearly 30% of our
total energy supply. Yet federal research and development
budgets for renewable technologies have taken draconian cuts,
dropping to less than $95 million from $557 million in the
past decade (non-adjusted).
   Concerted federal efforts to encourage "economies of
scale" in the development of renewables, combined with
increased emphasis on energy efficiency, could mitigate
significantly the strategic consequences of Saddam Hussein's
belligerence.
   Michael L. Marvin
   Director
   Governmental Affairs
   American Wind Energy Association
   Washington
   ---
   I was surprised and disappointed, in reading your Aug. 17
page-one article on "Energy Options," to see not one mention
of the potential contribution of ethanol from renewable
agricultural resources as a fuel enhancer and extender. This
is a one-billion-gallon-per-year industry today. American
farmers certainly have the capacity and the desire to make an
even greater contribution to reducing America's reliance on
imported oil for motor fuel. With today's corn prices, oil
prices and government incentives the production of ethanol
from grain is profitable. This home-grown resource should not
be ignored in responding to our current energy problems.
   Donald M. Senechal
   Danvers, Mass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   German Cigarette Firms Merge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP G.REC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's Reemtsma
Cigarettenfabrieken G.m.b.H. said it acquired East Germany's
largest cigarette maker, Nortrak G.m.b.H., formerly the
state-owned VEB Tabak Nordhausen.
   Reemtsma said Nortrak sold 10 billion cigarettes in 1989
and controlled a third of the East German cigarette market.
The company has 1,000 employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reemtsma is 51% family owned, with 49% held by
Hamburg-based coffee maker Tchibo Frisch-Roest-Kaffee AG,
which in turn is wholly owned by the Herz family of West
Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Terrorist Talks
   About Life, Warns
   Of More Deaths
   ---
   PLF's Abbas, in an Interview,
   Applauds Saddam Hussein
   And Hints at New Actions
   ----
   By Tony Horwitz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BAGHDAD -- A visit to the hideout of Abul Abbas, one of
the world's most wanted men, begins with a rubber-burning
drive down the back streets of the Iraqi capital.
   The driver loops twice past an anonymous house in an
anonymous neighborhood, honking each time so guards can check
that the Mercedes isn't being tailed. On the third pass, the
car veers into the driveway. Stern young men with submachine
guns lurk in the bushes. At the door of the one-story villa,
a guard frisks a visiting reporter and tests his
tape-recorder -- with the machine's microphone pointed at the
journalist's neck.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Abbas, leader of the Palestine Liberation Front, waits
in an office decorated with photos of his commandos setting
off in speedboats to strike Israel. "I am sorry for the
welcome," he says, gesturing at guards posted by his window.
"This is my life."
   Mr. Abbas's life, as it unfolds in a three-hour interview
over tea, Turkish coffee and two packs of Marlboro
cigarettes, is the chilling tale of the making of a
terrorist. It begins in a Palestinian refugee camp in Syria
and leads to this Baghdad lair, where Mr. Abbas plotted the
1985 Achille Lauro hijacking and this year's attack on a Tel
Aviv beach, which ended America's dialogue with the Palestine
Liberation Organization.
   Now, with his Iraqi patron, Saddam Hussein, under seige by
U.S. forces, Mr. Abbas thinks the time may soon be ripe for
renewed commando warfare.
   "We see this as the battle for Palestine," he says of the
Persian Gulf conflict. "Winning it will get us closer to
home. Losing it will put us further away." Asked if terrorism
is a necessary part of Saddam Hussein's struggle, he
responds: "We use many ways to reach our aim."
   In apparent anticipation of guerrilla strikes, the U.S.
State Department took the unusual step of issuing a statement
at 8:30 p.m. Friday saying, "The United States would view
with utmost seriousness any Iraqi-sponsored terrorist
attack." Iraq was restored to the department's list of
governments sponsoring terrorism on Sept. 1.
   Among radical Palestinian leaders, Mr. Abbas's position is
exceptional. His rap sheet of what he calls "military
operations" -- and what the West calls terrorism -- is
exceeded only by the shadowy Abu Nidal and by Ahmed Jebril,
who is believed to have masterminded the bombing of Pan Am
flight 103.
   But Mr. Abbas also sits on the PLO's 15-man executive
committee, and therefore has a voice within the Palestinian
mainstream. "Abul Abbas is a symbol, to show that the PLO
hasn't abandoned armed struggle," says Asad Abdul Rahman, a
member of the PLO's parliament in exile.
   To many in the West, Mr. Abbas is a much darker symbol:
violent, uncompromising and determined to torpedo efforts at
peacefully resolving the Arab-Israeli conflict. Helena
Cobban, a Washington-based PLO expert and author of a leading
book on the organization, describes Mr. Abbas as "a low-level
thug" and a "mercenary gun-for-hire" who has no real
political program. Long on the Iraqi payroll, he could become
useful to Saddam Hussein if he decides to "activate the
terror option," she says.
   Although Mr. Abbas says he only strikes at Israeli
"military targets," civilians often have been cut down in the
crossfire. In a 1979 raid by PLF gunmen on the Israeli town
of Nahariya, the four Israeli deaths included a four-year-old
girl; a PLF commando crushed her skull with a machine gun.
   Meeting an American in Baghdad for what he says is the
first time, Mr. Abbas cuts an imposing, rather incongruous
figure. Broad-shouldered and six feet four inches tall, he
has the strong but softening build of a retired lumberjack.
Ruggedly handsome, his thick black hair and mustache show no
signs of gray at 41. His eyes don't give much away; in the
dimly-lit office, they are so dark as to seem all pupil.
   Mr. Abbas's manner is disarming. Soft-voiced, his face
wrinkles easily into laughter. He speaks passable English and
florid Arabic, filled with metaphor and rhythmic locutions. A
graduate in Arabic literature from the University of
Damascus, he also appears to be well-read. His favorite
Western writer, he says, is William Shakespeare --
"particularly the tragedies." He says he was a schoolteacher
in Syria before becoming a full-time "freedom fighter."
   This second career has left its mark. Brushing back his
hair, Mr. Abbas reveals a jagged scar across his forehead,
the result, he says, of an Israeli cluster bomb during the
siege of Beirut in 1982. He also has a bullet wound in each
thigh from guerrilla fighting in Jordan and the West Bank.
"That's the life," he says, chuckling grimly.
   Asked if he has personally killed anyone, he responds with
a half-smile, "During the fight, you don't know what
happens." He adds that what happens in the heat of battle
"isn't just killing" because "this is war. Israel is our
enemy."
   As for innocents who have died in this war, he shrugs.
"Accidents happen," he says.
   Mr. Abbas welcomes the current Gulf conflict, which is
gathering Palestinian extremists beneath the Iraqi tent in
company with PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat. Last week, a leading
radical, Syrian-based George Habash, made his first visit in
11 years to Baghdad, where he met with both Mr. Abbas and
Saddam Hussein. Palestinian sources say Abu Nidal already is
in Iraq. And Mr. Abbas predicts that others, such as Mr.
Jebril, also may soon defect from Syria to Saddam Hussein's
camp.
   "I think Saddam will win, and we will win as Arabs," Mr.
Abbas says. "When we support Iraq, we support our case as
Palestinians."
   While Mr. Abbas won't disclose what this support might
include, past exploits give some clue to future attacks.
"Ruthless stunts that often go wrong" is how one Palestinian
official describes PLF operations.
   The group has staged strikes on Israel by hang glider, by
hot-air balloon, by rubber dinghy and, most notoriously, by
seajacking the cruise liner Achille Lauro (which he says was
to be taken to Israel, in part to free PLF fighters captured
in the 1979 Nahariya attack).
   It was during the bungled Achille Lauro mission, when a
wheelchair-bound American passenger, Leon Klinghoffer, was
killed, that Mr. Abbas became known internationally. The
world's most wanted terrorist, with U.S. warrants out for his
arrest for hostage-taking and piracy, he eluded a global
manhunt, reportedly disguised in an Egyptair uniform. An
Italian court later convicted him in absentia and sentenced
him to life imprisonment.
   Mr. Abbas is unapologetic for the death of the crippled
Mr. Klinghoffer, who was shot in the head and back and pushed
overboard. "Maybe he was trying to swim for it," Mr. Abbas
coldly suggested in 1988. Asked about the incident again last
week, he bristled. "Klinghoffer, always I hear about this
Klinghoffer," he says. "Nobody knows all the people who die
in Palestine. But this Klinghoffer is like Jesus Christ."
   Mr. Abbas also has no regrets over the failed attack on a
crowded Tel Aviv beach last May. It was Mr. Arafat's refusal
to denounce Mr. Abbas following the attack that led the U.S.
to suspend its dialogue with the PLO. Four commandos were
killed and 12 captured in what Mr. Abbas says was an assault
aimed at military targets. "For two years we say yes, yes,
yes to America, without results," he says of the dialogue.
"Political ways have stopped now. Only we will fight."
   Mr. Abbas says he still would welcome a negotiated
settlement to the Arab-Israeli conflict. But asked if he is
prepared to recognize Israel, as Mr. Arafat has done, he
responds: "For me, for our organization, we will not. We want
our land now and to build our state. After that we will say."
   Mr. Abbas's hard-line views reflect the militancy of a new
generation of Palestinians. In contrast to other splinter
groups, some Marxist and others fundamentalist, the PLF
appeals to young militants devoted to action rather than to
ideology. Members are carefully ranked, in military style,
and tend to wear blue jeans, white shirts and combat boots.
   One fiery-eyed lieutenant in Baghdad, who goes by the name
of Abu Nahar, says he follows Mr. Abbas because the PLF "is
focused, rational, not emotional." He adds that all members
of the PLF, which may have a hard core of only 100, "must
prove themselves in battle."
   Mr. Abbas, ranked as secretary-general, is the youngest
member of the PLO's executive committee and the only one born
outside of what is now Israel and its occupied territories.
His parents fled their village near Haifa in 1948, just after
the founding of Israel. Mohammed Zaidan Abbas was born a few
months later, in a Syrian refugee camp. The only image he has
of his family's village is from videotapes taken by friends
who have visited since.
   Mr. Abbas says it is this separation from his homeland
that has made him so radical. Members of the PLO's old guard,
he says, "can balance between the truth and the dream. But
for me, no. Everything is a dream. And dreams are always more
powerful than reality."
   As a university student, Mr. Abbas says, he wanted to be a
professor of literature. But the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, and
the occupation of the West Bank that followed, convinced him
that "if I as a Palestinian do not fight now, then I am
nothing."
   While finishing his degree, and working briefly as a
teacher, he plotted with other Palestinians and made several
raids across the Jordan River. In 1968, he joined Mr.
Jebril's Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine-General Command, and combed the camps of Jordan for
recruits.
   From there, his rise through the PLO ranks was slow but
steady, aided since 1983 by the Iraqis and also by his second
marriage to a close relative of Farouk Kaddoumi, a leading
Arafat adviser.
   Once known as a playboy, he has settled down and talks
proudly of the oldest of his three sons, a teen-age computer
whiz. Palestinians in Baghdad say he is rarely seen anymore
outside his closely-guarded compound.
   "This is my life," he says, casting his glance around the
cluttered office. Lieutentants slip in and out with whispered
missives. Papers are piled on his desk, with spectacles
perched on top. "I live only for my dream," he says.
   Like so many Palestinians, Mr. Abbas takes a very long
view of his dream of regaining his homeland. "There is an
Arabic saying that revenge takes 40 years," he says. "If not
my son, then the son of my son will kill you. Some day, we
will have missiles that can reach New York."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Expected Fuel Price Increases in the Philippines
   Threaten to Worsen Aquino's Crisis of Confidence
   ----
   By Lawrence MacDonald
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9D
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MANILA, the Philippines -- Fuel price increases made
necessary by the Mideast crisis pose a looming challenge to
Philippine President Corazon Aquino's battered
administration, which already is reeling from a string of
natural and man-made disasters.
   The price increases, which are expected before the end of
the month, are likely to feed inflation and risk triggering
transport and labor strikes that military rebels could
exploit as a reason for another coup attempt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Apparently in an effort to damp anticipated protests and
shore up eroding support from the non-communist left, Mrs.
Aquino has offered to begin talks with the communist-led
National Democratic Front. The front has yet to reply to Mrs.
Aquino's proposal, but NDF officials have been quoted as
saying they are interested because of the likely propaganda
boost the talks would give to the group's struggling
insurgency.
   Diplomats and analysts, however, worry that Mrs. Aquino's
strategy could backfire by intensifying right-wing impatience
with her government at a time when it already is vulnerable
to military insurrection.
   Fears of another coup attempt have been heightened by the
21 bombings that have rocked Manila in the past three weeks,
the latest occurring Wednesday night about 500 meters from
the president's residence. Officials blame the bombings on
rebel soldiers, including Gregorio "Gringo" Honasan, leader
of three previous coup attempts, including one last December.
   Talk of a coup dominates local media: Columnists write
that they are more concerned with "coup-wait" than Kuwait.
And though few people openly call for a military uprising,
many say they are deeply disappointed by Mrs. Aquino's
failure to make full use of the tremendous prestige she
garnered when she was swept to power in a February 1986
popular revolt that ended 21 years of corrupt rule by
Ferdinand Marcos.
   "In the Marcos years, there was no hope. She (Mrs. Aquino)
offered hope in the beginning, but now the mood is turning
black," says Luis Virata, managing director of Exchange
Capital Corp., an investment-advisory affiliate of Jardine
Fleming Holdings Ltd. "There is a crisis of confidence."
   Mr. Virata says he is worried less about the bombs --
which have caused heavy damage but relatively few injuries --
than about the government's failure to ensure such basic
services as garbage collection, electricity and flood
control. "Government is not doing its job," he says.
   Last month, monsoon rains twice flooded Manila, paralyzing
the city and killing about 25 people. The floods were
worsened by uncollected garbage that clogged the city's storm
drains. Thousands of slum dwellers were left homeless.
   Disappointment with Mrs. Aquino's government cuts across
class lines. Ronnie Graga, a 25-year-old security guard, says
he has seen "no improvement" since Mrs. Aquino came to power.
"We were not fortunate in Marcos's time, and we are not
fortunate in Cory's time," he says. "With oil prices going
up, I can only imagine that life will get worse."
   Supporters of Mrs. Aquino say she has survived challenges
that could have toppled a more experienced leader. Since the
December coup attempt, the sixth during Mrs. Aquino's
presidency, the Philippines has been battered by drought and
a devastating earthquake, as well as the floods.
   Meanwhile, the army is fighting a rebellion on the
southern island of Mindanao, where Alexander Noble, a former
presidential security chief, is leading animist tribes
against the government. According to local press reports,
more than 8,000 people have been displaced since the campaign
began in mid-August.
   Last week, Sen. John Osmena, a former supporter of Mrs.
Aquino, urged the president to dismiss her cabinet and pass
executive power to an ad hoc committee that would manage
state affairs until a new president is elected in 1992. As
expected, Mrs. Aquino scorned the suggestion, asserting that
her government will withstand both military threats and a
"constitutional coup" such as that proposed by Sen. Osmena.
Few took the senator's suggestion seriously, but the exchange
highlighted the extent to which support for Mrs. Aquino has
crumbled.
   In such an environment, the president now must push
through a fuel price increase opposed by organized labor and
many of the grass-roots groups that helped bring her to
power.
   The left-leaning Kilusang Mayo Uno, one of the country's
two biggest labor federations, has staged rallies against a
fuel price increase and called for a general strike if fuel
prices rise. The comparatively moderate Trade Union Congress
of the Philippines also opposes a fuel price adjustment. "If
oil prices are increased it will cause a chain reaction,"
says Avelino Valerio, vice president of the TUCP. "We will
have to demand wage increases."
   There are no official figures on the likely impact of
higher fuel prices on inflation, which now is running at an
annual rate of about 13% and is projected by some senior
government officials to reach 18% by the end of the year.
   Inflation aside, a rise in gasoline prices alone risks
inflaming one of Manila's most powerful labor groups: drivers
of the brightly colored jeepneys, the principal means of
transport for most of the capital's residents.
   "Our drivers can hardly provide their families with three
meals per day," says Oscar Lazaro, president of one of the
city's many jeepney drivers associations. "If they (the
government) increase the price of oil and gasoline, fares
must go up." Mr. Lazaro adds that drivers' earnings already
have been trimmed by mounting congestion, which daily brings
Manila traffic to a near standstill, reducing the number of
runs per jeepney.
   Labor leaders suggest that the government should cushion
the blow of higher oil prices by reducing fuel taxes, which
now average about 32%, or by suspending payments on the
country's foreign debt, a course Mrs. Aquino has rejected.
   The Philippines depends on petroleum for 65% of its energy
needs and imports nearly all of the 240,000 barrels of crude
it uses each day. Domestic fuel prices are based on a
crude-oil price of $16.53 a barrel and an exchange rate of
21.9 pesos to the dollar. Since the start of the latest
Mideast crisis on Aug. 2, crude-oil prices have risen to
about $30 a barrel, while the Philippine currency has fallen
to nearly 25 pesos to the dollar. During the same period,
local fuel prices have remained constant.
   The government uses an Oil Price Stabilization Fund to
compensate the three oil companies operating in the country
for losses by providing a forward cover on exchange rates and
subsidizing the difference between crude-oil prices and
domestic fuel prices. (The oil companies have been
petitioning the government for fuel price increases.)
   The fund was intended as a buffer, to be built up during
times of low world oil prices by maintaining relatively
higher domestic prices. However, Mrs. Aquino and the
legislature authorized a cut in domestic prices last year,
after crude prices declined. When crude prices climbed again,
the fund quickly fell into deficit.
   This year, the government allocated five billion pesos
($207 million) to subsidize the fund. The allocation was
quickly exhausted and industry sources estimate that the fund
now owes the oil companies an additional 6.5 billion pesos
for oil already delivered.
   Without a price adjustment, the Philippines would owe the
oil companies as much as 12 billion pesos by the end of the
year, depending on world crude prices, industry sources says.
   Matthijs V.P. Venker, vice president of Pilipinas Shell
Petroleum Corp., says officials and the Philippine business
community understand the need for a fuel price increase. "It
is up to them to bite the bullet on this, and the earlier
they bite it the better," he says, adding that an increase
likely will be announced before the end of the month.
   Those who want to see Mrs. Aquino weather her current
troubles hope that her offer to open talks with the
communists and other recent efforts to mend fences with
grass-roots groups will ease the way for a price increase.
"Labor will be a serious problem if it is not premanaged,"
says Melinda Quintos de Jesus, a columnist active in the
movement that helped bring Mrs. Aquino to power. Strong
leadership could make the difference, she says, but adds that
there is a growing sense that "the government is being
overtaken by these many crises."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Equity Warrants Crippled by Market Collapse
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.NOM J.DST J.NKT J.YMS
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- When stocks crash, derivatives burn.
   The collapse of Tokyo stock prices has devastated the
market for Japanese equity warrants, crippling what had been
one of the most lucrative and popular sectors of the
London-based Eurobond market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many Japanese companies sold equity-warrant bonds as an
inexpensive way of raising money during the Tokyo stock
market's heyday. Companies could issue bonds that paid
interest of only a fraction of 1%, by attaching equity
warrants as an inducement. More than $70 billion of Japanese
equity warrants have been issued in the past three years.
   A warrant gives an investor the right, but not the
obligation, to buy the issuing company's stock at a set price
during a specified period. As long as the price of the
underlying stock is rising, the purchaser can make a profit
by exercising the warrant.
   But since the start of the year, Japanese stocks, as
measured by the 225-share Nikkei average, have lost more than
38% of their value -- the market's steepest loss in a single
year since World War II. While there isn't any formal index
measuring performance of the warrant market -- most
transactions take place in London, outside the purview of
Japanese regulators -- some analysts believe warrant prices
are off as much as two-thirds.
   Worse, many warrants may expire soon, making them
worthless to holders, among them big institutional investors
such as fund managers and insurance companies. And if
investors don't exercise the warrants and buy stock, some of
the companies that issued the warrants will lose a crucial
source of expected new capital.
   "The market is nervous," Trevor Sliwerski, an executive at
Baring Securities Co. in London, said. "Many warrants are
bombed out." A trader at S.G. Warburg Securities Co. said,
"Nobody in his right mind would own some of these."
   Investors bought equity warrants on the theory that
Japanese stocks would head eternally higher. Until the market
began to tumble this year, the bet usually paid off. A year
or two after issue, many warrants gave investors the right to
buy stock at only a fraction of market prices. Now that the
stock market has reversed, though, many of those warrants
don't look so attractive.
   By the estimate of Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd., the value
of the equity-warrant market has shrunk to about $14 billion
from $34 billion at the start of the year.
   Warrants make money when stock prices climb above the
so-called strike price, the set price at which the warrant
holder has the right to buy shares offered by the issuing
company. Such warrants are considered "in the money."
   When stock prices are below the strike price, however, a
warrant is considered "out of the money." An investor would
have to pay more to exercise his stock-purchase rights than
the price at which the stock could then be sold, producing a
loss.
   Most Japanese equity warrants are out of the money.
According to a survey by S.G. Warburg, only 102 of 500 major
warrant issues were still in the money two weeks ago. And the
Tokyo stock market has tumbled further since then.
   Because equity warrants expire on a certain date, those
that are nearing expiration aren't even trading. "There's no
point in buying something that isn't ever going to be back in
the money," a trader said.
   Who are the big losers? Japanese investment trusts and
trust banks, mostly. Life insurance companies and, to a
lesser extent, banks and overseas investors also have
incurred losses. But James Bush of Barclays said losses from
warrant trading don't present a problem for most of Japan's
cash-rich investors.
   "To a big Japanese investment trust, that kind of loss
hurts, but it's not crippling," he said. Even before the
warrant market contracted, he pointed out, its total
capitalization was the equivalent of only a fraction of the
assets of Japan's largest bank.
   He also said the market isn't suffering from panic
selling. "To some extent, the warrant market has stopped
falling" recently, Mr. Bush said, as the prices offered on
new warrants sink so low that investors are becoming
interested in them again. One issue, by Nomura Securities
Co., is trading at $2.50, down from a high of $90 two years
ago. The warrant gives holders the right to buy Nomura stock
at a level 61% above its current market price.
   Not surprisingly, investors aren't exactly beating the
doors down to buy them. "People are still afraid to trade
against the trend, even though terms for warrants are now
technically very attractive," Mr. Bush said. "Everybody who
wanted to pick the bottom of this market has given up,
because they've been wrong so many times."
   Mr. Bush said warrant holders needn't panic yet. Of the
400 warrant issues traded by Barclays, he said, none expires
this year and only 12 expire in 1991. Most reach the end of
their term in 1993. As long as the expiration date is far off
in the future, even warrants that are out of the money have
"time value," because theoretically stock prices could rise
again.
   But if the market hasn't made a substantial recovery
within the next couple of years, many big investors will be
stuck with fistfuls of worthless paper.
   Even the giant Japanese securities companies weren't
prepared for the market to shrivel. The Big Four firms,
Nomura, Daiwa Securities Co., Nikko Securities Co. and
Yamaichi Securities Co., earned as much as one-third of their
profits in the fiscal year ended March 31 through
warrant-bond underwriting and trading. Their earnings could
be halved by the crisis in the market, analysts said.
   So far this year, $12 billion of warrant bonds have been
issued, down more than 75% from the value of warrants issued
during the first nine months of last year. Barclays believes
the market will finish the year at about $20 billion -- about
where it ended 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ITT Corp.:
   Insurance Unit Signs Letter
   To Buy Surety Bond Line
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13F
</SO>
<CO>
   ITT U.CUA
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ITT Hartford Insurance Group said it signed a letter of
intent to acquire the surety bond business of Commercial
Union Insurance Co. Terms were not disclosed.
   ITT Hartford said the acquisition is expected to increase
its written premiums from surety bonds by about 10%. In 1989,
ITT Hartford wrote about $67 million in such premiums.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ITT Hartford is a unit of New York-based ITT Corp.
Commercial Union Insurance is a U.S. subsidiary of
London-based Commercial Union PLC.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Expected to Fall as Support
   By Central Bank Is Seen as Unlikely
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- There is no relief in sight for the run-down
dollar.
   With heavy central bank support seen as unlikely and the
Federal Reserve still expected to ease soon to resuscitate
the feeble U.S. economy, many currency traders say the dollar
has nowhere to go but down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The downtrend is still intact," says Thomas Benfer, a
foreign exchange marketing representative at the Bank of
Montreal. "People still are looking for a lower dollar."
   Late Friday here, the dollar was quoted at 1.5679 marks
and 140.05 yen, compared with 1.5550 marks and 140.70 yen
late Thursday. The pound fell to $1.8930 from $1.9125.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was quoted at
139.50 yen, down from 140.25 yen at the close there Friday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5655
marks, up from Friday's Tokyo close of 1.5603 marks.
   Bearish sentiment about the dollar didn't abate Friday
despite the dollar's rise against most foreign currencies on
U.S. employment data for August which, while unimpressive,
weren't sharply weaker than traders had expected.
   The unemployment rate rose to 5.6% last month from 5.5% in
July, while nonfarm payrolls fell 75,000 in August after
dropping 89,000. Not including census worker layoffs,
non-farm payrolls in August climbed 45,000 after rising
84,000 in July.
   Some economists had forecast a 5.5% August unemployment
rate and an overall non-farm payrolls decrease of roughly
29,000.
   The U.S. economy, a top concern of the foreign-exchange
market, may be on the back burner early this week because of
the Group of Seven meeting in Paris today and tomorrow. The
G-7, the world's major industrial nations, are the U.S., West
Germany, Japan, Britain, France, Canada and Italy.
   A U.S. Treasury official said Thursday that officials from
those nations will convene to address the dollar's plunge and
the impact of the Iraq-Kuwait crisis on international
economies.
   Currency dealings are growing cautious because of
uncertainties about the outcome of the gathering, but some
traders are already betting that forceful rounds of
dollar-supporting intervention won't be seen anytime soon.
   That's because the G-7 isn't expected to throw lots of
money away trying to lift a dollar that is burdened by many
bearish fundamentals, such as the ailing U.S. economy and the
nation's relatively unattractive interest rates.
   Some currency specialists say heavy G-7 dollar support is
also unlikely at this time because the dollar's severe
weakness, while worrisome, holds benefits for the U.S., West
Germany and Japan.
   Though a weaker dollar can fuel inflationary pressures in
the U.S. by making imports more expensive, it can also spur
exports by cutting the costs of the nation's goods for
foreigners. That would help pare a 1990 U.S. merchandise
trade deficit that totaled $45.81 billion through June.
   Overseas, mark and yen strength resulting from the lower
dollar helps curb inflationary pressures in West Germany and
Japan.
   The New York Federal Reserve Bank said Friday that the
U.S. didn't move to prop up the dollar between May and July
although the currency fell 5.5% against the mark and 8%
against the yen. That marked the first time the U.S.
refrained from dollar-guiding intervention since the
August-October 1986 quarter.
   The U.S. Treasury's restraint in part reflects a new
political reality. Since the beginning of the year, the
Treasury's exchange-rate policies have come under attack from
the Fed and Congress. Some Fed officials complain the
Treasury's earlier massive interventions were potentially
costly and having little effect on the dollar's value while
undercutting the Fed's anti-inflation efforts. The Fed does
the actual buying and selling of dollars, but usually the
Treasury calls the shots in consultation with the Fed.
   A total purchase of $2 billion against the mark during the
latest quarter -- $1 billion bought in the open market and $1
billion purchased directly from another central bank -- was
for technical Treasury transactions, according to the New
York Fed.
   The last time the U.S. intervened to support the dollar
was at the end of 1988. The U.S. and other nations spent much
of last year unsuccessfully attempting to put a lid on a
dollar that was confoundingly resilient.
   In the short run, the G-7 officials "clearly are going to
be watching this {dollar downtrend} very carefully," says
David Blitzer, chief economist at Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
   However, Mr. Blitzer and other economists say there
probably won't be intervention unless the dollar's downward
momentum accelerates sharply, causing declines of much more
than a pfennig or a yen per day.
   Recent dollar bashing has been seen orderly, even though
it caused the dollar to trade at an 11-month intraday low of
139.90 yen Friday and a post-World War II low of 1.5385 marks
on Aug. 27. The dollar, no longer regarded as a choice haven,
has received little support from the turmoil in the Persian
Gulf.
   Traders are now gearing up to push the dollar toward 1.50
marks and 135 yen, some currency analysts say.
   Even if there is intervention, it isn't expected to give
the dollar much of a boost. "People will definitely still
sell dollars," says Rick Porter, manager of corporate
dealings at Westpac Banking Corp. "There's a good fundamental
reason for being bearish on the dollar" that won't be erased
by intervention.
   The main thorns in the dollar's foot are abundant evidence
of U.S. economic weakness and speculation that more Fed
credit loosening is likely soon.
   The U.S. central bank is perceived to be reluctant to ease
with oil prices rocketing because of the Gulf crisis, but
many economists believe easing is around the bend.
   Lower interest rates can undercut a currency because they
curb demand for investments denominated in the currency.
   Fed easing would be particularly troublesome for the
dollar right now because other major industrial nations are
maintaining tight policies.
   "I think they {the Fed} will still ease," says Standard &amp;
Poor's Mr. Blitzer. The federal funds rate, he says, may be
allowed to fall 1/4 percentage point to 7.75% from the
perceived target rate of 8% as early as this week. The
federal funds rate is the charge on reserves traded among
commercial banks overnight.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $389.50 an ounce, down 20 cents.
Estimated volume was a moderate 4.3 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at $386.80 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Legal Software Solutions Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS LSSI
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   LEGAL SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS Inc. (Melville, N.Y.) -- Frank
Murphy, 42 years old, previously executive vice president of
the Baxter Systems division of Baxter International Inc., was
named chief executive officer of this maker of computer
software systems for the debt-collection industry, succeeding
Peter Fleischman, who resigned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Public Utilities Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GPU
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENERAL PUBLIC UTILITIES Corp. (Parsippany, N.J.) -- Adm.
Carlisle A.H. Trost, who retired as U.S. chief of naval
operations in June, was named a director of this provider of
electricity, increasing board membership to 12. He also will
serve on the board of the GPU Nuclear Corp. unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Symbol Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS SBL
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY &amp; PRODUCTION, QUALITY CONTROL (ITC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SYMBOL TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (Bohemia, N.Y.) -- Leonard
Goldner was named senior vice president and general counsel
at this maker of bar code data-capture systems. He had been a
partner in the New York law firm Shereff, Friedman, Hoffman &amp;
Goodman, where he functioned as Symbol Technologies' outside
corporate counsel.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Co. Unit Signs Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13C
</SO>
<CO>
   WSN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Western Co. of North America said a unit signed
a contract in Singapore for the construction of a $30 million
vessel to perform well stimulation services in the North Sea.
   The unit, Western Petroleum Services International, will
also acquire well stimulation equipment for $13 million that
will be installed at the Singapore shipyard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, September 7, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/8% high, 7 3/4% low, 7 3/4% near
closing bid, 7 7/8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial
banks for overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more.
Source: Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.85% 25 to 44 days; 7.80% 45 to 59 days;
7.75% 60 to 89 days; 7.70% 90 to 119 days; 7.65% 120 to 149
days; 7.60% 150 to 179 days; 7.50% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.975%
30 days; 7.925% 60 days; 7.875% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.78% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8% one month; 8% three months; 8%
six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.87% 30 days; 7.78% 60 days; 7.70%
90 days; 7.70% 120 days; 7.62% 150 days; 7.57% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8%one month; 8 1/8% - 8%
two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 1/8% - 8% four
months; 8 1/8% - 8% five months; 8 1/8% 8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/16% three months; 8 1/16% six months; 8 3/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.38%; Switzerland 9.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Tuesday, September 4, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39% 13 weeks; 7.36% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.14%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.08%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.58%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Highland Superstores Sales Flat
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HIGH
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PLYMOUTH, Mich. -- Highland Superstores Inc., a retailer
of consumer electronics, reported August sales of $69.5
million, virtually unchanged from $69.8 million in the
year-earlier period. Comparable-store sales fell 6% in
August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Waste Management
   Says Wheelabrator
   Holders Clear Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX WTI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- Waste Management Inc. said Wheelabrator
Technologies Inc.'s shareholders approved a previously
announced merger agreement between the two companies.
   Waste Management said the agreement increases its
ownership of Wheelabrator's common stock to 55% from 22%.
Wheelabrator, a Hampton, N.H., developer and operator of
waste-to-energy facilities, will remain a separate public
company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The waste disposal concern said that in exchange for each
share of Wheelabrator Technologies held, shareholders of
record will receive 0.469 Waste Management share and 0.574
Wheelabrator share. Under the agreement, four Waste
Management officers were named directors of Wheelabrator, in
addition to the eleven current directors. They are Jerry E.
Dempsey, Jerome D. Girsch, James E. Koenig, and Edwin G.
Falkman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NASD Expels
   Fort Worth Firm
   Over Its Trading
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A Fort Worth, Texas, securities firm agreed to
be expelled from the National Association of Securities
Dealers for what the agency charged was excessive and
unsuitable trading, causing a more than $750,000 loss in an
institutional account.
   Vautrain Nelson Lefevre, Endsley &amp; Durham Inc. didn't
admit or deny wrongdoing in also agreeing to a $25,000 fine
and settling the charges. Lynn D. Vautrain, a Fort Worth
principal at the firm, agreed to a $10,000 fine and two-week
suspension without admitting or denying the charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   From about May 31 to July 19, 1988, the NASD charged, the
firm executed about 124 trades in the account of State Bank
of St. Libory of St. Libory, Ill. The trades generated the
loss as well as more than $201,000 of commissions for the
firm, the agency said.
   The NASD announced a number of other actions against firms
and individuals. Fines and suspensions are noted:
   Providence Securities Inc., Providence, R.I., was fined
$50,000. Providence employees disciplined include Thomas L.
DePetrillo of Providence, suspended in any capacity for 30
days and as a principal for six months, must requalify by
exam, $16,000 fine; Albert Kopech of Cranston, R.I.,
suspended in any capacity for 15 days and as a principal for
six months, must requalify by exam, $10,000 fine; and Thomas
J. Leahy of Cranston, suspended in any capacity for five
days, must requalify by exam, $500 fine.
   Underhill Associates Inc. of Red Bank, N.J., and Patricia
S. Burke, Little Silver, N.J., were fined a total $25,000.
Also, Patricia Burke, Jerome U. Burke of Little Silver, Kevin
J. Burke of Westfield, and William T. Baettcher of Pine Beach
all were barred as principals. Kevin Burke, Jerome Burke and
Mr. Baettcher have appealed the decision to the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
   International Currency Execution Inc. and Vincent Mills,
both Chicago, each 15 days and a total $10,000; Hugo Marx &amp;
Co. and V. Hugo Marx Jr., both Birmingham, Ala., a total
$15,000; Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., New York, $15,000;
Fundamental Brokers International Inc., New York, and Michael
E. Beirne, Rockville Centre, N.Y., a total $10,000.
   Marx &amp; Co., Mr. Marx, Shearson, Fundamental and Mr. Beirne
settled the charges without admitting or denying them.
   The NASD barred the following individuals. Fines are
noted:
   Keith Douglas Feldhacker, Norman, Okla., $350,000; Ronald
Dennis Robbins, Gahanna, Ohio, and Brian Lee Williamson,
Austin, Texas, $50,000 each; Michael Allen Jurinske, Diamond
Bar, Calif., $40,000; Richard Carl Herbst, New York, $30,000;
and Scott D. Cochrane, Brighton, Mich., $20,000;
   And Jeffrey L. Amburn, Quincy, Ill., Rickey D. Baker,
LaPaz, Ind., Michael A. Connolly, Chicago, David Lloyd Earls,
Lewisville, Texas, Sheldon Fried, New York, Timothy N.
Gehring, Evansville, Ind., Robert Abraham Hall, Cave Creek,
Ariz., Robert J. Pettit, Reading, Pa., Steven Alexander Reta,
Las Vegas, Jerome Sharpe, Crown Point, Ind., and Charles E.
Sorensen, Salt Lake City, $15,000 each;
   Also, Peter J. Zoppi, Cheshire, Conn., $10,000; Leaford S.
Cameron, Bensalem, Pa., $7,500; Anthony R. Domanico,
Whitesboro, N.Y., $5,000; and Randall Mark Phillips and Rex
Maxwell Phillips, both Spokane, Wash., no fine.
   Frank Joe Bierekoven, Birmingham, Mich., $1,000 and barred
until he satisfies a $15,000 arbitration award. Richard
Hofland, Madison, Wis., barred as financial and operations
principal, $5,000.
   The following agreed to be barred without admitting or
denying wrongdoing:
   Joseph W. Zaehringer, Waukesha, Wis., $50,000; Edward J.
Stuart, Morton, Pa., $30,000; Victor J. Camasta, Clifton,
N.J., $20,000; Bernard Branuel Standard, Hopkinsville, Ky.,
$15,000; Nathan Chad Barlow, Medford, Ore., $10,000; and Gary
J. Macko, Binghamton, N.Y., $5,000.
   Other NASD disciplinary actions include:
   Frederick Leland Stanford, Austin, Texas, three years and
$300,000; Robert Brand, Bayonne, N.J., and Allen Green,
Scarsdale, N.Y., each two years as a principal and $10,000;
Peter Claver Tosto, Atlanta, six months, $15,000, must
requalify by exam; Sharon Lynn Johnson, Oakland, N.J., 20
business days and $15,000; Yasar Samarah, Chicago, $10,000.
   The following neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing:
   Rebecca Mercer, Lexington, Ky., two years and one day and
$500; Eric N. Egerstrand, Berwyn, Ill., 60 days and $10,000;
Charles O. Coberly, Madison, Wis., 30 days and $5,000; David
R. Strother, Shreveport, La., one week and $5,000.
   Except as noted below, the individuals involved in the
NASD proceedings couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Vautrain said, "Due to the activities of one account
executive engaged as an independent contractor in Little
Rock, Ark., it was determined by the NASD that he wasn't
properly supervised. The only allegation against myself was a
failure to properly supervise the account executive."
   Mr. Cameron said that a customer asked him, as a personal
favor, to write a letter saying that the customer had
invested $5,000 in certificates of deposit, though the money
hadn't actually been invested. Mr. Cameron said he didn't
earn "a single dime" in the matter.
   Mr. Fried said the NASD "came to their judgment, came to
their conclusions. With the proper amount of money to defend
my position, they could have been reversed." He said that
taking into consideration that he has had "35 years of an
unblemished career on the Street" and that the matter
occurred at "a time of high stress, I think there were
mitigating circumstances."
   Fundamental, Hugo Marx &amp; Co. and Shearson declined
comment.
   Messrs. Amburn and Standard also had no comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BankAmerica
   To Buy Remains
   Of Oregon S&amp;L
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13
</SO>
<CO>
   BAC HFS PHBK USTB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- BankAmerica Corp. won the bidding for the
remains of defunct Benjamin Franklin Savings &amp; Loan
Association, paying a record premium of $162.3 million, or
6.85% of the thrift's core deposits.
   Benjamin Franklin is based in Portland, Ore. The price
compares with the 3% to 5% of core deposits that the
Resolution Trust Corp., the government agency that handles
dead thrifts, has been able to command in other sales of its
wards. Several analysts had predicted that the premium paid
for Benjamin Franklin would be in that range as well. The
higher premium BankAmerica paid means that it could take the
bank holding company five or six years to earn back its
investment -- more if the Oregon economy stalls as it did in
the early 1980s. But several analysts applauded the move as a
sound strategic step.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The acquisition marked the second time in recent months
that the rejuvenated BankAmerica, which nearly failed in
1987, beat out West Coast rivals in bidding for a failed
thrift in a potentially lucrative market in the western U.S.
In June, BankAmerica acquired Western Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Phoenix, Ariz., from the RTC for $81 milllion,
or 4.6% of core depoits. In both cases, BankAmerica outdueled
Security Pacific Corp., Los Angeles, and several other big
West Coast competitors.
   BankAmerica said it purchased $2.7 billion of Benjamin
Franklin deposits and about $3 billion of assets. However,
the RTC estimated that only about $2.4 billion of the
deposits are so-called core deposits, which are local,
relatively inexpensive retail deposits that are considered
highly stable. The RTC retained $500.7 million of Benjamin
Franklin assets. If BankAmerica doesn't want to keep any of
the assets it acquired, it can transfer them back to the RTC
any time in the next three months.
   The RTC estimated that Benjamin Franklin's failure will
end up costing taxpayers $100.4 million.
   Benjamin Franklin was placed into conservatorship in
February. Although its loan portfolio wasn't as bad as those
of most troubled thrifts, it suffered from an interest rate
squeeze that eroded profit and a capital base that relied on
$282.7 million of good will, an accounting gimmick that new
capital guidelines spawned by the 1988 thrift rescue bill
rendered worthless.
   It also had sizable losses from a foray into
risk-controlled arbitrage, a complex investment strategy that
involves buying mortgage-backed securities and trying to
hedge against interest rate swings by purchasing futures and
options. In 1989, Benjamin Franklin had a net loss of $377.1
million, which included a write-off of its good will.
   Still, Benjamin Franklin was considered a hot property by
many thrift executives. It controls 10% of Oregon's total
deposits and has a well-placed network of 88 branches, mostly
in Oregon but also in Utah, Washington and Idaho. It is the
largest thrift and the third largest financial institution in
Oregon.
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday,
BankAmerica closed at $22.625, up 50 cents.
   Separately, the RTC sold Home Owners Savings Bank,
Burlington, Mass., to two New England institutions.
   The RTC said it sold Home Owners' 17 Massachussetts
branches to United States Trust Co., Boston, and the thrift's
11 Sun Savings division branches in Maine to Peoples Heritage
Savings Bank, Portland, Maine.
   Home Owners had about $3 billion in assets and liabilities
of about $3.4 billion. The RTC will receive premiums of about
$6.1 million from the acquiring institutions. The RTC will
advance $1.8 billion to the acquirers and will retain $2.3
billion of Home Owners' assets. The agency expects to recover
some of the advances through asset sales but expects the
ultimate cost of the transaction to be about $806 million.
   The RTC said it chose U.S. Trust and Peoples Heritage from
12 potential bidders. Home Owners' liabilities included about
$2.5 billion in deposits in 184,000 accounts and $803 million
in secured liabilities, $95 million of which represented
prior RTC advances. Home Owners' core deposit base is
estimated at $1.3 billion, the RTC said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Host's Loss Narrows
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   GH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   STAMFORD, Conn. -- General Host Corp. posted a narrowed
loss of $528,000 in the fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 12,
compared with a year-earlier loss of $2.9 million.
   The year-ago quarter included a charge to earnings of $3.4
million stemming from an agreement to settle lawsuits brought
against it concerning discontinued operations. Sales rose
slightly in the quarter to $115.1 million from $112.4 a year
ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the six months, the company had net of $5 million, or
26 cents a share, compared with a year-ago loss of $1.3
million, which included the charge. Sales rose to $279.9
million from $275.2 million.
   General Host operates a chain of lawn and garden products
specialty retail stores.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Turkey's Ozal Treads a Political High Wire
   In Hope of Gaining Leverage After Iraqi Crisis
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   ISTANBUL, Turkey -- The Turkish government is maneuvering
into a position it hopes will spare it bloodshed and give it
a powerful place at any peace talks at the end of the Mideast
crisis.
   The path is not easy, but President Turgut Ozal has shown
no fear of retaliation by his Iraqi neighbors or qualms about
riding roughshod over protests from across Turkey's political
spectrum that he is leading the nation into a treacherous
military adventure.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ozal strengthened his hand when the Turkish parliament
voted to transfer to the government its powers to allow the
nation to host foreign troops and to deploy its 800,000-man
armed forces abroad. Turkey has the second-largest armed
force in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization after the
U.S.
   "This gives them the power to do whatever they want to do,
or maybe nothing at all," said a senior Western diplomat in
Ankara. "But it is a strong political signal of determination
to be with the West, pushing for Iraq's total withdrawal from
Kuwait."
   Washington might like to see Turkey's Moslem troops on the
ground in Saudi Arabia, but Prime Minister Yildirim Akbulut
has said troop movements would be a last resort. However, a
Turkish ship might be sent to join the Gulf naval blockade,
he said.
   The new powers might be used to allow increased U.S. use
of air bases near the Iraqi border or even troops to put
pressure on Iraq from a second front. But the Western
diplomat, who declined to be identified, said there had been
no such request for troop deployments and nor was one
pending.
   Mr. Akbulut said he needed the extra war powers from
parliament to "protect Turkey's higher interests during and
after the crisis . . . and help a speedy and active policy,"
adding later that "this is not permission to declare war."
   Others saw different motives for what right-wing True Path
Party leader Suleyman Demirel said was Mr. Ozal being "more
royalist than a king" in his support for U.S. policies in the
Gulf.
   The question of how Turkey is to be compensated for at
least $3 billion of economic damage from the embargo on Iraq
is likely to top the agenda when Mr. Ozal meets President
Bush Sept. 24 in Washington.
   In addition to a fall in trade and transit revenue,
Turkey's tourism industry is beginning to suffer badly
because of the proximity to the Gulf crisis, said Behaettin
Yucel, head of the Turkish Travel Agents Association. This
blow defies an air of normality in Turkey, where even the
transit of 20,000 refugees from Iraq has passed almost
unnoticed.
   Mr. Yucel estimated that 100,000 expected visitors had
canceled their trips as of last Monday and said that charter
flights from Spain have been canceled completely even for the
winter season.
   "We estimate losses of $250 million so far, not counting
transport and shopping," Mr. Yucel said.
   To help out, the U.S. is going ahead with a loan for
several hundred million dollars from the U.S. Export-Import
bank for co-production of military helicopters, possibly
Sikorsky Black Hawks, diplomats say. The U.S. also is likely
to increase quotas for Turkish textile imports and pressure
for the approval of held-up International Monetary Fund loans
totaling $1.4 billion.
   But economic questions alone do not explain the way Turkey
has gone out on a limb.
   "After the crisis, the map of the Middle East will change
completely . . . if there is a better place for us in the
world, we must take it," President Ozal told Sabah newspaper
this week.
   Right-wing Turkish newspapers have raised the question of
recovering "our land" in the oil-rich provinces of Mosul and
Kerkuk just south of Turkey whose loss in the 1920s to
British-mandated Iraq is still regretted by many Turks.
   "Mr. Ozal is a statesman who has never mentioned this. But
my personal opinion is that we have a rightful claim to Mosul
and Kirkuk," said Altemur Kilic, editor of the right-wing
Tercuman newspaper. "This would need to be taken into
consideration (at any peace conference)."
   Mr. Kilic said it also was important that any conference
rule out the idea of an independent state in the north of
Iraq for the Kurds, a large minority in Turkey where they are
denied any ethnic rights.
   Such arguments carry little weight with the many
commentators who are calling for Turkey to be kept away from
the quicksands of the gulf, remembering the bloody campaigns
during World War I when the Ottoman Turkish Empire lost
control of the Arabian peninsula.
   "I see the wish for war in Prime Minister Akbulut and the
man who gives him instructions, Ozal," said Erdal Inonu,
leader of the main Social Democrat opposition party. "What
everyone will understand from this is that we want to go to
war to increase our territory. It's a dream to think we will
take a share of the Middle East. This is gambling."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Timken to Upgrade Production
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANTON, Ohio -- Timken Co. said it will spend $13 million
to upgrade production of large bearings.
   The project, which is part of the company's previously
announced $1 billion capital investment program, will combine
all U.S. large bearing production at Timken's Gambrinus
bearing plant, located near Canton.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Timken produces bearings and specialty steel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Australia Firms Post
   11% Drop in Profits
   For Latest Quarter
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13F
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANBERRA, Australia -- Pretax earnings of Australian
companies fell 11% in the quarter ended June 30 from the
quarter ended March 31, and dropped 25% from the year-earlier
quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said Friday.
   The Bureau also revised downward company profits for the
quarter ended March 31 to show no change from the quarter
ended Dec. 31. It originally had reported that profits rose
9% in the March quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Australian company profits have declined or been flat for
the past four consecutive quarters. The Bureau also has
revised downward profits for the quarter ended Sept. 30 to
show an 11% drop, compared with a previously reported 7%
decline.
   Mining-company profits, which had been climbing for a
year, dropped a seasonally adjusted 16% in the June quarter.
   Manufacturing-company profits fell 17%, while wholesale
and retail-company profits fell 5.9%.
   Mining-company profits rose 10% from a year earlier, while
all other sectors weakened.
   For the full year ended June 30, Australian company
profits before tax and seasonal adjustments fell 6.1%.
Mining-company profits for the year jumped 41%, but
manufacturing-company profits fell 9.4%, wholesale earnings
fell 21% and retail-company profits rose 1.8%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Weicker, Independent Candidate for Governor,
   Rattles Connecticut's Rock-Solid 2-Party System
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEYMOUR, Conn. -- Lowell Weicker is administering a jolt
to a state that has long regarded itself as the land of
steady habits.
   The former senator, a Republican who won national
attention for attacking Richard Nixon during Watergate and
who angered Ronald Reagan by opposing Contra aid, Star Wars,
tax overhaul and school prayer, is running for governor as an
independent and is ahead in the polls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A towering Connecuticut Yankee in a rumpled size-17
pinpoint oxford-cloth dress shirt, Mr. Weicker is the bull in
the genteel china shop of this state's politics. The shards
are already flying.
   Mr. Weicker, defeated two years ago by Democrat Joseph
Lieberman in a fight for a fourth Senate term, contends the
public has "a total revulsion toward both political parties."
But Republican state Rep. Robert Maddox claims the Weicker
campaign is "one of the greatest charades since Barnum and
Bailey were around."
   Whether visionary or opportunist, Mr. Weicker has
transformed the race to succeed retiring Democratic Gov.
William O'Neill into a three-ring circus, with himself at the
center of the tent. Rep. John Rowland, the Republican
nominee, and the two Democrats battling in tomorrow's primary
-- Congressman Bruce Morrison and state Rep. William Cibes --
have been forced to struggle for bits of the limelight.
   If Mr. Weicker prevails in November's election, his real
challenge remains ahead. Like other New England states,
Connecticut suffers from deep economic distress; in a time of
economic growth, the state still lost 50,000 manufacturing
jobs in five years. The current state budget is balanced
precariously on $570 million of onetime savings, including
deferred pension contributions for state employees and
teachers, and the state faces the possibility of running a
deficit of $1 billion or more next year.
   "The next governor is going to have an enormously
difficult job -- the biggest challenge any Connecticut
governor has faced in modern times," says former GOP Rep.
Lawrence DeNardis, president of the Connecticut Public
Expenditure Council, a nonpartisan analysis group. "The size
and scope of the problems are staggering."
   Mr. Weicker's response is one part Ronald Reagan, one part
Franklin Roosevelt: repeal the corporate-tax surcharge and
the utility tax on nonmanufacturing businesses, establish $25
million of targeted tax incentives for depressed rural areas
and big cities, and start a public-works program to provide
jobs.
   The magnitude of Connecticut's problems is feeding Mr.
Weicker's attack. "If I get elected," he says, "there's a
shot being fired across the bow of the two parties."
   This anti-politics movement is being led by a rebel who is
still a registered Republican. Mr. Weicker, whose family
built the Squibb pharmaceutical fortune, prepped at the
Lawrenceville School before going on to Yale and the
University of Virginia Law School. Today he lives in a
250-year-old house in Greenwich that is paneled with wood
from Daniel Webster's home; monogrammed cocktail napkins
carrying the words "Applejack Farm," the 17th-century name of
the property, sit on the coffee table. Two of his
standard-bred trotting horses run at Rosecroft Raceway in
Maryland. His adjusted gross income last year was $448,000.
   He has given Connecticut's well-entrenched two-party
system its biggest shock since 1938, when Socialist Jasper
McLevy siphoned off enough votes to enable a Republican to
defeat longtime Democratic Gov. Wilbur Cross. If he wins, Mr.
Weicker would be only the third independent governor in the
U.S. this century, and lawmakers and pundits already are
contemplating how the hoary customs of Hartford might fare if
the governor has no party members to call on in the
legislature.
   "There will still be a legislature full of Republicans and
Democrats," says Morton Tenzer, a University of Connecticut
political scientist. "Weicker doesn't have any candidates of
his own, and he won't have any `Weickerite' members of the
legislature."
   But already there are defections from the two major
parties. Last month, Mr. Weicker won the backing of two
Republicans, former gubernatorial candidate Joseph McGee and
state Rep. Mae Schmidle, and of a prominent black Democrat
from New Haven, state Rep. Walter Brooks.
   "To blacks he offers an opportunity to see a
transformation of the political process," says Wendell Harp,
a Democratic architect from New Haven. "Here we have an
opportunity to have a major office won by someone who has no
ties to the two parties. It gives us an opportunity not to be
taken for granted." John Einhorn, a New Haven alderman
prominent in Republican political circles, adds: "We need
something new, a new direction."
   Mr. Weicker's gambit has caused bitterness within the
Republican Party. Marie Phelan, former GOP town chairman in
Killingsworth, says she's "in tune with his views" but won't
support Mr. Weicker because "I have a real problem with what
he's doing." Fellow Republicans told the Fairfield GOP
chairman that he was "finished" when he announced his support
of Mr. Weicker, who had been regarded as something of an
ideological turncoat when he was running on the Republican
line.
   Many analysts attribute Mr. Weicker's 1988 defeat to the
failure of conservative Republicans to vote for him. "I have
no reason to complain about what he's doing now," says GOP
state Rep. Thomas Scott. "I've wanted him out of the party
for 10 years."
   Mr. Weicker's campaign as an independent -- technically
he's running as a candidate of what he calls "A Connecticut
Party" -- is itself a symbol of how the Republican Party has
changed. He came out of the liberal wing of the GOP that, in
Connecticut, had its deepest roots in his home town of
Greenwich and in the executive suites of the insurance
companies of Hartford. These Republicans, clearly
establishment figures, were strong supporters of Wendell
Wilkie in 1940 and later sided with Thomas Dewey and Dwight
Eisenhower against Robert Taft.
   Today, Connecticut's Republicans are more conservative,
more Catholic and have more working-class roots than they did
when Mr. Weicker became a member of the Connecticut general
assembly and launched a career that would take him to the
House and finally the Senate. In time, Mr. Weicker, now 59
years old, grew weary of the estrangement he felt in his own
party. He is running as an independent as much by necessity
as by choice.
   "If I was going to do this, it wasn't going to be for a
philosophical discussion within the party," he says. "I don't
want some delegate from some town putting his finger in my
eye and asking me why I voted for the Panama Canal Treaty. If
I was going to do it, I was going all the way."
   So now Mr. Weicker is wagering that the state that
produced practical men like Eli Whitney and Seth Thomas might
again show the rebellious streak that also offered refuge to
such iconoclasts as patriot leader Nathan Hale, abolitionist
John Brown and writers Harriet Beecher Stowe and Mark Twain.
He's seeking to make a virtue of his lack of party
nomination, boasting that he was nominated not by "900
politicians huddled in the Civic Center" but by the 105,430
people who signed his ballot petition.
   "This is deregulated politics," he says. "All I've done is
created more competition. Business has high prices and bad
products when there is a monopoly. The same is true with
politics. The two-party system has gotten people in a hell of
a lot of trouble in this country."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Korea to Aim
   For 7% Growth Rate
   In 1992-96 Period
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea's economic development
plan for 1992 to 1996 sets as a goal average annual economic
growth rate of 7%, the Economic Planning Board said Friday.
   The government agency said the goal was contained in a set
of basic guidelines for working out the five-year plan to be
completed by next August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At that growth rate, officials said, South Korea's gross
national product would rise from an estimated $231.7 billion
in 1990 to $454 billion in 1996, with per capita GNP nearly
doubling from $5,430 this year to $10,050 in 1996. South
Korea's GNP grew 6.7% in 1989.
   Planning board officials said the current account is
expected to show a $5 billion surplus in 1996, compared with
a deficit of $1 billion expected for this year.
   South Korea is expected to become a net creditor nation
over the five-year period, they said, with its external
assets exceeding its external debts. South Korea has been a
debtor nation for decades.
   According to the guidelines, the five-year plan will
stress technological innovation and call for increasing the
ratio of investment in research and development from 2.2% at
present to between 3% and 4% in 1996.
   To prepare for a new global economic order as a result of
the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade talks, the government
plans to transform the current farm-based rural economy into
a mixture of primary, secondary and tertiary industries,
officials said.
   They added that South Korea plans to play a greater
economic role within the Asia-Pacific region and expand
economic ties with the European Community and Eastern bloc
countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Healthco Majority
   Is Claimed by Gemini
   In Bid for New Board
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13A
</SO>
<CO>
   HLCO
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gemini Partners Limited Partnership, seeking to unseat
Healthco International Inc.'s board, said it has a majority
of consent cards executed by Healthco shareholders that, if
certified, would mean removal of Healthco's current board.
   Healthco, a dental-equipment company based in Boston,
responded by questioning the validity and the number of the
consents collected by Gemini.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gemini, a New York limited partnership with a 9.96% stake
in Healthco, said it delivered to Healthco written consents
representing holders of about 4,200,700 shares, or about 54%,
of Healthco's common stock outstanding out of a total of
7,734,592 shares as of June 25, the record date for the
consent solicitation.
   But Healthco questions Gemini's count. "Based on our
review, it appears that Gemini doesn't have, as it has
claimed, consents representing more than 50% of Healthco's
stock. Moreover, all of Gemini's consents would appear to
have been obtained in violation of federal proxy rules and
therefore, are invalid," Healthco said.
   Gemini filed a lawsuit last week in Delaware Chancery
Court against Healthco and its current directors seeking a
judgment declaring that the current board has been lawfully
removed by Healthco shareholders and that Gemini's
seven-member slate has been elected in their place.
   Healthco, which last agreed to be acquired for $19.25 a
share, or about $250 million, by Hicks, Muse &amp; Co., a Dallas
leveraged-buy-out specialist, postponed the annual meeting
scheduled for Sept. 6 to Sept. 25. The postponement was
announced the night before the meeting was to be held. The
record date for the meeting remains the same. The acquisition
is subject to shareholder approval.
   In its lawsuit, Gemini charges that the Healthco meeting
was postponed "only after it was virtually certain that
Healthco's stockholders were about to oust the board" in
favor of Gemini's slate.
   Gemini has charged that the board agreed to the Hicks Muse
acquisition to avoid losing the consent solicitation. It said
that the acquisition price is inadequate and that it may
retain an investment banker to help seek buyers for Healthco.
   Healthco said the meeting was postponed because the
Securities and Exchange Commission expressed concern over
whether stockholders would have time to react to the
acquisition agreement and because of "misinformation" in the
marketplace concerning the proposed acquisition.
   Separately, Healthco's counsel said late Friday that the
company has been told by Hicks Muse that it filed suit in
Texas against the Healthco board backed by Gemini. The suit
asserts that the Gemini group violated certain agreements in
the merger accord between Healthco and Hicks Muse. The suit
asks unspecified damages and charges breach of good faith by
the Gemini-backed board.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disclosure by Nynex
   Adds to Questions
   On Interest Conflicts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A lawyer for Nynex Corp. disclosed that the
fired Nynex purchasing executive who ran so-called pervert
conventions told company investigators in 1986 that "one or
two phone company employees" and a supplier had attended his
annual fishing parties in Minnesota.
   The disclosure, which raises further questions about
conflicts of interest involving the company and certain
suppliers, was made in a long list of technical corrections
to testimony in a New York rate case. The phone company
didn't have any comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nynex's New York Telephone unit has been seeking a rate
increase of about $825 million to start Jan. 1, and a major
topic in that case has been activities of the company's
purchasing arm, Materiel Enterprises Co.
   State regulators and others have been examining phone
company overcharges on purchases from Materiel Enterprises.
Another focus has been whether suppliers who attended annual
gatherings in Florida, nicknamed pervert conventions,
received special treatment in the contracting process. The
parties included employees of about 30 Nynex suppliers, nine
Nynex employees, and prostitutes. Nynex has denied any
connection between sales to the company and vendors'
attendance at the Florida parties.
   Lawrence Friedman, the purchasing executive who organized
the pervert conventions and the Minnesota fishing trips, was
fired after a Nynex investigation in 1988. The company also
dismissed another manager and disciplined seven more.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oil Security:
   How Japan Became
   So Energy-Efficient:
   It Leaned on Industry
   ---
   Conservation Experts Patrol
   Plants, Keep Lights Low,
   Idle Machines Turned Off
   ---
   Consumers Are Less Diligent
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Marcus W. Brauchli
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
COAL PRODUCERS (COA)
</IN>
<LP>
   KIMITSU, Japan -- Add energy conservation to the
proliferating measures of Japanese superiority.
   Perched atop a 12-story cooling tank at this sprawling
seaside steelworks, Takeo Harada waxes rhapsodic about his
favorite topic: saving energy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "In Japan, we love spending money on contraptions like
this," shouts the 30-year-old engineer, gesturing proudly at
a tangle of pipes and turbines. The object of his affection
is a "coke dry quencher," a $5.6 million apparatus that
helped his company, Nippon Steel Corp., slash the energy
required to produce a ton of steel nearly 25%. At a plant
using 1% of the energy consumed in Japan -- enough to power a
city of two million -- such savings matter.
   Like most Japanese manufacturers, Nippon Steel pursues
energy conservation with near-religious devotion. The
enthusiasm at the Kimitsu plant goes a long way toward
explaining why this resource-poor country has the world's
most fuel-efficient economy -- and why Japan is the
industrialized nation least likely to be knocked for a loop
by a short-term surge in oil prices stemming from the Persian
Gulf crisis.
   No country was harder hit than Japan by the oil shocks of
1973 and 1979. And no country subsequently insulated itself
better from the vagaries of world oil markets. Some experts
contend that if the rest of the industrialized world had
worked equally hard over the past decade to reduce dependence
on foreign oil, the U.S. might not have found it necessary to
send troops to the Mideast and the global economy might not
face such a recession threat.
   How did Japan get so energy-efficient? Can the rest of the
world learn from it?
   "The lessons for America are so simple they're almost
banal," says Richard Samuels, a specialist on Japanese energy
policy at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Oil is a
nonrenewable resource. It's possible to reduce consumption,
but first you have to decide you really want to."
   Japan really wanted to. But will alone wasn't enough. The
production engineers at the Kimitsu Steel Works and thousands
of other Japanese factories didn't collectively decide, in
reaction to enormous popular pressure, to push energy
conservation. Instead, the government spurred their
enthusiasm through a carefully coordinated, long-range
program that continues even today. One clear lesson to learn
from Japan is that forcing core industries to become more
energy-efficient is one thing that government can do well.
   A second lesson is that government has a hard time forcing
individuals to be energy-efficient. Not that Japan didn't
try. During the 1979 oil crisis, then-Prime Minister
Masayoshi Ohira tried to set an example by arriving at a
cabinet meeting sporting a tacky short-sleeved suit coat; if
others would adopt the "safari look," he said, the country
could stop wasting energy on air conditioning. The safari
look didn't catch on.
   Japanese consumers aren't helping much to save energy
today, either. Now wealthier, they are demanding more
appliances; Japanese households have, on the average, two TV
sets, a refrigerator and an air conditioner. On weekends,
Tokyo's expressways are jammed with vacationers creeping
toward the beaches in big, gas-thirsty 4x4s. Ice-cold air
floods from the doors of department stores to the sweltering
sidewalks in Ginza, the Tokyo retailing district. Neon signs
of cabarets, bars and pachinko parlors glitter all night.
   This relative complacency was spawned in part by several
years of cheap oil, and Japan's energy demand has grown 5% in
each of the past three years. Japanese industrial companies,
however, have continued to become more energy-efficient, so
much so that some see little room for improvement if further
efforts are needed.
   Tokyo Electric Power Co. switched to nuclear power and
slashed its dependence on oil by two-thirds. Asahi Glass Co.
rebuilt its kilns and modified production processes to cut
energy use 40% in a decade. A municipal train system in
northern Japan recycles heat generated by its engines to run
air conditioning. Japanese plant equipment, generally newer
and more efficient than that in U.S. factories, increases
Japan's relative energy efficiency.
   Yet 20 years ago, even before the 1973 oil embargo,
Japan's economy was the world's most energy-efficient; it
consumed less than two-thirds as much energy, after
adjustment for differences in economic size, as did the U.S.
In part, Japan's lower consumption was, and is, attributable
to its geographical compactness, population density and
superb public transportation.
   Since then, all the major industrialized countries have
improved energy-efficiency by roughly a quarter. But Japan
has improved by a third, even though it was already more
efficient and additional gains were more difficult. Moreover,
Japan, unlike other countries, has focused on reducing its
dependence on oil, almost all of which must be imported.
Between the 1973 oil crisis and 1987, Japan's economic output
more than doubled, yet its oil imports fell 25%. (U.S.
reliance on foreign oil during the same period actually
increased, from 36% to 43% of total oil usage.)
   And Japan has diversified its oil suppliers. In 1973, it
imported nearly two-thirds of its oil from four countries in
the politically volatile Mideast -- Saudi Arabia, Iran, the
United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. By the end of the 1980s,
Japan had doubled the number of its main Mideast oil
suppliers. Until Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Tokyo carefully
maintained close diplomatic ties to most Persian Gulf
nations; during the eight-year Iraq-Iran war, Japanese aid
flowed to both sides -- and oil flowed from both to Japan. In
addition, Japan is buying more and more oil from other
producers, such as China.
   But what really sets Japan apart from other oil-consuming
countries is its patient pursuit of energy conservation and
diversification throughout the 1980s, even after oil prices
plunged. The U.S., more sensitive to market signals, didn't.
The contrast is a classic illustration of what Ronald Morse,
an energy specialist at the Economic Strategy Institute in
Washington, calls the two countries' "different philosophies"
about conserving energy.
   "The Japanese are doing what we started during the Carter
administration. The difference is just that they continued
what we abandoned," Mr. Morse says. "Japan is concerned about
economic vulnerability; so, it tries to insulate itself from
injury from other nations." He adds:
   "In the U.S., the whole thrust has been to deregulate and
to keep the price of energy cheap. But that means that
sometimes we have to use military might to keep the sources
of cheap energy open."
   With peace-minded Japan ruling out military intervention,
the country emphasizes conservation. And those efforts begin
where it matters most -- in manufacturing, which consumes
half of Japan's energy.
   This concentration plays to a crucial Japanese strength:
bureaucratic management of industry. Mr. Morse credits
Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry for much
of its success in conserving energy. "This is one area where
you can say that the controls the Japanese government has
over the market really worked," he says.
   MITI's energy controls are characteristically thorough.
Since the 1979 oil shock, MITI officials have kept close
watch on the energy consumption of 5,000 factories.
Designated factories have to appoint from one to as many as
10 energy-conservation engineers to monitor fuel efficiency
on the shop floor. Before the engineers can start work, they
must pass an examination so strict that most of them spend
more than a year preparing for it -- and even then eight out
of 10 flunk. Those who pass keep daily tabs on their
factory's energy use and regularly report on progress to
MITI. Failing to meet targets incurs no sanctions, but the
fear of antagonizing MITI's powerful bureaucrats ensures
cooperation.
   MITI also openly urged companies to rely less on oil and
more on coal and natural gas -- both obtainable in
politically stable nations. Nippon Steel's Kimitsu plant, for
example, converted its blast furnaces to coal in the early
1980s and slashed oil's share of its energy supply to almost
zero from about 20%. Further savings were achieved from the
coke dry quencher, which recycles hot gas that used to escape
as molten iron ore cooled.
   Moreover, MITI lets Japanese energy suppliers, including
oil and gas companies and electric utilities, keep their
prices -- and profits -- high, provided the windfalls are
channeled into energy research. That amounts to an energy
tax, some say, but the artificially high cost of petroleum
products hastens the transition to new energy sources. In
1987, MITI funneled more than 117 billion yen ($830 million)
of such profits into energy research -- more than to all
other ministry projects combined -- and that doesn't count
the billions MITI forced utilities to spend on similar
projects.
   As a result, Japan now has the world's best technology for
solar cells, storage and transport of liquid natural gas, and
generators producing electricity from gasified coal and sea
water. "Sure, a lot of this research is risky," Mr. Morse
concedes. But, he adds, "relatively speaking, the projects
didn't cost all that much, and probably at least 60% of them
have been effective. And now that investment's paying off."
   Even nuclear power has helped, despite often-emotional
opposition in the only country to suffer from nuclear
weapons. Before the first oil shock, Japan had virtually no
nuclear-power capacity; today, it has 38 operating nuclear
facilities, which supply about 9% of its total energy. The
government wants to nearly double that by the end of the
decade. Thanks to the government push to rely more on coal,
natural gas and nuclear power, oil's share of Japan's total
energy demand fell to about 56.9% from 77.4% between 1973 and
1987.
   Not all of Japan's energy management has been orchestrated
by bureaucrats. Once the program was under way, even
companies whose factories weren't supervised discovered that
less dependence on energy meant less vulnerability to oil
shocks and price surges.
   At Hino Motors Ltd., Japan's biggest maker of medium and
heavy trucks, the results were stunning. Switches were added
to machine tools so they wouldn't idle when not in use.
Machining oil was recycled. Heat-treatment rooms were
insulated. Shop lighting and air conditioning were reduced.
The upshot after a year: a 10% to 15% energy saving.
   Japan has benefited, too, from industrial modernization.
Since the late 1970s, the country has shifted from heavy
manufacturing to cleaner, more fuel-efficient industries such
as consumer electronics and financial services. That
restructuring -- Japanese pundits describe it as the change
from a ju-ko-cho-dai (heavy, thick, long, big) to a
kei-haku-tansho (light, thin, short, small) economy -- was
under way before the oil shocks; high energy prices merely
accelerated it.
   By 1985, for example, Japan's aluminum-smelting industry
had all but disappeared -- only a single smelter is still
working in Japan -- because it couldn't compete with
hydroelectric-powered smelters in Canada, the U.S. and
Brazil. Some manufacturers are taking advantage of those
cheaper energy sources by moving production closer to them.
Oji Paper Co. cut its energy costs almost 60% by shifting
some paper-making operations to Canada.
   However, keeping energy-conservation gains already
achieved isn't easy. At Hino Motors, executives say energy
use is rising again because tight labor conditions are
forcing its factories to rely more heavily on machinery.
   With the Iraqi invasion, the government has had a fresh
reason to promote conservation. Hallways in government office
buildings are dark again, and government offices are
uncomfortably warm. MITI has asked drivers not to go faster
than 50 miles an hour and to keep their air conditioning at
28 degrees Celsius.
   However, many energy experts here admit to doubting that
such symbolic measures have much effect on consumption
nationwide. "We all think we're rich now," says Kenji Mogami,
a MITI official. "It's difficult to get people who think
they're rich to make sacrifices."
   And it's more difficult to get people who already have
made sacrifices to bite the bullet even harder. At Sumitomo
Chemical Co., stringent measures cut energy consumption
sharply in an industry in which most products require oil to
produce; today, the company relies on petroleum for only half
its products.
   "We and the Japanese petrochemical industry as a whole did
a great deal to rationalize our process already," complains
Shoji Morimoto, an executive vice president at Sumitomo
Chemical.
   Thus, Japan may not be able to keep improving its energy
conservation. "We will have more difficulty in the future,"
says Shijuro Ogata, deputy governor of the government-run
Japan Development Bank. "There is much less room for Japan to
conserve further."
   ---
                Importing Oil, Then...
                                                                                                       

   Sources of Japan's oil as a percentage of total 1973 4.99
billion/barrels daily average
                                                                                                       

              Iran ..................  33.6%
              Saudi Arabia ..........  23.5%
              Indonesia .............  14.3%
              United Arab Emirates ..   9.2%
              Kuwait ................   8.9%
              Brunei ................   3.4%
              Oman ..................   2.7%
              Nigeria ...............   2.0%

                                                                                                       

                       And Now
                                                                                                       

              United Arab Emirates ..  20.6%
              Saudi Arabia ..........  16.9%
              Indonesia .............  12.3%
              Iran ..................   7.4%
              China .................   6.3%
              Kuwait ................   5.9%
              Iraq ..................   5.9%
              Quatar ................   5.6%
              Others ................  19.1%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Ministry of International Trade and Industry, IMF,
OECD.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justin's Board Voids
   Election Votes After
   Group Protests Bylaw
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   JSTN TLAM
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Justin Industries Inc., stung by
charges that its directors secretly made it more difficult
for shareholders to remove them, said the board has now
reversed itself.
   The surprise move appears to strengthen the hand of a
dissident shareholder group trying to acquire the brick,
building materials and boot maker. It also could make it more
difficult for Justin to complete a planned acquisition of
Tony Lama Co., an El Paso, Texas boot maker, for about $18
million plus the assumption of about $34 million in debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The controversy arose from a vote by the Justin board to
raise the number of shareholders' votes needed to remove
directors to 75% of total shares outstanding from 50% of the
stock voted by a quorum of shareholders. Although the
amendment passed in November 1989, the company failed to make
the change public until last month, according to the
dissident group, which is led by Perry H. Sutherland of
Kansas City, Mo., and Barry S. Rosenstein of New York.
   In a motion in federal court here last week, the group
sought the court's permission to file a complaint claiming
that Justin violated federal securities laws.
   In the proposed complaint, the group seeks, among other
things, for the court to void the election of Justin
shareholders in the annual meeting last March; to enjoin the
directors from proceeding with the planned acquisition of
Tony Lama; and to order the company and its directors to pay
actual and punitive damages.
   Justin, in response, said it "vehemently disagrees" that
it committed any wrongdoing and said it plans to "vigorously"
contest the legal claims. But it added that its board
rescinded its November vote anyway because it "wishes to
avoid any appearance of unfairness to any of its
shareholders."
   Neither the company, nor a representative of the dissident
group, which owns 12% of Justin's common, would comment
further.
   In national over-the-counter trading, Justin shares closed
unchanged at $13.75. Tony Lama closed at $8.50, up 12.5
cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Noranda, Trelleborg Reach Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.NOR S.TRL
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Noranda Inc. and Trelleborg A.B. said they
signed a $1.73 billion refinancing of their joint purchase
last year of Falconbridge Ltd.
   The refinancing consists of two floating-rate, seven-year
term credit facilities: a $950 million syndicated bank
facility arranged in Europe and a 900 million Canadian dollar
($779 million) syndicated bank facility arranged in Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The facilities replace C$2.25 billion in bridge loans
arranged with six Canadian banks at the time of the
companies' C$2.85 billion acquisition of Falconbridge. The
original loans would have been due Jan. 31, 1991. A Noranda
spokesman said terms of the new financing are "slightly
better" than the original facilities but couldn't say if it
would result in any savings to the mining company. Trelleborg
is an industrial group based in Sweden.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's Jobless Rate Rises
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's unemployment rate rose to 8.3% of the
work force in August from 7.8% in July as a result of the
country's current economic slowdown, Statistics Canada, a
federal agency, said. The August figure was the highest
jobless rate since October 1987.
   Employment declined 0.5% in August to 12.6 million, its
lowest level since last December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy Orders Fell 3.4% in May
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Italian industrial orders fell 3.4% in May
from a year earlier, the State Statistical Institute
announced.
   Domestic orders fell 1.9% in May from a year earlier,
while foreign orders declined 6.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first five months, orders to Italian industry rose
2.5% from the year-earlier period. Domestic orders rose 3.5%
in the January-May period, while foreign orders gained by
0.4%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Hopes Gulf Crisis Produces
   Coalition to Stabilize the Region
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- If a silver lining emerges in the current
Persian Gulf crisis, U.S. officials hope it is this: Egypt,
Syria and Saudi Arabia will team up in a long-term coalition
with the U.S. to stabilize the region.
   But such a partnership may prove to be more of an illusion
than reality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia, three powerhouses of the
Arab world, have formed a marriage of convenience for now.
Several thousand Egyptian and Syrian troops are in Saudi
Arabia with U.S. forces and talks are under way over the
dispatch of tens of thousands more.
   Yet the three nations have such different systems and such
divergent motives in the conflict over Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait, that serious doubt exists about whether they can mesh
in the long run. Beyond their objection to Iraqi
expansionism, it isn't clear what unites them.
   A potential alliance among the three "is the kind of an
idea that you float and you see where it goes," says Nicholas
Veliotes, formerly the State Department's top Middle East
diplomat. Adds a senior administration Gulf policy maker: "A
lot depends on what the continuing threat looks like. But
there is some potential here to forge a new alignment of Arab
countries."
   One reason U.S. officials think such an alignment is
possible is that it happened before. That was more than three
decades ago under different circumstances. It was the
mid-1950s. Just as today, tensions were running high over
foreign intervention in the region and Iraqi policies were at
the heart of the trouble.
   The big difference is that in those days Iraq was
cooperating with the West. It led the Baghdad Pact, an
alliance of nations siding with Britain in a security
alliance. That incensed Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia, which
united in a loose coalition opposed to Iraq's policy of
inviting foreign powers into the region's affairs.
   Now, Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia are working with the
West to contain Iraq. But the nations are so different that
this may be an alliance built on shifting sands.
   Egypt is a secular republic that in the past three decades
has formed strong alliances with superpowers, first with the
Soviet Union and then the U.S. It has decided that the only
option for Arabs is peace with Israel. Its president, Hosni
Mubarak, is the Arab leader most closely identified with the
U.S. and the peace effort.
   Syria also is a secular state, ruled by the Baath Party of
President Hafez Assad. The Baathists are ardent supporters of
the concept of a united and independent Arab nation, so they
dislike the close alliances with outside powers Egypt has
pursued. Syria has for 20 years been the primary spoiler of
the Arab-Israeli peace process Egypt espouses.
   Saudi Arabia is a deeply conservative Islamic monarchy run
by King Fahd, who has never been particularly close to either
Mr. Mubarak or Mr. Assad. The Saudis shunned Egypt after its
Camp David peace treaties with Israel, and they have
struggled unsuccessfully for years to persuade Mr. Assad to
end his occupation of Lebanon. The Saudis share Egypt's
affinity for the U.S., but they have a long history of
suspicion of the Soviets, who have armed Syria.
   The end of the U.S.-Soviet rivalry, combined with the
emergence of a threat from Iraq, could mean previous
differences can be swept aside. The Mideast always has been a
land of strange bedfellows.
   Even the three nations' reasons for opposing Iraq are
slightly different. Saudi Arabia sees a threat to its kingdom
and its oil fields from Iraqi troops in Kuwait. Egypt sees
Iraq as its historic rival for leadership of the Arab world
and fears Saddam Hussein's long-term goal is to sweep away
such moderate Arabs as Mr. Mubarak. And Syria simply hates
Iraq because of a long-term feud between their rival Baath
parties.
   If Egypt, Syria and Saudi Arabia can team up in a working
coalition that works in step with the U.S., the development
would have widespread implications. But it remains unclear
whether that three-way coalition can be firm enough to serve
as the core of what Secretary of State James Baker last week
called a "more durable order" in the Middle East.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   King Hussein's Phobias
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 15 news story regarding King Hussein's
conference with President Bush contains the statement that
"King Hussein has come to rely on Iraq more and more for
protection from Israel." This notion that King Hussein
somehow has a legitimate fear of Israel has been repeated
several times in articles over the past several weeks. It is,
however, patently absurd. Israel has been the subject of
repeated unprovoked military attacks by Jordan. Jordan's
military and diplomatic hostility has been unceasing.
   If you reported that King Hussein stated that he believes
that he has something to fear from Israel, the reader could
then judge for himself. To report as a fact, however, that
King Hussein has something to fear from Israel is without
basis and constitutes irresponsible reporting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jonathan L. Flaxer
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   New York Papers Face a Daily Struggle
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NYTA TRB TMC LABOR KRI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In recent years, the New York newspaper wars
have resembled trench warfare: tough talk, a few big bangs,
but little movement.
   Now a battered New York economy may turn up a casualty or
two, something that years of competition couldn't. In
jeopardy is the future of one of the city's most brassy
combatants, the 189-year-old tabloid New York Post. Moreover,
uptown at the Daily News, management is haunted by labor
union troubles that could cripple the paper. It has become
plausible that, in the end, New York could be left with just
two newspapers, the New York Times and New York Newsday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the Post, labor unions are scrambling to find $17
million in concessions for real estate mogul and owner Peter
Kalikow. But a broader question remains: Can any paper in New
York, besides the Times, make money?
   Through the 1980s, most major metropolitan daily
newspapers were able to raise advertising rates at will, and
maintained operating profit margins of 15% to 20%. Despite
the national slump in newspaper ads in the past two years,
chains such as Knight-Ridder Inc. have largely maintained
those margins. But profits have become a rarity for New York
papers.
   The Post wasn't profitable even in the boom years of the
1980s, when it was owned by Rupert Murdoch. At Tribune Co.'s
Daily News, which had sporadic profit in the '80s, falling ad
linage and burdensome union contracts have contributed to
losses expected to swell as large as $45 million this year.
   Times Mirror Co.'s six-year-old New York Newsday is
estimated to be losing at least $10 million annually as it
fights to take hold in New York (though Newsday on Long
Island, from which it was spun off, remains profitable). Even
at the New York Times, big drops in ad linage are squeezing
the paper's profit margin.
   The ad problems are amplified by the papers' labor costs,
the highest in the country. "The cost side is half the
problem," says Edward Atorino, newspaper analyst for Salomon
Brothers Inc. "The other half is declining ad dollars. It's
almost a no-win proposition for the papers. Things wouldn't
improve that much if the Post were out."
   New York may not be the same without the sassy Post, but
there's no denying its dire straits. Mr. Kalikow said last
week that he will fold the paper this Saturday unless its
unions come up with as much as $17 million in "temporary"
savings. Mr. Kalikow, who bought the paper in 1988, is
looking for reductions in payroll and employee benefits and
price breaks from suppliers.
   Richard T. Nasti, general manager of the Post, says the
paper already has negotiated "meaningful reductions" in
prices with paper suppliers and is renegotiating contracts
with other suppliers. "If the unions want this to succeed, we
have to close a $27 million gap," Mr. Nasti says.
   The Post's most meaningful savings may have been at least
partly symbolic. Two weeks ago, Mr. Kalikow pushed for, and
got, the resignation of Valerie B. Salembier, the Post's
high-priced president. Well regarded in publishing circles,
Ms. Salembier had salary and benefits estimated at $500,000.
   Industry analysts and other publishers are betting that
the unions will make concessions and the Post won't fold. But
they say Mr. Kalikow is putting off the inevitable. Because
of the Post's losses over the years -- $80 million so far
under Mr. Kalikow and about $150 million under Mr. Murdoch --
it's unlikely that anyone else would be interested in buying
the paper.
   In Mr. Kalikow's favor is his reputation of working with
the unions in a "candid and open" fashion, according to union
leaders. "We aren't asking for a broad management-rights
clause" that would undermine the unions' authority, says the
Post's Mr. Nasti. "We aren't blaming the unions for our
problems."
   That's a far cry from the situation at the Daily News,
where contract negotiations have turned nasty. Begun in
January, the talks are largely stalled now. Whatever the Post
is able to achieve with its unions is unlikely to affect the
Daily News's bargaining position.
   John Sloan, Daily News vice president, says the Post wants
only "cosmetic relief and a temporary life-support solution."
The Daily News clearly wants more, though management denies
it is trying to break the unions. "We are seeking to address
the fundamental problems," Mr. Sloan says. "We want to regain
management control of our business, such as in hiring, and
eliminate rampant labor abuses in our contracts."
   The tough talks have led the unions, which represent about
3,000 News workers, to hold a loud rally outside the Gramercy
Park home of Daily News publisher James Hoge and to issue
bumper stickers that read "The Daily News is bad news for its
workers. Stop the Hog(e)]" Last week, the unions began asking
major advertisers to boycott the Daily News until progress is
made on the contract.
   "Kalikow is willing to listen and negotiate," says Barry
Lipton, president of the New York Newspaper Guild. "The Daily
News is trying to force a strike. They are trying to mug us."
In case of a strike, the Daily News has a replacement force
standing by to put out the paper.
   Should the Post fold, and the Daily News have to revert to
a replacement work force, New York Newsday could be in a
position to capitalize on its several advantages. Its parent,
Times Mirror, is profitable and patient. It is the only
newspaper in New York that can print color daily (the Daily
News promises to build a color printing plant, and the New
York Times has yet to break ground on one for its daily
editions). Newsday is slowly winning over more upscale
advertisers. And, more significantly, it has labor peace.
   To this point, however, New York Newsday has been a labor
of love for Times Mirror. Circulation has climbed gradually
to 225,000 after six years, even though its 25-cent cover
price -- the lowest in town -- was expected to bring faster
growth. In part, the paper still is perceived as a Long
Island newspaper. Also, it has no history in the city and is
competing against three entrenched rivals.
   Newsday acquired cachet by stealing star columnist Jimmy
Breslin from the Daily News, but he costs a princely $400,000
a year, according to insiders. Expensive promotion drives in
Manhattan and Brooklyn and its bargain newsstand price also
have cost Newsday dearly.
   Analysts estimate that New York Newsday is losing $10
million to $15 million a year. Robert Johnson, publisher,
says those estimates overstate the losses, though he declines
to be more specific. He says New York Newsday should become
profitable in three to four years, or sooner if either the
Daily News or Post folds.
   For New Yorkers, losing the Post's gossipy Page Six would
be like losing an institution. For advertisers, fewer
newspapers would mean less competition and higher ad rates.
   "If we end up with just Newsday and the Times, both papers
will be more ambitious in raising prices because of the lack
of competitors," says Robert Hutchinson, an advertising
executive at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York.
"Professionally, we could easily replace the Post with other
local media, but personally I would hate to see it happen."
   ---
              Gray Days for New York Dailies
                                                                                                       

                As Retailers Spend Less...
                                                                                                       

   (Decline in advertising lineage for first half of 1990 vs.
year-earlier period in New York's four major newspapers)
                                                                                                       

   Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co.                     -38%
                                                                                                       

   Bloomingdale's                           -13
                                                                                                       

   Radio Shack                              -12
                                                                                                       

   Macy's                                   -10
                                                                                                       

   Saks Fifth Avenue                        -10
                                                                                                       

                     Newspapers Suffer
                                                                                                       

   (Decline in advertising lineage for first half of 1990 vs.
year-earlier period)
                                                                                                       

   New York Post                            -30%
                                                                                                       

   Daily News                               -15
                                                                                                       

   New York Times                           -13
                                                                                                       

   Newsday*                                 -11
                                                                                                       

   Source: Leading National Advertisers Inc.
                                                                                                       

   *Includes both Long Island edition and New York Newsday
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Baltimore Bancorp:
   Bank Asks Fed to Examine
   Actions of T. Rowe Price
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   BBB TROW
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Baltimore Bancorp asked federal regulators to investigate
whether T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., the bank's largest
shareholder, is illegally trying to influence the company's
actions.
   In a letter to the Federal Reserve Board, Baltimore
Bancorp alleged that T. Rowe Price, which owns 9.4% of the
company, is attempting to exercise a "controlling influence"
over the bank without required federal approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission
last week, T. Rowe Price said it was considering its options
in light of Baltimore Bancorp's recent rejection of an
unsolicited $17-a-share offer from a unit of Allied Irish
Banks PLC.
   T. Rowe Price said in the filing that it "may communicate
with management, other shareholders or any other interested
persons to determine what alternative courses of action may
better serve" its interests. The Baltimore investment firm
also said it might sell or buy more shares.
   "It's very clear {T. Rowe Price} is trying to influence
what management is doing," said H. Rodgin Cohen, an attorney
with Sullivan &amp; Cromwell, which is representing the bank.
"And you can't exercise control of a bank without getting the
Federal Reserve's prior approval."
   In a statement, T. Rowe Price said its actions are
"consistent with all applicable laws and regulations."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chevron Wins Jet Fuel Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV AN X.PAR ELP WSN SUN GI UTX G.HFA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Chevron USA, a unit of Chevron Corp.,
received a $153.9 million Defense Logistics Agency contract
for jet fuel.
   The award was the largest of more than $500 million in jet
fuel contracts announced by the Pentagon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other jet fuel contracts went to Phoenix Petroleum Co.,
$76.8 million; Amoco Oil Co., a unit of Amoco Corp., $75.1
million; Barrett Refining Corp., $57.5 million; Hawaiian
Independent Refinery Inc., a unit of Pacific Resources Inc.,
$56.7 million; El Paso Refining Co., $35.9 million; Western
Petroleum Co., a unit of Western Co. of North America, $20.5
million; U.S. Oil &amp; Refining Co. $14.8 million; Sun Refining
&amp; Marketing, a unit of Sun Co., $13.3 million; Giant
Industries Arizona Inc., $11 million, and Gary-Williams
Energy Corp., $10.7 million.
   In addition, the Army awarded United Technologies Corp. a
$77.6 million contract for helicopters. Hoechst Celanese
Corp. got a $27 million Air Force contract for chemical
defense suits.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   WESTERN PETROLEUM Co. is an independent company based in
Eden Prairie, Minn. In Monday's edition, Western Petroleum
was incorrectly identified as the subsidiary of another
company.
   (WSJ Sept. 12, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Qantel Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BQC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   QANTEL Corp. (Hayward, Calif.) -- Karl H. Niemuller will
resign as president and chief executive officer and Alan H.
Friedman will resign as chief financial officer, both
effective Dec. 6. Last December, Matthew E. Tutino resigned
as head of the minicomputer maker, citing a desire to move on
to other projects. In a news release, Qantel said Niemuller
resigned "for personal reasons," but would continue serving
on the board. Successors have not yet been named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Fuel for a Fight
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your patronizing editorial ("Energy Lesson 1," Aug. 8)
"explaining" why it is "necessary" for retailers of petroleum
products to raise immediately the price of inventory stocks
in anticipation of an impending increase in wholesale prices
is an insult to the intelligence of Journal readers.
Extending your logic to other industries, it would be
necessary for automobile dealers to raise the price of cars
in inventory to the anticipated replacement cost upon
notification of a forthcoming increase in the manufacturer's
wholesale prices. Everyone knows it is not possible for
automobile dealers, or retailers in any other industry, to do
that. Moreover, even those who buy your convoluted logic will
realize that the petroleum retailers in your example will
profit excessively by charging customers the "anticipated"
increased price for inventory stocks, and will then realize
their normal profit when they actually sell new supplies
purchased at a higher price.
   Americans are noted for their common sense and sense of
fair play. That, rather than the economic ignorance implied
by your editorial, explains why people of all backgrounds are
enraged by the sharply higher prices they are being forced to
pay for gasoline and fuel oil.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   William L. Nighan
   Manchester, Conn.
   ---
   I read your Dick and Jane's "Energy Lesson 1" editorial
with dismay. Why so quick to be condescending when it may be
you who have missed the point? We all understand pricing with
an eye toward "r-e-p-l-a-c-e-m-e-n-t costs." It's the switch
to inventory cost pricing when the feed stock prices drop
that highlights the contradiction. When the price of oil went
down in recent years the gasoline prices stayed high for a
while, we were told, because of high-priced oil inventories.
   I fear your patronizing lesson concerning one method of
pricing missed the issue.
   Stephen D. Jarrard
   Elgin, Texas
   ---
   Rip-off. Again, RIP-OFF. That's R-I-P-O-F-F. This is the
only way to summarize the fraudulent energy crisis resulting
from Kuwait being Saddamized. Believe it or not, we consumers
are not all ignorant about the oil market -- we know
perfectly well that unrest in the Middle East (so what else
is new]) does not lead to an instant oil shortage. We are
also aware that:
   -- Given time for shipment, refining, transportation
through the system and storage, it is approximately two
months' time from the extraction of oil to pumping into our
cars;
   -- A large surplus of oil was amassed by oil companies and
governments during the period of low crude-oil prices in the
mid-to-late 1980s;
   -- Iraq and Kuwait together account for a whopping 4% of
U.S. oil consumption;
   -- None of the major American oil companies have a sizable
stake in Iraq or Kuwait.
   While you correctly state that it is unjust to blame
service-station operators for raising prices if their costs
go up, it is certainly appropriate to be suspicious of the
oil companies' lust in chalking up their "replacement costs."
   Jay H. Goldberg
   Gaithersburg, Md.
   ---
   What is making Congress and consumers upset is that the
"replacement cost" theory does not work when prices are
declining.
   When crude-oil prices fell from $30 a barrel to $12 a
barrel, retail gasoline prices lagged behind by six months,
and even then did not move proportionally to the crude-oil
price drop.
   While I am certainly not advocating any form of price
controls, and I agree that the free market eventually works,
your editorial neglects to explain why the amazing
sensitivity of the market on the way up is not mirrored on
the way down.
   Jeffrey A. Hertz
   Santa Monica, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Kidder Peabody Unit
   Loses Key Executive
   In Program Trading
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NOM GE WNEWS NW
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co.'s busy program trading
unit has lost yet another key member.
   Last week, senior trader Robert Deutsch left Kidder to
join Nomura Securities International Inc. The unit also
recently lost options trader Ramesh Menon to County NatWest
Ltd., which is building a program trading unit under the
direction of executive director Gregory Kipnis, formerly of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The departures come six months after Nomura jumped into
program trading with the hiring of Joseph R. Schmuckler,
formerly in charge of customer program trading at Kidder.
Kidder is a unit of General Electric Co.
   Mr. Deutsch was an important member of Kidder's
proprietary stock-index arbitrage unit, led by senior vice
president Peter Klein, according to people familiar with the
unit. When he starts at Nomura next month, Mr. Deutsch will
be responsible for stock-index arbitrage strategies in U.S.
markets.
   "We've brought in a first-class team of traders," said Mr.
Schmuckler, who has hired a staff of 10 market makers and
analysts, including former members of Salomon Brothers equity
department.
   Thomas Ryan, head of equity trading at Kidder, said the he
has no plans for restructuring the program trading unit. "We
are quite pleased with the people we have and the results
that we're getting," Mr. Ryan said.
   For much of the summer, Kidder has been one of the most
active program trading firms, principally due to a large
amount of stock-index arbitrage for the firm's own account.
Recent New York Stock Exchange data show that Kidder traded
6.9 million shares for its own account in program trading
strategies during the week ended Aug. 24. Overall, Kidder
traded 9.8 million shares in program trading strategies, and
9.3 million of that was stock-index arbitrage.
   In stock-index arbitrage, traders dart between stocks,
futures and options to profit from fleeting price
differences.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Most East German Soldiers Are Fading Away
   As Reunification With a Former Enemy Nears
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARXWALDE, East Germany -- "It is all over," Lt. Col.
Frank Fuessl says softly as he surveys the familiar MiG-21
cockpit. The Soviet-built fighter, parked in a camouflaged
maintenance bay, is one of 40 modernized MiG-21s attached to
the Hermann Matern Fighter Squadron.
   The veteran pilot, who can rattle off 100 flight commands
in Russian, recalls the countless Warsaw Pact briefings, the
coastal patrols, the dogfights with mock North Atlantic
Treaty Organization forces. Col. Fuessl leans inside the
fighter, flicks on the gun sights and manipulates the
throttle. He never wanted a war, he says, but he would have
done his duty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "She really is a peppy plane," he says, adding with a
vague nod westward, "She could have held her own against
anything over there."
   Now, he will never know. When Germany is officially
unified Oct. 3, his squadron will be wiped out without a
single shot being fired. The German unification treaty calls
for the absorption of East Germany's armed forces by its
former enemy, the West German Bundeswehr, America's biggest
NATO ally.
   The annexation poses logistical problems that will send
Bonn's already stratospheric unification bill soaring even
higher. "Very roughly," says Bernd Wilz, defense-policy
speaker for West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian
Democratic Union, "it could come to 10 billion marks ($6.43
billion) in 1991" alone.
   Merger also carries a high human cost, and will turn the
world of men like Col. Fuessl upside down. "Now, I'm a
42-year-old fighter pilot with a family," he says, "and my
prospects are absolutely zero."
   Overnight, West German officers will assume control of
East German units and begin to sort through East German arms
and personnel to determine what can be saved. Most of East
Germany's 445 combat aircraft -- useless for a West German
Luftwaffe that is part of NATO -- will be either scrapped or
sold. East Germany also has 2,220 tanks, 2,200
heavy-artillery pieces and several thousand trucks, the West
Germans estimate.
   For four decades, East Germany's National People's Army
was one of Moscow's staunchest Warsaw Pact allies, with a
prominent role to play in any European war. The officers were
all Communist Party members, sworn to defend East Germany and
communism in close alliance with the Soviet Union.
   Last year, East Germany's army had 178,000 men under arms;
today, a few more than 90,000 remain. Rainer Eppelmann, the
pacifist pastor serving as East Germany's post-revolution
defense minister, cut back on conscripts and thinned out the
officer corps. Many officers resigned, and many enlisted men
were discharged to join East Germany's growing unemployment
lines.
   Of the East German troops that remain, only 50,000 are
expected to stay on active duty in the united force once a
two-year screening and integration process is completed. The
5,000 commissars who led political classes and kept their
ears open for incautious criticism of socialist achievements
have already been dropped. Nobody over the age of 50 will be
accepted, which excludes most of East Germany's 35 remaining
generals and admirals; of the handful that might make the
cut, none are expected to be given command of a major
military unit.
   Those kept on will receive Bundeswehr uniforms and
insignia on Oct. 3, when West German Defense Minister Gerhard
Stoltenberg will issue his first orders to former East German
troops. Mr. Stoltenberg has appointed West German Lt. Gen.
Joerg Schoenbohm to head a staff of 80 West German officers
forming the nucleus of Bonn's new district military
headquarters in East Germany. The staff will oversee about
1,000 West German officers from all three services, who will
"advise" or assume command of former East German units.
   Any East German officers retained will probably have to
accept a reduction in rank, and for some time continue to
live with East German pay -- about one-third of comparable
West German levels. But the pay of East German conscripts
will be raised to West German levels.
   "Psychologically, it's an unusual and very complicated
situation," says Col. Uwe Hempel, a spokesman for the East
German Defense Ministry, which will cease to act
independently next month.
   Bonn officials coordinating the takeover acknowledge that
the adjustment will be difficult, particularly for career
officers. "Our intention is to be as humane, socially
equitable and psychologically sensitive as possible," says
the CDU's Mr. Wilz. After listening to the concerns of East
German soldiers on such matters as pay and job security, he
adds, "we can't let our people simply go in and start giving
orders without considering the people there."
   There has been some friction already. East German officers
were enraged by a report in Der Spiegel magazine that they
would initially be issued only fatigues because West German
officers refused to allow them to wear the Bundeswehr dress
uniform. Bonn insists that stocks of dress uniforms were too
low for immediate distribution, but the East Germans simmer
with wounded pride.
   As the two armies get a closer look at each other, some
East German personnel also have bristled at the impression of
being treated like a defeated army. "We know that many
Bundeswehr officers categorically refuse to work with former
East German officers," says Lt. Col. Hermann Schade,
executive officer of the Hermann Matern squadron. "There's no
reason why I can't continue to do staff work in the
Bundeswehr. But I've done this job for 18 years, and now it's
wasted. All we expect is to go out with our dignity."
   The two German armies even have some trouble communicating
in their own language. "For me, it's natural to speak Russian
with someone on the telephone," says Col. Hempel. "But when
we talk with Bundeswehr officers in German, we noticed how
many English terms they used. Sometimes, we just couldn't
follow."
   The fighter squadron at the sprawling Marxwalde base has
little chance of survival. And prospects that the
installation itself would be retained as a NATO air base are
dim. The bunkers and maintenance bays are too small for NATO
fighters, which are also probably too heavy for the taxiways.
   The Hermann Matern squadron has already lost 400 enlisted
men from its former ground staff of 900. Most ties with the
Soviet command were severed months ago, and the Soviets have
removed secret communications gear from East German bases.
   Meanwhile, the airmen at Marxwalde are hedging their bets
about staying in NATO uniforms. Some of the younger pilots
may get the chance to become part of the Bundeswehr's
Luftwaffe and be retrained on NATO fighters, such as the F-4
Phantom or the Tornado.
   But many of the pilots, fearing discharge, have already
applied to Lufthansa or other airlines for civilian jobs.
Many mechanics have applied for jobs at West German aerospace
firms. Some even want to try their luck in the U.S.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PHM Board to Buy Back Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13A
</SO>
<CO>
   PHM
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich. -- PHM Corp. said its board
authorized the company to buy back as many as one million
shares of its stock from time to time over the next year.
   The home-building company said the shares may be purchased
through transactions in the open market, private negotiations
or a combination of both. The shares will be purchased with
cash, and become authorized but unissued shares available for
general corporate purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Oracle to Post Loss of About $27.4 Million
   For Its 1st Period, Despite Revenue Rise
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oracle Systems Corp. President Lawrence Ellison, once
caught speeding in his red Ferrari three days in a row,
apparently has been driving his own company too fast as well.
   Oracle said it would report 30% revenue growth for its
fiscal first quarter ended Aug. 31, but added that
"unfortunately" the Redwood City, Calif., company had built
up its operations in expectation of 50% growth. As a result,
expenses outpaced revenue, causing a quarterly loss of about
20 cents a share, the first in the computer software
company's 13-year history. With about 137 million shares
outstanding, that would translate to a loss of $27.4 million.
Oracle officials said final results for the quarter will be
announced Sept. 25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following Oracle's disclosure of its woes late Thursday,
the company's stock slipped Friday in national
over-the-counter trading, dropping $1.75 a share to close at
$8.125 a share, with nearly 10 million shares changing hands.
The stock has tumbled 71% from its peak in March of $28.375,
losing about $2.77 billion of market value in the process.
   In a move that analysts said was tied to the quarterly
loss, Oracle last week replaced Gary D. Kennedy as head of
its Oracle USA unit. Michael S. Fields, vice-president, U.S.
field sales and consulting, was promoted to president of
Oracle USA, while Mr. Kennedy retains his title as head of
another Oracle subsidiary.
   All this is a shock for the one-time darling of Wall
Street. Oracle had exploded from $23 million in sales in 1984
to nearly $1 billion in fiscal 1990, with earnings routinely
growing in excess of 100% a fiscal year. The company's growth
resulted from its position as the only software company to
offer data base products, crucial for corporate
record-keeping, that work on all kinds of computers, ranging
from mainframes to personal computers.
   Oracle said Thursday it was reducing its revenue growth
rate goal for the current fiscal year to 30% from 50%.
   Analysts reacted to the ugly surprise by changing their
"buy" recommendation for Oracle stock to "hold" and even
"avoid." Most analysts had expected Oracle would at worst
post earnings about flat with the $11.6 million, or $0.09 per
share, earned in the year-ago first quarter. The loss also
seemed to contradict Oracle's earlier statements that
disappointing third-quarter earnings for fiscal 1990 reported
last March were an anomaly, reflecting only an accounting
glitch.
   Instead, analysts agreed, the loss indicates that Oracle's
growth-at-any-cost strategy has come back to bite the
company. Analysts say a zealous sales force has made promises
to customers -- such as features in forthcoming products --
that Oracle later couldn't keep.
   It also appears Mr. Ellison didn't accurately gauge a
general slowdown in the software market that began last
February. Despite the disappointing third quarter, which
produced flat earnings for his company, Mr. Ellison directed
Oracle to continue with an ambitious sales program based on
the forecast for revenue growth of 50%. Oracle had begun to
put the brakes on expenses in the fourth quarter, "but not
quite fast enough to achieve earnings targets," according to
a July 13 report by Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette.
   Oracle also hurt itself by implementing a controversial
new strategy whereby salespeople would receive only one-half
their sales commission up front rather than the full
commission they used to receive up front, said Thomas A.
Galvin, a New York analyst for Smith Barney.
   "That had a disruptive influence on the sales organization
that has contributed to lower revenues," Mr. Galvin said.
   Besides the sales snafus, Oracle also has faced continuing
accounting problems. Last month, for instance, the company
restated its financial results for the last three quarters of
its fiscal year ended May 31. However, the restatement didn't
result in changes in the company's net income or revenue for
the year.
   To help regain its financial footing, analysts said Oracle
will have to make a number of adjustments, including probable
layoffs in the sales force. Most importantly, Mr. Galvin
suggested, Oracle needs to adjust its high-growth philosophy
to one more in tune with the current market.
   "If they can make their way through the next two
quarters," Mr. Galvin said, "the demand for relational data
base products should be healthy enough over the next two to
three years that Oracle should be able to prosper at a 15% to
20% rate of growth."
   Said Kenneth Burke, an analyst at Alex. Brown in San
Francisco: "They are going through an awkward adolescence."
   Oracle officials declined comment beyond a prepared
statement from Mr. Ellison, who said: "We continue to grow
faster than our competition and increase our share in all
four software market segments -- mainframe, minicomputer,
workstation and {personal computers}. As we adjust to a more
conventional growth rate, our company will be stronger than
ever."
   Oracle is the largest marketer of relational data base
software, and ranks a close third, behind Microsoft Corp., in
terms of overall software sales.
   Competitors of Oracle, who might be inclined to crow about
their rival's bad fortune given their widespread dislike of
the intense Mr. Ellison, were unusually somber.
   "You don't want to see anyone in database hurting because
we're all in the same boat," explained an executive at a
competing company, who didn't want to be identified.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD FREST EUROP NSANY AFRIC FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<LP>
   BIG MAC IN CHINA
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thousands of Chinese flocked to a McDonald's office in
southern China where the fast-food giant is hiring employees
for its first restaurant in the communist nation.
   McDonald's plans to open a 500-seat restaurant in
Shenzhen, near Hong Kong, on Oct. 8. Two Shenzhen newspaper
ads recently drew more than 6,000 applicants for 240
part-time jobs, an official at the Shenzhen McDonald's said.
Some applicants held university degrees, he said.
   The newspaper ads, displaying the traditional McDonald's
striped shirts with matching caps, read: "More than 200
youths in Shenzhen are going to put on this uniform, a symbol
of a prosperous future. As an aggressive person, what are you
waiting for?"
                                                                                                       

   THATCHER'S FIVE-YEAR PLAN?
                                                                                                       

   British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher hinted she might
try to stay in office another five years.
   Mrs. Thatcher, who will be 65 next month, said she
wouldn't rule out being prime minister at age 70. "I've got a
lot left in me yet," she told a television interviewer.
   Mrs. Thatcher, who took office in May 1979, is Britain's
longest-serving prime minister since 1827. She already has
pledged to lead her Conservative Party into the next general
election, which must be held by June 1992. But many
commentators previously had suggested that she would retire
shortly afterwards.
                                                                                                       

   LI PENG DAMPS REFORM
                                                                                                       

   Chinese Premier Li Peng resigned as head of a commission
that pioneered market-oriented economic reforms, a move that
analysts say signals an effort to further weaken the
commission.
   The new head of the State Commission for the Restructuring
of the Economy, a cabinet-level agency, will be Chen Jinhua,
who had been president of China Petrochemical Corp. Diplomats
and Western businessmen said the appointment of an official
with little political clout dealt a further blow to the
commission.
   "Mr. Chen's appointment is another indication that
economic reform is on the back burner," one Chinese Communist
Party member said.
                                                                                                       

   LAND PLAN FOR ROMANIA
                                                                                                       

   Romania plans to restore limited private ownership of farm
land collectivized under 40 years of communist rule, a senior
Agriculture Ministry official said. But the official, George
Mischie, said state farms had been excluded from the
proposals, which also foresaw an initial limit of 247 acres
on individual land ownership and a five-year ban on its
resale. State farms account for about one-fifth of cultivated
land, with the rest held by cooperative farms or as
individual plots.
                                                                                                       

   NISSAN'S TRAVELING TEAM
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Nissan Motor Co. said it is sending a research
team to Europe and the U.S. to visit leading semiconductor
manufacturers, aiming to expand overseas procurement of
semiconductors. Representatives from Nissan's purchasing
department, electronics-parts and design engineers from
Nissan and affiliated electronics-parts manufacturers and
engineers from Nissan European Technology Center will be
among those on the team.
                                                                                                       

   SOVIETS SEARCH FOR STOLEN ART
                                                                                                       

   Dutch art experts hope that hundreds of Old Master
drawings will soon be returned to a Rotterdam museum, half a
century after they were taken away by Nazis. Altogether, 490
works are missing, and the Dutch are convinced they were
looted by Soviet troops in Germany in 1945. Albert Elen of
the Office for Fine Arts, who is heading the search, said
Moscow is now hunting for the drawings. "The Russian
authorities have said they will do their utmost to try to
locate the drawings," he said.
                                                                                                       

   NEW VACCINE EFFORT
                                                                                                       

   The World Health Organization, the United Nations
Development Program and Unicef launched a $150 million
international effort to come up with new and improved
vaccines for children throughout the developing world.
   WHO estimates that the vaccines will prevent diseases that
now kill some eight million children a year and cause 900
million episodes of severe illness among children in the
developing world. It said improvement of existing vaccines is
its first priority. "By the end of this decade, we want
vaccines which require fewer doses, which can better
withstand exposure to heat and which can give better
protection," said Hiroshi Nakajima, director-general of WHO.
   The campaign's ultimate aim is a single-dose "children's
vaccine" that would deliver many immunizing antigens at the
same time. This "ideal vaccine," WHO said, is a distant, but
achievable, goal.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Pope John Paul II is scheduled to accept the controversial
Our Lady of Peace basilica in Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast, as
Vatican property today. The project, much criticized as
excessively grand, cost an estimated $150 million, which
Ivory Coast President Felix Houphouet-Boigny says came from
his own pockets. . . . Amnesty International accused the West
African state of Mali of human-rights abuses against ethnic
Tuaregs, including the detention without trial of leading
tribesmen. Amnesty said it feared Tuaregs were being detained
for purely ethnic reasons, following attacks by tribe members
this year in which government officials and civilians were
killed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Steel Output Falls 3.3%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian steel production totaled 165,060 metric
tons in the week ended Sept. 1, down 3.3% from 170,609 tons
in the preceeding week but down 43% from 287,669 tons a year
earlier, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.6 pounds. The
cumulative total in 1990 was 9,109,368 tons, down 14.1% from
10,603,864 tons a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Inroads That Go Beyond Affirmative Action
   ----
   By Robert D. Kennedy
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<LP>
   Business survival depends on how well managers read trends
and anticipate the problems they create. Yet many companies
are ignoring powerful signals of trouble ahead in their most
critical competitive resource -- the work force.
   Demographic changes are fundamentally altering the
American work force, and industry must implement more active
strategies to efficiently develop that increasingly scarce
asset. In the 1990s, labor force growth will be less than a
third what it was in the 1970s. A bigger share of that
smaller labor pool will consist of people who have
traditionally been absent from the ranks of business
leadership -- women, minorities and immigrants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although the Labor Department estimates that 85% of work
force entrants in the 1990s will be drawn from those groups,
other studies indicate that more than 95% of senior corporate
executives are white males. The top executives at my own
company, Union Carbide, are all white males.
   Such statistics send an unmistakable, urgent signal to
business: We all have to do a better job of recruiting and
developing minority managerial talent or we will run out of
the people we need to run our companies.
   Some companies understand the need to take a more active
role in developing minority managers to keep their businesses
viable into the 21st century, but too many cling to
traditional recruitment and "open door" affirmative-action
programs.
   That's a prescription for failure. Just opening the
company's doors to minority applicants will not be enough.
Traditional methods will not bring more people into the
pipeline, nor will they develop the minority managerial
talent upon which our future economy depends. Many minority
youngsters view the corporate environment as unfamiliar, even
threatening, territory. It will be necessary to help prepare
promising young people for college, nurture their talents,
interest them in corporate careers, and foster their progress
in the managerial ranks.
   That's a tall order for most companies -- alien to the way
corporations operate and outside their areas of expertise.
   Ideally, there should be a nationwide organization that,
with corporate support, would develop corporate-ready
minority professionals, prepared for entry-level management
jobs and able to move on to increasingly responsible
positions. Such an organization would identify promising
minority high school students, prepare them for college,
place them in supervised corporate summer internships, and
provide counseling and support services to groom them for
corporate careers.
   Fortunately, such an organization exists. It is called
Inroads, and it celebrates its 20th anniversary this month.
   To declare my interest, Union Carbide was a charter member
of the first Inroads affiliate and is a strong believer in
the Inroads philosophy and process. I've been personally
involved in the organization since 1983, and will shortly
assume its national chairmanship.
   Inroads began in 1970 with 25 young people sponsored by 17
Chicago-area companies. The ground-breaking idea caught on,
and there are now over 2,000 Inroads alumni pursuing
managerial and professional careers at companies across the
country.
   One Inroads alumnus is president of a corporate
subsidiary; another is CEO of an investment banking firm; six
are corporate vice presidents, and two own one of the largest
minority businesses in the U.S.
   Considering the small size of the early Inroads classes --
and that it generally takes 21 years or more for a business
career to lead to top managerial post -- that's a remarkable
success story.
   Today, Inroads has offices in 37 cities, over 1,000
sponsoring companies, and more than 4,100 internships.
   Compared to the economy's urgent need to develop minority
managerial talent, Inroads' strong growth amounts to just a
blip on the screen. But as the labor force crunch begins to
hit harder, I expect more companies to sign on as sponsors.
   Inroads interns are selected from the top 10th of their
high school classes, and are required to meet high academic
and on-the-job performance standards while actively
participating in training workshops, counseling and tutorial
programs, and community service projects. It is a long-term,
stringent program that ensures those who finish the course
have what it takes to succeed in the most demanding features
of corporate life.
   Finding qualified youngsters to fill the available
internships has never been a problem -- typically, Inroads
has two or three high-potential candidates for every
available internship. Given the nominal and very
cost-effective investment a company makes in sponsoring an
intern, U.S. corporations can easily support a quantum leap
in internships. More companies should participate in the
program, and they should expand the number of interns they
sponsor.
   It's not a matter of corporate altruism, but of corporate
self-interest.
   ---
   Mr. Kennedy is chairman and chief executive officer of
Union Carbide Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Financial Bancorp Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   FFBC
</CO>
<IN>
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONROE, Ohio -- First Financial Bancorp said it will take
a charge of $4.5 million against 1990 earnings to cover loan
losses at its First National Bank of Southwestern Ohio.
   For 1989, First Financial reported net income of $15.2
million, or $3.01 a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank holding company said the onetime charge,
estimated to be $3 million, or 60 cents a share, is linked to
the default on three commercial real estate loans.
   First Financial has assets of $1.2 billion and operates
banks in Ohio and Indiana.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Arab Allies of the U.S. Promise Billions
   To Help Cover Pentagon's Expenses
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The U.S.'s allies in the standoff against Iraq expressed
strong support for Washington's approach to the crisis. But
it is the Arabs -- particularly the Saudis and Kuwaitis --
who are most willing to open their wallets.
   In three days of talks with Arab leaders last week,
Secretary of State James Baker succeeded in winning
multibillion-dollar pledges that appear large enough to cover
the entire extra cost of $1 billion or so a month that the
Pentagon is shouldering because of the huge deployment of
U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia -- at least over the next few
months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But he also found that Arab leaders were growing impatient
with the diplomatic and economic campaign designed to punish
Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein for his Aug. 2 invasion and
continuing occupation of Kuwait, and that they might prefer
military action to oust the Iraqi invaders.
   Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, who led a
similar presidential mission to major European and Asian
allies, stressed the need to ensure the effectiveness of the
blockade against Iraq. That, he argued, would only be
achieved by providing sufficient aid to nearby friendly
states that have been economically harmed by the crisis.
   He won strong support for this approach from Britain's
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and French leaders, and on
Friday the European Community voted to grant $2 billion of
emergency aid to such countries as Egypt, Turkey and Jordan.
   Japan, which has already pledged $1 billion to aid the
effort against Iraq, didn't immediately respond to Mr.
Brady's request for further billions of dollars. Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu told Mr. Brady's mission Friday that
his government will study the U.S. proposals. South Korea,
which has benefited enormously from U.S. military backing for
more than 40 years, pledged to continue funding a few
$100,000 transport trips to Saudi Arabia from the U.S.
   Mr. Brady argued to U.S. allies that the costs of a joint
international effort against Iraq are much less than the
costs of an Iraqi-controlled oil price.
   "Our principal message throughout this trip," Mr. Brady
said after meetings in Britain, France, South Korea and
Japan, "has been that there is a cost which all must share,
of maintaining a freely flowing source of oil at prices
determined by market forces." The $10-a-barrel increase since
the Iraqi invasion would cost Japan roughly $20 billion a
year, his aides estimated.
   The Arabs, though, showed much greater readiness to give
direct and sizable military aid to the U.S.-led campaign to
confront Iraq. The exiled emir of Kuwait, who received Mr.
Baker at a Sheraton hotel in a Saudi resort town, promised $5
billion through the end of this year. That sum includes
around $600 million a month to be paid to the U.S. to defray
military costs and $2.5 billion to help compensate Egypt,
Turkey and possibly Jordan for the cost of the trade embargo
against Iraq.
   Sheik Zayid of Abu Dhabi, president of the United Arab
Emirates, also pledged an unspecified but large monthly
payment, U.S. officials said.
   Those pledges came after Saudi Arabian King Fahd told the
secretary of state his government will pay all the monthly
"in-country" costs of the 100,000 U.S. troops expected to be
on Saudi territory to deter further Iraqi military moves -- a
sum likely to amount to several hundred million dollars a
month. The Saudis, who put their total contribution at
"several billion dollars," also pledged to aid hard-hit
neighbors.
   The recent jump in oil prices has left Saudi Arabia
well-equipped to contribute to the effort. A $10-a-barrel
rise in the price of crude means Saudi Arabia's oil revenue
has risen $50 million or more a day, not counting the extra
two million barrels a day the country has promised to pump.
The additional revenue is about $500 million more a month
than the Pentagon's $1 billion monthly costs in the region.
   While details remain to be worked out, and while some of
the funds may be supplied indirectly or through "in kind"
contributions of such things as fuel or transport, Mr. Baker
seemed to have accomplished his economic mission even before
fund-raising visits this week to West Germany, Italy and
Belgium. He and his aides talked freely to reporters about
the financial pledges.
   However, raising money for the military effort from the
Europeans Mr. Baker will visit this week may be difficult.
Except for Britain and France, which already are directly
involved in the military effort, the Europeans are generally
leery of contributing directly to the U.S. military campaign.
They prefer less sensitive contributions, such as aid to
Mideast countries hurt by the Iraqi invasion and the
international trade embargo against Iraq.
   Mr. Baker's talks with Arab leaders also focused on
whether economic sanctions and political pressure can be
sustained for months, whether any compromise settlement might
be tolerable and whether war might be the only way to
dislodge Iraq from Kuwait.
   On these topics, the secretary and his aides declined to
disclose many details of the talks, which included a
90-minute one-on-one meeting between Mr. Baker and Egyptian
President Hosni Mubarak. Mr. Mubarak's brief public comments
after the session hinted that Arab patience with diplomacy
and sanctions may be limited.
   While the Egyptian leader said, "we would like, first of
all, to try peaceful solutions," he announced he would send
more troops to Saudi Arabia to expand the 2,000-man Egyptian
contingent already present. He also said economic sanctions
should be relied upon to stop Iraq only if they seem likely
to be effective and suggested it would be unwise to wait too
long for the sanctions to do the job.
   The Egyptian president also hinted that Iraq must be
stripped of its chemical weapons and ballistic missiles. "I
think peace will never go with the presence of all these form
of weapons in the area," he asserted.
   President Mubarak, King Fahd and others could be in
serious political and physical danger now that they have
publicly lined up against the ruthless Iraqi leader. They are
believed to be eager to end the crisis swiftly and defeat
Saddam Hussein decisively, even if it means war.
   Mr. Mubarak's public reaction echoed comments made by
Kuwaiti and Saudi officials. Yahya al Sumait, the Kuwaiti
housing minister, told a press conference that the U.S.
should set a deadline for the sanctions to work and then use
military might to enforce an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait.
   Prince Saud al-Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, said
the occupation of Kuwait "is not a negotiable issue between
Iraq and anybody."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   America's Last Hurrah
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tom Marks ("Iraq's Not-So-Tough Army," editorial page,
Aug. 21) is correct that Iraq's armored force of 5,500 tanks
is equipped mainly with older designs inferior to the
American M-1 or later versions of the M-60. Yet it still
poses a formidable threat to the Marines and paratroopers
rushed to Saudi Arabia, since they belong to light units that
have no tanks at all. Due to a shortage of fast sealift, it
will be weeks before the U.S. can deploy heavy units of armor
and mechanized infantry, and even then it will be an open
question how far American quality can offset the large Iraqi
edge in numbers. Even if brought up to full strength before
shipping out, the three heavy divisions slated for Saudi
Arabia (the First Cavalry, Second Armored and 24th
Mechanized) would field fewer than 900 tanks. Marine
reinforcements could bring this up to 1,000. This would
account for more than half the total allied armor defending
Saudi Arabia.
   With control of the air, Saudi Arabia could be defended.
But to attack into Kuwait against a larger force with the
experience in defensive warfare that Iraq gained in the war
with Iran would be very bloody and the outcome would be in
doubt. The other allied forces would be of little help in
such an offensive campaign. Despite the U.N. diplomatic
cover, the U.S. would have to carry virtually the entire
burden of the fight just as it did in Korea.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is clear that the post-Cold War talk of maintaining
only a small "contingency" army of light troops was motivated
by political convenience rather than by strategic analysis.
That President Bush can still speak of a 25% reduction in
military manpower levels by 1995 indicates that the military
budget cutters remain in control despite the severe shortages
in troops, equipment and logistics revealed by the crisis.
   Iraq is not the only regional power filling its arsenals
with tanks, warplanes and missiles while pursuing chemical
and nuclear programs. If the U.S. is to remain a global
military power it needs larger, not smaller, conventional
forces. That means more heavy divisions, more tactical
fighter wings, more carrier battle groups and more
airlift/sealift capacity. It also will have to modernize its
forces to keep its edge in quality. Yet all of these programs
are to suffer substantial cuts. Saddam Hussein simply should
have waited a year or two. He would then only have had to
dodge a few diplomatic notes instead of face what may be the
last hurrah of the American military.
   William R. Hawkins
   President
   Hamilton Center for National Strategy
   Knoxville, Tenn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Politicians Hope That Old FBI Magic
   Can Shield Them From the S&amp;L Heat
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Partisan opponents in the savings-and-loan
blamefest agree on at least two things: The thrift looters
belong in prison, and it is the Federal Bureau of
Investigation that should put them there.
   Congressional Democrats attack the administration for
failing to unleash the FBI in the S&amp;L scandal. Attorney
General Dick Thornburgh counters that G-men are on the trail
in every "major" thrift fraud case.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Before the Iraqi situation overshadowed other issues here,
Democrats and Republicans were engaged in a Capitol Hill
bidding war over how many new FBI agents should be hired to
track "crime in the suites."
   For all the sound and fury, politicians are actually using
the FBI in a subtle public-relations campaign that has
historical roots dating as far back as 1919. The message,
intended to reassure voters, is that a forbiddingly
complicated problem -- the possible collapse of the thrift
industry -- is really a simple matter of cops and robbers.
   Such attempts to use the FBI to transform an ominous
political or social issue into a crime-busting crusade date
back to the post-World War I Red scare and the bureau's
formative anti-radical investigations under J. Edgar Hoover.
During the Great Depression, Mr. Hoover, a genius
image-crafter, countered the loss of national confidence with
a dramatic demonstration of government power: the FBI's
successful gangster cases against the likes of Machine Gun
Kelly, John Dillinger and Pretty Boy Floyd.
   In his definitive Hoover biography, "Secrecy and Power,"
historian Richard Powers observes that the gangster hunts of
the '30s "had no obvious relation to the fundamental crisis
of the depression" but nevertheless showed that the New Deal
government could exercise legitimate power in the face of
chaos.
   For most of this century, Mr. Powers says in an interview,
"there has been a constant desperation in Washington for
magic to make major problems go away, and the FBI used to
have that magic."
   Before and during World War II, President Franklin
Roosevelt deployed Mr. Hoover's FBI to track communist and
fascist spies, in part to demonstrate the U.S. government's
ability to defend against any foreign threat. After the war,
as communism spread internationally, the FBI pursued leftists
at home in a campaign that led to investigative excesses that
permanently tainted Mr. Hoover's reputation.
   Today, rather than accepting the responsibility that both
the legislative and executive branches bear for the S&amp;L mess,
politicians are hoping for a little of that old FBI magic.
The trouble is that in the more enlightened post-Hoover era,
the trick doesn't work anymore.
   Politicians trying to deflect public outrage demonize
those who were caught looting the S&amp;L tills and point to the
FBI as the solution. The huge majority of thrift failures,
however, and the monstrously expensive clean-up, resulted not
from criminal acts, but from a combination of greed,
mismanagement and lack of civil regulation.
   Moreover, no one believes anymore in the mythical special
agents of yore. FBI Director William Sessions, to his credit,
is no J. Edgar Hoover. Mr. Sessions refuses to brag that his
agents can track down the pin-striped S&amp;L villains as if they
were so many machine gun-toting members of Ma Barker's gang.
   FBI agents, though still a tight-lipped bunch, themselves
admit shortcomings that would have resulted in instant
ostracism under Mr. Hoover. Lawrence Lawler, chief of the
FBI's Los Angeles office, says his swamped white-collar crime
team investigates only a tiny fraction of the thousands of
S&amp;L cases they know of. Gary Penrith, the bureau's chief in
Newark, N.J., says he lacks sufficient agents with adequate
financial skills to handle an emerging wave of suspicious
bank and thrift failures in that state.
   In short, the FBI, which has never specialized in
following convoluted paper trails, is refusing to accept the
mission of rooting out all S&amp;L evil. When political attention
returns to this subject, officials may find that the solution
doesn't lie in arrests and convictions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Well, She's Not the First Scarlett
   To Make it Tough on the Big Boys
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   WMT
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   After years of invading small towns and squeezing out
scores of mom-and-pop merchants, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. may
have finally met its match in its own back yard: Scarlett
Rabalais, who runs a bunch of hot dog stands in Texas.
   Last month, Sam's Wholesale Club, a Wal-Mart unit, ordered
Ms. Rabalais's Hot Diggity Dogs company to remove its 21
hot-dog stands from outside Sam's stores, where for four
years they had operated with the blessing of the Wal-Mart
unit, which got a 10% cut of sales. In the eviction notice,
Sam's officials said the company intended to sell its own hot
dogs, as it already does at stores outside Texas. They did
offer to relieve Ms. Rabalais of her stands, at a price
"based on fair market value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What the company didn't offer was any promise to hire Ms.
Rabalais's 90 workers -- most of whom are elderly or
disabled. Ms. Rabalais, who says she started Hot Diggity Dogs
to provide employment for such people, argued for the
preservation of their jobs. But she contends that her pleas
went unheeded -- until, according to Ms. Rabalais, Sam's own
customers started tipping off Texas newspapers to the story.
   After newspapers in Dallas and Houston published articles
about giant Wal-Mart evicting tiny Hot Diggity Dogs and its
work force, company officials suddenly became eager to "work
out the problem," Ms. Rabalais says. They even invited her to
meet with them tomorrow at company headquarters in
Bentonville, Ark.
   Ms. Rabalais says she can't discuss the agenda for
tomorrow's meeting. The reason: Company officials,
embarrassed by the publicity, "asked me not to talk with the
media anymore," she says. "And I promised."
   In Bentonville, a Sam's spokeswoman says the discount
marketer has gotten a bad rap. The company promised all along
to interview Ms. Rabalais's workers, she says, and now it is
prepared to guarantee jobs to them, assuming they pass drug
tests and dress-code standards. "The elderly and handicapped
fit into our corporate culture," she says, adding that Sam's
could provide employee benefits not offered by Hot Diggity
Dogs.
   And with a unit of Wal-Mart, the so-called low-price king,
running the stands, customers would benefit as well, she
contends. "We could probably offer a lower-cost hot dog," she
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Shipping Concerns' Buy-Backs
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   BHM BHO
</CO>
<IN>
MARINE TRANSPORTATION (MAR)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK - B&amp;H Ocean Carriers Ltd. and B&amp;H Maritime
Carriers Ltd., separately traded companies that are operated
by the same management, said their boards approved proposals
to purchase as much as 20% of their shares outstanding.
   B&amp;H Ocean has about 4.1 million shares and B&amp;H Maritime
about 3.1 million shares outstanding. Michael S. Hudner,
president of both shipping concerns, said the stocks were
significantly undervalued. Through the buy-back programs, Mr.
Hudner said, the companies intend "to both draw the attention
of investors to this situation and to directly increase
shareholder value."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, B&amp;H
Ocean shares closed at $11.625, up 75 cents, and B&amp;H Maritime
shares closed at $7.375, up 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Notable &amp; Quotable
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<LP>
   Polish writer Radek Sikorski explaining in the April 14
issue of the Spectator of London why he has bought a ruined
country house in Poland:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   If it were only a question of getting a nice house to live
in, one would never bother. Rebuilding Chobielin will be my
labor of love, my contribution to rebuilding Poland and my
personal battle against the remnants of communism. It'll also
be a spiritual experience. I want to purify these few acres
of Poland from the filth of communist rule. God willing, in a
few years' time my guests will be able to enjoy a hearty
lunch, take a stroll along the river, look around and think
that communism somehow spared this remote place. That'll be
my greatest pleasure and reward. On this patch of land it
will seem as if communism had never existed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Value Received
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   With long years of work at meager pay,
   My value to the firm is deceptive;
   For though not innovative or brilliant,
   I've certainly been cost-effective.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Materialistic
                                                                                                       

   With all due respect to best sellers,
   Which I acknowledge in haste,
   All I acquired in kindergarten
   Was a taste for library paste.
   -- George O. Ludcke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Environment:
   Exxon Faces
   More Work
   On Cleanup
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   It isn't over yet in Alaska for Exxon Corp.
   Even as the giant oil company winds down its second summer
of scrubbing the beaches of Prince William Sound, site of the
largest oil spill in U.S. history, federal and state
officials are preparing to demand a third round of the
cleanup next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I'm 99% sure Exxon will have to do some additional work"
next summer, Coast Guard Adm. David Ciancaglini, the federal
government's on-scene coordinator, disclosed in an interview
over the weekend. And some Alaskan officials are unhappy,
saying a new slick appeared just Friday from oil washing off
one of the islands in the Gulf of Alaska.
   Scouring away more than 10 million gallons of crude oil
spilled when an Exxon tanker rammed an underwater reef in
March 1989 is proving to be one of the most costly and
time-consuming environmental cleanups ever. And as such, it
is becoming a vivid example of the enormous exposure faced by
any company transporting oil in U.S. waters.
   The Alaskan catastrophe already has prompted federal
legislation that, among other things, allows states to assess
unlimited liability for oil spills. In the wake of that, some
major oil companies and tanker operators have said they won't
send vessels into U.S. waters. Some shippers have been
devising ways to avoid open-ended liability by shifting the
ownership of cargoes. Others are trying to figure out how to
unload oil far from shore and may support construction of a
deep-water terminal 27 miles offshore in the Gulf of Mexico.
   The prospect that Exxon will have to return to Alaska next
summer comes as this year's cleanup effort is ending. Exxon
crews will have pulled out of Prince William Sound by
Saturday, as the onset of fall weather makes continued work
too risky. This summer's work has cost Exxon about $200
million, its senior management says; the company spent more
than $2 billion in the first-round cleanup in 1989. It's
unclear whether the latest costs are covered by charges Exxon
already has taken on its books.
   Despite the expenditures, enough oil from the huge spill
still taints the land to warrant the company's return,
several authorities say. During a recent visit to the sound,
Adm. J. William Kime, U.S. Coast Guard commandant, concluded
it would be impossible to eliminate the remaining oil this
summer, according to those traveling with him.
   Some of the 600 beaches treated the past few months will
need extra work, Adm. Kime told state and federal officials.
Adm. Ciancaglini, the on-scene coordinator, agrees. But Adm.
Ciancaglini, who has ultimate authority over the Alaskan
cleanup effort, said the nature of next year's work won't be
known until after a spring survey of the beaches.
   Exxon officials, in response to questions, say that they
will follow any directives given them by the Coast Guard. For
now, they say only that the company will participate in the
spring shoreline assessment next year.
   "In my opinion, there's probably not much else that can be
done" without the intrusion causing more environmental damage
than it would fix, Otto Harrison, head of the Exxon cleanup
team, said in an interview. "Very little, if anything, should
be needed after the winter storms" that usually rake the
sound.
   In fact, the question of whether an oil spill cleanup can
be overdone is one of the unexpected environmental issues to
emerge from the epic Alaskan case. Mr. Harrison said he is
basing his opinion in part on recommendations of three marine
biologists hired by Exxon to evaluate conditions in the
sound.
   "The sound is now clean enough for the natural recovery
process to begin; any further disturbance, such as additional
cleaning, would only delay recovery," contended Robert Clark,
one of the three biologists. "Some beaches were found with
oil still on them, but thriving biological communities
including fauna and fish life were living alongside the oil.
Most of that oil is nontoxic."
   Most scientific and government officials who have toured
the sound agree that little evidence of the spill remains on
the surface of the beaches.
   But oil trapped beneath the surface of beaches is a point
of contention between Exxon and state officials. As much as
80% of the subsurface oil remaining after the 1989 summer
effort was cleansed by winter storms, Exxon claims. Company
officials are banking on those violent storms, which send
huge waves crashing up on the shoreline, to again remove the
bulk of the remaining subsurface oil.
   Scientists with the federal National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration don't dispute last year's 80%
figure. But "there won't be 80% removal again this year,"
predicted John Robinson, an oil-spill specialist with the
agency who has spent much of this summer evaluating the
Alaskan spill.
   Though he agrees that disturbing some of the subsurface
oil might damage the environment further, he says flatly:
"Exxon should return next summer. There's no doubt there will
be some problems. It's counting too much on the winter" to
clear away remaining oil.
   Even Exxon's consultant, Mr. Clark, won't flatly say the
company shouldn't return. Though he regards the remaining oil
as nontoxic, he said he has noted on his visits "much
misapprehension" among Alaskans. "Local perception isn't
always in accord with scientific opinion," he said,
suggesting that whether Exxon returns will depend on a number
of factors, only one of which will be scientific data.
   Exxon, however, might deploy fewer people next year than
this year, and this year's contingent totaled a small
fraction of the summer 1989 workforce of almost 11,000.
During the past few months, about 1,000 people have worked on
the cleanup. Of that number, only about 150, working in
squads of 10 to 15 each, were actually manually cleaning the
beaches at any one time, Mr. Harrison estimated.
   State officials are most upset about the hidden oil. One
said he saw oil four feet below the surface only last
Thursday. Another described locations where an oil mousse,
typically 30% oil and 70% water, still bleeds to the surface
and hardens into tarlike mats. Similar mats formed last year
and were collected and hauled off in plastic bags this
summer.
   A beach can look clean because of wave action, said John
Bower of Alaska's Department of Environmental Conservation.
"But then you get out a shovel, dig down and you have pooled
oil conditions. Many areas hard hit last year still have
subsurface oil present."
   At least a dozen beaches will need additional mechanical
and manual cleanup next year, estimated Randolph Baylis,
onscene coordinator for the state Environmental Conservation
Department. As many as four dozen sites need more
bioremediation, a technique that enhances naturally existing
microbes that "eat" oil, he said.
   Exxon's Mr. Harrison called such projections "idle
speculation." He said he knows of only a few beaches where
oil is still seeping to the surface. Several were left
untreated last year for scientific reasons, and one was
simply missed. He conceded "some sheening" from a one-acre
submerged peat bog on Knight Island but maintained that oil
might seep there for several years.
   Like Exxon, the state cites a scientific study to buttress
its arguments. It took part in a joint project with Woods
Hole Oceanographic Institute that it said showed marine life
continuing to react to even the small amounts of oil still in
the water. Exxon's Mr. Harrison disputed the state's
interpretation of the study.
   Such disagreements have at times become heated. Over the
weekend, verbal sparring broke out over work completed last
week by Exxon on the Barren Islands. The state wanted an
underground ribbon of oil discovered last month to be dug up
and hauled away. But the parties involved couldn't agree on
how much oil was actually there. Exxon and the Coast Guard
contended it was as little as 500 gallons; the state argued
it was at least 2,400.
   The state estimates infuriated the Coast Guard. Alaska's
environmental department "is just getting people whipped up,"
Adm. Ciancaglini charged. He suggested the state may be
trying to buttress a criminal suit it has filed against
Exxon.
   After finally getting approval from the state, workers
piled the oily material on top of a storm berm, high at the
back of the beach, where Exxon said it would be safe from
normal tides. Only violent storm waves would contact the
material, and they would quickly dissipate it, Exxon said.
   But during calm weather last Friday, according to Lee
Glenn, a state biologist, an unusually high tide washed as
much as a third of the oil into the water, creating "a slick
about 250 meters along the shore and 200 meters out into the
water." Adm. Ciancaglini and Don Carpenter, Exxon's
operations manager in the sound, visited foggy and rainy
Ushagat, the Barren Island in question, Saturday afternoon.
They didn't deny that a high tide might have reached the oily
mass at the back of the beach, but they said they didn't see
any slick.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toys `R' Us Inc.
   Plans for Japan
   Trigger a Tizzy
   ---
   Restructuring of Industry's
   System of Distribution
   Is Seen Certain to Occur
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7A
</SO>
<CO>
   TOY JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- With at least a year to go before Toys "R" Us
Inc. opens its first stores in Japan, the U.S. retailing
juggernaut already has sparked a frenzy in the Japanese toy
world.
   A group of 11 Japanese toy store companies is preparing to
launch on Sept. 28 the Japan Association of Specialty Toy
Shops. Its mission: to increase efficiency in the
distribution system so that member companies "can withstand
the onslaught of foreign-owned" competitors, such as
you-know-who.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The distribution system is likely to change," says Masami
Kobayashi, a spokesman for the new association, adding: "We
don't want to be left behind."
   That theme resounds throughout Japan's retailing industry
these days. While mom-and-pop shops and labyrinthine
wholesaler networks still dominate the Japanese distribution
system, the 1980s brought a trend toward larger stores and
modern chains. Many younger Japanese decided they would
prefer a white-collar career to taking over their parents'
storefront operations.
   Japan's toy industry has been slow to respond to this
broad shift. But Toys "R" Us may provide a strong shove.
   "With toys, (the market) is just ripe" for change, says
Joy Walbert, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. in Tokyo.
"It has happened in do-it-yourself home centers, superstores,
shoes and men's clothes" stores. Toy makers "recognize there
will be change" and already have begun moving to streamline
their distribution networks, she adds.
   Sales of toys and games in Japan in 1988, the latest year
for which figures are available, totaled almost 600 billion
yen, or about $4.2 billion at current exchange rates.
   Few toy makers are willing to talk openly, however, about
whether they would agree to bypass the traditional wholesaler
system and sell directly to Toys "R" Us outlets -- as is done
in the U.S.
   "We can't give you a clear answer," says a spokeswoman for
Bandai Co., a major toy maker. "Anything Bandai would say
would have a great influence on wholesalers," she says,
adding: "They are very nervous. Even the smallest comments
cause concern." Nintendo Co., whose electronic games are a
leading attraction at Toys "R" Us outlets in the U.S., is
equally tight-lipped. "We haven't had any inquiries" from
Toys "R" Us about supplying the planned Japanese stores, says
a spokeswoman at the Kyoto-based company, which carries on
all its Japanese business through a group of about 70
wholesalers.
   Some wholesalers aren't waiting around to find out how the
toy makers will react.
   A spokesman for K.K. Kawata, a major Tokyo-based
distributor of Nintendo products, says that company plans to
expand the 30% of its business that comes from manufacturing
Lego-like plastic blocks and other toys.
   In addition, Kawata recently agreed to acquire a Tokyo
discount toy store that may serve as a basis for developing
Kawata's own chain of retail outlets, according to the
spokesman, Masashi Tsujimoto. Both moves would effectively
dilute Kawata's traditional middleman role.
   Because Toys "R" Us will incur high land and other
overhead costs in Japan, some local discounters may be able
to undercut the American chain's prices here, Mr. Tsujimoto
predicts. He also contends that Toys "R" Us will have to
learn to tailor its offerings to Japanese children's tastes
if it is to repeat its success in other markets.
   Japanese tots prefer collections of small toys -- such as
the characters promoted by Japanese makers through television
cartoons -- to the "Southeast Asian-style big plastic toys"
that appear on U.S. store shelves, he says.
   Toys "R" Us is seeking to open five stores in late 1991,
and to add 10 stores in each of the next several years,
according to a spokesman for McDonald's Corp. (Japan), which
owns 20% of the Toys "R" Us operation in Japan. But the plans
are contingent, in part, on securing local permits.
   After several years of haranguing by U.S. trade
negotiators, Japanese authorities earlier this year agreed to
change the rules by which local governments in Japan handle
applications for stores of more than 500 square meters in
size.
   Previously, local mom-and-pop shops could drag out the
application process for years by refusing to attend hearings.
Now, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry
requires that applications be ruled on within 18 months.
   The initial Toys "R" Us applications have produced some
opposition. In Sagamihara, about 30 miles southwest of Tokyo,
a planned 3,538-square-meter outlet has stirred concerns
about traffic congestion in the predominately residential
neighborhood around the site.
   The 4,997-square-meter store that Toys "R" Us proposes to
open in the provincial city of Niigata in 1992 would be equal
to about half the total floor space of the 60-odd toy stores
in Niigata, according to the local chamber of commerce.
"We're just saying reduce it to a size that's more
appropriate to the region," says Masao Sakurai, president of
a small local toy-store chain that is among the project's
opponents.
   Under Japan's large-scale stores law, a committee of local
businessmen, consumers and academics could recommend that the
size of the planned store be reduced to as little as 500
square meters though the trade and industry agency has the
final say if a company disputes the local ruling.
   Joseph Baczko, president of the international division of
Toys "R" Us in Paramus, N.J., says he's confident that
Japanese authorities won't reduce floor plans for any of the
stores below the 3,000 square meters that Toys "R" Us
considers the minimum size for its units.
   According to the British Association of Toy Retailers, the
number of toy stores in Britain shrank to about 2,000 from
3,500 during the first five or six years after Toys "R" Us
arrived there, with the U.S. company only one of several
factors behind the decline.
   Toys "R" Us now has close to a 10% market share in
Britain, almost equal to market leader F.W. Woolworth Co.'s,
according to Gerry Masters, general secretary of the British
association. Toys "R" Us reported world-wide sales of $943.6
million, up 23%, for its fiscal first quarter, ended April
29.
   ---
   Tim Carrington in London contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM EUROP NIPNY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $100 million issue
of notes, due Sept. 20, 1993, was priced at par to float
initially at a spread of 100 basis points above the
Treasury's three-month bill. The noncallable notes will float
weekly and pay interest quarterly. The rate on the notes will
be reset each quarter at a spread of 100 basis points above
the three-month Treasury bill, except if the three-month
London Interbank Offered Rate exceeds 9% on any quarterly
payment date.
                                                                                                       

                       EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   TMC PIMBS Fifth Financing PLC, (special-purpose vehicle,
U.K. parent) -- #250 million of floating-rate notes backed by
mortgages, due Aug. 2028, at issue price of par, via Salomon
Brothers International Ltd. Expected average life 4.46 years,
assuming rate of repayment of 18%. Coupon initially two-month
London interbank offered rate plus 1/4%, then three-month
Libor plus 1/4% to Aug. 2000 and three-month Libor plus 1/2%
thereafter. Callable after five years if principal amount
outstanding falls below #25 million pounds; also, after
10-years, and on subsequent interest payment dates, at par.
Backed by a pool of U.K. mortgages originated by the issuer
and insurance for a maximum 13% of losses and 3% of liquidity
by Sun Alliance and London Insurance.
   Asfinag (Austria) -- 150 million European currency units
of 10 1/2% Eurobonds due Oct. 5, 1995, priced at 101.95, via
Paribas Capital Markets Ltd. Guaranteed by the Republic of
Austria.
   NEC Corp. (Japan) -- $350 million of Eurobonds due Sept.
27, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 5 1/8%
coupon at par, via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Each $10,000 bond
carries two warrants, exercisable from Oct. 4, 1990 through
Sept. 20, 1994 to buy company shares at an expected premium
of 2 1/2% to the closing share price when terms are fixed
Sept. 13.
   Saitama Bank Ltd. (Japan) -- $100 million floating rate
loan participation certificates, due Sept. 27, 2000, via
Merrill Lynch International Ltd. Issued by Merrill Lynch AG
and by backed a loan to Saitama Bank. Coupon is three-month
London Interbank Offered Rate plus 32 1/2 basis points for
the first five years, stepping up to 42 1/2 over Libor
thereafter. Issue price par. Callable Sept. 1995, and on any
subsequent interest payment date, at par.
   Izumi Co. (Japan) -- $100 million of Eurobonds due Oct. 4,
1994 with equity-purchase warrants, indicating a 5 1/8%
coupon at par, via Daiwa (Europe) Ltd. Each $5,000 bond
carries one warrant, exercisable from Oct. 18, 1990 through
Sept. 20, 1994, to buy company shares at an expected premium
of 2 1/2% to the closing share price when terms are fixed
Sept. 13.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Iraq Is Pressed
   By Superpowers
   To Quit Kuwait
   ---
   Bush, Gorbachev Also Show
   Differences in Approach
   To Easing Mideast Crisis
   ----
   By Michel McQueen and Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   HELSINKI, Finland -- President Bush and Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev warned Saddam Hussein that they would
consider unspecified "additional" steps against Iraq if he
didn't heed United Nations demands to withdraw his army from
Kuwait.
   But at a news conference after issuing their toughly
worded joint statement, the two leaders revealed differences
in their approach to resolving the conflict that could
diminish the impact of their united stand, or raise hopes in
Baghdad of splitting the superpowers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In particular, the Soviet leader was far more reluctant
than President Bush to leave the impression that force might
be used against Iraq if diplomacy and economic pressure fail.
He made it clear the U.S.S.R. wouldn't join the growing land
and sea forces surrounding Iraq. And he stressed repeatedly
that the crisis could and must be resolved politically, even
though U.S. officials said a military strike at Iraq was
still an option.
   Despite these differences, the two presidents took pains
to stress the importance of their joint condemnation of Iraq.
Their statement declared that "nothing short of the complete
implementation of the United Nations Security Council
resolutions is acceptable. Nothing short of a return to the
pre-Aug. 2 status of Kuwait can end Iraq's isolation."
   The statement -- a show of unity that would have been
unthinkable only a year ago -- went on to warn Iraq that:
"Our preference is to resolve the crisis peacefully, and we
will be united against Iraq's aggression as long as the
crisis exists. However, we are determined to see this
aggression end, and if the current steps fail to end it, we
are prepared to consider additional ones consistent with the
U.N. charter."
   Both the U.S. and the Soviets officially heralded the
Helsinki meeting as a step forward in their newfound
cooperation that built on previous summits over the past year
in Malta and Washington. The united stand against Iraq, is "a
kind of solidarity which has never been expressed before in
the history of the world," Mr. Gorbachev said.
   "Differences still remain," Mr. Bush conceded. "But the
common ground, in my view at least, surges ahead of these
differences. And we will continue to cooperate with President
Gorbachev."
   Secretary of State James Baker told reporters that "we are
very, very pleased with this statement," stressing especially
the reference to additional steps consistent with the United
Nations charter, which he pointedly noted permits the use of
force.
   The additional steps threatened by the superpowers weren't
specified, and Secretary Baker said the two leaders didn't
discuss specifics on the subject. Mr. Baker himself, however,
said such steps could include additional sanctions on Iraq,
sanctions against countries that break the embargo, a
broadening of the current U.N. approval for the use of force
to stop goods moving into and out of the country, or the
invoking of the U.N. charter provision permitting countries
to defend themselves. Another U.S. official said action to
stop air shipments into Iraq might also be taken.
   "You might conclude from the press conference that the
Soviets are . . . not on board yet with the use of force,"
Mr. Baker conceded. "But the mere fact that we have a joint
statement that doesn't rule it out as an option . . . I think
moves the position even of the Soviet Union forward."
   Asked if Saddam Hussein might be encouraged by the Soviet
hesitation on the military threat, Mr. Baker asserted: "I
don't think he's going to take any joy in reading this
statement."
   Nonetheless, the two nations' positions weren't identical.
And the Soviet leader appeared to gain more than he conceded.
   After seven hours of talks, Mr. Bush came away without any
new Soviet contributions to the world-wide effort to isolate
Iraq. Mr. Gorbachev not only stuck forcefully to Moscow's
previous refusal to participate in the international military
force and naval blockade against Iraq, he even lectured Mr.
Bush on the need to stick to a non-military strategy to end
the crisis.
   "We may have a difference on that," the U.S. president
conceded. "President Gorbachev made an eloquent appeal, to
which I agree, that a peaceful solution is the best. So I've
left it open."
   One U.S. official, however, said that the U.S. went into
the meeting with a view that Mr. Gorbachev's internal
problems, including his large and restless Moslem population,
make it very difficult for him to appear too receptive to the
military option. And some U.S. officials had qualms about
inviting the Red Army and Navy into the Persian Gulf.
   Mr. Bush sought to ease one of the main Soviet worries by
assuring Mr. Gorbachev that large-scale U.S. forces won't
stay in Saudi Arabia beyond the end of the Gulf crisis. Mr.
Gorbachev, who has come under pressure from his own military
over this issue, described the pledge as "a very important
statement." He himself, however gave no assurance that the
Soviet Union would immediately withdraw its military advisers
from Iraq, as the U.S. wanted. Mr. Bush said the withdrawal
of all Soviet advisers would be helpful but that their
continued presence "is not a major irritant."
   In return for Soviet cooperation, Mr. Bush promised to
step up U.S. economic assistance to the Soviet Union, where
shortages of bread and other staples are growing more acute.
A U.S. business delegation led by Commerce Secretary Robert
Mosbacher is due in Moscow this week and is expected to offer
technical advice in boosting Soviet oil output, among other
measures. But Mr. Bush acknowledged that U.S. budgetary
constraints meant that we can't "write out large checks."
   While welcoming the move, Mr. Gorbachev sought to head off
charges that the promise of aid had somehow influenced his
position on the Iraqi crisis. "It would be very
oversimplified and very superficial to judge that the Soviet
Union could be bought for dollars," he said. The remark was
only one of two brief moments from the news conference that
was broadcast on the Soviet evening television news.
   The joint statement contained a section on the status of
food imports under the embargo against Iraq that appeared to
soften the U.S. demand that humanitarian food aid couldn't be
considered unless there was starvation in Iraq. U.S.
officials, however, said the language was inserted at
American insistence in order to establish a procedure for a
U.N. decision on when food aid is justified and head off the
possibility that countries would try to break the embargo by
citing humanitarian concern. "I hope that nobody around the
world interprets this as our view that now there should be
wholesale food shipments to Iraq," President Bush said.
   At the news conference, Mr. Gorbachev disclosed that the
U.S. has dropped its long-standing position that the Soviet
Union shouldn't be involved in the Middle East. The Soviet
leader said that, "What was said here is that it's very
important for us to cooperate in the Middle East, just as it
is on other issues of world politics."
   But the two men appeared to be at odds over whether to
link resolution of the Kuwaiti crisis to other Mideast
problems, particularly the question of a Palestinian
homeland. Mr. Bush unequivocally ruled out linking the
Palestinian problem to Iraq, but Mr. Gorbachev contended, "It
seems to me that there is a link here because the failure to
find a solution in the Middle East at large also has a
bearing on the acuteness of the particular conflict we've
been talking about here."
   Although the Gulf crisis dominated the meeting, the two
leaders did discuss other issues such as arms control
agreements on strategic nuclear and conventional forces. The
two men reiterated that they hope both agreements will be
concluded soon and be ready for signing by year's end. But
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze told reporters
after the news conference that "we probably won't succeed
this year," in concluding a treaty on limiting strategic
arms.
   ---
   Walter S. Mossberg contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   EC Nations Split
   On Speed, Method
   Of Monetary Union
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROME -- A serious split developed among European Community
countries about the speed and method for achieving monetary
union, raising the likelihood of increasingly difficult
negotiations among EC members later this year.
   At an informal meeting of the 12 finance ministers here
Saturday, British Chancellor of the Exchequer John Major won
unexpected support for a more cautious approach to monetary
union. The British plan emphasizes the need for convergence
among the various economies of the EC -- reducing wide gaps
in inflation rates, budget deficits, unemployment and other
economic indicators -- before moving toward full economic and
monetary union.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the meeting, which was set up to lay the groundwork for
a round of monetary-union talks in December, Mr. Major won
backing from Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, the
community's smaller economies, which are worried that they
could be severely damaged if monetary union is put in place
before the yawning gap between rich and poor EC nations is
narrowed.
   EC President Jacques Delors said he was disappointed that
Spain, in a surprise move, decided to break ranks with
countries such as France and Italy, which are pressing for a
speedy monetary union. Despite the setback, Mr. Delors said
the overall movement toward a single currency "has been
maintained."
   Nevertheless, it is clear that the latest developments
could slow the monetary-union momentum -- and rhetoric --
that had been building in recent months. France, Belgium,
Italy and the EC Commission itself had spoken of moving
toward the second stage of the Delors plan by Jan. 1, 1993,
and toward creation of a single currency within as little as
five years. Under the British plan, and even under a
compromise proposal by Spain, the likelihood of a single
currency's being established before the end of the century
would be small.
   "It's not going to be a mad race" toward monetary union,
Albert Reynolds, the Irish finance minister, said. "Once you
put a date on {monetary union}, people will begin to stand
back for various reasons."
   France, Belgium and Italy wanted to set Jan. 1, 1993, for
the entry into force of the transitory stage of monetary
union. But Mr. Major argued that those countries were
concentrating too heavily on setting arbitrary dates and not
enough on the economic practicalities that would be
encountered by weaker economies in a monetary union. "Unless
we get that convergence," he said, "we are going to get
enormous tensions and enormous costs within different parts
of the community."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   The Shifting Sands of Soviet Policy
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Yesterday's united Persian Gulf stand by Presidents Bush
and Gorbachev was dramatic and historically important. But
one point deserves close attention. For the first time since
World War II, the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. are making common
cause against a troublemaker who styles himself a
"socialist." Some Soviets may not find that palatable.
   U.S. objectives when the crisis broke were clear. It
wanted Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait and out of power, and a
permanent military presence in the gulf region to guarantee
future stability. Yesterday, Mr. Bush promised Mr. Gorbachev
that the U.S. would withdraw when the Saudis are secure and
there are "regional" security arrangements.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   That is a slight softening, so it would appear, of initial
U.S. thoughts of keeping forces in the region. Mr. Bush had
then lost patience with attempts to come to terms with Arab
socialism and what it has spawned these last 40 years. That
includes Arab belligerence, vicious and wide-ranging bands of
terrorists and, at times, brutal tyrannies towards dissenters
in the nations under Arab socialist control.
   Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt was the standard bearer of
Arab socialism in the late 1950s and 1960s, when his Arab
Socialist Union came into being. As with Saddam, he too
wanted to unite the Arab world under a single banner. To that
end, he conducted a short-lived merger with Syria, employed
an extensive secret service in Arab countries, supported wars
in Yemen and Algeria, gave the Soviet Union a foothold in the
Middle East and fought the Six-Day War with Israel, which
cost him and his principal allies, Syria and Jordan, dearly.
His principal heirs today are Saddam Hussein and Hafez al
Assad of Syria -- with their separate Ba'ath parties -- and
Yasser Arafat of the Palestine Liberation Organization. They
too have seen, and caused, more than their share of trouble
and bloodshed. Egypt, under Anwar Sadat and then under Hosni
Mubarak, has distanced itself from militant Arab socialists
and moved closer to the U.S. and the West.
   This history does not lack relevance to the efforts by Mr.
Bush and Mr. Gorbachev to find a common ground in dealing
with Saddam Hussein. If their efforts go forward, it will be
the first time that the Soviet Union has joined with the West
in punishing one of its own proteges. For years, the Soviets
saw Arab socialism as their passkey to important influence in
the Middle East. That hope was still alive just before Saddam
Hussein sent his tanks rolling into Kuwait on August 2. It
cannot be certain that the hope is dead even now among the
generals and KGB operatives who have worked so long and hard
to establish Soviet influence over Syria, Iraq and the PLO.
Mr. Bush acknowledged yesterday that he and Mr. Gorbachev had
some differences over use of military force against Saddam.
   When Saddam dispatched his foreign minister, Tariq Aziz,
to Moscow last week he no doubt hoped to dissuade Mr.
Gorbachev from siding with Iraq's enemies, even though the
Soviet leader already had condemned the rape of Kuwait.
Surely, Saddam must have thought, socialist solidarity still
has meaning.
   But Saddam's problem is that both socialist solidarity and
socialism itself are rapidly disappearing, and particularly
in the Soviet Union. Members of the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union are resigning in droves. Mr. Gorbachev still
heads the party but quite likely is coming to regard it as
more of a political liability than an asset. Under new,
nationalistic parties, the separate republics are taking
power into their own hands.
   Quite possibly, Mr. Gorbachev has decided that the Arab
socialists are a liability as well. They have never been an
especially tractable bunch. Someone in Moscow put out the
story that Mr. Gorbachev was furious about Saddam's
unilateral decision to invade. That, so it was said, was why
the Soviets were so willing to condemn the invasion and
demand Iraqi withdrawal.
   That story may possibly be true. Yet another possibility
is that Mr. Gorbachev knew the attack was coming but made no
attempt to stop it. A sharp rise in the price of oil has been
beneficial to the Soviet Union, which exports oil and is
desperate for foreign exchange. There was a chance the West
would not react and, since the arrogant Saddam was taking all
the risks, why interfere? Mr. Gorbachev had good reasons --
his hopes for western economic aid -- for condemning the
attack after he realized that Mr. Bush was furious. But had
the attack not happened, he would have had less bargaining
power than he has now. There is a word for such tactics,
duplicity. But then even Mikhail Gorbachev hasn't yet earned
his Eagle Scout badge.
   The final and most interesting possibility is that the
Soviet generals who work closely with Saddam knew or
suspected that he was planning to make a move but didn't
bother to inform Mr. Gorbachev. Anonymous U.S. intelligence
sources have been quoted as saying it would have been
impossible for Saddam to have launched the attack without
prior knowledge of either his Soviet military advisers, who
number over 1,000, or the KGB, which has a pervasive presence
in Iraq. If Mr. Gorbachev was not warned, he had good cause
for anger.
   It also would suggest a deepening split between the Soviet
President and some elements of the Soviet military and state
security elites (KGB). Soviet foreign ministry spokesman
Gennady Gerasimov last week dismissed a suggestion by a
Soviet military commander that an outbreak of hostilities
over Kuwait might damage East-West relations. Yet, Mr.
Gorbachev has not fully countermanded original assertions by
his military that its advisers in Iraq, who help operate
Saddam's electronic air defense equipment, would stay put. Is
Mr. Gorbachev prepared to support an air strike against his
own radar technicians? In Helsinki, he suggested he would
remove "some" advisers, but that presumably means not all.
   As with so much in the Soviet Union these days, there can
be no certainty that anyone will salute when the President
gives an order. The KGB, after all, has been the "sword and
shield" of the Communist Party -- not the Soviet state --
throughout its history. The Soviet military also has been
under party control. The party remains a hard-liner
stronghold.
   If Mr. Gorbachev gets static from the military and the KGB
over the course he is following towards their important
client, the present U.S.-Soviet unity could be in jeopardy.
At some point, it might even force him to choose between the
riches of the West and what remains of socialist solidarity.
It is something that Mr. Bush and his advisers will want to
watch closely.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Dow Jones Names 4
   To Key Marketing,
   Advertising Sales Jobs
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   DJ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Dow Jones &amp; Co. named four people to key roles
in its marketing and advertising sales areas, effective Oct.
1.
   Bernard T. Flanagan will become the company's vice
president for marketing, a new post. Mr. Flanagan, 59 years
old, had been vice president for marketing for The Wall
Street Journal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Flanagan, who reports to Peter R. Kann, president of
Dow Jones and the Journal's publisher, will also serve as
chairman of the corporate marketing steering committee, which
coordinates marketing issues. "We'll be looking to Bernie to
originate marketing ideas, like the Journal's subregional
editions, which he pioneered," said Mr. Kann.
   In his new post, Mr. Flanagan will advise Dow Jones
executives on advertising and marketing strategies. He will
also be responsible for developing marketing initiatives and
ad campaigns, and for selling partnerships and packages that
cut across traditional publication and group lines.
   Paul Atkinson, 37, currently advertising sales director
for the Journal, was named the paper's vice president for
advertising, reporting to Kenneth L. Burenga, general manager
of the Journal. Robert D. Higgins, 60, director of
advertising services for Dow Jones, was named to the
additional post of director of advertising administration for
the Journal. Mr. Higgins will also be Mr. Atkinson's deputy.
   James Friedlich, 33, currently circulation director for
The Wall Street Journal/Europe, will become director of
international sales and marketing for Dow Jones Publications.
In his new post, Mr. Friedlich, who will report to Karen
Elliott House, vice president of Dow Jones's international
group, will be responsible for providing global sales and
marketing direction for the overseas editions of the Journal
and other Dow Jones publications based overseas.
   In addition to The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones
publishes Barron's magazine and other business periodicals
and the Ottaway group of community newspapers. The company
also supplies electronic business information services, and
through its Telerate subsidiary provides computerized
financial information world-wide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DNA Plant Technology Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13F
</SO>
<CO>
   DNAP
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINNAMINSON, N.J. -- DNA Plant Technology Corp. said it
extended for one year the expiration date of its 2,111,006
public warrants outstanding.
   The warrants had been scheduled to expire on Jan. 17,
1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agricultural biotechnology company said the warrants
were originally sold as part of a public offering that began
in 1984. Under terms of the offering, two warrants plus
$10.50 in cash entitle the holder to buy 1.32 shares of DNA
Plant Technology's common stock.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi Decision to Forgo
   Dividend Sends Stock Price Tumbling
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- One more dose of bad news for Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
Co. shouldn't hurt, but it did.
   Friday's announcement that the battered advertising
giant's balance sheet was too weak to pay a regular dividend
sent Saatchi shares tumbling. Although the company had warned
shareholders this year that the dividend might be sacrificed
in a campaign to shore up the company's capital position,
shareholders unloaded their holdings, immediately driving the
share price down 18 pence (34 cents) to 45 pence a share. The
stock rebounded slightly, ending the day on London's Stock
Exchange at 52 pence, down 11 pence from the previous day's
close.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "They do have an ability to slip on banana skins
repeatedly," said Neil Blackley, an analyst with James Capel
Securities in London. The decision to scuttle the dividend
follows a depressing drumbeat of bad news for the
once-expansive advertising and communications company:
divestitures under pressure, salary cuts and reorganizations,
and defections of top advertising managers.
   In June, the company reported a #7 million ($13.4 million)
net loss for its fiscal first half and skipped its interim
dividend. At the time, Chief Executive Robert Louis-Dreyfus
said that he considerd it "more important to reduce our debt
than pay our dividend."
   But while it's unpopular for a company to scrap its
dividend, shareholders may have overreacted at first.
Saatchi's move was forced more by accounting rules than by
any new negative developments. In unloading two of its
subsidiaries at disappointing prices, Saatchi &amp; Saatchi
absorbed a #40 million loss on the parent company's balance
sheet. That left the company short of the reserves necessary
to pay the regular dividend.
   The company described the problem as a "technical
situation," adding that it could have paid the dividend after
winning special permission from bond holders, a move it
considered imprudent. Saatchi also said it will restore the
dividend "once the present technical position is corrected."
Analysts doubt this will come before some time next year.
   The write-offs stem from sales of Peterson &amp; Co., a
litigation support concern, and Hay Co., a consulting firm.
Having paid #42 million for Peterson in 1987, Saatchi
received only #1.2 million for it in a buy-out by its
managers. Saatchi sold Hay to a group of its managers and
outside investors for $90 million. It bought the consultancy
in 1985 for an undisclosed sum.
   The write-offs that forced the dividend cancellation don't
include losses expected from the sale of Gartner Group Inc.,
which is being sold to an investor group for $55 million in
cash and $15 million in notes and other obligations. Saatchi
acquired this subsidiary two years ago for $86 million.
   The announcement comes as Saatchi is negotiating to sell a
number of its non-core advertising businesses in the U.S.
Moving far beyond its original intentions to sell only the
consulting businesses, the company now is expected to sell
some of its smaller ad units and focus on its major ad
networks.
   As previously reported, Saatchi's plan to sell its
McCaffrey &amp; McCall ad agency back to senior management is
expected to be closed by the end of the month. Saatchi also
has been in discussions to sell its small Siegel &amp; Gale
design group back to management. And industry executives
believe Saatchi would be interested in selling its AC&amp;R
Advertising unit and a chunk of its Howard Marlboro Group,
although executives at those companies deny such speculation.
   "Markets don't like companies cutting dividends, but in
some ways, this is good news," said Mark Sheppard, analyst
with UBS Phillips &amp; Drew in London. "They're saving some
money."
   It's estimated that Saatchi's decision will save the
company about #6 million pounds a year.
   "I don't think there's any further bad news," said a
former Saatchi executive in London. But he and others note
that the deteriorating economic climate in the U.S. and
Britain will make the difficult times worse.
   "They're operating against a backdrop of a sector that's
being written off by the market," said one advertising
executive. August, traditionally a weak month for the
advertising industry, was considerably worse than normal this
year, with the Gulf crisis pushing up oil prices and stoking
fears of a recession.
   Analysts say Saatchi may be able to halve its rental
expenses in London by moving to the huge Canary Wharf office
development on the Thames, a massive development still hungry
for clients. Another possibility for raising cash is the
continued sale of art treasures Saatchi has acquired over the
last decade. Even after whittling down the collection
considerably, remaining Saatchi art works are estimated to be
worth about $30 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hanson Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HAN
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   HANSON INDUSTRIES Inc. (Iselin, N.J.) -- David T.
DiPasquale was named president of the Endicott Johnson
Footwear unit, based in Endicott, N.Y. He succeeds Charles
Murray, who left the post. Mr. DiPasquale, 36 years old, was
previously president of Stride-Rite Corp.'s Sperry Topsider
division. Hanson is a unit of Britain's Hanson PLC.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Say Goodnight, Mr. Walsh
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Readers of this space are hardly surprised to see Lawrence
Walsh's Iran-Contra prosecutions crumble like castles in the
sand. He has now lost the two major cases to reach the
appeals court, with more legal defeats likely soon.
Independent counsel Walsh -- independent, that is, from
experienced prosecutors at the Justice Department -- has
become a multimillion-dollar legal disaster area.
   Mr. Walsh was especially busy last week. He asked the full
appeals court in Washington to review the appeals opinion
that seems likely to reverse all of Oliver North's
convictions. Mr. Walsh does not want to accept that he
violated the Constitution when he used evidence from Mr.
North's coerced testimony to Congress, despite the clear rule
that such evidence can't be used at trial. The same mistakes
probably will also reverse John Poindexter's conviction.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Part of Mr. Walsh's enormous prosecuting team is in
Baltimore trying a former CIA official, Thomas Clines. This
case may also be headed for a fall. The charges against Mr.
Clines, an Iran-Contra middleman, have nothing to do with the
original allegations of supposedly illegal arms trades or the
diversion of money from the Iranians. Instead, Mr. Walsh
accuses him of failing to report all taxes owed on his covert
income.
   There are many problems with this case, including
precisely how are private contractors, asked by government
officials to play middlemen roles, supposed to account for
secret income on their tax returns. Taxes owed surely must be
paid, but Mr. Walsh's lead witness, Richard Secord, shocked
the proceedings when he said the prosecution case rests on
evidence that had somehow been falsified.
   What especially piqued our interest in this case, however,
was that Mr. Walsh brought it as a tax case. Federal criminal
tax cases are fewer than 1,500 a year. There is strict
oversight because of the real danger of selective tax
prosecution.
   Indeed, the Justice Department Guidelines for U.S.
Attorneys requires prosecutors to get prior approval for any
criminal tax case from the tax division of Justice. U.S.
Attorneys Manual Section 6-4.122 says even independent
counsel must not bring an indictment "without specific prior
authorization of the Tax Division."
   Did Mr. Walsh get approval from Justice before indicting
Mr. Clines? When we asked, Mr. Walsh's press spokesperson
refused to comment. Justice spokesmen, however, say that Mr.
Walsh did not consult the department before bringing any of
the Iran-Contra cases. In other words, Mr. Walsh apparently
did not follow Justice rules before charging Mr. Clines. This
could be a ground for an appeal from any conviction.
   This was not the first time Mr. Walsh ignored Justice
guidelines that apply even to independent counsel. Last week
he got confirmation from a federal appeals court that his
case against former CIA agent Joseph Fernandez was an abuse
from day one.
   He indicted Mr. Fernandez, the former agency chief in
Costa Rica, for giving misleading statements about his role
in Iran-Contra. The supposed misstatements about who did what
to help the Contras were not under oath or part of any
transcript, but Mr. Walsh had an even bigger problem. To show
that his statements were true, Mr. Fernandez needed to cite
some 100,000 classified documents.
   Mr. Walsh ignored the Justice Department rule that
prosecutors considering indictments in cases involving
classified material must first consult with the intelligence
agencies. Instead, Mr. Walsh brought the indictment, then
when intelligence officials screamed about the sources and
methods that would leak if there was a trial, he dismissed
this as "fictional secrets" and "artificial deniability."
   Mr. Walsh, no national-security expert, was wrong. Trial
Judge Claude Hilton agreed with a classified filing by three
top intelligence officials who warned of "exceptionally grave
damage" if these secrets got out. Last week a unanimous
appeals court agreed that there can be no trial. The detailed
opinion by Judge J. Harvie Wilkinson itself was full of
asterisks marking sensitive material, as in "although the
program and the `may not have been as closely tied as ,' they
were still relevant to the charges against Fernandez and thus
were admissible."
   The criminalization of policy differences known as
Iran-Contra has been a flop. President Reagan was not
impeached, Nicaragua is inching toward freedom and Iran
remains in the feudal era. At home, we have learned that
institutional pressures on congressionally created
independent counsel have forced many of them to push the
outer envelope of prosecutorial behavior. Mr. Walsh has left
no doubt that his targets were prosecuted to the extent the
law allows, and as we now know even beyond.
   Enough is enough. There is a long rap sheet against Mr.
Walsh: He violated immunity rules in the North and Poindexter
cases; violated tax rules in the Clines case; violated
classified information rules in the Fernandez case. How much
more evidence does President Bush need before deciding it's
time to thank him for his services and send Mr. Walsh home?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Ontario's Premier-Designate Takes Steps
   To Calm Business After Surprise Victory
   ----
   By Michael T. Malloy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA TAXES
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The leader of Ontario's New Democratic Party
sought to reassure a nervous business community after his
socialist party was elected to rule Canada's most important
province.
   Party leader Bob Rae told a news conference that he would
respect private property and be "fiscally responsible." He
said he wanted "a market that works efficiently and fairly
and . . . a business community that has confidence in the
future."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Rae noted that socialist-led governments have worked
comfortably with business in several West European nations.
   The New Democrats won 74 of the 130 seats in Ontario's
legislature in Thursday's election. Under Canada's
parliamentary system, that means Mr. Rae will form a New
Democratic cabinet and take office as provincial premier late
this month.
   The party's surprise victory is of national consequence
because Ontario accounts for more than 40% of Canada's output
and contains more than a third of its people. Its government
is de facto regulator of the Canadian securities industry,
which is concentrated in Ontario. The New Democrats have
governed smaller provinces but had never won in Ontario.
   The party's provincial platform includes many promises
that worry business executives, including 4.22 billion
Canadian dollars ($3.65 billion) in additional spending in
the next two years and C$2.38 billion in new taxes. The taxes
would include an 8% minimum tax on corporate profits, a
"speculation tax" of up to 90% on profits from some
real-estate sales and an inheritance tax on estates above C$1
million.
   "The last thing Canada needs is any more contribution to
government deficits," said Andrew Kniewasser, president of
the Investment Dealers Association of Canada, an industry
group. He said an inheritance tax would encourage investors
to move savings out of Ontario.
   The party also promised to take over the auto-insurance
industry and impose more regulation on everything from plant
closings to the comparative wages of men and women in private
businesses.
   Business spokespersons were reluctant to criticize Mr.
Rae, instead emphasizing hopes to persuade him not to take
steps that might hurt the economy.
   "They are going to be the party in power for the next five
years and reasonable people want to work with them," said
Linda Matthews, president of the Ontario Chamber of Commerce.
"Rae is very knowledgeable and sophisticated about financial
and economic matters," said Mr. Kniewasser. He said the
investment dealers group already has asked for an early
meeting with Mr. Rae.
   The New Democratic rank and file is drawn largely from
labor unions, but the 42-year-old Mr. Rae is a lawyer and
former Rhodes Scholar who went to high school in Switzerland.
His father was Canadian ambassador to Mexico and the United
Nations. His brother is vice president of Montreal-based
Power Corp. of Canada, one of the country's largest holding
companies. Mr. Rae's moderate image helped defuse opponents'
warnings that Ontario would be subject to "cockamamie
socialism" if the New Democrats won.
   Mr. Rae already has shown caution about hasty imposition
of his party's platform. At his news conference he noted that
a pledge to raise the minimum wage 40% will take several
years to carry out. Opposition to the two-year-old
U.S.-Canada free trade agreement was an element in his
campaign, but Mr. Rae told the news conference that killing
the agreement is a matter for the federal rather than
provincial governments.
   The New Democrats have a weak popular mandate. They won
only 38% of the vote, but gained a majority in parliament
because other ballots were split among two other parties and
an unusually large 7% protest vote for splinter
organizations. Their victory was mainly seen as a repudiation
of the former Liberal Party government of David Peterson, who
lost his own seat in the legislature. Even Mr. Rae said he
was surprised at the size of his party's victory.
   The election results helped push down the Canadian dollar
and Canadian stock prices. The Canadian dollar fell Friday to
85.98 U.S. cents from 86.49 cents. The Toronto Stock
Exchange's composite index of 300 stocks fell 25.78 to
3287.78. Brokers cautioned, however, that some of the decline
was caused by the announcement Friday of a
bigger-than-expected rise in Canada's unemployment rate.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Share Prices Finish Higher on Rumors
   Of Nikkei Index Revision; London Also Gains
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo's Nikkei index finished higher Friday, bouncing up
strongly from its midday low in the afternoon session. An
announcement on a scheduled news conference about the Nikkei
index to be held later Friday prompted speculation that part
of the 225 issues included in the index might be replaced.
   Expectation that such a replacement would help reduce the
volatility of stock prices helped push up the index, traders
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, share prices finished higher Friday and managed
to reverse early sharp losses by the closing bell, although
traders complained of low volume.
   The Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 150.16
points at 23962.07. The index lost 266.43 points Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei index rose
357.10 points to 24319.17.
   In Friday's trading, the broader-based Topix index
remained little changed, down 0.10 points, or 0.01%, to
1845.93 points. The Topix fell 14.05 points Thursday.
   Overall, declining shares outpaced advancing shares 567 to
388, while 141 shares remained unchanged.
   Volume on the first section was estimated at 440 million
shares, down from 481 million shares Thursday.
   Meanwhile, the second section index, which lost 54.21
points Thursday, was down 45.07 points, or 1.25%, to close at
3,568.28.
   Volume in the second section was estimated at six million
shares, up from 5.4 million shares Thursday.
   Among rumors spread quickly on the market Friday afternoon
was that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein fled to Libya, which
later proved unfounded.
   Futures indexes turned upward around the same time the
rumor was spread, helping push up stock prices. But observers
attributed the midday recovery of stock prices more to
technical factors than to the rumor.
   Yoshio Ogawa, general manager of stock trading at Nikko
Securities, said a small number of investors and dealers
bought stocks in response to the rumor.
   "But as the Nikkei fell below 23,500 points {Friday
morning}, investors shared the perception that the market
deserves to see some rebound," he said.
   "To take profit whenever it's possible" was the stance
investors in general maintained, said a trader at Dai-Ichi
Securities, noting that institutional investors remained cool
to the rumor as they had been hurt when they bought on
unfounded Iraq rumors in the past.
   Sentiment was damped from the morning because of the
overnight plunge on Wall Street and a late surge of oil
prices, sending stock prices down midmorning.
   The Nikkei index declined as low as 23,405.71 points in
the morning session, marking its lowest level this year. The
level compares with the previous intraday low of 23,547.27
points posted Aug. 24 and the lowest daily close this year at
23,737.63, on Aug. 23.
   Traders predict the market will continue to see selling by
investors reducing positions.
   Fumihiko Ishii, manager of investment research at Nomura
Securities, said stock prices are under sell pressure due to
the market's internal factors.
   Such factors include approaching midyear book closings by
many financial institutions, as well as the expiration of the
September futures contract on Sept. 13, he said.
   Selling by institutions was increasingly noticeable
Friday, reflecting their concern about their midyear account
closings at the end of September, traders said.
   Due to growing expectation that the market is unlikely to
recover soon and help improve their performance, fund
managers were selling to avoid further losses, they said.
   An official at a life insurance company said his company's
separate account funds started to buy Friday. But many other
life insurance companies are still maintaining a selling
stance.
   Sell pressure is also expected to be strong next week as
many investors are likely to unwind their September futures
contracts ahead of the expiration, rather than rolling them
over to December.
   Nikkei Shimbun Inc. announced at a news conference late
Friday that the publisher of the economic daily compiling the
Nikkei index since 1949 will examine the possibility of
replacing some of the issues included in the index, which is
based on 225 selected stocks.
   The company said it will decide over the next two months
if such replacement or any other changes are necessary to
make the index reflect stock price changes more accurately.
   Ending higher Friday were high-technology shares, which
bounced up from their sharp losses on the previous day.
   Kyocera gained 260 yen ($1.85) to 7,350 yen, while TDK was
up 170 yen to 5,630 yen.
   On the other hand, Thursday's winners, such as gold mining
companies and Tokyu Group shares, fell back Friday on
profit-taking.
   Sumitomo Metal Mining declined 20 yen to 1,550 yen and
Mitsui Mining lost 39 yen to 921 yen.
   After poor overnight results from New York and Tokyo,
London opened easier. The release of U.S. unemployment
figures for August had little effect on Wall Street's
performance, which was led higher by the oil sector in the
wake of firmer spot crude prices. Traders said London's
turnaround in the closing hours of trading was largely due to
Wall Street's positive lead.
   "A lack of business has been the main problem," one trader
said. The highest volume levels Friday were recorded in the
third-line, lesser capitalized stocks.
   Speculation that the pound might enter the exchange-rate
mechanism of the European Monetary System over the weekend
was quashed early in the session, leaving inflation a
continuing concern for the U.K. economy and U.K. equity
investors, traders said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index closed
up 2 points at 2,122.9, just under the day's high of 2,123,
and well above the low of 2,105.5 recorded at the opening of
trade.
   The narrower FT 30-share index closed down 1.4 points at
1,638.5, while total turnover amounted to a sketchy 331.8
million shares, lower than Thursday's 515.5 million shares,
but in line with recent levels.
   In the futures markets, the September FT-SE 100 index
closed at 2,135.5, up from Thursday's close of 2,123.
   Dealers said Kingfisher shares were rattled by rumors of a
possible downgrading. The stock finished off 11 pence (21
cents) to 307 pence.
   Boots, the pharmaceutical and consumer products company,
was hit by a rumor that the company had been asking analysts
to downgrade their profit forecasts, so as not to build up
false earnings expectations. The shares lost 5 pence to close
at 279.
   Water stocks had a strong day, performing as traditionally
defensive stocks, after a government announcement that
current high U.K. interest rates would remain for some time.
Northwest Water gained 4 pence to 218 while Thames Water rose
3 pence to 221.
   Britain's largest advertising group Saatchi &amp; Saatchi lost
2 pence to close at 61, after announcing that it won't pay a
dividend for the time being.
   Elsewhere, stocks closed higher in Paris and Frankfurt;
mixed in Amsterdam, Brussels, and lower in Milan, Madrid and
Zurich. South African gold stocks closed narrowly mixed.
   Share prices closed higher in Hong Kong, lower in
Singapore, Seoul and Wellington, mixed in Manila and little
changed in Sydney. Taipei was closed.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                      % This
                                      Sep 6   Sep 5    Year

   U.S. ............................  296.1   299.9   -  8.9
   Britain .........................  626.3   636.5   - 13.1
   Canada ..........................  368.6   370.8   - 14.8
   Japan ........................... 1028.9  1033.8   - 37.8
   France ..........................  451.3   460.1   - 20.4
   Germany .........................  250.4   254.5   - 12.2
   Hong Kong ....................... 2204.1  2213.7   +  5.1
   Switzerland .....................  184.7   185.4   - 16.3
   Australia .......................  304.1   303.9   -  8.2
   World index .....................  462.4   465.7   - 18.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Stations Often Overcharge Candidates
   For Campaign Ads, FCC Audit Shows
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal regulators found, in a spot audit of
television and radio stations, that political candidates
often are overcharged for campaign advertisements.
   The Federal Communications Commission staff said that 16
of 20 TV stations it checked charged political candidates
more than commercial advertisers for air time in virtually
every time period the agency analyzed. At one station, the
agency said, candidates paid $5,500 for a 30-second
advertisement, while commercial advertisers paid only as much
as $3,000.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under federal law, broadcasters aren't supposed to charge
candidates more than they generally charge commercial
advertisers. And during the 45 days before a primary election
and the 60 days preceeding a general election, candidates are
supposed to be billed the same low rates as a station's "most
favored commercial advertiser."
   Candidates fared better with radio stations, but Roy
Stewart, head of the FCC's Mass Media Bureau, said that may
reflect generally less use of radio for political
advertising.
   Mr. Stewart said the agency is continuing its
investigation into compliance by the stations, and that it
could eventually decide to fine some of them. Nevertheless,
he said the main purpose of the audit and the report released
Friday was educational: The FCC wants to help the broadcast
industry comply with the law, especially since broadcasters
should be offering even cheaper rates to political candidates
now that there are less than 60 days before the general
election.
   This week, the FCC plans to send broadcasters information
in question-and-answer form on the campaign advertising
rules, and it will hold a seminar in Washington on
compliance. In addition, the agency is planning to make a
videotape that explains broadcasters' obligations.
   The rules, however, are hardly clearcut. The problem, Mr.
Stewart said, is that broadcasters "are not aware of the full
range of their responsibilities in advising political
candidates" on advertising rates.
   Edward O. Fritts, president of the National Association of
Broadcasters, said he was pleased with the educational
effort. But he took issue with the FCC's approach, saying it
was "unfortunate the commission issued a report which gives
the impression that it has made final conclusions when it has
not, and that presumes there are violations" before
broadcasters even responded to the audits.
   Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.), a friend of FCC Chairman
Alfred Sikes, said the audit "confirms what candidates have
known for some time," and called the FCC's action a
"constructive first step." He called for enactment of
campaign finance legislation already approved by the Senate
Commerce Committee, which is designed to clarify the existing
law so as to ensure that candidates pay no more than
commercial advertisers.
   The FCC's audits, which began on July 16, covered four
television stations and two radio stations in each of five
metropolitan areas: Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth,
Philadelphia, Portland, Ore., and San Francisco. Mr. Stewart
said the cities were selected because they are geographically
diverse and some of the stations serve markets in two or
three states, and thus were likely to be used by more
candidates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   U.S., South Korea
   Reach Agreement
   On Sale of Aircraft
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST MD GE C.SSG
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The administration said it completed
negotiations with South Korea for the sale of 120 McDonnell
Douglas Corp. F/A-18 Hornet fighter-bombers under a $4.7
billion program leading eventually to licensed production of
the planes in Korea.
   The administration formally notified Congress of the
agreement, signaling the conclusion of protracted wrangling
over work shares and technology security. Unless Congress
votes to block it, the program will be in operation in 30
days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Pentagon said the program will proceed in three
phases, starting with McDonnell Douglas's delivery of 12
completed planes to South Korea, followed by kits for 36
planes to be assembled in Korea. In the final phase the
Korean contractor, Samsung Aerospace Corp., will produce the
remaining 72 aircraft under license.
   The core of the program will be worth $3.2 billion to
McDonnell Douglas and its engine supplier, General Electric
Co. GE will provide 24 spare F-404 engines in addition to
those to be mounted on the twin-engine Hornets. Other
commercial contracts for technical assistance, assembly-line
tools, and other equipment will raise the total value of the
program to $4.7 billion, the Pentagon said.
   The Pentagon said 30% of the commercial value of the
program will be shared by Korean contractors. A Samsung
spokesman said this proportion of offsetting revenues is
"very low" compared with what other countries have extracted
from U.S. defense vendors. The Pentagon will protect the
security of certain "technology-sensitive" Hornet components
through government-to-government arrangements with Seoul, the
Pentagon said.
   The Pentagon withheld the formal signing of a memorandum
of understanding with Seoul until after the 30-day
congressional review. "We'd like to give Congress every
opportunity to look at it," a Pentagon spokesman said. In a
roughly similar case last year, the Bush administration was
forced to revise an earlier agreement on Japan's
co-development of the FSX fighter after it encountered fierce
opposition in Congress.
   The Korean program, however, isn't likely to have as much
trouble. Sens. Alan Dixon (D., Ill.) and John Heinz (R., Pa.)
have sharply questioned the Korean co-production arrangement,
but most of their colleagues don't consider it to be as
threatening to the U.S. leadership in aerospace as the FSX
pact, which allows the Japanese to co-develop a new plane
based on General Dynamics Corp.'s F-16.
   A Samsung spokesman said the company will enter into two
commercial agreements -- one on equipment purchase and
another on license rights -- after the program is approved by
Congress.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Outlook:
   Troubling Signs
   Of Slower Growth
   ----
   By David Wessel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The prospect for a recession is the economic
topic grabbing headlines and financial-market attention these
days. But recessions come and go. A more important question
for American living standards is how the economy will perform
over the next decade or two. And there are troubling new
signs that the answer isn't good.
   For the first 25 years after World War II, the U.S.
economy did a fine job of achieving every parent's dream: a
better life for his or her children. Economic growth averaged
better than 3% a year. There were ups and downs, recessions
and recoveries, but the upward trend was always clear.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the past two decades, however, the assumption of
steadily rising living standards has been challenged. Growth
slowed sharply in the 1970s. It picked up some in the 1980s,
but generally remained short of the strong growth in the 25
years after the war.
   Optimistic economists, including those who advise
President Bush, have argued that the growth trend will
rebound in the 1990s to the 3% average of the early postwar
years. But other economists, including some who make monetary
policy at the Federal Reserve, have been cautiously looking
for growth of about 2.5% a year.
   "We must accept the fact that the real economy can, over
the foreseeable future, grow at a rate of no more than about
2.5%," New York Federal Reserve Bank President Gerald
Corrigan said in December 1988. "Growth at a rate in excess
of that amount would entail wholly unacceptable risks of
accelerating inflation."
                                                                                                       

   Now comes evidence that Mr. Corrigan may have been too
optimistic. After sifting through the latest revisions of
government data, some economists are beginning to wonder if
the nation's growth trend has dropped to well below 2% a
year.
                                                                                                       

   That troublesome conclusion can be culled from revised
Commerce Department figures released earlier this summer but
widely ignored. They show that growth last year was
substantially slower than previously reported. The nation's
total output, or gross national product, expanded only 1.8%
after adjusting for inflation, rather than the 2.6%
previously reported. Yet unemployment remained at a 15-year
low of 5.3%, suggesting that the economy, while sluggish, may
be growing at its full potential.
   "What it is telling us is that when we are fully employed,
which is where we've been since 1988, we grow only 1% to 2%,
not 2% to 3%," says economist Paul Samuelson, the Nobel
laureate at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It also
means that's all you should expect." If growth remains that
slow, living standards seem sure to stagnate.
   The economy can grow in two ways: by putting more people
to work or by making each worker produce more. When nearly
everyone is working, the second way -- greater productivity
-- is the primary engine of growth. In the U.S., however, a
decade or more of inadequate investment in education and
equipment has made productivity gains disappointingly slim.
   There's the possibility, to be sure, that the new data are
misleading. They may be revised again someday. Moreover,
productivity gains may increase if the slow-growth phenomenon
stems from transitory circumstances. Commerce Undersecretary
Michael Darby, who oversees the GNP figures, claims the
numbers are temporarily distorted by the slump in the
Northeast, with its highly skilled, productive workers, and
the recovery in the Southwest, where each additional worker
employed adds relatively little to the GNP total.
   But there is no doubting the troubling implications if Mr.
Samuelson's interpretation is correct. "It would be
dreadfully profound," Mr. Darby acknowledges.
                                                                                                       

   In such circumstances, the Fed, to keep the economy from
overheating and reigniting inflation, would presumably try to
hold growth to 2% a year or less. Americans would have to
keep working harder -- longer hours, more moonlighting --
just to keep up, since wages wouldn't rise much. More would
find that their living standards weren't much better than
their parents' and the dream of steady economic progress
would fade.
                                                                                                       

   To avoid this, the U.S. needs to invest more. Then
productivity can grow more rapidly. But a nation can invest
for tomorrow only as much as it saves today -- or borrows
from foreigners. The recent record suggests Americans don't
save enough, with the federal deficit consuming much of what
they do save.
   This is why many economists argue that the best course is
to cut the budget deficit now. Higher taxes and lower
spending may pinch the economy over the next year or so and
increase the odds of recession. But such measures would also
help to solve the overriding problems that cloud the outlook
for the longer run.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Heineken N.V.:
   Dutch Brewer's Net Income
   Increased 18% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7D
</SO>
<CO>
   N.HEI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
</IN>
<LP>
   Heineken N.V. combined higher volumes of beer sales and
higher prices to put the fizz back in its profit, which
surged 18% in the first half.
   The rise to 165.4 million guilders ($94.3 million) in the
first half from 140.3 million guilders a year earlier
surprised Dutch analysts who had predicted a rate of earnings
growth of between 5% and 10% for the Amsterdam-based beer
concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On a per-share basis, profit was 5.15 guilders, up from
the year-earlier 4.37 guilders. Analysts had expected around
4.6 guilders.
   The brewer said it expects second-half earnings to at
least match those of the year-earlier's 185.2 million
guilders. Although the forecast was conservative, analysts
noted Heineken has a tradition of understating its
performance.
   Sales increased by 7.5% to 4.15 billion guilders from 3.86
billion guilders.
   Heineken, which announced its results after the close of
trading Friday, closed at 114.7 guilders, up 0.9 guilder in a
generally stronger market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Ontario Lists Leftward
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   The word went out in November 1989 that socialism is dead,
but the message doesn't seem to have arrived in Ontario yet.
Voters in Canada's biggest and richest province gave the
socialist New Democratic Party a huge majority in the
provincial legislature on Thursday -- a majority that the NDP
intends to use to raise taxes, impose centralized control of
wages (via "comparable worth") and pull Canada's health care
ever closer to a Soviet-like model. It makes us wonder if
some Canadians are still getting their European news by dog
sled?
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- ComFed Savings Bank:
   Former Officer Enters Plea
   Of Guilty in Investigation
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   CFK
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A former senior vice president of a ComFed Savings Bank
unit pleaded guilty to several charges, the fourth employee
to plead guilty in a federal investigation of the bank.
   Vincent J. Crupi pleaded guilty to five counts of bank
fraud, five counts of making statements to a federally
insured bank, and one count of conspiracy relating to ComFed.
He was manager of ComFed's branch in Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wayne A. Budd, U.S. attorney in Massachusetts, said that
if the case went to trial, the government would have
introduced evidence that during the fall of 1987 and the
spring of 1988, Mr. Crupi falsified information concerning
the purchase price, income and assets of ComFed borrowers at
a condominium development in Revere, Mass. The goverment
alleged that Mr. Crupi entered into the scheme to defraud
ComFed to obtain greater commissions on the loans he
originated.
   Sentencing was set for Nov. 2. Mr. Crupi faces a maximum
sentence of 40 years in prison and $2,750,000 in fines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Rax Restaurants Inc.:
   Fast-Food Chain to Slash
   Its Corporate Staff by 25%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13A
</SO>
<CO>
   RAXR
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rax Restaurants Inc., hurt by slower sales at its
fast-food outlets and higher operating costs, said it will
slash 25% of its 130-person corporate staff as part of a
restructuring plan.
   "It's important that we deal with our internal expenses at
this time since they are such a major component of our
costs," said Ira A. Hermann, president and chief executive
officer of Rax, based in Columbus, Ohio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the third quarter ended April 30, Rax reported a loss
of $736,000, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $27.4
million.
   The chain of 450 restaurants has spent heavily on new
products. The products have shown promise, but other chains
have introduced similar menu items.
   The fast-food industry also has been hit by a drop in
customer traffic, analysts said, and there is the added
pressure to keep prices low as the bigger chains discount
products to attract more business. The price-cutting
strategies can work because some customers "at the margin
notice if the price is 10 cents more or less" and will switch
to other restaurants, says Michael Mueller, restaurant
analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Manville to Pay Up to $520 Million
   Over Seven Years to Asbestos Trust
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL SMRKV LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Under pressure from a federal judge to come up with more
money for asbestos victims, Manville Corp. agreed to pay as
much as $520 million over the next seven years to the
Manville asbestos personal-injury trust.
   The first installments of the new funding, however, fall
far short of the amount the trust has tried to raise in
recent months as it ran out of cash to pay the 130,000 claims
against it. Moreover, the preliminary agreement, announced
Friday, won't provide any new cash until the end of 1991. The
plan is also contingent on many other factors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trust, the cornerstone of Manville's bankruptcy-court
reorganization plan in 1988, was set up to pay all health
claims stemming from exposure to asbestos products formerly
made by the company. Judge Jack B. Weinstein of federal court
in New York ordered the trust to come up with new financing
this summer after the trust announced that it couldn't pay
new claims for 25 years because it was out of cash.
   Although victims' attorneys welcomed the new funding, some
said they will challenge the change because they believe that
Judge Weinstein does not have the right to alter Manville's
bankruptcy reorganization plan. The attorneys fear that
victims will lose some rights if the plan is revamped. They
also are challenging a freeze on claim payments that Judge
Weinstein has extended until Oct. 6.
   "To the extent that Manville has come up with more money
for the trust, I'm delighted," said Robert Hatten, a
plaintiffs' attorney who is trying to collect a $60 million
court judgment from the trust for 1,117 asbestos victims in
Virginia. "The only caveat I have is, I want my money."
   The preliminary funding agreement is contingent on the
trust coming up with new procedures for paying claims, such
as stretching payments over a period of time. Leon Silverman,
appointed by Judge Weinstein and the bankruptcy court to
negotiate the restructuring, said progress is being made in
talks between the trust and plaintiffs' attorneys about the
payment plan.
   "While this is only the first step in the overall
restructuring process, we are encouraged that a fair and
comprehensive resolution will result from the continuing
cooperation of all parties," said John C. Sawhill, chairman
of the trust's board.
   After paying about $638 million to asbestos victims, the
trust still owes more than $300 million in settled but unpaid
claims -- twice the amount of cash it has left. Before Judge
Weinstein stepped in, the trust and the company had been
unable to agree on new funding, although proposals to raise
more than $500 million were discussed.
   Under the agreement, Manville would convert the preferred
stock held by the Trust into common, giving the trust an 80%
stake in the company. The company would pay a special
dividend to common shareholders of $125 million late in 1991,
another $125 million a year later and $50 million in each of
the next two years.
   The agreement also provides for additional special
dividends to be paid in the next four years of as much as
$300 million, making a total potential dividend of $650
million, 80% of which -- or $520 million -- would go to the
trust. Except for the first proposed payment, the dividends
would be subject to Manville's ability to pay.
   The new financing would not affect the company's
obligation to pay $75 million a year on $1.8 billion in bonds
held by the trust and to pay the trust 20% of Manville's
profit beginning in 1992. The agreement also proposes
exchanging the bonds for new ones that would be marketable.
The trust would be able to sell the bonds at some point to
raise money.
   Manville's stock in recent months has suffered from the
uncertainties surrounding the trust funding, and officials of
the Denver-based building-products concern said they hope the
investment community will "look on this agreement
positively." In composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange Friday, Manville closed at $6.75 a share, up 75
cents.
   In a prepared announcement, Manville Chairman Tom Stephens
said, "Our strong performance since the consummation of the
plan of reorganization in 1988 has put us in the position to
be able to accomplish this distribution program."
   ---
   NEW YORK LAW FIRM bows out of fraudulent conveyance
action.
   Stroock &amp; Stroock &amp; Lavan, accused of a conflict of
interest, agreed not to represent Southmark Corp. or its
creditors in a multimillion-dollar suit against two former
top officials of Southmark.
   The alleged conflict arose because Stroock, which served
as counsel to the Southmark unsecured creditors committee
during Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, once represented
the former executives, Gene E. Phillips and William S.
Friedman.
   When Stroock was retained by the creditors last year, both
men signed waivers saying they didn't object to the
representation.
   But then the creditors committee, acting on behalf of
Southmark, filed suit seeking to recover more than $83
million in assets from Messrs. Phillips and Friedman and
companies they control. The complaint alleged that the assets
were fraudulently conveyed to the men as part of their
resignation settlements last year.
   The former executives retained the Dallas firm of Bickel &amp;
Brewer to sue to have Stroock dismissed from the case.
   "I think it's one thing to consent to your former attorney
handling a nonadversarial matter, and something else for them
to turn around and sue you," said Mr. Friedman, former vice
chairman.
   After some legal maneuvering, Stroock agreed not to
represent either the creditors committee or Southmark in the
proceeding against the executives. But it is free to
represent the company, which recently emerged from bankruptcy
protection, in future legal matters.
   "We determined that, rather than spending another couple
of months litigating {the conflict issue}, reorganized
Southmark should be freed to litigate on the merits" of its
case against the executives, said Stroock partner Curtis
Mechling.
   ---
   COURT DECLINES TO EXPAND protection for Texas
whistleblowers.
   The case was brought by Richard Winters, a former Houston
Chronicle employee who said he was fired for telling
superiors about alleged circulation fraud and other illegal
activities at the newspaper, owned by Hearst Corp. A lower
court dismissed the suit, and the Texas Supreme Court
affirmed the dismissal.
   At issue was whether Texas should follow 23 other states
that protect private-sector employees who report illegal
activities in the workplace. Texas law does protect public
workers, but private employers, with rare exceptions, are
permitted to hire and fire employees at will.
   In ruling against Mr. Winters, the Texas Supreme Court
said his case didn't fall within the exceptions and said it
wasn't inclined "at this time on these facts" to broaden the
protection for private-sector whistleblowers. The decision
offered little additional explanation, but a concurring
opinion by Judge Lloyd Doggett suggested that more protection
should be warranted in some cases.
   "The judiciary should not ignore those unscrupulous
employers who wield the powerful weapon of the pink slip to
intimidate workers into silence in order to conceal and
perpetuate activities in the workplace that endanger the
public," Judge Doggett wrote.
   James W. Holtz, a Houston attorney representing Mr.
Winters, said he was disappointed the court didn't explain
its decision more fully but hadn't decided whether to seek a
rehearing.
   G.E. McDavid, president of the Chronicle, said the paper
had "expected" the court to rule in its favor, asserting that
Mr. Winters had made a number of "wild allegations" that
weren't true.
   ---
   TAX ON LEGAL SERVICES challenged in Massachusetts.
   The Massachusetts and Boston bar associations filed suit
in the state's Supreme Judicial Court challenging the
constitutionality of parts of a recently enacted 5% tax on
services.
   The associations are seeking to exempt legal services from
the tax, arguing that it illegally restricts access to legal
services, violates lawyer-client confidentiality and breaches
state and federal provisions that place the regulation of
lawyers solely under the judicial branch.
   In a statement, John P. Driscoll Jr., president of the
Boston association, said, "Although we have grave concerns
for the commonwealth's fiscal health, we are compelled to
take a stand against measures that play fast and free with
our fundamental constitutional rights."
   The suit also says that the tax is unfair and
discriminatory because it targets only certain businesses.
   The court has already determined that the tax might be
permissible, but it didn't address key issues of applying the
tax to legal services, the associations said.
   The 5% levy on a host of business services is one of the
broadest such taxes in the nation. It was signed into law in
July.
   ---
   SECOND OFFICER of New Jersey company pleads guilty to bank
fraud.
   Preston Davis, former assistant treasurer and assistant
controller of Coated Sales Inc., pleaded guilty in federal
court in Newark, N.J., to allegations he was involved in a
fraud scheme. Mr. Davis admitted that he and other officers
of the defunct textile converting concern lied about the
amount of the company's assets to secure a $52 million
restructuring loan from BancBoston Financial Co. He also
admitted to conspiring to violate U.S. securities laws.
   Peter V. Ryan, Mr. Davis's attorney, said his client
"accepted culpability" but was "following directions of his
superiors."
   Shortly before Coated Sales filed for bankruptcy-court
protection in June 1988, the company was considered one of
the fastest-growing ones traded on the over-the-counter
market, according to Michael Chertoff, U.S. attorney in
Newark. By securing the loan with fictitious accounts
receivable, the officers boosted the company's net sales,
total assets and earnings per share, he said.
   Last month, the company's former chief financial officer,
Bruce Bloom, also pleaded guilty to participating in the
scheme.
   ---
   Michael Allen and Wayne E. Green contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Seeq Technology Inc.:
   Firm to Stop Making Chips,
   Plans a $10 Million Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   SEEQ
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seeq Technology Inc. said it will stop mass producing
chips at its San Jose, Calif., plant and will take a pretax
charge of up to $10 million to lay off 95 employees and
convert the plant to a research-and-development facility.
   After the conversion, which is expected to be completed in
March 1991, Seeq said it will have all its chips made for it
by other companies under contract. Seeq said that the
conversion, which will result in a $8 million to $10 million
charge in its fourth quarter, will reduce expenses and allow
it to concentrate on developing new products, new
technologies and marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Seeq began contracting out some of its production in 1989
when it formed a pact with a U.S. unit of the Netherlands'
N.V. Philips, which makes parts to Seeq's specifications in
an Albuquerque, N.M., plant. Taiwan's Hualon Microelectronics
Corp., which holds 10% of Seeq's stock, also began making
chips for Seeq in July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Ultimate Environmentalism
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   In rating the performances of Congressmen, the group
Environmental Action included a population-control vote,
which would have sent millions of dollars to a U.N. fund that
has programs in China, whose population policy of one child
per family includes forced abortions and sterilizations. When
criticized for including this volatile issue as a litmus test
in an environmental rating, Environmental Action replied that
it was important because, "the pressure of population growth
on the environment can undo all the progress we have made."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hilton's Head of Gambling Operations
   Sells Entire Stake in Company at a Loss
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   HLT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- John V. Giovenco, Hilton Hotels Corp.'s head
of gambling operations, sold his entire stake in the company
late last month at a $237,867 loss, Securities and Exchange
Commission filings show.
   The shares of the Beverly Hills, Calif., hotel and gaming
giant have plummeted this year as takeover hopes evaporated
and second-quarter earnings came in below expectations --
chiefly because of a sharp drop in the gambling operations
that Mr. Giovenco oversees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The executive's stock sale comes at a time when a
recession-skittish Wall Street has soured on gaming stocks in
general and Hilton shares in particular. Mr. Giovenco's
20,000 shares fetched an average of $35.50. That was down
from the average of $47.39 he paid for them in September and
October of 1988, and way below the stock's 12-month high of
$110.25, hit when Hilton was actively seeking merger
partners.
   Mr. Giovenco said he sold for personal reasons, but didn't
elaborate. Cheryl Marsh, an attorney for the company, said,
"We do not comment on any of the insider trading." When Mr.
Giovenco sold his Hilton shares on Aug. 22, his total
proceeds were about $710,000; he had spent about $948,000 to
buy the stock.
   Right now, Hilton is facing intense competition from other
casinos, a potential decline in traffic if a recession
occurs, and the problems of a generally overbuilt hotel
industry, said Joseph J. Doyle, an analyst at Smith Barney,
Harris Upham &amp; Co.
   Back in September 1988, Mr. Giovenco's purchase of Hilton
stock looked prescient. The day after he bought 10,000 shares
Sept. 21, the stock rose $1.50 on takeover rumors. But the
company announced this past April that it was taking itself
off the market, news that triggered the start of the stock's
steep decline. Right about that time, Financial Programs
Inc., a Denver mutual fund company, sold its $50 million
stake in Hilton because "it did not meet our expectations,"
said a Financial Programs spokesman.
   More recently, Hilton stock has fallen on the company's
July 10 report of second-quarter earnings. Hilton's operating
profit from casinos dropped 21% to $29 million. Gaming now
accounts for more than half of Hilton's earnings, and overall
company earnings fell to 79 cents a share from 89 cents a
year earlier. The stock initially fell $1.50 on the earnings
news to $51.50, and has continued a downward trend.
   Most surprising to Wall Street was Hilton's disclosure
that gambling was down at its flagship Las Vegas Hilton in
the quarter. Circus Circus's new Excalibur casino and Golden
Nugget's Mirage casino have lured away both walk-in traffic
and some high rollers from the Vegas Hilton, analysts and
portfolio managers said.
   Following the disclosure of the quarterly results,
Wertheim &amp; Co. removed the stock from its recommended list,
and Mr. Doyle of Smith Barney downgraded the stock from a
"sell" recommendation to an "avoid." The stock has fallen so
much that the Smith Barney recommendation was just changed
again, to a "hold," Mr. Doyle said. "But the outlook is
clouded and the Street continues to lower earnings
estimates," he added.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Hilton closed at $34, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   OPEC Production Rises, but Reaching
   Pre-Crisis Levels Could Take Awhile
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oil production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries is rebounding after the August plunge caused by the
Mideast crisis.
   Leading producers are starting to make good on promises to
pump more crude to replace embargoed Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil,
according to those who monitor OPEC output. They said,
however, that total OPEC production probably won't reach
pre-crisis levels of more than 23 million barrels a day until
late in the year, if then.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An anticipated gap in total crude oil supplies this month,
caused by the six-week shipping lag for Middle East oil to
reach world markets, isn't expected to be a large problem,
industry analysts said. Crude inventories, particularly in
the U.S., are high. If tight supplies or shortages do appear,
they'll probably involve only some refined products and some
regions, the analysts said.
   "There could be product imbalances," said Cristina Haus,
who monitors OPEC production for Washington-based Energy
Security Analysis. "There will be no problem in crude oil."
In addition to an increase of as much as two million barrels
a day in crude oil produced by Saudi Arabia, she said she
foresees the September output increase by the United Arab
Emirates to be more than the generally estimated 500,000
barrels a day.
   She placed total OPEC September production as high as 21.9
million barrels a day.
   "We are seeing a steady rise for September," added Conrad
Gerber, president of Petro-Logistics Ltd. of Geneva, who also
tracks OPEC output. He estimated total September OPEC output
should be at least 21.5 million barrels a day, and said "it
could hit 22 million barrels a day for October." He
maintained, however, "that is the maximum."
   Whatever the September level, it will show a sharp rise
from last month. For August, according to the figures
released last week by the International Energy Agency, OPEC
production dropped to the year's low of 19.7 million barrels
a day from more than 23 million barrels a day in the
preceding months.
   The September increase will fall short of meeting demand
for OPEC oil, estimated by energy economists at around 23
million barrels a day for the remainder of the year. That
suggests pricing volatility and big draws of inventories --
or "stocks" -- even after the additional crude begins
reaching the Western oil-consuming nations.
   Oil prices, which have climbed nearly 50% since Iraq
invaded Kuwait, fell Friday on profit-taking. In U.S. futures
trading, October crude dropped $1.39 to $30.04 a barrel,
leaving it up $2.72 a barrel for the holiday-shortened week.
The biggest gain of the week, $1.66 a barrel on Thursday,
came the day after the weekly report of the American
Petroleum Institute. That report showed U.S. crude
inventories declined 4.4 million barrels the preceding week.
   World-wide inventory reductions averaged some 300,000
barrels a day last month, according to the Paris-based IEA,
the energy watchdog agency for the Western oil-consuming
nations. For September, IEA and industry officials anticipate
bigger withdrawals, probably as much as one million barrels a
day and reaching higher amounts as winter nears.
   "There could be something like a 2.1 million
{barrels-per-day} stock draw over the fourth quarter," said
Roger Benedict, an editor with Energy Information Ltd., which
provides analysis of oil industry news. "The real crunch
could be from November on," he added. "A lot depends on how
cold the winter is."
   Petroleum inventories were exceptionally high when the
Middle East crisis began. Supplies of petroleum products were
considered in balance; there was a glut of crude in onshore
storage and at sea. As late as Aug. 31, according to the
American Petroleum Institute, U.S. crude inventories still
stood at 372.2 million barrels, or 11% higher than the
year-earlier level of 335.8 million.
   Oil companies would like to avoid drawing down stocks
further because of the uncertainties, but won't have much
choice as demand peaks seasonally in the winter months.
   The losses in OPEC's August output weren't fully reflected
in world oil markets last month. That's because tankers
carrying oil from Iraq and Kuwait still were at sea long
after the embargo closed off all exports from those
countries. Although estimates vary, Iraq's output for last
month averaged nearly one million barrels a day. That was
one-third the 3.1 million barrels a day it produced in July.
Its September output is estimated at only about 400,000
barrels a day, or just enough for domestic use.
   The impact now is more evident. According to Roy Mason,
publisher of England-based Oil Afloat, there were some 440
million barrels of oil in tankers at sea on Aug. 5, three
days after the Mideast crisis began. By Aug. 20, according to
his latest estimate, oil at sea had been drained down to 370
million barrels.
   "It has taken this long to see the effect of the cutoff"
of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil, said Mr. Mason. As a result, before
volumes of oil at sea begin rebuilding, "it's almost
inevitable that onshore stocks {inventories} will start
falling."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Canada Meat-Checking Plan Scored
   ---
   Inspectors Oppose Lifting
   Random Border Examinations
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9A
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A plan to end random border inspections of meat and
poultry shipped between the U.S. and Canada is raising safety
questions on both sides of the border.
   U.S. and Canadian agriculture officials, as part of
efforts to increase free trade, have agreed to suspend the
checks for contamination in a one-year test of an "open
border" concept. But meat inspectors on both sides contend
the plan will undercut consumer protection against filthy
food and misbranded products. "We aren't shipping furniture
or shoes back and forth; we're dealing with perishable
foods," says Frederick Coates, the union president
representing Canada's food inspectors. "With this open-border
crossing, all control will be lost."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the U.S., political opposition to the plan is building
in Congress. The Senate will consider legislation to ensure
continued spot-checks of Canadian shipments. "Reducing trade
distortions at the border doesn't mean that the U.S.
government should throw up its hands and walk away from that
border," says Rep. Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who
heads the Senate Agriculture Committee.
   Currently, meat and poultry exports are inspected at
slaughterhouses and processing plants in both nations, and
then randomly "re-inspected" at the border or at their
destinations. Under the bilateral plan, the U.S. would rely
on Canadian meat inspectors to protect Americans from food
poisoning and product mislabeling, and Canada would trust in
U.S. inspectors.
   U.S. and Canadian officials express full confidence in
each other's meat-inspection practices. But Democratic Sen.
Tom Daschle of South Dakota declared at a hearing recently on
the open-border proposal: "This is one of the biggest
examples of blind faith I've ever seen."
   Meat and poultry products account for a large part of
nearly $6 billion a year in U.S.-Canada trade in agricultural
commodities. The U.S. Agriculture Department says only 1% of
704 million pounds of all Canadian meat and poultry products
were rejected last year at the border. Meanwhile, only 1.3%
of the 317 million pounds of U.S. products going north were
found to be unfit for consumption or improperly labeled,
according to Agriculture Canada.
   But inspectors on both sides of the border contend those
figures are misleading. What really counts is the rejection
rate of the meat that was actually inspected, says William
Lehman, a U.S. border inspector at Sweet Grass, Mont. On May
11, he says he turned back 36% of the Canadian meat he
checked. On May 18, it was 14%, and the next day 22%, he
says.
   "I found fecal material, blood clots, hair, bruises, green
pus-filled abscesses that should have been obvious to people
preparing the product," says Mr. Lehman.
   In Pembina, N.D., inspector Thomas Grube says he, too, has
had similar days. Last year, he refused entry to 9.6% of the
truckloads that had been randomly selected by computer for
inspection. Much of the rejected meat was unskinned hams.
"Statistically, it tells me 10% of the product that we don't
have an opportunity to look at should be refused."
   "This open-border Mickey Mouse hasn't started yet, but the
product is already going downhill," an inspector in Blaine,
Wash., Lester Wagner, says of ham shipped by some Canadian
packers. "They've got it pumped so full of liquid it squishes
when you squeeze it. The crazy thing feels like a sponge."
   At the same time, Canadian inspectors say they have been
catching trucks carrying U.S. beef mixed in with shipments of
photocopying chemicals and other "incompatible" freight.
   This summer, just as the Agriculture Department began
taking formal comments from the public on the one-year
experiment, it had to oversee a nationwide recall of 22,000
pounds of Canadian frankfurters. U.S. inspectors at the
Buffalo border post had detected listeria, a sometimes deadly
strain of bacteria, in franks made by J.M. Schneider Inc.,
Kitchener, Ontario. State health officials have been
investigating reports of illness in New York and elsewhere.
   Under the open-border plan, the same inspectors who caught
the tainted franks would be taken off border duty. But
Canadian and U.S. officials insist there is nothing
extraordinary about the recall and that both nations have
strong inspection programs. "Their inspection is equivalent
to ours," says Lester Crawford, director of the U.S.
Agriculture Department's Food Safety and Inspection Service.
   "You very seldom get food poisoning in the U.S. It's the
same in Canada. What's so magic about the border?" says Andre
Gravel, director of Agriculture Canada's meat and poultry
products division.
   Despite a recent Free Trade Agreement between the U.S. and
Canada, border inspections remain a serious irritant in
bilateral relations. Canadian exporters have long complained
about harassment by overzealous U.S. inspectors. The Bush
administration is predisposed to remedy the problem. One of
its main objectives is global "harmonization" of sanitary
standards, including food-safety regulations, to reduce
impediments to trade. The result: On Feb. 26, Agriculture
Secretary Clayton Yeutter agreed to undertake the open-border
experiment with Canada.
   "We want to have reciprocal inspection, if we can work it
out," says the department's Mr. Crawford. "We hope to open up
a lot of borders. This experiment . . . could be applied to
other countries."
   Auditors for the General Accounting Office, the audit arm
of Congress, however, found that the department has very
little documented evidence to prove that Canada's inspection
system is as strict or effective as its own.
   Yielding to pressure from Congress, the Agriculture
Department just gave consumers and others an additional 30
days (until Sept. 5) to comment on the plan. Caught in the
middle of the fracas -- and fearful of the public-relations
fallout -- are meat producers, packers and processors on both
sides of the border.
   U.S. meatpackers fear U.S. consumers won't be able
distinguish between U.S. and Canadian products at the
supermarket and "will become suspicious of all meat," says
Mark Ulven, an aide to Sen. Daschle. But some U.S. inspectors
say they don't think Canadian products coming in are
necessarily any worse than U.S. products going north.
   The American Meat Institute and the Canadian Meat Council
are calling for a bilateral panel of government, industry,
and consumer representatives to monitor the one-year
experiment. "In theory, the proposal sounds good, but we're
going to have to look at it very closely," says Thomas Cook,
Washington lobbyist for the National Cattlemen's Association.
   Agriculture Canada's Mr. Gravel believes the concerns will
eventually be resolved. "We have bad operators and the U.S.
has bad operators," he says. "It's a matter of making sure
these bad guys are caught. Sooner or later, we're going to
catch them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Gevaert N.V.:
   Belgian Firm Says Profit
   Increased 31% in First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   B.GEV
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gevaert N.V. said group net profit rose 31% to 1.1 billion
Belgian francs ($34.4 million) in the first half, up from 842
million francs a year earlier.
   The Belgian company said operating profit grew 25% to 1.04
billion francs. Gevaert also said it expects consolidated
earnings for the year to exceed 1.7 billion francs. However,
the company warned that "the evolution of stock exchange
prices since June 30, 1990, does not allow . . . to put
forward a final figure."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Net profit for the parent company was 1.04 billion francs,
up from 942 million francs a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Being Stung for the Fun of It
   ----
   By Susan Hauser
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Paisley, Ore. -- You know the folks here aren't kidding
about this being the Mosquito Capital of the World when you
check into the local bed &amp; breakfast and your hostess, her
arms scarred from bites gone bad, hands you a can of insect
repellent.
   Any other place, they'd put a mint on your pillow. In
Paisley, a dinky town in southeastern Oregon, an offer to
spray you is a show of hospitality.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Paisley rolled out the red carpet recently for several
thousand people who (1) managed to find the town on the map;
and (2) stayed long enough to learn what a mosquito festival
is.
   A mosquito festival is . . . well, it's something that
would put Tom Sawyer to shame. You may recall that clever Tom
got out of painting the fence himself. Now that was just one
day. The people of Paisley have been carrying out their ruse
for seven years.
   Since 1984, at the height of what is recognized as the
worst mosquito infestation in Oregon, the Paisleyites (all
345 of them) have proclaimed their annual Mosquito Festival.
   Each year more suckers, er, visitors, pour into town on a
hot summer weekend to attend the coronation of Ms. Quito,
watch the Mosquito Festival parade, buy souvenir T-shirts and
spend money at events such as the horseshoe tournament,
tomahawk-throwing contest and chicken-poop lotto.
   After the out-of-towners leave Paisley, with their wallets
considerably lighter, the denizens count their take and put
in a big order for mosquito spray. Then, for the rest of the
year, they live in relative comfort, free of the legendary
clouds of mosquitoes that some folks remember from
pre-festival days.
   Why, it used to be so bad that Bob Rutledge's horses lost
about 200 pounds a year, just trying to run away from the
mosquitoes. Thanks to the Mosquito Festival, he said, the
horses now lose only 20 pounds.
   "You could ride a white horse out into the marsh and
pretty soon it would be brown and then {shudder} red," he
said.
   Pre-festival mosquitoes "reduced visibility," according to
Beverly Hills, the 1984 Ms. Quito. And Pam Forga, the 1987
Ms. Quito, said nobody went out at night, but if they had to,
they covered as much skin as they could and didn't open their
mouths, for fear of swallowing mosquitoes.
   To add insult to injury for Paisley teenagers, the place
one was most likely to be bitten was Lovers' Lane, a gravel
road that extends into the soggy marshlands that surround the
town. Never daring to bare their flesh or open their mouths,
young lovers could sit in their cars and watch cattle in
neighboring fields being stampeded by swarms of mosquitoes.
   Until they hatched the idea of a Mosquito Festival, the
Paisleyites tried many solutions. Aerial sprays just blew
away, and electric bug zappers, which they attached to nearly
every telephone pole in town, kept folks awake with constant
bug electrocutions. Besides that, mosquitoes weren't
attracted to the zappers' light.
   About a zillion other bugs were, and their zapped corpses
created huge mounds on the sidewalk at the base of every
telephone pole. The dead bugs attracted a nightly parade of
skunks, but darned if the people of Paisley were going to
throw a Skunk Festival, too.
   But this Mosquito Festival notion has been working just
fine. The first festival raised enough money to buy a mobile
sprayer, and enough spray to douse the town a couple of
times. Relief was in sight.
   The festival proceeds get a little higher each year, so
that these days the town can afford to spray once or twice a
week during the summer. This year's take, for example, was
well over $20,000.
   Mosquitoes beware.
   Regular spraying plus unusually dry weather kept the
mosquitoes at bay during the 1990 Mosquito Festival. But just
in case, Paisley Mercantile had stocked up on "skeeter dope,"
and the folks who rode in the parade (mostly people dressed
up as mosquitoes) threw insect swatters to the crowd.
   Before the parade began, the 1990 Ms. Quito was crowned in
the shadow of the town's giant mosquito statue. JoAnn Solheim
was all aquiver at the honor, but one got the impression
that, sooner or later, every female in Paisley would become
Ms. Quito.
   The 1989 Ms. Quito, Cindy Vickerman, admitted that bearing
the title for an entire year had not boosted her prestige.
"People laugh at me," she said. As for her official duties:
"Shoot, I can't think of anything."
   According to mosquito experts, there are at least 15
varieties of mosquitoes breeding in the marshlands around
Paisley. Cattle ranchers flood-irrigate their hay fields
every summer, and the mosquitoes move right in.
   The Paisleyites have been told that the only comparable
mosquito population in the U.S. is in Alaska, but the
occasional Alaskan visitor to Paisley is said to leave in a
hurry, eager to get home to where the mosquitoes just nibble,
and don't take a pound (or two, or 200) of flesh.
   Thanks to the Mosquito Festival, clouds of ravenous
insects swarming through town are becoming a distant memory.
They'll stay that way, too, as long as people are just
itching to come to Paisley every year to help celebrate a
scourge.
   ---
   Ms. Hauser is a free-lance writer based in Portland, Ore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Texas Instruments
   Is Sued by Tandy
   Over Patent Policy
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TXN TAN
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Tandy Corp., bristling at Texas Instruments
Inc.'s increasingly aggressive patent protection campaign,
accused its north Texas neighbor of fraudulently claiming
certain microprocessor technologies as its own.
   In a complaint filed in U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, Tandy, a Fort Worth
electronics maker and retailer, also charged that Texas
Instruments, a semiconductor maker and defense concern,
violated federal antitrust laws, by demanding "unreasonably
high" royalty payments and by requiring Tandy to buy licenses
it didn't need in order to obtain other crucial Texas
Instruments technologies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It isn't at all certain that Tandy's claims will prevail
in court, but several industry observers said the lawsuit
could blunt Texas Instruments' strategy of using legal
threats to squeeze new revenue out of technology it has
pioneered over the years.
   "This lawsuit is just another example (resulting from)
TI's legal department trying to outmarket the marketing
department," said Bruce Entin, a spokesman for LSI Logic
Corp., a Milpitas, Calif., semiconductor maker, which has
been accused by Texas Instruments of infringing patents on a
basic chip-making process. "TI seems to have made a practice
of using its patent portfolio as a way to produce profits,
rather than as a way to protect intellectual property," he
added. LSI denies any wrongdoing.
   A spokesman for Texas Instruments declined to comment on
the Tandy lawsuit, saying officials hadn't had a chance to
review it.
   Vigorous enforcement of decades-old patents has paid off
for Texas Instruments so far. Analysts estimate that it
collects about $100 million a year in royalties from Japanese
and South Korean companies for a basic memory-chip
technology. And last December, Texas Instruments was granted
a patent in Japan for the basic integrated-circuit
technology, a patent that analysts say could bring the
company $150 million to $650 million a year.
   But Texas Instruments has also made some enemies,
particularly when it started putting the squeeze on U.S.
companies. Tandy, which owns the nationwide chain of Radio
Shack stores, said its dispute began last year, when Texas
Instruments notified Tandy that its Grid Systems Corp.
subsidiary was infringing several patents in making certain
laptop computers. The suit was filed in California in part
because Grid is based there.
   The claims covered several functions of microprocessors,
the ubiquitous chips that serve as the brains of tens of
millions of computers around the world.
   Tandy said it agreed to a licensing arrangement at
inflated prices and involving certain technologies it didn't
even need because of Texas Instruments' dominance of the
market. "Because of the number, importance and uniqueness of
the patents it owns or controls, TI has the ability to
control prices and/or exclude competition in the license
market in the U.S.," the lawsuit claims.
   In a somewhat unusual twist, Tandy also claims that Texas
Instruments fraudulently obtained a key microprocessor patent
in 1973, but that the chip was invented years earlier by Ted
Hoff of Intel Corp. The suit charges that Texas Instruments
"concealed" this information from the U.S. Patent Office, and
that the patent is thus "invalid and unenforceable."
   Roger Borovoy, a former Intel general counsel, said it
could be true that Mr. Hoff, a legendary figure in the
computer industry, invented the microprocessor. But he said
that Texas Instruments beat Intel in filing a patent, and
that it would be difficult now to overturn this patent. He
said Tandy would have to prove that Mr. Hoff not only
invented the device, but that he didn't stop working on it.
"I'm not saying it isn't possible to do, but it's a very
tough burden of proof," he said.
   The dispute was further clouded by the U.S. Patent
Office's decision a few weeks ago to grant a far-reaching
microprocessor patent to Gilbert P. Hyatt, a previously
obscure inventor living in La Palma, Calif.
   "The question of ownership is so complex it makes rich men
out of patent lawyers," said Richard Shaffer, editor of
Technologic Computer Letter, a trade publication.
   ---
   Jim Bartimo contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Luddite Schools Wage a Wasteful War
   ----
   By Lewis J. Perelman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Perhaps the most pernicious myth thwarting progress in
education today is the shibboleth that "Technology will never
replace the classroom teacher." The truth: It already has.
   I recently witnessed a demonstration of a computer program
that can teach any student of any age to read English up to
any level of proficiency -- without the aid of a human
teacher. The product, to be marketed next year by a
California company, Periscope Software, was pilot tested in
public schools and produced reading gains far superior to
conventional classes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This is an exciting but not unique example. Two decades of
research show that computer-based instruction produces at
least 30% more learning in 40% less time at 30% less cost
compared to traditional classroom teaching. Other research
demonstrated 125 technologies and methods that proved to at
least double the productivity of teaching -- yielding at
least twice as much learning for each unit of labor, cost, or
time.
   These tools -- as well as the VCR, television, and even
the telephone -- are almost totally unused in U.S. schools
and colleges. The cost to the U.S. economy of academia's
successful resistance to technological innovation is at least
$100 billion a year. The country simply can no longer afford
this kind of waste. A technological revolution now is totally
transforming the role of learning and teaching in the modern
economy. As a result, the "Yak in the Box" model of
instructional technology -- the 1,000-year-old lecturing
classroom professor -- will have as much place in the 21st
century's learning enterprise as the blacksmith shop has in
today's transportation system.
   There is nothing the education establishment can do to
stop this revolution, except on its own turf -- it's
happening everywhere outside the schools. For instance,
corporate education departments are spending at least 300
times more on computer-based instruction than public schools
are, as a share of their total budgets. Companies like Unisys
and IBM are restructuring employee education programs to
replace the great bulk of classroom teaching with instruction
delivered by computers and telecommunications -- to achieve
better results at less cost.
   Classrooms and teachers are far too costly and slow to
meet the Information Age's exploding demand for learning.
Increasingly learning is built into both production systems
and consumer products. For example, in the past decade the
U.S. went from having nearly no personal computers to having
some 45 million PCs in use, which means that some 60 million
people learned how to use PCs. We know that almost none of
this economically and socially crucial learning took place in
schools. It was "delivered" by vendors, manuals, tutorial
software, videos, telephone hot lines, user groups, books,
magazines, electronic bulletin boards, built-in "help"
systems, much trial-and-error and a great deal of schmoozing.
And many parents and teachers will testify that kids often
led adults in climbing up the PC learning curve.
   Many business leaders are eager to see education embrace
leading-edge technology. But few seem to recognize that, in
the absence of wide-open choice and competition, the
school-of-the-future and the classroom-of-tomorrow will
continue to be the meretricious hoaxes they always have been.
On the other hand, restructuring advocates inside and outside
the school system who rightly see "choice" as the key to
educational "perestroika" often don't seem to realize that
technology is essential to the success of such a policy. For
teachers to become the high-tech professionals they need and
increasingly want to be, the agendas of technology and choice
need to be melded into a single platform for change.
   U.S. public schools and colleges are technologically stuck
in the Middle Ages for the same reason Soviet collective
farms are: a complete lack of accountability to the consumer
and total insulation from competitive, market forces.
Central, bureaucratic, "command" management provides no
incentive -- and a thicket of discouragements -- for
productivity, and hence for innovation. Russian grocery
stores are not barren because Soviet farmers are ignorant of
the potential of hybrid seed, fertilizers, and so forth to
increase food production. It just doesn't pay any better for
the collective farmer to grow corn than just to grow old.
   American teachers and schools are trapped in the same
political quagmire. A friend of mine tried to sell a
marvelous interactive video system for building the basic
skills of sub-literate adults to the adult-education division
of a major urban public school district. He argued that the
system would virtually pay for itself by increasing
productivity at least 30% -- students could get through the
curriculum with better achievement about a third faster. "You
don't understand," the division director said. "The district
pays us for attendance, not achievement. There's no reward
for getting students through here faster; if anything, my ADA
{average daily attendance} might go down and my budget could
get cut."
   Similarly, when I did a study a couple of years ago for
one of the country's most affluent school districts to find
out why the vast majority of teachers had shown no interest
in participating in a multimillion-dollar program aimed at
expanding computer-based instruction, one teacher I
interviewed could have spoken for thousands when she said:
"Why should I do anything different next year from what I did
last year? Who cares?" Changing to new ways of teaching takes
time, effort, risk and money. The bureaucracy was offering
nothing even to cover these costs to her, much less any
reward for success.
   Only when schools have to earn their revenues in the
marketplace by competing to serve consumers who are free to
choose where to take their business (and money) will schools
and teachers have the incentive to adopt productive
technologies. And only when schools are free to operate as
autonomous enterprises -- with true "school-based management"
-- will educators have the opportunity to use their own
resources to acquire the technologies they judge to work
best.
   The latter point is often overlooked. We need choice and
competition in education not only to goad technical
innovation but to provide quality control. The market is the
essential solution to the "one best system" fallacy that has
yielded, among other disasters, the dumbing down of the
school textbook to perfect idiocy.
   Also overlooked is how crucial technology is to the
success of the policy called "choice" -- which, to work
effectively, must include the freedom for teachers to choose
how to design and run their schools as well as the freedom
for students to choose what schools and programs to attend.
Technology blows away many of the key objections to choice
programs: That "choice" is phony when all schools are
essentially the same. That successful schools will be filled
up and leave many students stuck in bad schools. That
distance and geography limit actual choices.
   First, computer-based, multimedia and other advanced
technologies now provide not only great diversity in
instructional designs, but enable us to custom-make programs
to meet each student's individual needs, abilities and goals.
So "sameness" is obsolete.
   Moreover, "distance learning" -- the use of
telecommunications to deliver instruction from anyone,
anywhere to anyone, anywhere -- virtually eradicates spatial
barriers to choice. Once we recognize that "school" is a
process not a building, it's clear that we can now deliver as
many different schools as cable TV channels, to wherever
there is an adequate terminal. In the U.S., that's just about
everywhere. Every student can have access to the best
teachers and instruction available in every subject. Distance
learning can liberate minorities from the knowledge ghetto.
   Techno-choice is an essential strategy to save education
from economic irrelevancy -- and the American workforce from
disastrous impoverishment. But it requires wholesale
replacement of lecturers and classrooms with silicon chips
and glass threads.
   The obsolescence of the job of "classroom teacher" need
not be a threat to the people who now hold that position.
They won't be thrown on the scrapheap or sent to the glue
factory. Indeed, the learning revolution is opening a golden
age for professional educators who are truly dedicated to
serving the consumer. But "more of the same" is not an
option. Teachers now must decide what role they will play in
this revolution: vanguard or victim, leader or Luddite.
   ---
   Mr. Perelman is director of Project Learning 2001 at the
Hudson Institute. This is adapted from an article in the
September issue of Teacher Magazine.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   TV Networks Bet Quirky New Programs,
   Schedule Changes Will Win Back Viewers
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CCB CBS NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prime-time soap operas may be nearly extinct,
but the new television season that begins later this month is
riddled with its own sort of melodrama:
   Which antihero will win the nation's heart: a beer-bellied
slob named Uncle Buck or a street-wise rapper who has
annointed himself the Fresh Prince? Will America dump its
favorite dad for a spiky-haired, unrepentant punk named Bart
Simpson? Might "Twin Peaks" freaks just stop caring who
killed Laura Palmer and resurrect the career of that
perennial goofball, Carol Burnett?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And then there's the biggest question of all: Will the Big
Three networks succeed in slowing or halting their steady
decline as viewers turn to alternatives?
   Last season, the three networks played it safe, serving up
shows that the critics dismissed as dull, bordering on
stupid. But they came away with no new hits, and their share
of the nightly audience slid to a lowly 65%, down two points
from the previous season and off sharply from an 86.2% share
a decade ago.
   This time around, the Big Three are embracing risk and
aiming for fare that is quirky, controversial and -- whenever
possible, it seems -- in questionable taste. The networks and
their Fox stepsister are poised to launch nearly three dozen
shows this season. They are also assigning new time slots to
19 returning series, an unusually high number of scheduling
changes.
   Some fret about the extent of the switches. "On the one
hand, all this change creates excitement," says Robert A.
Iger, the top programming executive at ABC, owned by Capital
Cities/ABC Inc. "But on the other hand, we're creating chaos
that could turn out to be detrimental. I just don't know how
you stop this."
   The network moves will force the audience to make tough
choices, or, worse, compel techno-klutz viewers to finally
bone up on how to program their videocassete recorders to
tape one show while they watch another.
   Here is a preview of some of the key battles:
                                                                                                       

   MONDAYS AT 8 P.M.
                                                                                                       

   America has a penchant for picking new antiheroes, and
this season the choice may boil down to CBS's Uncle Buck -- a
rotund, foul-mouthed guardian of three bratty, wise-cracking
kids -- or NBC's Fresh Prince, a cocky, mug-for-the-camera
rap singer who postures with a hard-edged sweetness.
   For CBS's "Uncle Buck," the other looming issue may be
whether a John Candy vehicle can work without its driver. The
latter-day Fatty Arbuckle won raves in the movie, but the
weekly character will be played by a lesser known -- and
smaller -- big guy, Kevin Meany. Can Mr. Meany's gross
habits, which include tossing a lit cigar into a fish tank,
attract an audience?
   NBC hopes "Fresh Prince of Bel Air" is a fish-out-of-water
premise that can jumpstart the network's Monday lineup. The
show stars Will Smith as an inner-city kid from Philadelphia
whose parents ship him cross-country to live with his
wealthy, stuffy relatives.
   Both shows target the young audience. "We're in the best
possible position," says Andy Borowitz, co-executive producer
of "Fresh Prince," adding that "NBC finished No. 3 in the
time period last year, so anything we do will be an
improvement." Advance word from critics and ad executives is
positive for "Fresh Prince" -- and negative for the Buckster.
                                                                                                       

   WEDNESDAYS AT 10 P.M.
                                                                                                       

   Take your pick: NBC's traditional, tough-talking TV cop --
played by the Clint Eastwood of series fare, former football
player Fred Dwyer, sans his gorgeous sidekick of six seasons
-- or ABC's bellowing baritone, who walks a beat on the
cops-and-crime musical "Cop Rock."
   "Hunter" represents more of the same, starting its seventh
season of the usual bang-bang and "works for me" acting of
Mr. Dwyer. But for ABC, "Cop Rock" figures as a big risk: It
is a police drama presented as a musical, with original songs
scored by the acerbic Randy Newman.
   "Cop Rock" is the second series produced for ABC by "Hill
Street Blues" co-creator Steven Bochco, who is under an
exclusive contract to the network. Mr. Iger, president of ABC
Entertainment, is betting on weirdness, and Mr. Bochco has
served him well before: "Doogie Howser M.D." on ABC was the
only semi-success of any new show last fall. And in some
ways, the "Doog Man," as he is affectionately known, was just
as off-center -- the show focuses on a 16-year-old, pubescent
surgeon and manages to make him believable.
   But the surprise sleeper could well turn out to be CBS's
"WIOU." While "Hunter" and "Cop Rock" play up policemen and
are expected to draw a macho crowd, "WIOU" chronicles the
goings-on at a hapless local TV station and aims to appeal to
women. Sponsors take note.
                                                                                                       

   THURSDAYS AT 8 P.M.

   It's spike-haired Bart and his cartoon family on Fox's
"The Simpsons" against the series that is credited with
turning around NBC, "The Cosby Show." Add to the face-off a
goofy yet expensive show, CBS's "The Flash," and viewers may
see the hottest contest of the week. All three series aim for
youngsters, who control the dial at 8 p.m. and bring their
folks along with them.
   Will the fatherly advice doled out by Bill Cosby get
drowned out by the doltish rantings of the overweight,
bumbling Homer Simpson -- the patriarch that far more men can
identify with?
   New episodes of "The Cosby Show" premiere Sept. 20, while
originals of "The Simpsons" won't appear until Oct. 11. But
Bill Cosby has been whupping Bart for three consecutive weeks
now, and already Fox's rivals are gloating.
   "Cosby is still the champ," declares Bernie Kukoff,
co-executive producer of the long-running, highly rated show.
He's even considering taking a shot at "The Simpsons" by
including an apt joke in a later episode.
   "I'll admit the results so far have made us more nervous
about a move we didn't want in the first place," says Sam
Simon, co-executive producer of "The Simpsons." "We were much
more fragile than people thought, and I think it was much too
soon to move us. But the show is important to everyone at
Fox, so they won't let us die on Thursdays."
   CBS, in third place in the prime-time ratings for three
consecutive years, thinks "The Flash" will drain young
viewers away from Fox's radical dude, Bart Simpson. "We're
the underdog with the least amount to lose," says Jeff
Sagansky, president of CBS Entertainment. "We think we could
be the spoiler when the season starts."
   The series that will benefit from having three shows chase
the same audience features a cutesy nun who solves crimes.
The earnest ABC series "Father Dowling Mysteries," which
features singer Ricky Nelson's daughter as a nun and Tom
Bosley, the dad from the old "Happy Days" series, as the
father, draws an older crowd and may win big among women over
25, an attractive target for advertisers.
                                                                                                       

   SATURDAYS AT 10 P.M.
                                                                                                       

   Forget about who killed Laura Palmer. The real mystery of
"Twin Peaks" is whether many viewers still care. Fans were
miffed when the seven-episode trial series ended last season
without solving the central mystery. Now, how long will it be
before mainstream America tires of the dare-to-be-quirky
techniques of David Lynch, the off-kilter film director who
co-created the series?
   Saturday at 10 o'clock is the lowest-viewing hour of the
week, but ABC is betting that people are at home doing
something else. Last season "Twin Peaks" wowed America and
got lots of ink by taking a tired formula, the soap opera,
and adding a pinch of the bizarre. Long shots of a traffic
light swinging in the breeze; a young lady with an uncanny
talent involving her tongue and the stem of a cherry; and a
dreamy, dancing dwarf were among the elements that taxed
viewers' tolerance.
   But programmers question whether the novelty can last as a
recurring weekly staple. "The show is important for a
network's signature in wanting to be different," says ABC's
Mr. Iger. "I didn't put it on Saturday to kill it. People are
watching their TV sets on Saturday night, but they're not
watching network television. We have to give them a reason
to."
   "Twin Peaks," for all of its calculated loopiness, will go
up against some rather traditional rivals. CBS Inc.'s network
will air the sometimes-hot news show "48 Hours." NBC will
broadcast the comedy anthology "Carol &amp; Co.," in which the
venerable Ms. Burnett plays a different role every week.
   Warren Littlefield, president of NBC Entertainment, the
programming division of General Electric Co.'s National
Broadcasting Co. network, remains confident that NBC will
continue to win the night. "We feel we have the show viewers
want," he says. He also professes to be unconcerned that
millions of young viewers may tune to ABC to find out what
kind of pie will send FBI agent Dale Cooper swooning, or that
older viewers may turn to CBS to find out how its
correspondents spent two days and two nights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kansas Gas &amp; Electric Co.:
   Deferral by U.S. Is Sought
   On Kansas City P&amp;L's Bid
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13F
</SO>
<CO>
   KGE KLT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kansas Gas &amp; Electric Co., Wichita, asked the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission to defer action on Kansas City
Power &amp; Light Co.'s $27-a-share, or $857 million, bid to
acquire Kansas G&amp;E.
   Kansas G&amp;E's motion on Friday asked regulators to deny the
Kansas City, Mo., utility's request for expedited approval of
its acquisition plans; the takeover bid was launched July 23.
Kansas G&amp;E claims the federal agency should wait until a
federal lawsuit, which challenges the legality of the tender
offer, is resolved.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The motion filed with the regulatory agency stated that
"it would not be in the public interest for the commission or
the parties to consider the application if the transaction
forming its basis is illegal." A Kansas City P&amp;L spokesman
said the offer complies with all legal requirements.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Kansas G&amp;E shares closed at $25.375, up 50 cents, and Kansas
City P&amp;L shares closed at $29.75, up 37.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Docu-Crimes of Darkest Gotham
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   What television writers think of as the important problems
of our time is always worth noting, especially since the
important problems of our times and those television
identifies as such frequently don't have much in common.
Still, sometimes they do, particularly now that prime time is
dabbling in stuff best described as the new realism.
   Take NBC's ambitious new series, "Law &amp; Order," the first
segment of which (airing Thursday, 10-11 p.m. EDT) admittedly
doesn't have a lot to get real about. Its subject is how the
majesty of the law and the wit and wisdom of our police
cooperate to defeat a criminal doctor, the chief of medicine
no less, of one of New York's most distinguished hospitals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The doctor, it appears, is a dipsomaniac who has been
killing patients by misprescribing medication. Next week's
installment concerns a young ballerina turned subway
vigilante. A person could get the impression from this lineup
that it is our killer professional class -- middle-class
cardiologists and ballerinas and such -- who are out there
committing the mayhem keeping our court system busy.
   How did these plot lines hatch, one sometimes wonders when
watching TV? From what seed did this life spring? Much of the
time such questions are doomed to remain among life's
imponderable mysteries, but in the case of these two segments
of "Law &amp; Order" the answer is clear, despite disclaimers in
the credits informing us that any resemblance to real persons
is purely coincidental. To say this is to give the word
coincidental a new meaning.
   For those who recall the notorious death of Libby Zion,
daughter of the New York journalist Sidney Zion, which
occurred shortly after she entered one of New York's most
prestigious hospitals to be treated for a fever, episode one
should ring a coincidental bell. That death, it was charged,
was caused by the negligence of attending doctors, who
administered medicine that was contraindicated. Entitled
"Prescription for Death," Thursday's "Law &amp; Order" segment
follows the lines of this tragedy closely before switching
focus to the fiction about the hushed-up crimes of the
hospital's nationally renowned cardiologist, a role Paul
Sparer plays with crusty panache. Maybe it just seems that
way, but this could be the first time in ages that prime time
has portrayed a case of alcoholism in such purely
condemnatory terms. There is no enlightening talk here about
the disease of addiction, no talk of rehabilitation, no Betty
Ford clinics in this doctor's future.
   The inspiration for next week's episode will need no
explaining, it being obvious from the first seconds that
Bernhard Goetz has been reborn for television in the person
of a woman. A lean and spare blonde like the original, this
incarnation of Goetz is, also like the original, a victim of
an earlier mugging who is determined never to be a victim
again. When two black teenagers crowd threateningly up
against her in the subway, carrying, some say, a screwdriver,
the ballerina plugs them with her unlicensed gun. Much of
what happens next will be familiar. One of the toughs she
hits is paralyzed from the waist down.
   Its weaknesses aside -- which include overdrawn
characterizations and dialogue bearing no resemblance to
human discourse -- "Law &amp; Order" has the makings of an
intelligent hit. It has pace and it has polish, and as these
things go, a stellar cast. There is, for example, Steven
Hill, in the role of Manhattan's district attorney. He is one
of our better character actors, and one invariably splendid
at conveying the fatigued, slightly corrupt intelligence of
seasoned top officials. Set in a New York City police
precinct, the program expends its first half-hour on the
apprehension of the criminal, the second on the way the
courts deal with the case. Its flaws -- writers' flaws and
point-of-view flaws -- are obvious in this script that flits
from viewpoint to viewpoint, that gives voice to all
arguments equally. In television, this sort of to-ing and
fro-ing often parades itself as complexity, and in this "Law
&amp; Order" is no exception.
   We also get to see a lot of two extremely loquacious
detectives, who spend their days sharing moral precepts and
analyses of the system, in an endless rat-a-tat-tat of neatly
polished epigrams. The same holds for the character of the
earnest assistant district attorney (Michael Moriarty), a
well nigh unbearable prig, who argues the cases in court. Not
for nothing does the lawyer for the female Goetz accuse him
of "Jesuitical casuistry," a term, it is safe to say, that
doesn't get a lot of use on prime-time series, or, for that
matter, in the courtrooms of New York City. The particularly
interesting thing about this series, at least so far, is the
evidence of an effort to grapple with uncomfortable facts.
When a prime-time series begins, as this one does, to push
and prod at issues like white fears and black crime, in ways
that would have been unthinkable say, 15 years ago, the
quality of the prodding seems -- almost -- beside the point.
As Dr. Johnson once said about women preaching (in the days
when it was still possible for a sexist to utter benighted
comments without getting his skull crushed), the wonder is
not that they do it well but that they do it at all.
   The subway episode in fact makes no bones about the fears
that white and black citizens alike feel, when confronted by
a gang of black teenagers in a subway or street. Television
has come a long way, evidently, from the '70s, when Norman
Lear's way of dealing with such issues was to construct a
story line in which two black criminals break into Archie
Bunker's house. Whereupon they are revealed to be models of
wit and cerebration, gallant and kindly to Edith -- your
typical urban mugger in short, in every way morally superior
to Archie, particularly, the script let us know, because
Archie kept a gun in the house.
   To be sure, "Law &amp; Order" does take pains to underline the
dangers of guns, though the assistant district attorney's
passionate plea that the courts not encourage people to arm
themselves against crime lest we have a new Dodge City, is an
argument that does not air at the most opportune of times,
considering the number and brutality of the crimes armed
criminals have visited on unarmed innocent citizens. Still,
"Law &amp; Order" in most other ways puts its finger on the issue
burning in the public gut, the issue that is just what the
title says it is.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   BankAmericarnage: A Twice-Told Tale
   ----
   By Michael A. Robinson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A13
</SO>
<LP>
   Sam Armacost could stand it no longer. From the purgatory
of his offices at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets, the man who
had once run the Bank of America watched as A.W. "Tom"
Clausen grabbed the lion's share of credit for what is
arguably the greatest banking recovery of all time.
   Though Mr. Armacost had been fired as B of A's chief
executive officer after a disastrous series of losses, he
also had engineered the bank's revival, recruiting several
key executives from rival Wells Fargo and cutting costs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Giving vent to his frustration, according to Moira
Johnston's "Roller Coaster: The Bank of America and the
Future of American Banking" (Ticknor &amp; Fields, 417 pages,
$22.95), Mr. Armacost picked up the phone and called Ron
Rhody, B of A's chief public relations man.
   "Hey, Ron," Mr. Armacost told his former subordinate, "I'm
partly amused and partly annoyed. You know what we
accomplished . . . We brought the expense line down to zero."
   No longer content to suffer in silence, Mr. Armacost
finally agreed to talk at length with Ms. Johnston about the
turbulence that shook B of A to its foundations. So in this
book we read how he rid the bank of weak managers who had
been put there by Mr. Clausen before he retired in 1981 to
run the World Bank (only to return after Mr. Armacost's
downfall). Breaking with tradition and going outside
"MotherBank," Mr. Armacost hired executives who could operate
in banking's tough new world of deregulation. He purchased
discount broker Charles Schwab &amp; Co. as well as Seafirst Bank
in Seattle as part of a diversification drive.
   Later, when the bank languished under enormous loan
losses, it was the Armacost team that fired thousands of
workers. Tom Cooper, the chief operating officer Mr. Armacost
lured to B of A to help with the recovery, led this
housecleaning. Mr. Armacost's plan called for 1988 earnings
of $711 million; the bank actually earned $726 million. But
by then Mr. Clausen was back running the show.
   To Ms. Johnston's credit, "Roller Coaster" does not become
a big soapbox for Sam Armacost. Instead, the author
reconstructs many of the mistakes that contributed to his
ouster. She suggests that his greatest error was, ironically,
his loyalty to Tom Clausen and the Bank of America heritage.
Rather than take huge loan losses early and start with a
clean slate of managers, Mr. Armacost decided to move more
cautiously and to build a consensus within the wounded giant.
   "Roller Coaster" pulls no punches when it comes to Tom
Clausen. The man who ran B of A in the 1970s, making it the
world's most profitable bank, and who reemerged as its savior
in the late 1980s, is convincingly portrayed as a
coldblooded, profoundly insecure autocrat who sought size and
profits to assuage his lack of self-confidence.
   A seasoned journalist and author, most notably of
"Takeover: The New Wall Street Warriors," Ms. Johnston finds
her stride quickly and writes with a crisp narrative style.
She is at her best in painting psychological portraits and
re-creating the sweeping panorama of international events
that affected American banking: inflation, petrodollar
lending, the collapse of energy prices and Third World debt.
   Unfortunately, "Roller Coaster" offers few facts to
advance it beyond the territory claimed by Gary Hector in
"Breaking the Bank: The Decline of BankAmerica" (Little,
Brown), which appeared two years ago and now is available in
paperback. Did Ms. Johnston read "Breaking the Bank" before
embarking on her own treatise? Mr. Hector's book is not even
listed in the bibliography.
   Ignoring the Hector book was a mistake, for "Roller
Coaster" covers much of the same material: Mr. Clausen's rude
firing of Al Rice, vice-chairman of the bank; Chuck Schwab's
showdown with Mr. Armacost; the numerous management meetings
with consultant Ichak Adizes; the attempts by First
Interstate and Sandy Weil to acquire Bank of America; and,
finally, Mr. Armacost's departure.
   For his part, Mr. Hector is tough on both Mr. Clausen and
Mr. Armacost, portraying the latter as a smooth salesman who
kept his board members in the dark and who was seen golfing
when he should have been redoubling his efforts at the bank.
He profiles Mr. Clausen as a humorless executive who suffered
a "charisma bypass."
   Unlike "Roller Coaster," "Breaking the Bank" did not have
on-the-record quotations from Chairman Armacost. However, Mr.
Hector did talk with the former CEO's allies, and he provides
a convincing and highly detailed picture of corporate
intrigue and the board machinations.
   Since "Roller Coaster" appears two years after "Breaking
the Bank," it seems only fair to state that Ms. Johnston
should have put her talent to use explaining how Tom Clausen
and the new B of A executives built on Mr. Armacost's mixed
legacy. In other words, Ms. Johnston should have devoted more
space to recounting the detail of a turnaround that brought B
of A back to the front ranks of American Banking rather than
restate the events that led to its downfall.
   ---
   Mr. Robinson is the former San Francisco bureau chief for
American Banker.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caesars World Inc.
   Again Extends Its Bid
   For New Jersey Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7C
</SO>
<CO>
   CJN CAW
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Caesars World Inc. again extended its
$22-a-share tender offer for the 2,175,945 shares of Caesars
New Jersey Inc. it doesn't already own to midnight Sept. 21
from last Friday.
   The hotel and casino operator holds about 86.6% of Caesars
New Jersey's 16,261,531 common shares outstanding. As of
Thursday, about 1,783,567 shares had been tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caesars World has agreed in principle to make an
additional payment of 25 cents a share as part of a
settlement of lawsuits brought by some Caesars New Jersey
shareholders. Final court approval isn't expected for at
least two months.
   Caesars also said the New Jersey Casino Control Commission
has scheduled a hearing Sept. 19 to consider a petition filed
by a Caesars New Jersey holder alleging, among other things,
that the $22-a-share price is inadequate. The hearing is to
determine whether the petitioner has the standing to bring
the issue before the regulators.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   NCR
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Bill Collectors Master
   Automated Arm-Twisting
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   DEADBEATS beware. "Skip tracing" is becoming increasingly
automated.
   Some collection agencies are using personal computers to
search huge national databases of names and addresses such as
one owned by Metromail, a Lombard, Ill., unit of R.R.
Donnelley &amp; Sons. Others buy compact disks containing monthly
updates of phone directories from regional phone companies.
   One of the newest systems is SearchLink from Digital
Systems International, a Redmond, Wash., maker of automated
dialing equipment for collection agencies. If a bill
collector can't find the debtor at a phone number, or if the
phone is disconnected, SearchLink forwards the record to
Acolaid, a 104 million-name database owned by Computer
Graphics, Phoenix, Ariz.
   The Acolaid database, which includes information from
telephone directories, driver's license records and the
Postal Service's change-of-address files, first crosschecks
names and addresses to see if the information was wrong. It
automatically fixes phone numbers or ZIP codes that were
recorded incorrectly.
   If the information was right, the database can deliver the
name and phone number of as many as eight neighbors -- known
in the trade as nearbys. It can also list people with the
same surname in nearby ZIP code areas. They might be
relatives who would know where a debtor had skipped to.
   Neil Hanley, vice president of operations for JDR
Recovery, a Ramsey, N.J., collection agency, says he's using
the system to determine "how many nearbys it's necessary to
call -- is the guy across the street better to call than the
guy next door?"
                                                                                                       

   Wireless PC Networks
   Get a Jolt From NCR
                                                                                                       

   THE HIGH-TECH goal of tying computers together in networks
often founders on the low-tech problem of putting in wires,
which can cost $500 to $1,000 a PC in older buildings.
   A few firms have introduced wireless radio and infrared
networks to solve the problem, but they've been slow and
expensive.
   Today, NCR will unveil a wireless local area network, or
LAN, using radio waves that send data at two million bits a
second, one-fifth the rate of wire networks, but nine times
as fast as previous wireless LANs. NCR's product, WaveLAN,
costs $1,390, more than twice as much as network cards that
let computers connect to wires, but users avoid cabling.
   Cees Links, WaveLAN product manager at NCR, Dayton, Ohio,
says the system will be marketed initially to companies that
frequently move PCs around. He says retailers who add
point-of-sale terminals for holiday sales are interested in
buying systems.
   Bankers also are showing interest in WaveLAN for old
branches, in part because a bank's own computer experts can
install a wireless LAN, while cabling requires outside
contractors. "Banks don't want anyone but their own people to
install networks, because they're so security-conscious,"
says Mr. Links.
                                                                                                       

   Hard Disks at the Office
   Aren't Private Anymore
                                                                                                       

   PCS on networks are likely to become less personal.
   XTree, a San Luis Obispo, Calif., software company,
recently introduced a software program that lets network
administrators read files stored on hard disks in users'
computers.
   Michael Chuises, XTree's product manager, says the main
purpose of the feature is to make it easy for a network
manager to make sure that hundreds of PC users are all using
the same version of WordPerfect or to check whether users are
making regular backups of their disks.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Chuises concedes, "it's controversial."
A manager can search files on the hard disk even while the
user is working, he says. "It's as if someone was rummaging
through your desk drawers while you were working on the desk
top."
   Many PC users treat their hard disks as private storage
areas. But with managers capable of snooping around, users
may think twice about storing resumes or Internal Revenue
Service correspondence on company PCs.
   Mary Modahl, who studies networks for Forrester Research,
a Cambridge, Mass., research firm, says that with the XTree
product, "Basically, privacy goes out the window. But if
you're a large company and you're paying for the computers,
how much privacy do you want them to have?"
                                                                                                       

   Translating 1,000 Words
   Into a Simple Diagram
                                                                                                       

   ALLCLEAR, a new program from Clear Software Inc.,
Brookline, Mass., can turn 1,000 words into a picture.
   The $300 program, billed as an "automatic idea
illustrator," has excited industry gurus. Its creator,
Russian emigre Vadim Yasinovsky, "has both a hot product and
a metaphor that will become an important contribution to
software design," says Jeff Tarter, publisher of SoftLetter,
a Watertown, Mass., newsletter.
   Using AllClear, a person can type a list of instructions
or a description of an organization, and AllClear will
automatically turn it into a chart with boxes and arrows
showing connections and relationships. Among 100 examples
diagrammed in AllClear's manual are procedures for
programming a videocassette recorder, diagnosing a car and
determining insurance coverage for a patient.
   There are already a variety of software programs that help
draw charts. But AllClear does it automatically with a simple
eightword language that shows how one item is related to the
next. For instance, a statement followed by a question mark
creates a diagram with two branches, one for "yes," one for
"no." A statement followed by a colon allows a number of
different paths.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Security Pacific Corp.:
   Buy-Out of London Unit,
   Hoare Govett, Said Likely
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hoare Govett Securities Ltd. of London is likely to
announce early this week a buy-out from Security Pacific
Corp., a person familiar with the Los Angeles-based banking
concern's unit said.
   Under the proposed buy-out plan, Hoare Govett managers
would buy 51% of the brokerage house, with Security Pacific
retaining 49%, the person said, declining to speculate on the
price.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Security Pacific paid a total of about #50 million ($95.6
million) for Hoare Govett. It initially bought slightly less
than 30% of Hoare Govett in 1982. It boosted its stake to
about 80% in early 1986 -- taking control as banks were
snapping up British brokerage concerns ahead of the
deregulation of London's financial markets -- and to 100% in
1987. But international securities trading in London has been
depressed since the October 1987 stock market crash, leading
to a shake-out of brokerage firms. Security Pacific said in
May 1989 it might sell or reduce its investment in Hoare
Govett.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks' Long-Term Trend
   Is Down, Technicians Say
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   FTX BR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- If you listened to many technical analysts,
you got out of stocks before Iraq invaded Kuwait and
sidestepped an avalanche of falling stock prices. What are
these technicians saying now?
   Stay out -- at least for a while. Then get back in, but
only for a short-run rally. The market's long-term trend is
down, they say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A lot of people pooh-pooh technical stock market analysis
as nothing more than statistical tea-leaf reading --
especially when the market is moving logically in line with
economic trends. But as the economic landscape is obscured by
the fog of other factors -- the threat of a Mideast war, for
example -- and the market zigzags, investors increasingly
seek out the technical gurus.
   "The more people are confused, the more they look to the
technical types for help," says Joseph Feshbach, technical
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   Technicians basically peer under the hood at the market's
inner workings to discern what will happen next; they place a
lot of weight on stock price trends, with trading volume a
close second. Fundamental analysts, by contrast, diagnose the
health of the economy, an industry and individual companies,
concentrating on such things as earnings growth, product
lines and dividends.
   "If you stuck to the technicals coming into August," says
Timothy Clark, associate director of research at Avatar
Associates, "you would have been in pretty good shape."
   For the first half of the year, many bullish investors
ignored the yawning gap between the briskly advancing Dow
Jones Industrial Average and the lagging broader market
indexes. They looked the other way as New York Stock Exchange
trading volume dwindled while the industrial average rose.
   "The market can't keep rising when you have those kinds of
divergences, but you never know when it will end," Mr. Clark
says. Though technical analysts were warning investors away
from stocks even before the Dow set new records in July,
"sometimes what's needed is a catalyst" to bring about the
sometimes-abrupt adjustment. Before the 1987 crash it was
rising interest rates. This summer, it was Saddam Hussein.
   Nowadays, many technical analysts are looking at their
repertoire of stock-market statistics from a new perspective:
For the first time since 1982, they are interpreting the data
in the context of a bear market rather than a bull market.
For example:
                                                                                                       

   PUT-CALL RATIO: Many analysts follow the ratio of volume
in put options (a bet that stock prices are headed lower) to
the volume in call options (a bet that prices will rise). In
a bull market, heavy volume in puts during an intermediate
decline in the market suggests stock prices will soon resume
climbing, they say. That's because puts are popular with
high-risk speculators who bet against the odds. But in a bear
market, heavy put volume can be generated by conservative
investors who are recognizing a trend.
   Put-option volume soared in mid-August when the industrial
average was at 2760, encouraging some investors with
bull-market views to get back into stocks. But put volume
continued to climb and the Dow sank to 2483 on Aug. 23. Some
once-bullish investors were badly burned.
   One reason for their misjudgment is that they, like the
vast majority of portfolio managers, "weren't running money
10 years ago," says Kenneth Spence, technical analyst at
Salomon Brothers. "Most of these people have looked at these
sentiment indicators only in a bull trend." But they mean
different things in a bear market, which is what Mr. Spence
believes we are in now.
                                                                                                       

   TRADING VOLUME: The Dow hit its recent low below 2500 on
heavy volume, which is another troublesome signal for
technical analysts.
   "We need to see power" when the market rises to feel good
about any interim rallies, says Richard Arms, a technical
analyst with Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner in Albuquerque, N.M.
"Right now we're still not seeing the money pouring in on the
upside, but we are seeing it pour out on the down side."
                                                                                                       

   ADVANCERS VS. DECLINERS: Another much-watched technical
indicator is the 10-day average of the short-term trading
index, which was developed by Mr. Arms. This is a ratio of
volume in advancing and declining issues against the ratio of
the number of rising stocks to falling ones. An index of 1.0
or higher indicates selling pressure is greater than buying
interest. Under 1.0, the index is considered bullish.
   Like the put-call percentage, the Arms trading index
expresses a form of investor sentiment that varies depending
on the market's overall trend. In a bull market, the index
climbing to 1.25 during a decline in stock prices signals
that bargain-hunters are about to swoop in and push the
market higher. But in a bear market, a similar index reading
can mean further declines are in prospect before a rebound
materializes.
   But how much deeper the market might fall, and then how
much it might bounce back, is a matter of individual
judgment. Mr. Arms says the index currently suggests the Dow
might fall back to about 2500 in a matter of days, which
could present a good buying opportunity. The subsequent rise,
other analysts say, probably would be limited to about the
2700 level, 300 points shy of the July record.
   Timing is another issue. Mr. Spence of Salomon Brothers
agrees with Mr. Arms that the Dow will revisit the 2500
level, but he predicts it will take two to three weeks. He
thinks this decline will occur on shrinking volume and that
declining issues won't overwhelm advancers, as they did on
Aug. 23. "That would indicate a dissipation of selling
pressure in the market," he says.
   Then would follow an advance lasting six to eight weeks,
Mr. Spence says, with the Dow stopping at 2700. "What you get
essentially is a rally in a downtrend," he says.
   Mr. Feshbach of Shearson thinks the Dow will be confined
in a range of 2475 to 2725. "The best thing to do now is what
the charts are telling us to do: It's tough for the growth
stocks. The interest rate-sensitive stocks are dead. So you
should be long on some gold stocks, energy, and commodities
stocks such as Freeport-McMoRan and Burlington Resources, and
short the retail and technology stocks."
   Not everyone is so pessimistic. Donald Fishback, research
director of Investment Institute Research in Cincinnati, for
example, is looking for a range of 2500 to 3000 for the rest
of this year. While he concedes interpreting sentiment
indicators is risky business, he is convinced that
bearishness is overdone and the market has nowhere to go but
up.
   "You don't want to step in front of a freight train, which
we did in August by turning bullish too early," he says, "but
when the (short-term trading index) starts to head down, then
it's a good time to step in and buy stocks."
   But maybe the real lesson in all this isn't so, well,
technical. "If investors are starting to respect the
technicians," says William Raftery, technical analyst at
Smith Barney, Harris Upham, "you know we're darn close to a
bottom."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The stock market moved higher in quiet trading, supported
by falling oil prices and optimism about President Bush's
apparent resolve to reduce the federal deficit.
   Shares of so-called "defensive growth" companies -- those
expected to deliver strong earnings gains even if the economy
slips into a recession or war breaks out in the Middle East
-- set the pace for the advance.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 23.26 to 2619.55.
In the energy markets, crude oil for October delivery tumbled
$1.39 a barrel, to $30.04.
   President Bush's expression of confidence that
congressional budget negotiators would be able to complete a
deficit-reduction agreement at their summit meeting over the
weekend, along with his reaffirmation of a $50 billion target
for fiscal 1991 deficit cuts, spurred buying interest,
traders said.
   Just 123,800,000 shares traded on the New York Stock
Exchange. Advancing issues topped decliners by 922 to 560.
   The Big Board's composite index added 1.45 to 177.51;
Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.94 to 323.40, and
the Dow Jones Equity Market index rose 2.71 to 299.63.
   For the week, the Dow industrials rose 5.19 points, or
0.2%.
   Among blue-chip issues falling into the "defensive growth"
category, PepsiCo gained 3/4 to 25 1/4 in Big Board composite
trading of 1.4 million shares, Philip Morris climbed 1/2 to
45 1/4 on 1.2 million shares, McDonald's rallied 1 1/8 to 27
7/8 on 1.2 million shares, Coca-Cola Co. rose 1 to 42 1/8,
Procter &amp; Gamble rose 1 1/2 to 78, Merck gained 1 1/4 to 81
1/8 and Pfizer added 1 3/4 to 71 1/8.
   UAL, parent of United Airlines, climbed 8 to 100 1/4 as a
report from Prudential-Bache Securities revived hopes that a
union-led group will be able to complete its long-delayed
buy-out of the company. Analyst Paul Nisbet wrote that the
group's $201-a-share buy-out proposal or one "constructed
more conservatively" -- possibly around $180 a share --
should be completed by October, barring an outbreak of a
Middle East war, according to Dow Jones Professional Investor
Report.
   Speculation that investor Marvin Davis may again be
interested in UAL following the sale of Pebble Beach Co.,
which had been owned by a real estate partnership he
controls, may have spurred the stock's sharp gains as well,
Mr. Nisbet said. A spokeswoman for Mr. Davis, who offered to
buy UAL last year, declined to comment.
   Compaq Computer dropped 7/8 to 44 5/8 on 1.3 million
shares. This newspaper's Heard on the Street column Friday
noted, among other things, that some of the company's
notebook-sized laptop computers have been developing hairline
cracks after brief use.
   International Business Machines advanced 3 1/8 to 105 1/2
on 1.6 million shares. Traders attributed the strength to
optimism about the prospects for IBM's new line of mainframe
computers.
   Toys `R' Us, the most active Big Board issue, fell 5/8 to
23 1/8 on 2.4 million shares. Wertheim Schroder lowered its
estimates of the toy retailer's 1990 and 1991 earnings.
   Equimark rose 1/2 to 5 3/8 following the resignation of
Alan S. Fellheimer as chairman and chief executive officer of
the bank holding company, which omitted its common stock
dividend earlier last week.
   Saatchi &amp; Saatchi skidded 1/2 to 3. The British company
suspended dividends on its ordinary shares and some of its
preference shares, citing a lack of available reserves to
make the payouts.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index fell 0.73
to 323.77, but rose 0.1% for the week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Budget Negotiators Make Slow Progress,
   But Remain Far Apart on Issue of Taxes
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In three days of budget talks, Democrats
proposed sharply higher income-tax rates for upper-income
Americans and new levies on energy consumption and luxury
goods, while Republicans proposed an even bigger
capital-gains tax cut than President Bush.
   The closed-door talks continued into the evening yesterday
in a converted bar in the officers' club at Andrews Air Force
Base near here. Budget negotiators, who are hoping to reach
agreement by tomorrow, are scheduled to meet with President
Bush for two hours this morning. Bush administration and
congressional aides said progress toward a deficit-reduction
compromise has been excruciatingly slow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In opening rounds, the two sides clearly staked out
contrasting positions. Democrats, determined to hit the
wealthy hard, called for increasing the top nominal
income-tax rate to 35% from the current 28%, and for an
additional 10% surcharge on taxpayers earning more than
$500,000 a year.
   Republicans continued to resist any increases in
income-tax rates and proposed cutting to 15% the
capital-gains tax rate, now a maximum of 33%. In January,
President Bush proposed cutting the rate to 19.6% over three
years.
   In a spirited debate yesterday, participants said House
Majority Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri argued strongly
that any cut in capital-gains taxes would have to be paired
with higher income-tax rates. White House Budget Director
Richard Darman, Sen. Bob Packwood (R., Ore.) and Sen. Phil
Gramm (R., Texas) insisted no income-tax rate increases would
be acceptable to Republicans.
   "This is like a basketball game," White House Chief of
Staff John Sununu said yesterday on ABC News's "This Week
with David Brinkley." "It almost all happens in the last two
minutes. Oct. 1 is when the clock goes off." Under the
Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law, deep across-the-board
spending cuts will be triggered Oct. 1 unless there is a
deficit-reduction accord.
   Although the two sides were inching closer on some issues,
the two sides remained billions of dollars apart on how
deeply to cut the defense budget and continued to disagree on
domestic spending. Democrats infuriated some Republicans with
an initial proposal to increase spending on various domestic
programs, including education and parks, by more than $70
billion over the next five years, aides said.
   In one hopeful sign, however, congressional aides said
negotiators yesterday were approaching a consensus to pare
projected spending on federal benefit programs, such as
Medicare and government employee pensions, by between $10
billion and $11 billion.
   What's more, both sides now favor expanded tax breaks for
child-care expenses, with the Republicans proposing a more
modest plan. Both sides proposed higher taxes on alcoholic
beverages. And both sides are shunning any increase in
tobacco taxes, apparently figuring the political fight with
tobacco-state legislators isn't worth the revenue.
   Both Republicans and Democrats would substantially
increase taxes on life insurance companies and extend the 3%
tax on long-distance telephone calls.
   In addition to raising the income-tax rate and imposing
the new surcharge, Democrats also proposed raising the
alternative minimum tax for individuals -- paid by
upper-income individuals who would otherwise avoid taxes
under the regular tax system -- to 26% from the current 21%.
These three proposals alone would raise $9.2 billion in
fiscal 1991 and $97.8 billion over five years, a summary
prepared by Democrats shows. The Democratic proposal also
would extend the 1.45% payroll tax for Medicare to cover
wages above the current earnings limit of $50,400.
   Congressional aides said the Democrats also suggested
increasing the top corporate income tax rate to 35% from the
current 34%, although that wasn't included in the Democrats'
initial written proposal.
   The Democratic energy tax proposals include a seven-cent
increase in the nine-cent-a gallon federal gasoline tax and
an oil-import fee that would be triggered only when the price
of oil falls below $20 a barrel, with all the oil-import
revenue devoted to assistance to low-income Americans. The
package also includes a new tax on all energy sources that
would begin at 2% but double to 4% in the second year.
   GOP staffers said the Republicans also are contemplating
energy taxes, although they apparently haven't been formally
put on the table. The popularity of energy taxes is something
of a surprise because the Persian Gulf crisis already has
pushed up oil prices sharply, but the negotiators apparently
decided that the public believes the crisis offers strong,
new reasons to encourage conservation. Both sides are
proposing tax incentives for oil and gas drillers.
   As expected, the Republicans proposed to limit taxpayers'
deductions for income tax payments to state and local
governments to $10,000 a year. This is their major
alternative to the rate increases suggested by the Democrats.
   Among revenue-losing provisions, Republicans would extend
a variety of soon-to-expire tax breaks, including those that
subsidize corporate research and help the self-employed
purchase health insurance. They also would expand tax breaks
for individual retirement accounts. The Democrats have a
similar plan for IRAs.
   For the benefit of poor people, Democrats would sweeten
the refundable earned income tax credit and slightly raise
the standard deduction taken by taxpayers who don't itemize.
   Democrats suggested a new tax on luxury goods of 10% of
the purchase price in excess of $25,000 for autos, $1,000 for
electronics, $5,000 for jewelry and $500 for furs.
Republicans were said by aides to be contemplating a 5% levy
on luxury goods.
   On alcoholic beverages, the Democrats would raise $9.1
billion over five years by doubling the federal tax on beer
and wine. The tax is currently at 16 cents on a sixpack of
beer and three cents a bottle on wine. For reasons that
weren't immediately clear, the Democrats' initial proposal
excluded sparkling wine. They also proposed increasing the
tax on distilled spirits to $14.50 per "proof gallon" of
alcohol from the current $12.50 a gallon.
   The Republicans opening bid would raise $22.8 billion over
five years by raising taxes on beer and wine, but not hard
liquor.
   Both Republicans and Democrats have presented plans that
they say would cut the deficit by about $50 billion in fiscal
1991, which begins Oct. 1, and by $500 billion over the next
five years. But both sides rely on deficit-reduction measures
that the other side says are ephemeral. The Democrats, for
instance, figure on raising $1.5 billion in the first year
and $9.2 billion over five years from intensified government
debt-collection efforts.
   Even if negotiators agree to cut the projected fiscal 1991
deficit by $50 billion, they would be nearly $100 billion
away from the $64 billion deficit target in the Gramm-Rudman
law, according to White House budget office estimates. Aides
also concede that to reach a compromise, negotiators may be
forced to trim the first-year package to substantially less
than $50 billion. In any event, all sides have agreed that
any deficit accord would have to include a change in the
Gramm-Rudman deficit target.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Value Investors Walk Taller as Portfolio Slippage
   Pales Next to the Plunge in Small Stocks as Group
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   BREN UFCS BKLY SAFC AGREA GIBG VLMR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The so-called value investors in small stocks
are walking taller these days, but not because they are
suddenly making a ton of money by feeding their customary
appetite for low-priced shares.
   The value crowd is regaining lost ground simply because
the recent slippage in its already battered portfolios pales
in comparison with the broader plunge in small stocks as a
group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For instance, the value-oriented Babson Enterprise Fund of
Boston, managed by Peter Schliemann, fell 10.5% through Aug.
31. That compares with a 17% decline in the Russell 2000.
   The current market might seem a bargain hunter's dream,
now that over-the-counter shares are languishing at their
lowest levels in 20 months. Yet the value investors aren't in
any rush to proclaim the market rife with bargains, even
though their basic stock picking strategy starts with the
notion that cheaper is better.
   "Small stocks as a homogenous group are dead," says Scott
M. Black, president of Delphi Management Inc., also of
Boston. "Most of them don't have sustainable earnings power."
   Many stars of the OTC market such as Microsoft and Apple
Computer have long since joined the ranks of larger stocks,
he says. Others that grew rapidly have been acquired. "Many
that are left are junk," says Mr. Black, who invests about
one-third of his $750 million fund in OTC stocks. His fund
declined 10.5% through Aug. 31.
   Of course, some small shares may be jewels, he says,
adding that investors hoping for big gains must be patient.
Value investors such as Messrs. Black and Schliemann don't
seek immediate gratification. They hold the stocks in their
portfolios an average of four years or longer.
   They also largely eschew such glamorous sectors as
technology, where fast-growing companies can fall as rapidly
as they rise. For instance, after a recent visit to Silicon
Valley, Mr. Black concluded that none of the technology
companies he visited had sufficient earnings potential to
justify investing in their pricey shares.
   Mr. Schliemann finds allure in such mundane products as
the railroad-car bearings made by Brenco of Petersburg, Va.
Founded in the 1940s, Brenco shares a secure market for
railroad-car bearings with Timken Co. With the nation's
railroad fleet aging, Mr. Schliemann is expecting Brenco to
benefit as more cars are refurbished or replaced.
   Brenco meets many of his investment criteria: it is
obscure, it makes a strong, specialized product and it has a
sustainable competitive advantage and its earnings growth
prospects are above average.
   Mr. Schliemann also likes companies that have recently
stumbled but whose prospects are solid. In 1989, Brenco's 40%
growth in sales was offset by a $2.6 million reserve for
environmental cleanup costs. But per-share earnings are
expected to grow to 55 cents in 1990 and 69 cents in 1991
from 31 cents in 1989. At Friday's close of $6, the stock is
trading near its 52-week low of 5 3/4 and well below its high
of 10 1/4.
   Brenco's shares trade at about 1.5 times book value, well
below the average 2.2 price-to-book ratio of shares in the
Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index, a situation that also attracts
Mr. Schliemann. The company has more than 25% of its stock
held by insiders, which suits his preference for companies
with relatively large inside ownership. The average market
value of companies in Mr. Schliemann's fund is $110 million.
   For Mr. Black, insurance stocks have become appealing --
at least those of well-disciplined companies that don't let
expenses and claims get out of hand.
   Mr. Black recently has been adding to his positions in
United Fire &amp; Casualty of Cedar Rapids, Iowa; W.R. Berkley of
Greenwich, Conn.; and Safeco of Seattle.
   Mr. Black expects insurance premiums to firm next year. In
his hunt for good values, he seeks insurers whose combined
claims and expenses don't exceed their income from premiums.
"I look for companies with underwriting discipline," he
explains.
   As part of his overall strategy, Mr. Black hunts for
companies with above-average returns on equity and relatively
low price-to-earnings and price-to-book ratios. At 33 1/4,
United Fire &amp; Casualty is selling near its 1989 book value of
about $32; at 29, Safeco is trading right at its 1989 book
value. At about 34, Berkley is trading above its 1989 book
value of about $24 but well below its 52-week high of 46 1/2.
All three stocks sell for roughly 6.5 times estimated 1991
earnings.
   Greeting-card stocks also have been given a warm welcome
by Mr. Black. He has been buying shares of American Greetings
of Cleveland and Gibson Greetings of Cincinnati, among the
nation's largest makers of greeting cards. Mr. Black says he
believes the price wars of 1987 are over and expects both
companies to benefit from higher prices, distribution through
such large outlets as Wal-Mart Stores, and strong business
even during a recession. Both stocks trade at less than 10
times their estimated 1991 earnings.
   Mr. Schliemann is banking on his expectation that
Americans will always buy toys for their children and
relatives. He has been buying shares of Value Merchants, a
Milwaukee toy wholesaler that has entered the retail market
with closeout stores situated largely in outlet malls. At 10
3/8, the stock is trading at seven times estimated earnings
for the fiscal year ending in January 1992. Value Merchants
may be a particularly good value if there is a recession, he
adds. "You can argue that because they're a discount store,
they will do better than other, full-priced toy outlets."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The over-the-counter market ended the four-day Labor Day
week slightly lower than where it began.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 1.60 Friday to 380.38, a
0.4% increase, but the index posted a 0.8% loss for the week.
Volume rose to 103.2 million shares from 98.7 million shares
Thursday. Advancers led decliners, 967 to 797, while 2,496
shares remained unchanged.
   Oracle Systems tumbled 1 3/4 to 8 1/8 on more than 9.9
million shares. The Redwood City, Calif., software maker said
Friday that it expects to report a loss of 20 cents a share
for the fiscal first quarter ended Aug. 31, compared with
year-earlier net income of nine cents a share. The quarterly
loss is the first in the company's history. Analysts had
expected a small profit for the quarter. Citing the slow
economy, Oracle also slashed its expected revenue growth for
the year to 25% from 50%.
   Other technology stocks were mixed. Intel rose 1/2 to 31
3/4 on more than four million shares; Sun Microsystems added
1/8 to 28 3/8; Microsoft gained 1/4 to 57 3/4; Apple Computer
advanced 5/8 to 36 3/8; but Conner Peripherals eased 1/8 to
22 1/4.
   Genetics Institute slipped 1 1/4 to 31 1/4 on nearly 1.2
million shares. A spokeswoman told Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report that a 521,300-share block apparently was
sold by Baxter International Inc., which previously said it
planned to sell all or part of its 7% stake in the Cambridge,
Mass., biotechnology company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Worthen Banking Corp.:
   Arkansas Concern Completes
   Independence Federal Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   WOR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Worthen Banking Corp. said it completed the controversial
acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of Independence
Federal Bank, making the bank holding company's Worthen Bank
&amp; Trust Co. unit the first commercial bank in Arkansas to
operate a statewide network of branches.
   Arkansas banking authorities had opposed Worthen's plans
to purchase the failed thrift from the Resolution Trust
Corp., arguing that the move would violate state restrictions
on bank branching. But a federal appeals court in St. Louis
ruled that the RTC, the federal agency handling the S&amp;L
cleanup, has the power to override such state banking laws.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Worthen, Little Rock, Ark., said it paid $1.5 million to
acquire $320 million in deposits and certain assets of
Independence, including 20 branch locations. The purchase
more than doubles the number of communities served by
Worthen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Many See
   Fed Slicing
   Short Rates
   ---
   But Cut Isn't Viewed
   As Aiding Economy
   Or the Bond Market
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In a rare show of unanimity, many economists,
bond strategists and big investors are predicting that the
Federal Reserve will reduce short-term interest rates within
four weeks.
   But practically none of them expect the lower rates to
help the economy or the bond market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is rare when large numbers of market pros agree on
anything. Right now, there is a widespread consensus that the
nation's central bank will soon lower the closely watched
federal funds rate 1/4 to 1/2 a percentage point from its
current target level of 8%. The federal funds rate, which
banks charge one another on short-term loans, is extremely
sensitive to changes in Fed policy.
   Yet many economists say that a move by the Fed, if it
comes at all, will be too late to stimulate economic growth
and may not stave off a recession.
   "It doesn't matter whether they ease now or in four weeks
from now. There is not a lot they can do to influence the
path of the economy during the balance of 1990," said Robert
H. Chandross, vice president and senior economist at Lloyds
Bank PLC.
   Mr. Chandross, along with many of his colleagues, found in
Friday's employment report the latest evidence that weakness
in the economy is spreading. The Bureau of Labor Statistics
reported that the unemployment rate rose to 5.6% of the work
force, its highest level in two years. The report also showed
that jobs growth now is weaker than during any time since the
last recession.
   Hardest hit last month were the construction and
manufacturing industries, where the number of jobs declined
by 40,000 and 45,000, respectively.
   Nancy Kimelman, chief economist at Thomson Financial
Networks, said the employment report was "legitimately bad
news for the economy" that warrants an immediate Fed easing.
She said that if the Fed doesn't lower rates by early this
week, it will have missed its "window of opportunity" to do
so without putting much strain on the financial markets.
   Later this week, "the Fed will run into some obstacles,"
she said, specifically, the next inflation report -- Friday's
producer price index.
   The data are widely expected to show a sharp rise in
inflation, with most economists estimating an August
inflation rate of between 1% and 1.5%, which translates into
an annual inflation rate of more than 12%.
   An easing after the inflation reports might cause yields
on long-term bonds to rise further, and widen the gap between
short-term and long-term rates.
   That would be a major blow to bondholders, who already
have seen the value of their holdings depreciate sharply this
year. The yields on 30-year Treasury bonds, for example, have
risen from 7.97% at the start of the year to about 8.91% late
last week. The nearly one-percentage point rise in the yield
translates into a price decline of nearly 6% so far this
year.
   The possibility that long-term rates will continue to rise
has prompted bond market strategists at several investment
banking firms on Wall Street to recommend that investors
continue to bail out of long-term bonds.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. bond market strategist Thomas J.
Sowanick recommended on Friday that fixed-income investors
pursue a strategy of swapping 30-year bonds and other
long-term securities for notes and bills with shorter
maturities.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices ended higher, reflecting signs of a weakening
economy, the chance of an interest rate easing and optimism
about a deficit-reduction agreement.
   The Treasury's 30-year bellwether bond ended at 98 7/32,
up 3/8 point from Thursday. The issue's yield, which moves in
the opposite direction from its price, eased to 8.91% from
8.95%.
   In addition to Friday's weak employment report, the bond
market was buoyed by signs that a budget accord might not be
far off. Analysts said the Persian Gulf crisis has spurred
politicians to settle budget issues.
   Falling oil prices also provided the fixed-income markets
with some support, although analysts say that as long as oil
remains in a $26-to-$30-a-barrel range, near-term price
action in Treasury securities will be minimal. October oil
futures settled $1.39 lower at $30.04.
   In the tax-exempt municipal market, Standard &amp; Poor's
Corp. said it is considering downgrading its Single-A rating
on $606.31 million of New York City Triborough Bridge &amp;
Tunnel Authority mortgage recording tax special-obligation
bonds, Series 1988 and 1989. Interest payments on the bonds
are paid from taxes collected by the city on new mortgages.
   S&amp;P said its action reflects a significant erosion in
mortgage recording tax receipts over the past six months.
   On the new-issue calendar, more than $2 billion in new
securities are scheduled to be priced this week.
   In one of the largest deals anticipated, New York City
will sell approximately $750 million of general obligation
bonds via negotiation. Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. will serve as lead
underwriter.
   The issue's ratings are currently under review by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and S&amp;P.
   The city's existing general obligation bonds are rated
single-A by Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P.
   Philadelphia is expected to sell $395 million of temporary
loan notes via a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group.
   Philadelphia and underwriting officials have yet to
announce the backing on the issue. A letter of credit is
expected, covering approximately $225 million of the notes
and backed by a consortium of banks, including at least one
foreign bank and Philadelphia area banks.
   The city's existing general obligation bonds are rated Ba,
which is below investment grade, by Moody's. S&amp;P rates them
triple-B-minus. Philadelphia is the only major city in the
U.S. with a junk-bond credit rating.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   European Plan Worries Computer Makers
   ---
   U.S. Firms Fear Security
   Standard Could Harm Sales
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP IBM DEC SUNW UIS HWP NCR
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   U.S. computer makers fear a proposed European standard for
computer security will undercut their competitiveness in
their largest overseas market.
   "This could make it harder for U.S. companies to sell
computers in Europe," said Steven Walker, president of
Trusted Information Systems Inc. "I see this as a real
threat."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Observers fear that Europe's embattled computer industry
might try to use a security standard as a way to throw up
fresh barriers to its home market by requiring that every
system sold in Europe meet these specifications.
   "In Europe, governments can impose these standards on all
data-processing equipment -- and that locks U.S.
manufacturers right out of the whole business," said Robert
Courtney, a computer consultant in Port Ewen, N.Y. Currently,
each European nation has its own guidelines for computer
security.
   Now, four nations -- France, Germany, the United Kingdom
and the Netherlands -- are pushing for a single European
standard. In May, the four nations released their initial
proposal, dubbed "IT Sec" for short. At a meeting scheduled
for Sept. 25 in Brussels, executives from International
Business Machines Co., Digital Equipment Corp. and other U.S.
computer makers will receive their first chance to critique
the plan. Officials from the Commerce Department also are
preparing a position paper on the subject.
   The U.S. already has its own computer security standard,
established by the National Security Agency and nicknamed the
"orange book." The standard officially covers only those
computer systems used by the government in classified work.
But often government agencies doing sensitive but
unclassified work and even commercial users such as banks
request that their computer systems meet orange book
guidelines.
   However, Europeans contend that the orange book is tied
too closely to military needs and that a security standard
ought to be crafted to satisfy civilian commercial users.
   "We want {a standard} to be equally applicable to
military-oriented systems and commercial systems," said Chris
Jahl, a West German computer expert who coauthored the
proposed IT Sec.
   Mr. Jahl said it hasn't been decided whether the European
Commission will adopt the proposed standard but acknowledged
that it could apply to most computers sold in Europe. He said
the European approach gives users more flexibility than the
orange book, which he described as rigid.
   Many large computer makers are alarmed by the European
plan. Digital will send two representatives to the Brussels
meeting and already has urged the European group to embrace a
standard that resembles the orange book. IBM, the world's
largest computer company, declined to comment but is said to
be unhappy with the development.
   The fear is that the emergence of a second standard would
force computer makers to build two versions of the same
product, one for Europe and another for the U.S. market,
executives say.
   "While we probably could sell the same hardware, we might
have to do major surgery to the operating system," or the
software that controls a computer's basic functions, said
Geoffrey Baehr, director of data communication and networking
at Sun Microsystems Inc.
   Experts in computer security are hoping to persuade the
Europeans to adopt security guidelines that closely resemble
existing U.S. guidelines. Mr. Jahl said he believes at least
half of the perceived differences between the two standards
will be smoothed over as a result of the Brussels meeting but
that some basic disagreements are likely to remain.
   That prospect puts U.S. computer makers "in a quandary,"
said one U.S. government official who asked not to be named.
"The worst case is that the U.S. posture and the European
posture {become} dramatically different," said Willis Rand, a
consultant at Rand Corp. "What does our industry design to
then? Do they make two sets of designs? That's a terrible
situation to be in."
   Some observers blame this unattractive situation on the
National Security Agency, the secretive branch of the Defense
Department that generally set federal policy on computer
security in the 1980s.
   Because of an NSA decision, for instance, computers made
by European concerns are effectively ineligible to receive a
stamp of approval from the NSA, which administers orange book
evaluations. "In our eyes, that's a barrier to us," said
Germany's Mr. Jahl. While he wouldn't say that the snub
inspired the European standards effort, he conceded that the
IT Sec "puts some pressure on the Department of Defense."
   The pressure comes with the Pentagon already backpedaling
from its traditional involvement in computer security policy.
At a congressional hearing in July, members of the House of
Representatives urged the Commerce Department to speed
efforts to begin crafting guidelines for a wide range of
commercial computer uses.
   The same month, President Bush reportedly issued a
directive to the NSA removing its authority over security for
commercial systems and for government systems that handle
unclassified information. The directive, NSD-42, is
classified, but a government official who asked not to be
named said it "pretty clearly says {the NSA} should not be
addressing unclassified systems."
   U.S. computer makers are generally satisfied with the
orange book standard. "A lot of vendors have viewed an NSA
endorsement as help," said Mr. Walker of Trusted Information.
But he said it takes too long to gain approval from the NSA's
evaluation unit and that demand for evaluations far outstrips
the NSA's resources. As a result, he said, he believes
there's a need for a civilian counterpart to the NSA's orange
book but sees little prospect of one coming along: A 1987 law
gave the Commerce Department authority in this area, but not
the budget to do the job.
   ---
                     A Secure Market?
                                                                                                       

   Market share of U.S. vendors in European mainframe mini-
and workstation computer market as a percent of 1989 $45.5
billion
                                                                                                       

   Other .................................... 46%
                                                                                                       

   I.B.M. ................................... 33%
                                                                                                       

   Digital Equipment ........................  9%
                                                                                                       

   Hewlett-Packard ..........................  5%
                                                                                                       

   Unisys ...................................  3%
                                                                                                       

   Sun Microsystems .........................  2%
                                                                                                       

   NCR ......................................  2%
                                                                                                       

   Source: International Data Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                         TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18.4 billion of three-month and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                          Monday
                                                                                                       

   Rocky Mountain Helicopters Inc. -- initial one million
common shares, via Blunt Ellis &amp; Loewi Inc.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Alta Health Strategies Inc. -- initial 1.8 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Business Insurance Corp. -- initial 1.8 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown.
   Destec Energy Inc. -- initial 12 million common shares,
via Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   Emerging Mexico Fund Inc. -- initial five million common
shares, via Nomura Securities International Inc.
   Employee Benefit Plans Inc. -- two million common shares,
via Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   Moorco International Inc. -- initial six million common
shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Total Pharmaceutical Care Inc. -- initial 1.7 million
common shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
   World Bank -- between $1.5 billion and $2 billion of
global bonds, via Deutsche Bank Capital Markets Group and
Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Zilog Inc. -- initial two million common shares, via Alex.
Brown.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Charlotte, N.C. -- $81,210,000 of general obligation
bonds, including $15.3 million public improvement bonds, 1990
Series; $43.8 million public improvement bonds, 1990 Series
A; and $22.2 million water and sewer bonds, 1990 Series, via
competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Houston, Texas -- $75 million of water and sewer system
revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
   Los Angeles Department of Water &amp; Power -- $100 million of
electric plant revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Louisiana -- $198,910,000 of general obligation bonds,
1990 Series, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut Housing Finance Agency -- $255,345,000 of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds (subject to the federal
Alternative Minimum Tax), via a PaineWebber group.
   Chicago -- $235 million of general airport revenue bonds,
1990 Series A, and Series B (AMT), via a Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets group.
   Illinois Housing Development Authority -- $100 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds (AMT, non-AMT tranches),
via a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. Inc. group.
   Indiana Housing Finance Authority -- $100 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds (Government National
Mortgage Association collateralized, AMT), via a Goldman
Sachs group.
   Kansas City Municipal Assistance Corp., Mo. -- $52 million
of leasehold refunding and improvement series bonds, 1990
Series B, 1&amp;2 (H. Roe Bartle Convention Center Project), via
a Goldman Sachs group.
   Nebraska Investment Finance Authority -- $60 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds (GNMA Mortgage-Backed
Securities Program), residual interest bonds, 1990 Series 2,
via a Shearson Lehman Brothers group.
   New York City -- $750 million of general obligation bonds,
via a Bear Stearns group.
   Tennessee Housing Development Agency -- $87 million of
homeownership program housing put bonds, Issue T, via a
Goldman Sachs group.
   Wisconsin Housing Economic Development Authority -- $75
million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds (AMT, non-AMT
tranches), via a Shearson Lehman group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Landmark Graphics Corp.:
   Firm Plans to Buy Makers
   Of Software for $23 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   LMRK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Landmark Graphics Corp. said it signed letters of intent
to buy two software concerns in stock transactions valued at
a total of $23 million.
   The Houston supplier of computer-aided oil exploration
technology said it proposes to acquire Inverse Theory &amp;
Application Inc., a Calgary Canada developer of software used
in processing geophysical data; and Zycor Inc., an Austin,
Texas, vendor of software used for interactive mapping and
modeling of subsurface geology.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Landmark said it believes the transactions would boost
revenue for fiscal 1991 about 20%. In the year ended June 30,
the company had net income of $5.8 million, or 68 cents a
share, on revenue of $56.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Montedison S.p.A.:
   Plan Advanced for Settling
   Enimont Venture Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MNT I.EMT I.ENI
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Montedison S.p.A. accepted a proposal by the Italian
government to settle conflicts about control of their joint
chemical venture, Enimont S.p.A., but it also set out a
procedure for unwinding the public-private partnership,
should the founding shareholders be unable to agree.
   Montedison said that if both parties agree, it will accept
a management arrangement for the company to oversee Enimont's
daily operations and for the state energy agency Ente
Nazionale Idrocarburi, or ENI, to direct "control and
finances." But the government cleared the way for the state
to sell its stake in the chemical venture to Montedison, or
vice versa, should cooperation fail.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Enimont was founded last year by Montedison and ENI, which
each hold 40%, to consolidate Italy's chemical interests into
a player capable of competing on the world market, but
Enimont has been shaken by relentless arguing between the two
partners and a downturn in the world chemical industry.
Montedison said it would consider an ENI offer to buy its 40%
holding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, September 7, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                              Stock    N.A.   Stock    %
   Fund Name                  Exch.    Value  Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express              NYSE    17.48  15 3/8  - 12.04
   Baker Fentress             NYSE    21.10  17      - 19.43
   Blue Chip Value            NYSE     6.82   6 1/8  - 10.19
   Clemente Global Gro        NYSE   b10.89   9      - 17.36
   Gemini II Capital          NYSE    12.97  10 3/4  - 17.12
   Gemini II Income           NYSE     9.75  12 5/8  + 29.49
   General Amer Invest        NYSE    21.55  18 1/4  - 15.31
   Growth Stock Outlook       NYSE    10.30  10      -  2.91
   Liberty All-Star Eqty      NYSE     8.93   7 1/2  - 16.01
   Niagara Share Corp.        NYSE    16.56  13 1/2  - 18.48
   Nicholas-Applegate         NYSE    10.44   9 7/8  -  5.41
   Quest For Value Cap        NYSE    16.91  11 5/8  - 31.25
   Quest For Value Inco       NYSE    11.69  12 5/8  +  8.00
   Royce Value Trust          NYSE     9.38   8 1/2  -  9.38
   Salomon Fd                 NYSE    13.79  11 3/8  - 17.51
   Source Capital             NYSE    36.63  37 7/8  +  3.40
   Tri-Continental Corp.      NYSE    26.30  22 3/4  - 13.50
   Worldwide Value            NYSE    16.80  14 3/8  - 14.43
   Zweig Fund                 NYSE    10.61  10 5/8  +  0.14
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs        AMEX     6.52   5      - 23.31
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr       NYSE    b7.60   7 1/4  -  4.61
   Franklin Universal Tr      NYSE    b7.00   6 3/4  -  3.57
   Municipal High Inco        NYSE     9.34   9 1/4  -  0.96
   Zenix Income Fund          NYSE     6.04   5 3/8  - 11.01
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds

   America's All Seasn        OTC      5.83   4 5/8  - 20.67
   European Warrant Fd        NYSE    10.13   8 1/2  - 16.09
   Franklin M-M Inco          NYSE    b8.08   7 1/8  - 11.82
   Zweig Total Return Fd      NYSE     9.06   8 3/4  -  3.42
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd     NYSE    13.13   9 7/8  - 24.79
   Alliance New Europe Fd     NYSE    10.48   9 5/8  -  8.16
   American Capital Conv      NYSE    20.77  17 1/4  - 16.95
   ASA Ltd                    NYSE  bc61.39  50      - 18.55
   Asia Pacific               NYSE    13.85  13      -  6.14
   Austria Fund               NYSE    13.82  11 1/4  - 18.60
   Bancroft Convertible       AMEX    19.44  16 1/4  - 16.41
   Bergstrom Capital          AMEX    60.21  61 1/8  +  1.52
   BGR Precious Metals        TOR   be10.73   9 1/4  - 13.79
   Brazil                     NYSE    10.66   8 7/8  - 16.74
   CNV Holdings Capital       NYSE     8.75   4 5/8  - 47.14
   CNV Holdings Income        NYSE     9.57  10 5/8  + 11.02
   Castle Convertible         AMEX    20.36  16 5/8  - 18.34
   Central Fund Canada        AMEX    b4.98   4 3/4  -  4.62
   Central Securities         AMEX    10.33   8 3/8  - 18.93
   Chile Fund                 NYSE    15.95  13 1/8  - 17.71
   Couns Tandem Secs          NYSE    12.23   9 5/8  - 21.30
   Cypress Fund               AMEX     8.91   8 1/2  -  4.60
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils    NYSE     7.69   8      +  4.03
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc        AMEX     7.82   6 1/2  - 16.88
   Emerging Ger Fd            NYSE    10.08   7 3/4  - 23.12
   Engex                      AMEX    10.37   7 5/8  - 26.47
   Europe Fund                NYSE    13.64  11      - 19.35
   1st Australia              AMEX    10.18   8 1/2  - 16.50
   First Financial Fund       NYSE     5.57   5 1/8  -  7.99
   First Iberian              AMEX     9.91   8 7/8  - 10.44
   First Philippine Fund      NYSE    10.15   7 3/8  - 27.34
   France Growth Fund         NYSE    10.80   8 3/4  - 18.98
   Future Germany Fund        NYSE    15.10  12 3/4  - 15.56
   Gabelli Equity Trust       NYSE    10.58  10 1/2  -  0.76
   Germany Fund               NYSE    11.83  13      +  9.89
   Global Utilities Fund      NYSE    10.65   9 3/4  -  8.45
   Growth Fund Spain          NYSE    10.91   8 7/8  - 18.65
   GT Greater Europe Fd       NYSE    12.58  11 1/2  -  8.59
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv         NYSE    11.95   9 3/4  - 18.41
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap       AMEX   b10.39   9 3/16 - 11.57
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref      AMEX   b49.57  48 1/2  -  2.16
   India Growth Fund          NYSE   f17.60  15 3/8  - 12.64
   Indonesia Fund             NYSE    13.54  11 3/8  - 15.99
   Inefficient Market Fund    AMEX     9.72   8 3/8  - 13.84
   Irish Investment Fd        NYSE     9.42   7 3/4  - 17.73
   Italy Fund                 NYSE   b13.97  11      - 21.26
   Jakarta Growth Fd          NYSE    10.38   8 3/8  - 19.32
   Japan OTC Equity Fund      NYSE   b11.24   9 1/4  - 17.70
   Korea Fund                 NYSE    11.21  14 3/4  + 31.58
   Malaysia Fund              NYSE    13.69  13 3/8  -  2.30
   Mexico Equity Inc Fd       NYSE    11.34  11 1/2  +  1.41
   Mexico Fund                NYSE   b14.17  13 1/8  -  7.37
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap        NYSE     9.64   9      -  6.64

   Pacific Eur Growth Fd      NYSE    10.11   9 7/8  -  2.32
   Patriot Prem Div Fd        NYSE     8.10   9 5/8  + 18.83
   Patriot Prem Div Fd II     NYSE     9.25  10      +  8.11
   Patriot Select Div Trust   NYSE    13.82  14 3/4  +  6.73
   Petrol &amp; Resources         NYSE    32.66  31 1/4  -  4.32
   Pilgrim Regional           NYSE     7.82   7 1/4  -  7.29
   Putnam Dividend Inco       NYSE     9.61   9 1/2  -  1.14
   Portugal Fund              NYSE    12.47  10 5/8  - 14.80
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd      AMEX     6.02   5 1/8  - 14.87
   ROC Taiwan Fund            NYSE    b7.71   7 1/2  -  2.72
   Scudder New Asia           NYSE    17.28  14      - 18.98
   Scudder New Europe         NYSE    11.27   9      - 20.14
   SE Savings Inst Fd         OTC     b6.90   6      - 13.04
   Singapore Fd               NYSE   b11.01   9 1/8  - 17.12
   Spain Fund                 NYSE    13.19  12 3/8  -  6.18
   Swiss Helvetia Fd          NYSE    13.61  13      -  4.48
   Taiwan Fund                NYSE   b16.11  21 3/4  + 35.01
   TCW Convertible Secs       NYSE    b7.55   7 3/4  +  2.65
   Templeton Em Mkts          AMEX   b15.02  14 1/4  -  5.13
   Templeton Global Util      AMEX    10.57  10 1/2  -  0.66
   Templeton Value Fund       NYSE    b8.84   8 3/8  -  5.26
   Thai Capital Fund          NYSE    10.04   8 1/8  - 19.07
   Thai Fund                  NYSE    19.02  17 1/2  -  7.99
   Turkish Inv Fund           NYSE    14.65  10 3/4  - 26.62
   United Kingdom Fund        NYSE    11.11   9 5/8  - 13.37
   Z-Seven                    OTC     11.98  13 3/4  + 14.77
                                                                                                       

   b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at Commercial Rand
exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of Wednesday's
close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- NWA Inc.:
   Northwest Air Lowers Fares
   To Europe for Fall, Winter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Northwest Airlines lowered fares to its five European
destinations for fall and winter travel, but tickets must be
purchased by Sept. 21.
   Northwest, whose parent company is St. Paul, Minn., NWA
Inc., flies to London, Paris, Frankfurt, Glasgow and
Amsterdam. As examples of the lower fares, Boston passengers
can travel roundtrip to London for $358, a fare $100 lower
than the previous lowest fare; Chicago travelers can fly to
Amsterdam for $378, a $98 reduction from the normal fare; and
Los Angeles passengers can go to Glasgow, Scotland, for $518,
a savings of $120.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To qualify for the discounts, travel must begin from Nov.
1 to Feb. 28 with all travel completed by March 8. Northwest
passengers must also plan trips of six to 21 days. Seats are
limited and the lower fares don't apply during the Christmas
holiday period.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Plans for Hiring
   By U.S. Employers
   Are Decreasing
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- Hiring plans by U.S. employers continue to
weaken, although they haven't yet fallen to pre-recession
levels of 1975 and 1980.
   The latest quarterly survey of 15,000 companies by
Manpower Inc. found that 23% plan to enlarge their work
forces in the fourth quarter, while 11% plan reductions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The gap between the percentage of employers predicting
staff increases and those planning to decrease hiring
activity is the narrowest for any fourth quarter since 1981,
the employment-services concern said. That difference of 12
is well below the 18-point gap for the third quarter, when
26% of the employers anticipated hiring and 8% foresaw
reductions. The quarterly surveys aren't seasonally adjusted.
   Prior to the 1982 recession, the gap -- which is used as a
yardstick of hiring expectations -- fell to 11 in the 1980
and 1981 fourth quarters. Manpower officials said the
yardstick was also lower than present in the 1975
pre-recession period.
   The survey was conducted before the Middle East crisis
erupted, and Mitchell Fromstein, Manpower's president, noted
that activation of military reserve units could alter
employer hiring plans if workers remain on active duty for an
extended period. Activated reservists are guaranteed
immediate return to their jobs when released from active
duty.
   The latest survey results were heavily influenced by the
economically troubled Northeast, where the gap between those
planning to hire and those planning reductions dropped to 5.
The Midwest continues to be very stable, the survey suggests,
with weakening trends emerging in the South and the West.
   Among industries, wholesale and retail trades are the
strongest as they staff up for the Christmas holiday selling
season. Still, hiring plans in that sector don't quite reach
the usual level of activity, Manpower officials noted. The
education field continues to rebuild after years of reduced
job opportunity, and service concerns also have active hiring
plans.
   In manufacturing, demand for workers is waning after two
years of strong hiring. While 21% of manufacturers see their
employment increasing, 10% expect to reduce job rolls. In
construction, for the first time in eight years, more
employers expect to decrease their work force than add to it.
And in the finance, insurance and real estate sector, only
14% plan further hiring while 11% are trimming their staffs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ford Motor Co.:
   Two Assembly Plants Slated
   For One-Week Shutdowns
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   F
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ford Motor Co., Detroit, said the Atlanta assembly plant
that builds the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable and the Lorain,
Ohio, plant that builds the Econoline Wagon will shut for a
week each because of slow sales.
   The Atlanta facility has been down a total of four weeks
so far this year. The latest production cut comes at a time
when Ford's dealer-inventory levels of the cars are
relatively low. At July 31, there was a 63-day supply of the
Taurus and a 50-day supply of the Sable. About a 60-65-day
supply is considered an ideal inventory level in the
industry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But sales of the models are slumping. In the latest 10-day
period, sales of the Taurus and Sable fell 32.7%.
   The shutdowns will idle a total of 2,500 hourly workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toxic Turpitude:
   Environmental Crime
   Can Land Executives
   In Prison These Days
   ---
   More Offenses Are Felonies
   And Sentencing Is Stiffer,
   Taking Some by Surprise
   ---
   Phantom Pipe for the Cyanide
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   BURLINGTON, Mass. -- John Borowski, owner of a small
defense contractor here, never seemed to worry much about how
to dispose of the toxic wastes his plant produced. He had
developed a simple, cheap method.
   Using buckets, his workers would scoop fuming nitric acid
and nickel wastes out of vats and pour them down a sink. When
workers questioned the practice, Mr. Borowski told them not
to worry because it wouldn't hurt anyone, former employees
say. He knew the dumping was illegal but considered it "like
not counting tips for income tax," says Peter Kruczynski, a
former manager at Mr. Borowski's Borjohn Optical Technology
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The federal government saw it differently. In May, Mr.
Borowski became the first person convicted on charges of
knowing endangerment under the federal Clean Water Act.
Scheduled for sentencing in October, he could be sent to
prison for years.
   Thousands of gallons of wastes went down Mr. Borowski's
sink over the past decade, from there finding their way into
Boston Harbor. Some of the workers in his bucket brigade
developed rashes and other ailments, but Mr. Borowski
attributed the problems to drinking or laziness, former
employees testified at his trial. "If I had to follow every
rule on the books, I'd be out of business," one worker
testified Mr. Borowski told him.
   Mr. Borowski won't discuss the case, except to say that he
was unfairly charged because of "a clique of people who
really tried to do severe harm to me and to the company." He
plans an appeal.
   A decade ago, the government might well have treated the
dumping like minor tax cheating, at most slapping Borjohn
Optical with a fine. But Uncle Sam is no longer playing Mr.
Nice Guy with environmental cheaters. "A person who mugs a
city by polluting should receive at least as strong a
punishment as the person who mugs an individual," declares
James M. Strock, the Environmental Protection Agency's
criminal enforcement chief.
   Judges and juries are beginning to agree. In fiscal 1989,
federal courts handed out prison terms totaling about 37
years and $11.1 million in fines for environmental crimes,
compared with less than two years of sentences and $198,000
in fines five years earlier, EPA figures show.
   Prosecutors are aiming higher up the corporate ladder,
too. In May, Paul Tudor Jones II, president of Tudor
Investment Corp. and a prominent futures trader, pleaded
guilty to criminally violating the Clean Water Act by filling
in wetlands to build a corporate retreat. He agreed to pay $2
million in fines and restitution and drew 18 months'
probation.
   Greater enforcement efforts evidently are in store. Last
month the Senate passed a bill that would more than triple
the number of federal investigators going after polluters, to
at least 200 by 1996. And Massachusetts has formed a
30-person Environmental Crimes Strike Force.
   This push began in the early 1980s, about the time the
evacuations of Love Canal in Niagara, N.Y., and of
dioxin-laden Times Beach, Mo., brought home the dangers of
toxic waste. "On the one hand, the EPA was friendly to
business during the Reagan years," says Russell Mokhiber,
editor of the Corporate Crime Reporter, a newsletter in
Washington, D.C. "But along with Republicans' deregulation
came a law-and-order philosophy; the Justice Department had
some cops who were out there enforcing the law."
   If convicted, environmental-crime defendants are more
likely to draw prison time now because of felony clauses
added in the '80s, and also because of federal sentencing
guidelines set in 1987. Before the new guidelines, jail terms
were rare, and typically totaled 60 to 90 days. Now, "an
individual convicted of an environmental felony will likely
have to serve approximately two years in prison," Kevin A.
Gaynor, a Washington lawyer, recently wrote in the journal
Environmental Forum.
   Not surprisingly, that's causing heated debate.
"Environmental criminal enforcement is on the verge of
spinning out of control" because of "increasingly complex
regulations" and arbitrary prosecutions, charges Mr. Gaynor,
who defends companies and executives in such cases and
represented Mr. Jones in the wetlands case. "Now virtually
any environmental violation is potentially a criminal case."
   The EPA's Mr. Strock sees it differently. "The clearest
evidence we have that stronger enforcement is deterring crime
is the increased anxiety expressed lately by the regulated
community," he says.
   Law-enforcement officers acknowledge that the milder
policies of the past may have lulled business people into
complacency. Consider Robert and Scott McKiel, a father and
son who ran Astro Circuit Corp., a Lowell, Mass., concern
that went bankrupt two years ago.
   As president of an electronics company with about 300
employees, the elder Mr. McKiel seemed above reproach. He was
a member of Lowell's Chamber of Commerce and Rotary Club, and
served as an officer in his industry's trade group. His son,
Scott, vice president of operations, seemed cut from the same
cloth.
   Beginning in 1986, city officials repeatedly notified
Astro Circuit that illegally high concentrations of toxic
metals were detected in its waste water. But the McKiels paid
little attention to the notices, and the younger one
responded "nonchalantly" when investigators confronted him
with evidence of the violations, say federal attorneys.
"We're guilty," the attorneys quoted him as saying. "What are
you going to do, put us in jail or something?"
   Last year, he was sentenced to three months in prison and
two years on probation after pleading guilty to knowingly
violating federal water laws. His father, who pleaded guilty
to similar violations, got four months in prison and two
years' probation. The McKiels didn't return phone calls
seeking comment.
   The typical scenario for toxic turpitude is a
cash-strapped firm deciding that plugging the flow of
pollutants is just too expensive. Properly disposing of a
single 55-gallon barrel of toxic waste now costs as much as
$1,000. For small companies, such costs can quickly become a
make-or-break expense when business is weak.
   Some regulators fear an environmental crime wave will hit
if the economy worsens. And the new polluters might be better
at covering their tracks. "Midnight dumping is essentially a
thing of the past," says Andrew Savitz, Massachusetts
assistant secretary for environmental law enforcement. "Now
we're dealing with technical environmental crimes . . .
committed behind closed doors."
   Consider Wells Metal Finishing Inc., a now-defunct company
in Lowell, Mass., near the Merrimack River, a waterway
federal officials have targeted for cleanup. After municipal
water officials warned owner and president John Wells about
illegal discharges into the river, he installed some special
plumbing. It shunted waste solutions laden with cyanide and
zinc past his concern's water-treatment system into the
sewer, and eventually into the Merrimack -- which is used for
drinking -- water downstream from the plant. That enabled his
company to freely dispose of large amounts of toxic chemicals
that otherwise would have overloaded his treatment system,
potentially tipping off employees or regulators to illegal
discharges.
   But sensors outside the company's property showed its
cyanide "was turning Lowell's sewer into a gas chamber," says
Brendan O'Brien, an EPA investigator. Finally, a visiting
city inspector noticed the illegal bypass. Mr. Wells denied
the extra pipe's purpose and promptly ordered the inspector
out of his building, according to U.S. attorneys. It was too
late. Now he is serving a 15-month prison term.
   To counter such tricks, government agencies have assembled
teams of scientists, lawyers and detectives outfitted with
gear ranging from electronic sniffers to "moon suits" for
poking around in sewers. But environmental violators remain
hard to catch and convict. In a case in Gloucester, Mass.,
officials discovered a polluter's practices only after the
chemicals involved blew up in the sewer, sending manhole
covers flying and forcing a downtown evacuation. Most
environmental crimes escape notice until someone, often a
disgruntled employee, tips off investigators.
   That's what happened in Mr. Borowski's case. From the
outside, his Borjohn Optical seemed to be doing everything
right. Its mirror-making business, which involved plating
nickel onto aluminum pieces and then treating them with acid,
boomed after it won contracts to make optical parts for M-1
tanks, cruise missiles and the Bradley Fighting Vehicle. But
some of the winning bids seemed low, says a competitor, who
asked not to be named: "We wondered how they were keeping
costs down."
   Part of the answer lay in Mr. Borowski's hard work. The
70-year-old Polish immigrant, though plagued by back injuries
reportedly inflicted by the Nazis in World War II, has an
iron constitution and an intense drive to succeed. Working
long hours, he personally oversaw every detail of Borjohn's
operations, even coming in late at night to recharge
nickel-plating solutions.
   He demanded the same dedication from workers. When he
first dumped acid, says former employee Jerzy Kocjan, "I
looked down and saw holes all over my pants {from splattered
drops}. `Jesus, what's happening?' I thought. Then I saw my
hands were turning yellow from the acid vapors. When I showed
them to Borowski, he just showed me his hands. They were
yellow, too."
   Indeed, Mr. Borowski never seemed to realize how toxic
Borjohn's chemicals were, agree former employees. Once he put
his daughter's old bicycle in a vat of the company's acid
overnight to clean it up, they said. The bike partly
dissolved and fell apart. Mr. Borowski once even temporarily
stored an open vat of acid outside his building, only a few
feet from an apartment parking lot where children played, say
former employees.
   Why didn't the workers complain to the authorities?
   Mr. Borowski hired recent Polish immigrants to work in his
plating room. Few knew much English, and some were illegal
aliens. They were eager for work and reluctant to buck
Borjohn's down-the-sink system. Some quit after getting sick.
But repression in Poland kept new ones coming, and Borjohn
became "a revolving door" for such people, says Cerise
Lim-Epstein, an assistant U.S. attorney.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Borowski took steps to avert regulators'
suspicions by occasionally hiring toxic-waste concerns to
legally dispose of the hazardous wastes, prosecutors alleged.
That provided documentation he presented as evidence that
Borjohn was doing the right thing. Records later obtained by
the government showed Borjohn properly disposed of 110
gallons of the toxic solutions between 1986 and 1988.
Meanwhile, it had used about 11,000 gallons of the stuff in
that period, according to evidence presented at the trial.
   Things began to unravel in 1987 when Mr. Borowski hired
Mr. Kruczynski, a young Polish immigrant, to help manage his
growing business. What made Mr. Kruczynski, now 28, a good
management candidate -- his sharp mind, pluck and fluent
English -- made him just the wrong man to oversee illegal
dumping.
   While learning the ropes at Borjohn, "I called its
chemical supplier and asked if it was right to throw the
chemicals down the sink," Mr. Kruczynski says. "When they
said no, I confronted Borowski and told him we had to stop
the dumping. He gave me a father-to-son talk about how people
do it all the time. `Who does it really hurt?' he said."
   Mr. Kruczynski soon found out. He noticed that workers in
the plating room invariably got rashes. One "came in looking
like he had been rolling in poison ivy," he recalls. Another
keeled over after taking "too big a whiff" of one of
Borjohn's chemicals. "I took him to the hospital," says Mr.
Kruczynski. "He recovered but felt bad for days."
   That employee, Jan Bafia, was later examined by a doctor,
whose report was presented in court. Among other things, Mr.
Bafia, who declines to be interviewed, reportedly suffered
from bleeding gums and eroding teeth, a painful cough,
blisters on his face and arms, and hair loss. At least twice,
he coughed up blood. Now he is probably at increased risk for
cancer from Borjohn's chemicals, according to the doctor's
report included in the evidence at Mr. Borowski's trial.
   Acting on a tip, federal agents barged into Borjohn in
1988, seizing evidence that led to Mr. Borowski being
indicted for knowing endangerment under the Clean Water Act.
After a four-week trial, a federal jury convicted him of two
knowing-endangerment counts, each of which carries a maximum
15-year prison term and $250,000 fine.
   Awaiting sentencing, Mr. Borowski now runs his company
under close EPA scrutiny. His lawyer, William Codinha, argues
that the government improperly prosecuted the case under
environmental law, which traditionally applies to "what
happens under the street or in the sewer and not in the
sink." Prosecutors offered only circumstantial evidence that
Borjohn's sewer discharges contained illegally high
concentrations of toxic chemicals, he maintains.
   Furthermore, says the lawyer, before 1987 it was only a
misdemeanor to break the federal law under which Mr. Borowski
was convicted. Now it's a felony. He adds that the confusion
due to this "midstream" change has been compounded lately by
prosecutors' crackdown on environmental crime.
   "We're really dealing with a changing, fluid system here,"
he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Whittle Communications L.P. named William
Connell as its new president and chief operating officer. He
most recently operated his own venture-capital business,
Peregrine Capital Partners of Cincinnati. Before that, he was
a 25-year veteran of Procter &amp; Gamble Co. He succeeds Nick
Glover, who resigned in January 1989. Time Warner Inc. bought
a 50% interest in Whittle in late 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Tate &amp; Lyle PLCL:
   British Sugar Group Offers
   To Buy Unit of Berisford
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TAT U.BRF
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tate &amp; Lyle PLC said it has made an offer to Berisford
International PLC to buy the troubled British conglomerate's
British Sugar subsidiary.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but David Lang of Henderson
Crosthwaite estimates the value of British Sugar at #1
billion ($1.91 billion).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tate &amp; Lyle is one of several companies currently in talks
with Berisford about the sale of British Sugar.
   In March, Tate &amp; Lyle made a preliminary offer for all of
Berisford International, which is posting losses related to
its U.S. property and jewelry interests.
   In July, Tate &amp; Lyle withdrew the offer after the
Monopolies and Merger Commission announced it would review
the merger plan for its impact on competition.
   Berisford Chairman John Sclater said in July that the
company is seeking to sell assets, including British Sugar,
to cut debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Uranium Prices Fail to Keep Pace
   With Oil Because of Supply Glut
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Uranium prices are up this year, but not because
of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and talk of possible oil
shortages this winter. Indeed, industry experts say a supply
glut will prevent renewed concern about alternative energy
sources from quickly resuscitating the depressed uranium
market.
   While spot uranium prices, quoted by Nuexco, a nuclear
fuel broker, now are smartly higher than their February lows
of $8.70 a pound, they failed to follow oil's surge last
month. In fact, they dipped 25 cents to $11.45 a pound in
August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "There's more than sufficient supplies of uranium to
satisfy demand and it takes long lead times to propose and
build new nuclear power plants," says Earl Hoellen, president
and chief operating officer of Nuexco.
   Spot uranium prices soared to a peak of $43.70 in 1978
from $6 in 1973, mainly because of the two previous oil-price
shocks. Yet jaded delegates at a conference last week
organized by the London-based Uranium Institute don't expect
a repeat performance this time.
   Uranium needs of nuclear reactors will rise marginally to
47,500 metric tons in 1995 from 45,700 metric tons in 1990,
estimates the institute, which represents producers and
consumers. Meanwhile, actual and potential supplies from
Western producers, the Soviet Union, China and reprocessing
plants will rise to 60,606 metric tons in 1995 from 46,848
tons this year, the institute forecasts.
   Over and above this projected imbalance of production over
demand are inventories of around 182,000 metric tons, the
institute says. These stocks are likely to grow, conference
delegates said last week, because of the U.S.-Soviet Union
agreement to reduce nuclear arsenals.
   Nevertheless, nuclear power will be used more widely as a
result of the Gulf crisis and worries about the "greenhouse
effect," contends Kunihiko Uematsu, director general of the
Organization For Economic Co-Operation and Development's
Nuclear Energy Agency.
   Primary energy use will rise by more than 60% world-wide
between 1985 and 2020, he predicts. A surge in demand is
already taking place in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe,
Mr. Uematsu says, and consumption will grow in developed, Far
Eastern, South American and Third World nations, he says.
Currently, only 5% of the world's total primary energy is
generated by nuclear power, he says.
   Provided plants are vigilant about safety, nuclear power
has clear environmental advantages, Mr. Uematsu says. Nuclear
plants in operation and under construction will produce
400,000 megawatts of electricity, he says. An equivalent
amount generated by fossil fuels would release an
unacceptable two billion tons of carbon dioxide.
   The Chernobyl disaster made the public wary of nuclear
power however, Mr. Uematsu says. As a result, highly trained
workers are leaving "a declining industry," while fewer
students are taking courses in nuclear engineering.
   Some brokers blame the uranium glut on a market that isn't
truly free. The vast majority of utilities, particularly in
Europe and the Far East, buy uranium from producers at prices
well above the spot market price, says Heera Clark, vice
president marketing and consulting, Uranium Exchange Co.
   Utilities purchase uranium at $20 to $30 a pound to ensure
security of supplies, she says, an unnecessary premium given
the surfeit of potential supplies. If users bought more
uranium on the open market, producers would be encouraged to
lower output, she says, and the market would become more
balanced.
   U.S. utilities, however, buy more uranium on the spot
market than other international players, Ms. Clark says. They
are forced to do so because rate payers keep a close watch on
costs.
   "Spot market transactions only account for about a seventh
of annual uranium supplies," says Treva Klingbiel,
director-market analysis at Nuexco. "Yet, there are signs
that more U.S. and international utilities are taking
advantage of low prices."
   Spot and near-term transactions rose 33% to 33 million
pounds (15,000 metric tons) last year and this year have
reached 30 million pounds (13,600 tons) by the end of August,
she says.
   Nevertheless, uranium exploration spending tumbled to $128
million in 1989 from $738 million in 1989, because of low
prices, says Douglas Underhill, Manager Geotechnical
Consulting, Nuclear Assurance Corporation. Unless mines
expand in the 1990s, he says, production will fall below
consumption and prices will surge.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices boomed Friday and could continue strong.
Traders are growing increasingly concerned over production
problems in foreign countries that could reduce supplies.
   The most-actively traded December contract on New York's
Commodity Exchange rose to a new life-of-contract high of
$1.3050 a pound before ending just slightly under that level,
at $1.3035, a gain of 6.95 cents.
   Chile recently suffered its third cave-in in a principal
mine, and other producing countries such as Peru and Zambia
also have troubles, analysts said.
   Demand for futures contracts in New York was also
triggered by strength in London, where Far Eastern buying of
futures touched off buying by traders who previously sold
short contracts in anticipation of continued price declines,
analysts said.
                                                                                                       

   Coffee
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices plunged Friday on profit-taking and other
selling, but analysts said concern over obtaining immediately
available supplies of green coffee remained a strong
potential price-supporting factor.
   The December contract ended with a loss of four cents a
pound at 98.25 cents after trading early in the session as
high as $1.0260.
   "The price drop should be only a transitory development if
the prospect that supplies of coffee over the near-term are
going to be tight," said one analyst. "Also, a price decline
of this kind may cause roasters, who are now entering their
peak processing season, to come in and buy needed supplies."
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   The latest government corn and soybean crop estimates to
be released Wednesday will be a dominant factor influencing
futures prices this week. Private sector estimates released
late last week of the corn crop as of Sept. 1 predicted a
slightly higher figure than the Agriculture Department Aug. 1
estimate of 7.85 billion bushels of corn. If those estimates
are borne out by the government figures on Wedneseday, corn
futures prices could come under selling pressure.
   Private soybean estimates straddle the government's Aug. 1
figure of 1.836 billion bushels. Traders said it was unlikely
that speculators would be amassing any sizable trading
positions in either crop ahead of release of the government
estimates after the close of trading Wednesday.
   Hot and dry weather forecasted for most growing regions
this week may threaten harvest yields and lends support to
futures prices. But analysts said that a slight increase in
the chance that it may rain in Mississippi River delta
growing areas this week, may rein in any weather-related
futures price advances.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Intermark Inc.:
   Boards of 2 Concerns Clear
   Settlement With Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13
</SO>
<CO>
   IMI
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Intermark Inc., which recently completed a merger with
Triton Group Ltd., said the companies' boards approved a
settlement of shareholder litigation related to the merger.
   Several suits, consolidated in the Delaware Chancery
Court, had charged the companies' officers with breaches of
various fiduciary duties. Intermark and Triton said they
agreed to the settlement without admitting any wrongful acts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the settlement, which requires court approval,
Intermark conditionally agreed to pay as much as 35 cents a
share for each Triton share held by former Triton holders who
received Intermark stock in the merger and hold it for two
years after court approval.
   Intermark said that such additional payment, if any, is
dependent upon the trading price of Intermark common shares.
No settlement amount will be paid if at any time during the
two-year period, the closing price of Intermark shares equals
or exceeds $6.375 on 20 consecutive trading days.
   If the average closing price of Intermark common stock for
the 20 trading days preceding the two-year anniversary is
less than $5.50 per share, Intermark will pay up to 35 cents
a share in cash, or an equivalent value in stock.
   Intermark shares closed Friday at $4.50, down 12.5 cents,
in American Stock Exchange trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bethlehem Steel
   Seeks to Reopen
   Labor Contract
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   BS LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BETHLEHEM, Pa. -- Bethlehem Steel Corp., threatening to
shutter its troubled rod and wire division, said it wants to
renegotiate a costly labor agreement it signed last year.
   In exchange for labor concessions, Bethlehem, the nation's
No. 2 steel concern, said it would invest more than $100
million to modernize facilities at the division's three
sites, in Johnstown, Pa.; Lackawanna, N.Y., and Sparrows
Point, Md. The division, which has estimated annual revenue
of about $450 million, has been unprofitable every year since
it opened in 1983.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The United Steelworkers union had no immediate response to
the company's call for a new labor agreement. But the union
and its 2,700 employees in Bethlehem's bar, rod and wire
division may have no choice but to negotiate. If labor balks
at Bethlehem's call, "there would be the risk of shutting it
down entirely," a company spokesman said.
   Whether the union will make concessions, a spokesman for
USW Local 2635 in Johnstown said, "depends on how many
carrots are out there."
   The 50-month agreement, signed in May 1989, boosted wages
and benefits an estimated 20%, following five years of
reduced labor costs. Company officials, competitors and
industry analysts agree that Bethlehem now suffers from a
competitive disadvantage from both labor costs and outdated
equipment.
   Bethlehem declined to name specific concessions it would
seek from the union. But analysts said it is likely to seek
cuts in both wages and the work force, and better labor
productivity. Labor, in return, will probably seek job
security and, for terminated employees, improved
compensation.
   In seeking the renegotiation, Bethlehem is acknowledging
that it cannot support the costs of the current contract,
which saddled the company with some of the highest labor
costs in the industry. But the company spokesman indicated
that the company had anticipated possible problems when it
included a renegotiation clause in the contract.
   Charles Bradford, an analyst with UBS Securities, said
Bethlehem's per-hour employee costs total $28, including high
pension costs. The industry average is $26, he said, and the
Bethlehem division's minimill competitors are paying in "the
middle teens."
   The outdated equipment in the mills has kept the
division's productivity at five man-hours to produce each ton
of steel, against an industry average of about three
man-hours, the analyst added.
   The capital improvements will include a continuous caster,
which eliminates several laborious and costly steps in
steelmaking, as well as the modernization of an existing bar
mill. Analyst John Tumazos, of Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette,
said Bethlehem's offer to invest $100 million is something it
had to do anyway to match the modernization plans of
competitors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Porsche AG:
   Sales Jumped 21% in 1990
   At West German Company
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   G.POR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Porsche AG, citing a strong climb in domestic sales and an
improved product mix, said group sales in the year ended July
31 jumped 21% to 3.045 billion marks ($1.96 billion) from
2.526 billion marks in the previous year.
   The West German sports-car maker said earnings "improved
further" from last year's earnings due to cost-cutting
measures introduced last year and an increase in sales
volume. It provided no details. Last year, net income more
than doubled to 54.2 million marks from 25.3 million marks in
the previous year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stuttgart-based Porsche said domestic sales climbed 26% to
943 million marks from 747 million marks while foreign sales
climbed 18% to 2.1 billion marks from 1.78 billion marks.
Foreign sales accounted for 69% of the company's sales, down
from 70% a year earlier.
   Sales of vehicles climbed 20% to 2.56 billion marks from
2.14 billion marks.
   The company said sales of all models declined in the U.S.,
in particular sales of its 944 models. Unit sales in the U.S.
fell 23% to 7,852 from 10,193.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH AND GORBACHEV ISSUED a joint warning to Iraq's Saddam
Hussein.
   The two leaders, meeting in Finland, told Baghdad that
they would consider unspecified "additional" steps if the
Iraqis failed to heed U.N. demands to withdraw from Kuwait.
Although Washington has said a military strike at Iraq is
still an option, Gorbachev said the Soviets wouldn't join the
land and sea forces in the Mideast, stressing the crisis must
be resolved politically.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arab leaders have pledged billions of dollars to cover the
cost of U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia. Separately, as Iraq's
foreign minister met with officials in Iran over the U.N.
embargo, hundreds of foreigners left Iraq. Palestinian
radical Abul Abbas said the time might be ripe for renewed
commando warfare in support of Baghdad.
   Syria said that a series of explosions were heard in an
Iraqi border town, possibly at a chemical plant. Baghdad
denied the report from Damascus.
   ---
   Liberia's Doe was shot in both legs and captured by a
rebel faction in Monrovia, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported. More than 60 people, including dozens of the
president's bodyguards, died in the clash with insurgents led
by Prince Johnson, who declared himself president until an
interim government can be formed, the BBC said.
   ---
   Lebanese police reported at least 75 people were killed
during a three-day offensive by the Palestine Liberation
Organization to oust guerrillas loyal to terrorist leader Abu
Nidal from Sidon and nearby refugee camps. The PLO claimed
victory against the supporters of Abu Nidal, who broke with
the PLO in 1973 to form his own group.
   ---
   Federal and state officials are preparing to demand a
third round of cleanup by Exxon next summer along the beaches
of Alaska's Prince William Sound, site of the largest oil
spill in U.S. history. More than 10 million gallons of crude
oil spilled when an Exxon tanker rammed an underwater reef in
March 1989.
   ---
   A split developed among European Community nations over
the speed and method for achieving monetary union, raising
the likelihood of difficult negotiations among members this
year. At a meeting of EC finance ministers Saturday, Britain
won unexpected support for a more cautious approach to the
issue.
   ---
   South African police opened fire to disperse crowds of
blacks in Soweto angered by an overnight attack on a squatter
camp that left at least 10 people dead. Residents accused
Zulu supporters of the conservative Inkatha movement of
launching the nighttime attack with police help.
   ---
   Lt. Gov. Evelyn Murphy took charge in Massachusetts after
Dukakis left the state on a European trade mission. In the
governor's absence, Murphy -- who is a candidate for governor
-- issued a set of budget-cutting proposals Friday that she
said could save $150 million annually. Dukakis is slated to
return late this week.
   ---
   Ontario's New Democratic Party sought to reassure a
nervous business community after the socialist party was
elected to rule the Canadian province. The party's surprise
victory Thursday is of national consequence because Ontario
accounts for over 40% of Canada's output and contains more
than a third of its people.
   ---
   Cambodia's warring groups endorsed a U.N. plan to end
their 11-year civil war, but major obstacles have yet to be
resolved. The three allied guerrilla groups and the
Vietnamese-backed Phnom Penh government concluded their first
day of peace talks yesterday in Indonesia.
   ---
   Cardiologist Bernadine Healy was chosen by Health and
Human Services Secretary Sullivan to become the director of
the National Institutes of Health. HHS officials said
Sullivan is about to choose David Kessler, medical director
of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York, as
the next FDA commissioner.
   ---
   Workers and intellectuals staged a joint rally in the
central Romanian city of Brasov to protest what they said was
the government's failure to solve the country's severe
economic problems.
   ---
   Pete Sampras beat fellow American Andre Agassi in straight
sets to win the men's singles title at the U.S. Open tennis
championships. On Saturday, Gabriela Sabatini defeated Steffi
Graf in the women's final.
   ---
   Died: A.J.P. Taylor, 84, popular British historian and
journalist, Friday, in London, of Parkinson's disease.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   This Week's Calendar of Economic Data
   Is Likely to Show Soft Output for August
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Economists shave a bit more from already thin
forecasts and brace for a big oil-inflation hit this week.
   Following Friday's weak jobs report, coming data on August
industrial production and capacity utilization are expected
to at best hover around July levels. And the much-awaited
initial impact from the oil crisis hits the August producer
price index -- the consensus view calls for a jump of 1.3%,
up from July's dip of 0.1%. A soft August retail sales report
is also in the cards, although the economic hand won't be
dealt until Friday, when all the data are released. The
week's only other major indicator is July consumer credit,
due out today.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The whole economy is just hanging on by its toenails,"
said Lawrence Kudlow, economist at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., New
York. He said the weak employment data suggest real gross
national product could drop into the negative column in the
third quarter. One negative reading on GNP, or the total
value of the nation's goods and services, doesn't make a
recession. But it could be an official starting point. Still,
Mr. Kudlow is among the group that says the recession may
already be under way.
   "Real business people have been telling me we're in a
recession for six months. And that's good enough for me,"
said Mr. Kudlow. Still, he isn't a "doom and gloomer" and
expects only a short duration for any downturn.
   Robert McGee, chief economist at Tokai Bank Ltd., New
York, lowered his expectations for August industrial output
on the basis of the weak employment data. Mr. McGee now
expects a decline of 0.2% in industrial production;
previously he thought output would maintain July's flat
reading. He also shaved his estimate for the related capacity
utilization reading to 83.1% from 83.3%. In July, the
nation's factories operated at 83.4% of capacity.
   One forecast economists haven't changed much since the
Iraqi invasion of Kuwait: sharply higher producer prices.
"That's baked into the cake," said Mr. McGee, who expects a
jump of one percentage point in wholesale prices.
   Both producer and consumer price indexes are expected to
soar for a while. The August consumer price index, due out
next week, is expected to jump 0.8%, according to MMS
International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., New York. But
economists will also be keeping tabs on the inflation gauges
minus their volatile energy and food components. Excluding
food and energy, August producer prices are expected to
increase 0.3% and consumer prices 0.4%, according to MMS.
   August retail sales are also expected to be soft, slipping
0.1%, according to the consensus view. In July, retail sales
gained 0.1%. Ironically, the energy crisis could help support
sales through higher gasoline-station receipts. Excluding
autos, August retail sales are expected to increase 0.2%,
about the same as in July.
   Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Manhattan Bank,
New York, said he's ratcheting down expectations for the
third quarter largely because of the weak employment data.
Mr. Fine had been expecting GNP growth of 1% in the period,
but now thinks a range of 0.5% to 1% is more realistic.
   Still, he believes the quarter will manage to stay out of
the red largely because of the giant service sector, which
has stimulated job growth throughout this economic expansion.
While service business employment has been slowing, "it will
still carry us into the positive category" for the quarter,
Mr. Fine said.
   ---
              Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended Sept. 7
                                                                                                       

                                            CHANGE
                             TOTAL     (FROM PRIOR PERIOD)
                                                                                                       

 Money supply
   M1 Week ended
   Aug. 27 (in billions)       $815.4     -$2.2
                                                                                                       

   M2 Week ended
   Aug. 27 (in billions)     $3,304.7     -$0.7
                                                                                                       

   M3 Week ended
   Aug. 27 (in billions)     $4,091.3     +$3.9
                                                                                                       

 Purchasing
 Managers' Index
 August change in
 percentage points              47.0%     - 0.4
                                                                                                       

 Employment,
 payroll
 August (in millions)          110.67     - 0.7%
                                                                                                       

 Construction
 spending
 July annual rate

                                                                                                       

 Unemployment
 rate
 August, change in
 percentage points               5.6%     + 0.1
                                                                                                       

 Auto sales
 Late August,
 total vs. year ago           257,241     -18.8%
                                                                                                       

 New jobless
 claims
 Week ended
 August 25                    370,000     - 3.1%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

 Consumer credit
 (Mon.) July
                                                                                                       

 New car sales
 (Thurs.) Early September
                                                                                                       

 Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 New jobless claims
 (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       

 Producer price index
 (Fri.) August
                                                                                                       

 Retail sales
 (Fri.) August
                                                                                                       

 Industrial production
 (Fri.) August
                                                                                                       

 Capacity utilization
 (Fri.) August
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co.:
   Michelin Unit to Increase
   Prices on Some Tires by 5%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UGT F.MIC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co. said it will increase prices
for its original-equipment commercial tires by 5%, effective
Oct. 1.
   The Akron, Ohio, company, a unit of Groupe Michelin of
France, attributed the move to "the escalating cost of raw
materials." The increase follows a 2% to 6% increase on tire
prices, also effective Oct. 1, announced by Goodyear Tire &amp;
Rubber Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The price increases had been expected because of the rise
in crude-oil prices stemming from the Mideast crisis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Three Steel Concerns
   In Japan Plan to Raise
   Fiscal 1st-Half Payout
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13B
</SO>
<CO>
   J.KOB J.NIP J.SMM
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Three major Japanese steel companies separately
announced plans to raise dividends for the fiscal first half
ending Sept. 30. They cited expectations of higher sales
during the period, reflecting brisk domestic demand for crude
steel.
   The three steel concerns, Nippon Steel Corp., Kobe Steel
Ltd., and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd., each plan to raise
the interim dividend payment to 3 yen (US two cents) from 2.5
yen a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nippon Steel predicted, on an unconsolidated basis, that
it will post a rise in sales for the first half to 1.25
trillion yen (US$888.4 billion) yen from 1.238 trillion yen.
   Citing rising costs on fuel prices, as well as fierce
sales competition, Nippon Steel's pretax profit is estimated
at about 80 billion yen, down from 92.3 billion yen,
according to officials. However, the largest Japanese steel
maker said it expects drastic increases in both sales and
pretax income in the second half. The company didn't give
estimates.
   Kobe Steel forecast that it would post unconsolidated
sales of 640 billion yen, the highest half-year sales total
for the company, up from 602 billion yen the year before.
Pretax profit was flat at 28 billion yen, compared with 28.2
billion yen a year earlier.
   Sumitomo sees its sales reaching about 570 billion yen in
the first half from 544.2 billion yen the year before. The
company forecast its pretax profit registered about 40
billion yen, compared with 47.4 billion yen a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   TCBY Triples Payout
   To 10 Cents a Share
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   TBY
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- TCBY Enterprises Inc. said its board
more than tripled the quarterly dividend to 10 cents a share
from three cents, payable Sept. 25 to stock of record Sept.
19.
   TCBY, a franchiser of retail stores that sell frozen
yogurt, didn't give a reason for the increase, and company
officials couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TCBY's stock price has fallen sharply in recent weeks,
following news of declines in sales for stores open at least
a year and a disclosure by the company that it expects to
report that net income for the third quarter ended Aug. 31
fell to between 25 and 30 cents a share from 43 cents in the
year-earlier period.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
before the dividend news was released, TCBY shares closed at
$6.375, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Health Secretary Picks Bernadine Healy,
   Cardiologist, to Head National Institutes
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B11
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Health and Human Services Secretary Louis
Sullivan has selected Bernadine Healy, a cardiologist, to
become the director of the National Institutes of Health.
   In addition, HHS officials said that Dr. Sullivan is about
to choose David Kessler, the medical director of the Albert
Einstein College of Medicine in New York, as the next
commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dr. Kessler, a former aide to Sen. Orrin Hatch (R., Utah),
is a member of an HHS advisory committee examining the FDA,
which has lately suffered from problems ranging from
inspector shortages to revelations of fraud in the
generic-drug approval process. The FDA post has been vacant
since last November, and the nomination would require Senate
confirmation.
   HHS officials said that Dr. Sullivan already has asked the
White House to clear the appointment of Dr. Healy, who is
chairman of the Research Institute at the Cleveland Clinic
Foundation. Dr. Healy won't be formally offered the National
Institutes post until the White House approves, but HHS
officials said she has told Dr. Sullivan she is interested in
the directorship of the world's leading medical research
organization.
   A member of Dr. Healy's office said she was on vacation
and couldn't be reached for comment.
   The appointment of Dr. Healy would be a coup for Dr.
Sullivan. Her prestige would help address recent complaints
in Congress and elsewhere that the National Institutes has
paid insufficient attention to diseases affecting women, to
testing promising new therapies on women and to promoting
women researchers. Dr. Healy, a former president of the
American Heart Association, has spoken out publicly on the
need to move more women into leadership positions in medical
research and administration.
   The National Institutes post has been vacant since Aug. 1,
1989, when the Bush administration's anti-abortion politics
forced Director James Wyngaarden to resign. Several prominent
physicians, including Anthony Fauci, who heads the AIDS
research program at the National Institutes, and William
Danforth, the chancellor of Washington University in St.
Louis and the brother of Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.), have
rejected the job.
   Scientists have said that the post's relatively low salary
and limited authority, as well as fears that the
administration's anti-abortion policies would limit some
research initiatives, have made the National Institutes post
difficult to fill.
   To address these concerns, Dr. Sullivan announced that the
White House had assured him that "standards of scientific and
administrative excellence and leadership," not politics,
would prevail in the selection. He also has vowed to seek
more authority and pay for the National Institutes director.
Currently, the National Institutes director makes around
$100,000 annually, about half what heads of medical school
departments earn.
   Dr. Healy's appointment would show that the administration
isn't imposing an ideological litmus test for the National
Institutes post. HHS officials said Dr. Healy has opposed the
administration's ban on the use of fetal tissue in research.
The administration fears that if fetal-tissue transplants led
to new treatments for such degenerative diseases as
Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, pressure for abortions could
rise. Dr. Healy has served as the president of the American
Federation for Clinical Research, which has opposed the
government's ban on fetal-tissue research.
   Dr. Healy has some Washington experience. She is a member
of President Bush's Council of Advisers on Science and
Technology, and she was deputy director of the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy from February 1984
through September 1985.
   At the Cleveland Clinic, which is headed by her husband,
Floyd Loop, Dr. Healy has worked aggressively to boost the
budget and prestige of the Research Institute. Research
funding grew to $36 million last year from $8 million in
1985, with much of the money coming from the National
Institutes.
   By contrast, the National Institutes budget is $7.6
billion this year. Yet the National Institutes faces a
variety of problems -- funding hasn't kept up with research
demands and many talented scientists are leaving for higher
paying jobs elsewhere. In addition, the new National
Institutes director will face a host of complex policy issues
ranging from how to prevent research fraud to developing
rules to sorting out the ethical and legal issues that arise
as scientists learn how to analyze genes to detect disease
and manipulate genes in an effort to cure or prevent disease.
   ---
   Timothy Noah contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUDGET NEGOTIATORS labored to find ways to cut the
deficit, but aides said progress was very slow. Democrats
proposed higher-income-tax rates for upper-income Americans,
while the GOP proposed an even bigger capital-gains cut than
Bush suggested. Negotiators, who hope to reach agreement by
tomor row, are to meet with President Bush for two hours this
morning.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Toyota plans to build a second U.S. auto-assembly plant,
at a site to be announced within 60 days. The plant could
open within two years. The move comes as Japanese car makers
continue to win an ever-larger share of the U.S. market.
   ---
   U.S. unemployment rose to 5.6% in August, up 0.1
percentage point to the highest level in two years. The Labor
Department said private-sector job growth has virtually
halted in the past two months, and an industry survey also
indicates a hiring slowdown.
   ---
   OPEC'S output is rebounding after the plunge caused by the
Mideast crisis, as producers make good on promises to pump
more oil. However, volume isn't expected to hit pre-crisis
levels until late in the year.
   ---
   Manville agreed to pay as much as $520 million over the
next seven years to its asbestos personal-injury trust, which
has run out of cash trying to pay the 130,000 claims against
it.
   ---
   Tandy charged Texas Instruments in a lawsuit with
fraudulently claiming certain microprocessor technologies as
its own and with demanding illegally steep royalty payments.
   ---
   BankAmerica won the bidding for the defunct Benjamin
Franklin S&amp;L, offering $162.3 million, or 6.85% of the
thrift's core deposits. Although the bid was relatively high,
several analysts hailed the move as a sound one.
   ---
   Stocks rose Friday, helped by lower oil prices. Bonds
prices also rose, while the dollar ended mixed.
   ---
   Airbus Industrie has little chance of ever becoming
profitable, said a Commerce Department study, which warned
that continued operations by the heavily subsidized European
aerospace consortium could permanently harm U.S. competitors.
   ---
   Bethlehem Steel wants to renegotiate a costly labor pact
at its troubled rod and wire division, threatening to shut
the operation entirely if the steelworkers' union balks.
   ---
   A sale of U.S. fighter jets to South Korea was agreed to
by the two nations. The $4.7 billion contract is for 120
McDonnell Douglas planes.
   ---
   Oracle Systems will post a $27.4 million loss for its
fiscal first quarter. The software concern had expanded in
anticipation of a 50% rise in revenue, which failed to
materialize.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 123,800,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2619.55, up 23.26; transportation 908.28, up 16.08; utilities
200.89, up 2.64.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3362.30, up
11.65.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.84, up 0.29; spot
index 129.53, off 0.57.
   Dollar: 140.05 yen, off 0.65; 1.5679 marks, up 0.0129.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medical-Insurance Ruling
   On Reservists Issued by IRS
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Employers cannot unilaterally cut off
medical-insurance coverage for reservists called to Middle
East duty and their dependents, the Internal Revenue Service
ruled.
   The IRS said employers have the same obligation to
employees and their families during a military call-up as
they have when a worker is laid off or quits. Under the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, a
departing employee may obtain continued health coverage from
the employer, usually for up to 18 months after he or she
leaves the job, by paying the full insurance premium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An employer may deny continued coverage to employees who
become covered under another group health plan. But the IRS
ruled that the medical coverage given military personnel, and
the coverage for their dependents under the military's
Champus health-benefits program, don't qualify as group
health plans under the tax code. The ruling upheld the
Defense Department's argument, although IRS officials
previously had leaned against that position.
   The call-up of reservists ordered by President Bush began
two weeks ago. Employers typically have 14 days from the day
a departed worker's regular medical coverage ends to notify
the employee of his right to continued health coverage.
Currently, most employers voluntarily are continuing medical
benefits for the reservists and their dependents under
existing terms of their plans, said Charles Kerby, a benefits
consultant with William M. Mercer Inc. in New York.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Former Syntex Scientist's
   Damage Award Is Reduced
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   SYN
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- A state court judge slashed to $3.5
million from $17.5 million an award of damages against Syntex
Corp. for wrongful discharge of a scientist.
   Judge Thomas P. Hansen of Superior Court for Santa Clara
County termed "grossly excessive" a prior jury decision to
award former Syntex scientist Gabriel Garay $2.5 million in
compensatory damages and $15 million in punitive damages
levied against the Palo Alto, Calif., drug company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Garay left Syntex after protesting the company's
suppression of information about possible toxic side-effects
of an anti-ulcer drug. James Der, attorney for the plaintiff,
said he was "disappointed" by the judge's decision to shave
the award.
   He said his client has until Sept. 20 to decide whether he
will accept the reduced damages. However, Mr. Der emphasized
that the judge refused to overturn the verdict of wrongful
discharge of Mr. Garay.
   If the reduced award isn't accepted by either side, the
judge said the case may go to a new trial on damages only.
Syntex officials had no immediate comment on whether they
would appeal the reduced award.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Claims Daimler Unit Sold
   Arms to Iraq Spurs Probe
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.DAI EUROP MDEST G.MES
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- West German authorities are investigating one
of the aerospace subsidiaries of Daimler-Benz AG for alleged
violations of export-control laws in the delivery of military
hardware to Iraq.
   The public prosecutor's office in Munich said it has begun
the investigation of aircraft maker
Messerschmitt-Boelkow-Blohm G.m.b.H., or MBB, a
majority-owned subsidiary of Daimler, West Germany's largest
industrial group.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Heinz Stocker, senior district attorney in Munich, said
the inquiry follows allegations last week by a German
human-rights group, the Society for Endangered People, that
it uncovered what it called military hardware for Iraq at an
MBB storage site in Hoehenkirchen.
   MBB denied the allegations that it planned to ship
military hardware to Iraq. It said it halted sales to Iraq in
accordance with the United Nations embargo, of which West
Germany is a participant. The company said it has been
selling helicopters to Iraq since 1978, but that those
machines haven't been outfitted for military applications.
The company also supplies replacement parts for the
helicopters, but MBB said Friday that it ceased such
deliveries to Iraq Aug. 6.
   MBB said the parcels at the depot are being held there
because of the Iraqi trade embargo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morgan Stanley Topped
   Program Traders in Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   MS GE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Morgan Stanley Group Inc. conducted 24.2% of
all program trading during the week of Aug. 20 to 24, the New
York Stock Exchange said.
   Morgan Stanley traded 23.4 million shares in program
trading strategies for the period, 6.9 million of which
involved stock-index arbitrage. The firm traded only 2.5
million shares for its own account with the rest involving
customer orders. Some 96.7 million shares traded in program
trading strategies during the period, according to the
exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In stock-index arbitrage, the most controversial form of
program trading, traders dart between stocks, futures and
options to profit from fleeting price discrepancies.
   Overall, program trading accounted for 10.2% of the Big
Board's average daily volume of 189.9 million shares for the
period, down from 13.9% of average daily volume of 148
million the previous week.
   Of the average 19.3 million shares of program volume
executed daily during that week, buy programs accounted for
an average 6.9 million shares daily and sell programs
accounted for an average 12.4 million shares daily, the
exchange said.
   Behind Morgan, Susquehanna Investment Group traded 16.1
million shares in program trading strategies, and Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co., a unit of General Electric Co., traded 9.8
million shares. Most of Kidder's activity involved
stock-index arbitrage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Lufthansa's Interflug Bid
   Draws British Air Protest
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP BAB G.LHA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- British Airways filed a formal complaint with
the European Community Commission charging Lufthansa with
anti-competitive behavior regarding its bid for 26% of East
Germany's state-owned airline, Interflug.
   British Airways, which itself held unsuccessful talks with
Interflug this year, said, "We feel that if Lufthansa is
allowed to carry on (with its plans for the airline) it will
make free and fair competition in Germany very difficult and
will not be in the general interests of fair competition."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The West German Federal Cartel Office has said it will
object to Lufthansa's plans to take a stake in Interflug
because such an all-German combination would be dominant in
the national market. The cartel office's final ruling on the
bid is expected by the end of October.
   EC officials declined to comment on the British Airways
complaint. Lufthansa officials weren't available for comment.
   Separately, the West German magazine Der Spiegel is
expected to report that British Airways has made a bid for a
49% stake in Interflug. A British Airways spokesman said that
the company wouldn't confirm or deny the report.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financial Inquiry Charges
   2 British Miners' Leaders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON (AP) -- Two top British mineworkers' leaders will
be charged with improper accounting after an inquiry into
union finances during the 1984-85 miners' strike, a court
official said.
   John Richman, a Sheffield Magistrates' Court clerk, said
he issued nine summonses against Arthur Scargill, president
of the National Union of Mineworkers, and union general
secretary Peter Heathfield, as well as against the union
itself.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The charges are failure to keep proper accounting records,
failure to maintain a satisfactory system of accounting
control and failure to submit true and fair accounts. The two
men face fines if convicted.
   "We have done nothing wrong, and we shall contest the
action all the way," Mr. Scargill said. "This is the latest
in a long line of attacks on the national leadership of the
miners' union from the establishment who have never forgiven
us for what we did in the 1984-85 miners' strike."
   Mr. Scargill led the bitter and futile showdown with the
government over the closure of unproductive mines. The union,
which had 235,000 members at the time, now has 50,000, and 98
mines have been closed.
   In July the union sued Mr. Scargill to recover #1.4
million ($2.6 million) that had been donated by Soviet and
Eastern European miners to help the British miners during the
strike.
   The court granted the union a delay while it sought to
settle the issue by negotiation. Today, a union delegation is
to go to the Paris headquarters of the International Miners'
Organization to determine control of the funds.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Slew of Issues
   By Gold Firms
   To Hit Market
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CDE NEM NGC AU ABX SCO HAN AMX PDG T.ABX T.PDG U.CGL
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
DIVERSIFIED MINING (MNG)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Some popular gold stocks, prized for their
scarcity, are about to become a lot less scarce. Many
investors in the stocks aren't happy about this.
   In coming weeks, U.S. and foreign investors will be hit by
a tidal wave of more than $1 billion of gold stocks and
warrants to buy shares. There will be new issues of Coeur
D'Alene Mines and Newmont Mining, which owns 90% of Newmont
Gold. And parent companies will be unloading part of their
stakes in Newmont Mining and Amax Gold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These issues will follow a recent stock sale in Europe and
Canada by American Barrick Resources. Analysts think other
gold companies also could climb on the bandwagon.
   "The moment they see a chance to raise money," North
American gold mining companies "swamp the market with new
shares," says John Brimelow, director of international
research at Keane Securities in New York. "It undermines
confidence in owning the stocks." The same thing happened
during the 1987 runup in gold shares, Mr. Brimelow says.
   The $1 billion for the four issues involving American
Barrick, Amax Gold, Newmont Mining and Coeur D'Alene assumes
that investors exercise all the warrants that will be issued.
This represents a huge increase -- perhaps 4% or more -- in
the publicly traded market for North American gold mining
shares, which has an estimated value of roughly $30 billion.
   Already in the week since the onslaught of offerings was
announced, some gold stocks have wilted. Sentiment about the
Mideast crisis has played a big part in the drop. But the
bountiful supply of new shares could temporarily "stop the
momentum of the rally" in gold stocks that began in July,
says Lucille Palermo, an analyst for the International
Investors gold funds.
   Among the gold issues announced, Britain's Hanson
Industries plans to cut its 49% Newmont stake to 26% by
selling shares to the public. Amax will slice its 87% Amax
Gold stake to 54%. The figures for both companies assume that
investors exercise the warrants that will be part of the
offerings.
   The question some people are asking: If all these
companies are selling into a rally, why should investors buy?
   Caesar Bryan, who runs the Lexington Gold Fund, advises
gold-stock fans not to buy gold shares from investment
bankers at the offerings. Rather, he says, investors should
wait till the air has cleared after the issues are brought
out, then buy stock in the open market.
   "I don't bust my gut" buying stocks from securities firms
when shares of the same companies already are available in
the market, he says. Investment banking fees are a percentage
of the offering price -- so the higher the price the bigger
the fees.
   The latest rally in gold shares began in July but has
faltered a bit. For instance, Amax Gold, which in July traded
as low as 12 7/8, went as high as 19 3/8 before its offering
was announced; Amax Gold was at 15 1/8 Friday. Gold stocks
still are pretty expensive, selling at multiples of 30 to 50
times estimated per-share profit for this year. The average
stock has a multiple of around 14.
   Of course, gold is a universal currency and gold shares
are popular in troubled times like these. And for many
investors, big-name North American gold shares are the only
things to buy: They won't put money in shares of strife-torn
South Africa or lesser-known Canadian and Australian gold
stocks.
   So North American gold stocks could be in hot demand if
the gold bullion price soars, which could happen if war
breaks out in the Middle East. Indeed, thanks to strong
foreign demand, Barrick's recent issue of five million shares
is said to have sold like hotcakes.
   There's a big debate on Wall Street about whether
companies that are planning to unload gold shares are smart
sellers who are cashing in because they think gold stocks are
peaking.
   Keane Securities' Mr. Brimelow, who is "cautiously
optimistic" about gold bullion prices, doubts that gold
companies are smart sellers. He thinks they're just
perennially skeptical about their own business, which tends
to be volatile.
   A spokesman for Amax Inc., parent of Amax Gold, says, "We
always wanted to have more {Amax Gold} shares in the
marketplace." Amax Inc.'s sale of stock and warrants in its
gold unit would triple the number of publicly traded Amax
Gold shares.
   At the International Investors gold funds, analyst Ms.
Palermo says it makes sense for companies to sell stock when
their shares are expensive. With new money, companies can
grow, she says, and in the long run that's good for
investors, too.
   But most of the new money to be raised in the new gold
offerings won't find its way into the coffers of the mining
companies themselves.
   For instance, Hanson could pocket $650 million from the
planned sale of Newmont stock and warrants. That calculation
is based on Friday's price for Newmont of 45. But Newmont
itself would raise only about $160 million by issuing new
Newmont shares.
   Meanwhile, Amax Inc. could take in more than $300 million
by selling Amax Gold stock and warrants. But Amax Gold won't
see a dime from its parent's offering.
   Newmont Mining is "selling stock to help the company
grow," says James Hill, investor relations officer. Newmont
will use the money for exploration and to buy precious metals
assets, he adds. Newmont Mining mines a lot of different
metals so its stock has a lower multiple than "pure" gold
plays.
   The Newmont issue is expected in October. No date has been
set for the Amax Gold issue.
   Hanson is known as a smart seller. Last year, it sold 50%
of Smith Corona to the public at 21; Friday the stock was at
4 1/2. And Hanson bought Newmont at lower prices, so it would
show a nice profit on the stock sale.
   A spokeswoman for Hanson says, "We wouldn't presume to let
people think we have that much knowledge of gold prices. We
followed the lead of Newmont and other professionals who
think this is an opportunity in the marketplace." After
cutting its Newmont stake to 26%, Hanson still will be one of
the world's biggest gold players; it owns the whole of
Consolidated Gold Fields.
   Analysts believe Hanson once hoped to sell its entire
Newmont stake to another company at a big premium over the
current market price, but found no takers. Hanson's
spokeswoman says the company "never actively tried" to sell
the stake, although "it's safe to assume people were aware we
had this {Newmont} position and they know we are
approachable."
   Mr. Bryan of the Lexington Gold Fund says investors have
to watch out for more sales of gold shares later by companies
such as Hanson and Amax. Their holdings are "overhanging the
market," he says, and "I don't see that much demand out
there" for a lot of gold stocks. Mr. Bryan adds that he
hasn't recently had any big cash inflows into his fund.
   Some smart buyers, it seems, aren't interested in buying
gold shares at these prices.
   In Canada, Placer Dome once showed interest in buying a
big Newmont Mining stake. Earl Dunlop, Placer's investor
relations officer, won't say if Placer ever talked with
Hanson. But he says, "We have looked at many {acquisition}
situations but haven't found one where the return would
exceed the cost of capital" needed to acquire the company.
   Placer, he says, sees much more value in buying
undeveloped gold properties, and now is doing just that.
Except to pay for acquisitions of properties, Mr. Dunlop
says, Placer hasn't any current plans to issue new stock.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   NEWMONT MINING Corp. of Denver sold its last non-gold
interest in July and now is solely a gold company. The
company's business was misstated in Monday's edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 13, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Peat Marwick Board Said
   To Select New U.S. Chief
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The board of KPMG Peat Marwick nominated Jon
C. Madonna to succeed Larry D. Horner as chairman and chief
executive officer of the accounting and consulting firm's
U.S. practice, sources close to the company said.
   Although a spokesman for the firm declined to confirm or
deny Mr. Madonna's nomination, he said the 34-member board
had met over the weekend to nominate a successor to Mr.
Horner and that partners likely would be notified today of
the board's choice. Mr. Madonna, 47 years old, is currently
head of the firm's San Francisco office.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The board's nomination doesn't guarantee that Mr. Madonna
will be elected by a majority of the firm's 1,850 partners,
scheduled to meet Oct. 3 and 4. According to the spokesman,
the firm's bylaws allow for 5% of the partners to nominate
their own candidates; they have until Sept. 20 to do so.
   The source also said that James G. Brocksmith Jr., 49, who
heads the firm's Chicago office, was nominated as deputy
chairman. Robert W. Beecher, who would reach the mandatory
retirement age of 60 if he stands for another term, is
currently deputy chairman.
   Mr. Horner announced in early August that he would not
seek re-election. His terms at KPMG's U.S. and international
practices end Oct. 3 and Dec. 31, respectively. P.J. Butler,
senior partner of the U.K. practice, has been chosen to
succeed Mr. Horner at the international practice.
   KPMG Peat Marwick was formed in the December 1986 merger
of Peat Marwick International and Klynveld Main &amp; Goerdeler.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   NMCO
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced one new
listing.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   National Media Corp., a direct marketer of consumer
products through television, print media and catalogs, based
in Philadelphia, previously traded over the counter, begins
trading Friday under the ticker symbol NM.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Greece's Role in Persian Gulf Rekindles
   Memories of Turkish Invasion of Cyprus
   ----
   By John Carr
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B13C
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   ATHENS, Greece -- When Greece dispatched one of its naval
frigates this week to boost the multinational military
presence near the Persian Gulf, its first stop was at another
victim of aggression the Greeks haven't forgotten -- Cyprus.
   As a strong U.S.-led military countermove responded to the
Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, many Greeks recalled that no such
help was forthcoming when Turkey invaded tiny Cyprus in July
1974.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Greek media and public opinion have been drawing the
inevitable cynical conclusion. "No one did anything when
Turkey invaded Cyprus, simply because Cyprus has no oil,"
said radio journalist Nasos Athanasiou.
   Turkish forces still are in control of northern Cyprus,
which proclaimed itself a breakaway Turkish-Cypriot state in
1983. The partition has been a source of Greek-Turkish
friction for 16 years.
   The frigate Limnos, one of the newest ships in Greece's
80-vessel navy, was set to move on from Cyprus to patrol duty
in the eastern Mediterranean. Nonetheless, the Turkish
Cypriot leadership has been quick to resent what it sees as
Greece's exercise in gunboat diplomacy.
   Turkish-Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash, self-styled
president of the breakaway state, said the presence of the
Limnos in a Cypriot port is "dangerous" and could result in
Turkish naval countermoves.
   "Nonsense," scoffs the Cypriot ambassador to Athens,
Frixos Colotas. "Fifty thousand fully armed Turkish troops
have been in Cyprus for 16 years. What are we to say to
that?"
   A Greek government spokesman said Athens "does not reply
to private persons," a reference to Mr. Denktash's lack of
official recognition by any country except Turkey.
   The present preoccupation with the Gulf crisis has put the
lingering Cyprus issue on the back burner for now. Greek
officials and commentators, however, said they hope the
lesson that aggression doesn't pay won't be lost on Ankara
after the present crisis has passed.
   "The {diplomatic} isolation of Turkey has not ceased with
the Gulf crisis," Greek Foreign Minister Antonios Samaras
said in a recent interview with the newspaper Kathimerini.
"The events in the Gulf favor prospects for solving the
Cyprus problem."
   Added Mr. Colotas: "The Gulf crisis, if properly handled,
will also benefit our cause."
   But no one seems to know just how. Athens maintains that
Ankara shows no willingness to pull its occupation forces out
of northern Cyprus. President Bush and other world leaders
have said repeatedly that the Greek-Cypriot and
Turkish-Cypriot communities on the island must work out their
differences themselves.
   Most Greeks agree that Greece had to show solidarity with
the forces arrayed against Iraq's Saddam Hussein. "A lack of
cooperation would further turn the resources of the world's
powerful toward Turkey," said political columnist Constantine
Kalligas, noting that the anti-Western stance of the Greek
socialist government during most of the 1980s did not endear
Athens to Washington.
   "Right now it would not be appropriate to push the Cyprus
issue," said Mr. Colotas. "The big powers now need Turkey."
   But later? "We could demand, on faultless moral amd
political grounds, the enforcement of the United Nations
resolutions on Cyprus," said Mr. Kalligas. Three U.N.
resolutions, issued between 1974 and 1983, have called on
Turkey to pull its forces out of Cyprus.
   The voyage of the Limnos, however, could be a stronger
hint. Seeing off the ship's crew at the naval base at Salamis
(where a Greek fleet trounced the Persians in 480 B.C.),
Greek Defense Minister Ioannis Varvitsiotis said Greece "has
the right to demand the same solidarity from the world
community."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Israel's Left Gets Sick of the PLO
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   The following is adapted from an article by Yossi Sarid, a
prominent member of the left-wing Ratz-CRM party in the
Israeli Knesset. The article was originally published in the
Israeli newspaper Haaretz on Aug. 17. Mr. Sarid has long
advocated dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization
and Ratz-CRM is generally considered to be the most
sympathetic of the Israeli political parties to the
Palestinian position. This article touched off an outpouring
of similar statements from the Israeli left doubting whether
compromise with Palestinians is possible.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   It has always been my position that two peoples have
rights to the land of Israel-Palestine, Jews and
Palestinians, and that the alternatives are therefore clear:
either compromise and partition or endless war. It has also
been my position that Israel's rule of law is undermined by
the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza and by the human
rights violations that occur there. I have in the past urged
Israel to negotiate with the PLO and I still believe that
some compromise peace must be arrived at with the Palestinian
people. But the endorsement of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait by
the PLO, by supposedly moderate Palestinians not affiliated
with the PLO and even by many of the Arabs who live inside
Israel and hold Israeli citizenship has put a knife in the
back of the peace process.
   For years I have tried to explain to any Palestinian who
would listen that the Palestinian national movement must not
base its hopes on the Soviet Union. The leaders in the
Kremlin -- I said -- support the PLO today, but tomorrow, if
it is in their best interest, they will withdraw their
support. Only the Palestinians and Israel have any
substantial interest in a solution to the Palestinian
problem. Such a self-explanatory statement invariably met
with furious objection. Palestinians really seemed to believe
that the Soviet position would remain unchanged forever.
   Now the Palestinians have found a new savior -- Saddam
Hussein. The Palestinian leaders, who have moved from one bed
to another (and there is no Arab leader who has not shared
his bed with them) have learned nothing. Would Saddam, who is
ready to sell his own mother, not sell them?
   The PLO has dedicated the past two years to convincing
Israelis and others that it has changed, that it has
reconciled itself to the existence of the State of Israel and
has abandoned terrorism. The PLO has kicked that bucket over.
   Saddam Hussein has already initiated two wars against his
neighbours. He who has gored a Moslem country as well as an
Arab country is an ox proven dangerous, who will most
certainly be willing to gore the Jewish State. The Israeli
Arabs must be aware of this imminent danger or they would not
demand to be supplied with gas masks for their defense. And
yet, polls suggest that 62% of these Arab Israeli citizens
support Saddam Hussein. Two Arab Knesset members, Abdul Wahab
Darawshe and Muhammed Miari, have publicly backed Saddam as
well. How can these people find a kind word to say about the
man who threatens to use chemical weapons against the country
in which they live -- and in which they claim to want to
continue to live? For the first time Mr. Darawsheh and Mr.
Miari have thrown doubt upon their loyalty to the state in
which they claim citizenship. They will pay for this mistake
dearly.
   The Palestinian leadership, both inside and outside the
West Bank and Gaza, justify their support of Saddam Hussein
by citing the corruption of the Kuwait emirs who invested the
nation's capital in international businesses and not in the
"intifada". But Saddam has been no more generous to them: He
invested billions of dollars of his nation's capital in an
unnecessary war with Iran. He buried these billions together
with thousands of people. The Kuwait emirs may have been
rotten sovereigns, but if Yasser Arafat or Mr. Darawshe or
one of the moderate Palestinians who has expressed sympathy
for Saddam, like Faisal Husseini, had to choose a place to
live -- in rotten Kuwait or revolutionary Iraq -- I have no
doubt which they would choose. In Kuwait, at least, they
would not be constantly under the danger of execution.
   Pan-Arab slogans that glorify revolutionary regimes that
treat human rights with contempt are immensly hypocritical.
When such slogans are used by local Palestinian leaders one
wonders to what extent they have internalized and assimilated
the democratic values of Israel.
   If it is permissible to support Saddam Hussein -- who
murdered tens of thousands of "regime opponents" without
blinking an eyelid, who gassed Kurds, men, women and children
-- then it is perhaps not that bad to support the policy of
Mr. Shamir, Mr. Sharon and Mr. Rabin. In comparison with the
crimes committed by Saddam Hussein, the sins of the state of
Israel are snow white. When reading the black pages about
Iraq in Amnesty International's book on human rights in Iraq,
one can conclude that Messrs. Sharon and Rabin are almost
benevolent. Mr. Arafat, Mr. Husseini and Mr. Darawsheh must
not be surprised if the moral protest against the horrors
committed in the occupied territories becomes in the future a
faintly heard cry.
   Had I supported the establishment of a Palestinian State
only because the Palestinians deserve a state I would now
withdraw that support. However, I continue to demand their
right for self-determination and an independent state because
it is my right to rid myself of the occupation and its evil
influence. The Palestinians perhaps deserve the occupation,
but we Israelis do not. But in my effort to free Israel from
the burden of occupying the West Bank, I do not need Messrs.
Arafat, Husseini and Darawsheh. Until now I have sought
outthe Palestinian leadership, because I believed this was
the only way to progress in the peace process. As far as I am
concerned, they can now look for me.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Toyota Raises Prices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TOYOY HMC F GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORRANCE, Calif. -- Toyota Motor Corp.'s U.S. sales arm is
raising base prices on its 1991 Corolla and Camry models
between 2.9% and 3.1% from 1990 levels.
   The increases on Toyota's biggest-selling models are
slightly less aggressive than those announced by Ford Motor
Co. and General Motors Corp. for certain rival models. Ford
and GM raised prices on many of their 1991 models 4% or more
from a year ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Toyota attributed its increases in part to new standard
equipment such as larger tires, tilt steering wheel, power
mirrors and an upgraded audio system. The Camry and Corolla
account for about 70% of Toyota's sales in the U.S., and
booming sales of both have helped to push the company's U.S.
sales and market share to record levels despite a weak
overall market. Both cars are built in U.S. factories.
   The steepest price boost is on the Camry. The least
expensive Camry will have a 1991 base price of $11,948, up
3.1% from $11,588 a year earlier. But the Camry still has a
lower base price than many rival, middle-priced family
sedans. Honda Motor Co.'s lowest-priced 1991 Accord DX sedan
starts at $12,545, up 1.6% from a year ago.
   By contrast, Ford boosted the price of its middle-priced
sedan, the 1991 Ford Taurus, 8.5% to $13,717 for 1991. The
lowest-priced 1991 Chevrolet Lumina sedan will start at
$12,870, up 4.3% from last fall. Both cars are slightly
larger than the Camry.
   The 1991 Corolla will have a base price of $8,998, up 2.9%
from $8,748 in 1990. That's more expensive than the
lowest-priced 1991 Nissan Sentra, which starts at $7,999 and
gets a major redesign this fall. However, the base 1991
Corolla will start for less than its U.S. twin, the $9,680
Geo Prizm sold by GM's Chevrolet division.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Concerns Seen
   Posting 2% Decline
   In Fiscal '91 Profits
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9C
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Earnings of major Japanese corporations are
expected to fall 0.2% in the year ending March 31 from the
previous year, putting an end to a three-year stretch of
gains, a research institute attached to Sanyo Securities Co.
said.
   The think tank said its survey of 494 companies showed
that pretax earnings by all industries will drop as a result
of surging oil prices and interest rates. Sales are expected
to edge up 0.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When oil companies and electric power suppliers are
excluded, however, earnings will register a 3.2% gain, while
sales will remain flat, the Sanyo institute said. Oil and
electric power companies are expected to suffer most heavily
from the rising oil prices.
   The research institute, citing the reasons for its guarded
earnings projections, expects oil prices to jump some 50% in
the second half of this fiscal year due to the intensifying
Mideast situation while the series of five increases in the
official discount rate since May last year will make their
combined impact felt. In addition, a slowdown in the U.S.
economy will serve to brake Japan's exports, it said.
   Sanyo sees oil prices averaging $24.5 a barrel during this
fiscal year, up from an average $17.9 a barrel in fiscal
1990.
   It forecast that manufacturer earnings will rise 3.8%,
slowing from double-digit gains in the three previous fiscal
years, while non-manufacturer profits will display a 7.7%
decline.
   The shipbuilding, construction and service industries will
post pretax earnings gains of more than 10%, while the
machinery and auto industries will also fare well, it
predicted.
   On the other hand, the paper-pulp and oil industries will
each register declines, of 18% and 13%, respectively, the
institute said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Double Helix, Odyssey
   Entertainment Merger
   Approved by Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/10/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B9
</SO>
<CO>
   CECO
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Shareholders of Odyssey Entertainment Ltd.
and Double Helix Films Inc. approved the merger of the
film-distribution concerns with a new company, Communications
&amp; Entertainment Corp.
   Communications &amp; Entertainment, based in Los Angeles, was
formed in December for the purpose of the merger. J. David
Marks, Odyssey's former chairman and chief executive officer,
is president and chief executive of the new company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Marks said that Communications &amp; Entertainment will
"cover the world marketplace demand for film." Both
predecessor companies distributed foreign and U.S. films
overseas, with Odyssey selling mainly to theatrical markets
and New York-based Double Helix mainly to video, television
and cable markets.
   "The combination will resolve (Odyssey's) liquidity
problems, which were at worst short-term," Mr. Marks said.
Last month, Odyssey said it needed additional working capital
to continue its operations at current levels. In its first
quarter ended June 30, Odyssey posted net income of $263,916,
including a $600,000 fee from Double Helix for consulting
services.
   In the merger, each share of Odyssey common stock will be
exchanged for one share of Communications &amp; Entertainment
Class A stock. Each Class A share is convertible into common
at a conversation ratio of .6375. Each share of Double Helix
common will be exchanged for one share in the new company.
   In national over-the-counter trading Friday, Odyssey
shares closed at $1, up 9.36 cents, and Double Helix shares
closed at $2, up 6.25 cents. Communications &amp; Entertainment
said its Class A and common shares will begin trading today
under the symbols CECO.A and CECO, respectively.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900910-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900910-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
09/07/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   TEK EBS TTC PCI KASL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Tektronix Inc         $ .32  $ ...      $ .11  (6)  190.91
  Edison Bros Stores      .51    ...        .48  (4)    6.25
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  Toro Co               $(.20) $ ...      $(.15) (6)    ...
  Paramount Comm          .88    ...       1.02 (12)   13.73
  Kasler Corp             .15    ...        .16  (4)    6.25
                                                                                                       

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
</TEXT>
</DOC>
