<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Prices Fall in Short Session as Concern
   Over Persian Gulf Depresses Market
   ----
   By David Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 20
</SO>
<IN>
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
OTC GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (OTC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks ended an abbreviated
trading session lower Monday, as concerns about the Persian
Gulf continued to dominate the market.
   Volume was the lightest of any session this year as many
market participants took the day off ahead of the Christmas
holiday. Trading ended at 2 p.m. EST Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders say bellicose talk by Iraq's Saddam Hussein kept
the Middle East in the forefront of investors' minds and
contributed to the negative sentiment. On Monday, a Spanish
television station had quoted President Saddam Hussein as
saying in an interview that the Israeli city of Tel Aviv
would be Iraq's first target if war broke out in the Middle
East.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.19, or 0.32%, to 372.41.
On the Big Board, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index
was down 0.86, or 0.48% at 180.01, and the Dow Jones
Industrial Average dropped 12.37, or 0.47%, to 2621.29.
   Declining Nasdaq issues outnumbered advancers 822 to 641.
   "Nobody wants to invest. There's no heavy selling, but
there's just no buyers," said Robert O'Toole Sr., head of OTC
institutional sales at Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   The over-the-counter market did end above its lows for the
day. In early trading, the Nasdaq Composite was down about
0.50%.
   National Market System volume totaled a meager 35,075,100
shares at the end of trading. Last Friday, 75,944,300 shares
had changed hands by 2 p.m. EST, while for that entire
session, 112,591,800 shares traded.
   Volume surpassed Nov. 23 as the lightest for 1990. For
that day -- the Friday following Thanksgiving -- volume
totaled 41.2 million shares.
   Traders see little chance of any change in the pattern of
trading through the end of the year. "The Middle East is
weighing heavily on everbody's mind," says Len Hefter,
managing director of Jefferies &amp; Co.'s OTC desk in Dallas.
   Mr. Hefter sees the market "moving sideways" through the
New Year's holiday next Tuesday.
   Among active issues were: MCI Communications, which ended
down 1/8 at 19 1/2; Software Toolworks, which slid 1/8 to 3
1/8; National Health Laboratories, which rose 1/2 to 10 1/8;
and Apple Computer, which slumped 1 to 44.
   The American depositary receipts of Reuters Holdings fell
3/8 to 37 1/4. The company signed a letter of intent with the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade
resolving all substantive issues regarding a 20-year contract
for completion of the Globex trading system.
   Index Technology rose 3/8 to 8 7/8, while Sage Software
ended unchanged at 9 1/2. The companies late Friday disclosed
a definitive agreement to merge through an exchange of stock.
   Solectron Corp. rose 3/4 to 8 3/4 after posting
first-quarter net of $1.8 million, or 28 cents a share, on
sales of $53.6 million. In the year-ago period, the company
earned $1.4 million, or 31 cents a share, on fewer shares
outstanding. A year ago, sales totaled $42.2 million.
   V Band Corp. fell 5/8 to 1 5/8. The concern reported a
fourth-quarter loss of 52 cents a share, including a 21
cent-a-share charge. For the year-earlier quarter, the
telecommunications equipment manufacturer had a loss of 29
cents a share.
   Standard Microsystems fell 1/4 to 4 5/8. A U.S. district
court denied the company's request for a preliminary
injunction in litigation against Texas Instruments Inc. The
dispute centers on a 1976 patent cross-licensing agreement
between the companies.
   Infotechnology shares dropped 1/4 to 5/ 16. Late Friday,
Security Pacific National Bank accelerated payments on a
$20.7 million loan to Infotechnology. The loan is
collateralized by the company's 46% stake in Financial News
Network. Infotechnology said it doesn't expect a foreclosure
on the FNN stock. FNN's shares ended bid at 1 7/8.
   Cirrus Logic rose 1 3/4 to 17 1/4. On Friday, Donaldson
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette analyst Drew Peck upgraded his rating on
the stock to "very attractive" from "moderately attractive."
The stock gained 1 3/8 Friday.
   Shares of Corestates Financial Corp. rose 1 5/8 to 30 3/4.
The stock is to be added to the Standard &amp; Poor's Composite
Index of 500 Stocks at the close of trading on Friday. Stocks
generally gain when added to the S&amp;P 500 as portfolio
managers add the issues to their holdings. Corestates will
replace MCA Inc. in the index; MCA is to be acquired by
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.
   Warehouse Club ended unchanged at 1 1/4 after trading as
low of 3/4. It was disclosed on Friday that Great Atlantic &amp;
Pacific Tea Co.'s planned purchase of a 51% Warehouse Club
stake was terminated. A&amp;P was to have paid $11 million in the
transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks Slump in Slowest Session
   In 4 Years as Market Anxiety Rises
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 14
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
NYSE GENERAL MARKET COMMENTARY (NYS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Share prices slipped in listless trading, but
few investors participated in the Christmas Eve session,
which ended two hours early at 2 p.m. EST.
   Volume was a meager 57.2 million shares, the lowest since
Dec. 26, 1986.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 12.37 points to
close at 2621.29. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index fell
1.85 to 329.90, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index
dropped 0.86 to 180.01, and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index
slid 1.46 to 305.71. Decliners led advancers 842-527, with
560 stocks ending unchanged.
   A growing perception that the Persian Gulf standoff over
Iraq's occupation of Kuwait will end in armed confrontation
combined with new fears of political instability in the
Soviet Union continued to sap the market of its typical
year-end strength.
   Rising long-term interest rates added to the malaise.
Prices of long-term Treasury issues dropped as much as 7/8
point, pushing the yield on the 30-year bond up to 8.36%.
   Sid Dorr, head of institutional trading at Charles Schwab
&amp; Co., said hopes of fresh stock-market gains this week are
dying out. Mr. Dorr said, however, that with cash levels
among portfolio managers at record levels, there is likely to
be plenty of fresh money waiting to be put to work early in
the new year.
   That money could lend the market some support, said Don R.
Hays, director of investment strategy at Wheat First Butcher
&amp; Singer, but Mr. Hays said he isn't looking for any major
gains.
   The margin of advancing stocks over decliners began
eroding last week, Mr. Hays said, signaling that the rally
was growing weak. Now, apprehension about the Persian Gulf is
likely to mute the market's more bullish voices, he said.
   Dividend-related trading boosted Manufacturers Hanover to
the top of the active list, edging out Southern New England
Telecommunications, which was also active in dividend-related
trading.
   Manufacturers Hanover eased 1/8 to 23 7/8 on volume of 2.1
million shares. The bank, which has an 82-cent-a-share
payout, will trade ex-dividend today.
   Southern New England fell 3/8 to 33 1/8 on 1.2 million
shares traded. The company paid a 44-cent dividend to shares
of record Monday.
   Dean Foods gained 5/8 to 39 5/8, a 52-week high. Last
week, the dairy products concern reported strong fiscal
second-quarter profit of 62 cents a share, up from 53 cents a
share a year earlier.
   Tucson Electric Power eased 7/8 to 6 1/2. The utility
appeared to move closer to a bankruptcy-law filing after a
state court ruling raised the possibility that it might have
to take $350 million in immediate one-time charges, The Wall
Street Journal reported.
   International Business Machines was unchanged at 113 7/8.
IBM will introduce its long-awaited laptop computer in late
February. The Journal quoted industry executives as saying
the company finally appears to have a credible product.
   MCA gained 1/4 to 67 1/2. The company received Federal
Communications Commission clearance to transfer control of
its WWOR-TV station to shareholders as part of MCA's
acquisiton by Japan's Matsushita Electrical Industrial.
   Oregon Steel Mills slipped 1 3/4 to 22 1/4. The company
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a
proposed public offering of 2.5 million common shares.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index lost 1.61
to 304.59. Volume slowed to 4,670,000 shares from 13,750,000
Friday. There were 195 issues advancing, 274 declining and
268 unchanged.
   NHI Nelson Holdings International gained 3/4, or 30%, to 3
1/4. The company said it signed a letter of intent to sell
its principal operating unit, Nelson Entertainment Group, to
a new company to be controlled by New York financier Stephen
C. Swid. Terms call in part for the concern to pay about $30
million in cash and notes for the unit and to assume $20
million of Nelson Holdings' debt and about $166 million of
the unit's debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bertolli USA Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   BERTOLLI USA Inc. (Secaucus, N.J.) -- William C. Monroe,
was named chief executive officer, a new post, at this olive
oil marketing company. Mr. Monroe remains president and chief
operating officer at Bertolli, a division of S.M.E. S.p.A., a
food manufacturing and retail distribution company based in
Italy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mark IV Acquires Vapor Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 19
</SO>
<CO>
   IV BC
</CO>
<LP>
   AMHERST, N.Y. -- Mark IV Industries Inc. said it acquired
Vapor Corp., a unit of Brunswick Corp., for $39.5 million.
Vapor, with annual sales of $66 million, is the largest
manufacturer of door systems for rail, rail transit and bus
vehicles in the U.S. and Canada. Mark IV is a diversified
manufacturer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Service Fee Rise
   Reflects Accelerating Trend
   ---
   Sizable Increases to Counter
   Decline in Loan Volume,
   Higher Insurance Costs
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hard-pressed Citicorp is raising the fees it charges for a
wide range of services such as money transfers, part of an
accelerating trend among banks to generate additional fee
income from consumers and small-business clients.
   Most of the new Citibank charges that take effect next
Tuesday represent sizable increases from the last time fees
were changed in 1988. The fees for 11 of the 19 miscellaneous
items on one schedule climb by 25% or more. These include the
charges for a check returned or paid against insufficient
funds, to $12 from $9.50, and for a stop-payment request, to
$15 from $12.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some percentage increases are much higher. The charge for
a domestic money transfer goes to $20 from $12, and for large
checks drawn on foreign banks the fee will be $30, up from
$13.
   Banks all across the country are "desperate" for more
income, seeking "to offset declines in loan volume, the loss
in earnings from nonperforming assets and the anticipated
loss in earnings from paying higher deposit insurance fees,"
said Edward Furash, who heads a bank consulting firm, Furash
&amp; Co., in Washington. Mr. Furash said banks were not under as
much pressure in 1990 as they will be next year to find
additional sources of income.
   In addition, the profit margin on traditional interest
income has been shrinking. In the five years ending in 1989,
Sheshunoff &amp; Co. of Austin, Texas, found that the net
interest margin declined 9.8%, while noninterest income
gained 34%. Jack Jacobs, senior vice president, said that
most of the gains were by large banks for "non-repeat
business, such as leveraged buy-out loan fees" -- which have
sharply dropped.
   Mr. Jacobs said he expected more banking companies to
raise fees across the board, as buy-out fee income diminishes
and insurance-fund assessments rise.
   Citicorp has been under particular pressure. Last week, it
said it would post a fourth-quarter loss of $300 million to
$400 million, stemming largely from an increase in commercial
loan-loss reserves and the costs of shrinking its work force
about 8.5% by the end of 1992. Management is also seeking to
slash the company's dividend.
   New York City banks have traditionally charged less for
services than the rest of the country, because the market is
more competitive. In raising its fees, Citibank is "making a
break with New York City and its position in relation to the
rest of the country," said James McDermott, president of the
bank research firm Keefe, Bruyette &amp; Woods.
   "We're really trying to bring our fees back in line with
our costs," said Susan Weeks, a Citibank spokeswoman, in
confirming the fee increases. Asked how Citibank's new fees
stack up against the competition on fees, she said, "We're
all over the map. Some are up to speed, some are higher and
some are lower." Ms. Weeks declined to say how much revenue
would climb as a result of the increases. Citicorp has 1.5
million consumer customers, not all of whom use the services
affected by the increases.
   Citibank also is notifying customers that the monthly fees
for certain stand-alone savings accounts will rise next
Tuesday. The accounts are stand-alone and are charged a fee
if the customer does not have any other Citibank account,
such as a checking account. By raising its fees significantly
-- to $5 per month from $3 for a stand-alone money-market
account below a minimum balance -- Citibank hopes to
encourage more customers to have linked, multiple accounts,
said Ms. Weeks.
   Citibank did not raise its consumer checking fees, but did
increase checking services for its 100,000 small-business and
professional customers. Its per-check charge, paid or
deposited, went to 17 cents from 14 cents. At Chase Manhattan
Corp.'s Chase Manhattan Bank, professionals like doctors pay
15 cents per deposited check and 16 cents per check paid,
said a spokesman, Steven Rautenberg. He added that on overall
fees "there have been no increases lately, and none are
contemplated."
   Chemical Bank recently raised fees in three areas -- money
orders, stop payments and certified checks. The money-order
fee, which went to $3.50 from $2.50, is higher than
Citibank's new $3 charge, but the other two services remain
less expensive. Citibank's new stop-payment charge of $15
compares with $13 at the Chemical Banking Corp. unit and $12
at Chase.
   Citibank will also have a higher fee than its competitors
for checks paid or returned on insufficient funds, $12
compared with $9 at Chemical for each of the first five
bounced checks, and $9.50 at Chase. But compared with the
rest of the country, those fees are modest. The last time
Bank Rate Monitor of North Palm Beach, Fla., surveyed banks,
it found that the average insufficient-funds check charge
nationwide was $16.13.
   Small-business customers were notified of Citibank's new
fee schedule last week. One New York customer, Peter Vandras,
who runs IJS Vending in Woodhaven, Queens, said, "I thought
some of the fee increases were excessive." In comparison to
the previous fee schedule in 1988, "most of the new fees are
going up more than the combined inflation rate since then."
He said he was particularly troubled by the increase for bags
of loose coins, which went to $3 per $100 from 25 cents, and
night deposits, which went to $5 per bag from $2.25.
   In comparison, the cost for a deposited bag of bulk
currency at Chase is $2, but the cost of loose mixed coin is
$6 per bag and loose segregated coin is $3 per bag.
   In raising its fees above the competition in some areas,
Citibank appears willing to lose some business for an overall
income gain. Mr. Furash points out that higher penalties for
bounced checks, for instance, can impose a discipline that
"causes people to watch their accounts more carefully."
   At other institutions, too, fee increases have at times
driven customers away. "It can turn into an emotional issue,"
said Mr. McDermott. "If people feel they are being ripped
off, a fee increase can be the catalyst for shifting a
relationship to another bank."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Picking Toy-Firm Stocks
   Is Hardly Child's Play
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman and Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<CO>
   MAT HAS TKA GAL CWLD TTOY TOY BYTX CLHB CMI F.CLU TSK COKR
ENVI FNF IRC IRF LPAI NSCO OHM SHN WMOR ZNT
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Christmas is over and some toys are already broken. So are
the toy makers' stocks.
   Mattel sells for 20 5/8, down from a 52-week high of 26
3/8. Hasbro goes for 15, down from 21 1/2. Tonka can be
picked up for 3 5/8, way down from its high of 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This has been the worst Christmas in toy retailing in 13
years," declares Robert Schweich, analyst for Wertheim
Schroder.
   In the past, toy sales held up fairly well in recessions,
such as the one that now seems to be grabbing the U.S.
economy by the throat. But toys have become much pricier in
the past decade.
   A toy that cost $30 used to be considered expensive.
Cabbage Patch dolls at the height of the craze, Teddy Ruxpin
and other talking electronic dolls and Nintendo video games
have helped push the high-price point to around $100. With
costlier goods to sell, toy makers and retailers now may be
less recession-resistant than in bygone years.
   That's one reason analysts and money managers prefer
broadly diversified toy makers with good balance sheets. Just
two toy makers fit that bill -- Mattel and Hasbro. Of the
two, Mattel has better momentum in sales and earnings. Hasbro
has the superior balance sheet, with lots of cash and very
little debt.
   Shares in both Mattel and Hasbro sell for about 10 times
earnings (profits for the 12 months ended Sept. 30). But if
you adjust for Hasbro's cash hoard, it is selling for less
than eight times earnings, points out Sean McGowan of Gerard
Klauer Mattison.
   Money managers and analysts are mostly steering clear of
toy makers or retailers with heavy debt, such as Lewis Galoob
Toys, Tonka, and Child World. Opinion is sharply divided on
Tyco Toys. It has some hit products, but is speculative and
carries considerable debt (about 45% of total capital as of
midyear).
   Besides the budding recession, toy retailers are suffering
from a bloody price war. Price slashing at cash-starved Child
World has been so deep -- particularly on its Nintendo
cartridges -- that rival Toys "R" Us in many cases couldn't
match Child World's prices. Child World has told its
suppliers not to expect payment until after Jan. 15. It
doesn't take long for retail price softness to affect
manufacturers.
   Losing some bargain-hunting customers to Child World, Toys
"R" Us will report a 7% decline in fourth-quarter sales at
stores opened for more than a year, predicts Mr. Schweich.
The drop compares with a 24% jump last Christmas. The
company's fourth-quarter earnings will fall to 79 cents a
share, Mr. Schweich predicts, from 82 cents a year ago.
   Nonetheless, some money managers are buying Toys "R" Us,
partly in hopes that one or more competitors will go bust.
"If the competition goes out of business, is that good news
or bad news? To me, that's damn good news," says J. David
Mills, manager of the Boston Co. Capital Appreciation Fund.
"Maybe fourth-quarter earnings will be bad. . . . So what?. .
. . I think Toys "R" Us is going to be a terrific long-term
growth stock." His fund owns more than 100,000 shares.
   Detractors concede that Toys "R" Us is a fine company. But
they question the wisdom of paying 20 times earnings for any
company, when the economy is sliding into a recession.
   Toys "R" Us is one of "the three sacred cows for
growth-stock investors," says Scott Black, president of
Delphi Management in Boston. (The other two are WalMart and
Limited.) There's no way he would pay the current price of 23
1/8 for Toys "R" Us, Mr. Black says. "Comparable-store
results are very sluggish."
   As if a recession and a retail price war weren't enough,
the toy industry also has a case of new-product blahs.
Potential 1991 hits? No one seems very excited, even though
retailers and a few analysts already have had a peek at the
new crop. Predicts Barry Rothberg, analyst for Mabon Nugent,
who has seen a few previews, "The next Toy Fair is going to
be a yawner."
   The drought of mega-hit toys in recent years has spruced
up Mattel's Barbie into a hardy evergreen. This year the doll
will bring home more than $700 million, or nearly half the
firm's revenue. And Gary Jacobson, a toy analyst for Kidder
Peabody, estimates the company's revenue will jump 13% in
1991 to $1.65 billion from a projected $1.46 million this
year. He anticipates its per-share earnings will climb to
$2.40 from $2.05 this year.
   Friess Associates in Greenville, Del., sold at least
250,000 Mattel shares in the third quarter as part of a move
to raise cash. It hung onto part of its Mattel holding,
though. The share price is "still fairly reasonable," and the
company in recent years has "a pretty nice track record,"
says money manager Bill D'Alonzo. Also, he says, Mattel is
well enough diversified that it could withstand a flop by any
particular toy -- except, of course, for Barbie. Ariel
Capital Management in Chicago has been buying Hasbro
aggressively. It had 446,000 shares as of Sept. 30,
government filings show. Eric McKissack, director of
research, won't say how many shares Ariel has now, but
describes Hasbro as "a core position" for the firm, which
manages about $1 billion.
   He likes Hasbro's international operations, strong cash
flow, and steady sellers such as GI Joe, My Little Pony and
Milton Bradley board games. "In the conservative or cautious
times we have now, people are probably more likely to look at
traditional types of toys," he says.
   Mr. McKissack acknowledges certain problems at Hasbro. The
company hasn't had a blockbuster hit for a long time, sales
have been rather flat for five years, and some people think
it will be hard for Chief Executive Officer Alan Hassenfeld
to fill the shoes of his late brother Stephen, who died in
June 1989.
   Mr. McKissack wouldn't buy Tyco "even though they have a
good mix of products," including electric trains. "I think
one should be cautious with Tyco, because their debt levels
are high," he says. But some analysts admire Tyco, citing
hits such as its crawling Oopsie Daisy doll last year, and
its pirouetting My Ballerina doll this year.
   Hardly anyone seems willing to take a gamble on Tonka, the
third-largest toy maker (Mattel and Hasbro are neck-and-neck
for first). Mired in debt, the Minnetonka, Minn., concern has
seen its stock price plunge nearly 75%, yet nobody nibbles.
Unless Tonka finds new hits, a bankruptcy-law filing is a
possibility, says Frank Rolfes, analyst for Dain Bosworth
Inc.
   Tonka's once-big money maker, Ghostbusters, is fading
fast. Other hopefuls, such as Batman, Baby Alive and
Wrestling dolls, although doing reasonably well this year,
may not sell next year. Rumors persist that Tonka will be
forced to sell its Parker Brothers board game operations, to
buy time in which Tonka can hope to find another hit. Mr.
McGowan thinks several companies would be happy to buy Parker
Brothers. But he says that Parker Brothers and the rest of
Tonka's line are intertwined administratively, especially in
Europe. So untangling the two would be a challenge.
   ---
   January Effect: Henry Scheuer, vice president of the
Institutional Brokers Estimate System (I/B/E/S), recommends
15 stocks that he thinks are good bets to take advantage of
the January effect this year.
   Most years, smaller stocks bounce upward in January. The
effect especially applies to issues that were battered by
tax-loss selling in December -- in other words, issues that
turned in crummy performances the year before.
   To make Mr. Scheuer's list, a stock needed to have a
market value smaller than $500 million, be down substantially
in the past six months, have a low P/E ratio (price divided
by the past 12 months' per-share earnings), and be expected
to show positive earnings growth for both 1990 and 1991.
Also, a stock was ruled out if analysts had recently lowered
estimates of the company's profit.
   Here's the list, in alphabetical order: Bytex, Clean
Harbors, Club Med, Computer Task Group, Cooker Restaurant,
Envirosafe Services, Fidelity National Financial, Inspiration
Resources, International Rectifier, La Petite Academy,
Network Systems, OHM, Shoney's, Westmoreland Coal, and Zenith
National Insurance Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   Pace of Stock Sales by Corporate Insiders Is Picking Up
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<CO>
   GS GEC CPQ
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For the first time since Iraq's invasion of
Kuwait, the pace of insider selling is picking up.
   Taking advantage of the stock market's recent rebound,
corporate executives, directors and major holders have begun
lightening their holdings of their own companies' shares,
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.
That's in sharp contrast to the insider-buying spurt that
came right after Iraqi tanks rolled into Kuwait Aug. 2.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently, insider buying had been outpacing insider
selling by a 2-1 margin. But that's changing. Buying is still
running ahead of selling for now, but SEC filings for
November show the margin is narrowing.
   "A lot of insiders at good companies were selling into the
November rally," said Bob Gabele, head of Invest/Net, a Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., concern that tracks SEC filings. In fact,
he said, "they began unloading at the first bounce from the
August and September lows."
   Insider selling has picked up particularly in the health
care, oil, real estate and construction industries,
Invest/Net data indicate.
   The selling may be related in part to tax-law changes that
will mean steeper levies next year for some high-income
executives.
   But in general, insiders buy and sell shares based on how
the company is faring and "in reaction to the level of the
stock market," said Donald Baxter, chairman of Baxter
Financial Corp., a Boca Raton, Fla., investment firm. The
recent selling may be related to the fact that "people are
seeing a deterioration of the economy affecting their
businesses," yet shares are trading at higher prices than at
any time since the invasion.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average hit what appears to have
been its low for the year at 2365.10 in mid-October. Since
then, it has rebounded more than 250 points to close Monday
at 2621.29.
   "Insiders were buying when the market was down and you
couldn't give stocks away," said Michael Murphy, editor of
the Overpriced Stock Service newsletter. Many of them
profited as the market firmed in November. Now, he said, the
insiders may be leading the pack in selling.
   Mr. Gabele of Invest/Net cautions that evidence from SEC
filings is preliminary. But "investors might think there
might be some downside momentum in the market coming," he
said.
   These are some of the companies that experienced clusters
of insider selling recently:
   -- At Boston-based Gillette Co., five insiders sold a
total of 33,000 shares in late October and November, SEC
filings show. They sold at prices ranging from $58 to $61.50
a share.
   Alfred Zeien, president-elect of the company, was the
biggest seller, with a 15,000-share sale at $60.25 a share on
Nov. 30, the filings show. His direct holdings now total
68,900 shares, according to the filings, which show that the
November sale was option-related.
   Mr. Zeien couldn't be reached for comment. A Gillette
spokesman said the sales by Mr. Zeien and the other insiders
were related to "year-end financial planning adjustments."
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Gillette
closed Monday at $61.125, up 25 cents.
   -- Three insiders at Geico Corp., including the chairman,
sold shares of the Washington-based insurer in late November,
according to SEC filings.
   William Snyder, chairman, sold 3,000 shares, or 6% of his
direct holdings, on Nov. 29 and 30, the filings show. The
other two insiders sold 3,000 shares between them at $148 to
$163.25 a share, according to the filings.
   Mr. Snyder couldn't be reached for comment. A company
spokesman declined to comment on the transactions. He said
that according to a proxy statement issued by the company in
May, Mr. Snyder had 174,592 shares and options to purchase
additional shares.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Geico closed
Monday at $164.375 a share, up 37.5 cents.
   -- At Houston-based Compaq Computer Corp., four insiders
sold 80,666 shares in November, SEC filings show, at prices
of $48.50 to $54 a share. Company officials couldn't be
reached for comment.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Compaq
closed Monday at $57 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Eases in Light Tokyo Dealings;
   Mark Firms Against Japanese Currency
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   The dollar weakened in light Tokyo trading Tuesday after
having risen Monday in European and U.S. dealings.
   The greenback was quoted late in Tokyo Tuesday at 135.95
yen, below 136.00 yen late Monday in New York but up from
135.70 yen late Friday in Tokyo. Tokyo markets were closed
Monday to honor the Japanese emperor's birthday. U.S. and
European markets were closed yesterday for the Christmas
holidays.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. currency also finished in Tokyo at 1.5380 marks,
lower than 1.5440 marks late Monday in New York but well
above 1.5088 marks in Tokyo Friday.
   In Tokyo early Wednesday, the dollar was trading at 136.28
yen, and at about 1.5390 marks.
   The main feature of Tuesday's trading was the mark's
modest firming against the yen, which traders attributed both
to profit-taking in the yen and short-covering of mark
positions. The short-mark positions were acquired during the
German currency's fall of roughly two yen following the
resignation of Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze
late last week.
   The German currency, thought to be the most vulnerable
among major currencies to instability in the Soviet Union,
found support at around the 88.20-yen level, where
participants began the covering of short-mark positions. To
be short a currency means, in essence, betting that the
currency will fall.
   Late in the Tokyo session, the mark was trading at 88.39
yen, up from 88.08 late Monday in New York but well below
89.93 yen in Tokyo Friday. The mark opened the Tokyo session
Tuesday at 88.05 yen.
   Meanwhile, traders say the dollar continues to draw
support from fears of war in the Persian Gulf, ahead of the
approaching Jan. 15 deadline set by the United Nations for a
peaceful Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. The greenback is also
benefiting from concern over possible political turmoil in
the Soviet Union. The dollar has traditionally served as a
"haven" for investors in times of turmoil.
   Soviet Foreign Minister Shevardnadze, long a close ally of
President Mikhail Gorbachev, resigned from his post to
protest to what he called growing dictatorship in his
country.
   On Monday, the dollar had gained in thin pre-holiday
dealings in Europe and the U.S. as traders troubled by the
Mideast crisis and Soviet political instability moved to
cover any short-dollar positions. The mark was the market's
wallflower as participants abandoned long-mark positions
across the board.
   "When you look at the political makeup in the Soviet
sector and ask who's most susceptible, Germany comes out loud
and clear," said Marc Cohen, vice president of corporate
foreign exchange at Fuji Bank in New York, citing Germany's
proximity to and investments in the Soviet Union.
   The Shevardnadze resignation "tacked on a minimum of five
pfennigs," or 0.05 mark, to the dollar's trading range, said
Jerry Egan, chief dealer at Bank of Boston in Boston. The
question now is whether that boost will serve as a catalyst
for a larger dollar rally once the market returns to normal
after the year-end holidays.
   European and U.S. trading institutions mostly operated
with skeleton staffs and closed early for Christmas Eve. In
these conditions, the effects of each transaction were
amplified, causing wider swings in exchange rates than would
have been seen in a more liquid market.
   Although the market's lack of liquidity draws into
question the durability of the dollar's recent gains, many
technical traders were calling the rally significant.
   Mary Ingrassia, customer dealer at Bank of Tokyo in New
York, said that since the U.S. currency broke and remained
above 1.50 marks, participants have been viewing 1.55 marks
as the next objective. The dollar stopped just shy of that
goal Monday, hitting an intraday high of 1.5470 marks.
   There was no gold trading on the Commodity Exchange in New
York Monday or yesterday. Hong Kong markets were closed
Wednesday for a holiday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   GORBACHEV WON parliamentary support for sweeping new
executive powers.
   The Congress of People's Deputies voted to create a new
vice presidency and a cabinet under the Soviet leader's
direct control, marking a clear victory for the president and
for hard-liners. Also, Gorbachev quashed an effort by some
legislators to rein in his authority to issue decrees, and he
expressed anger at progressives trying to limit his
authority. On Monday, the Congress endorsed the concept of a
union treaty to hold the country together, and ordered the 15
republics to set dates for holding referendums on the
question.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the Western humanitarian aid pouring into the
Soviet Union has been stolen, but more than 99% is reaching
the people who need it most, the KGB's chairman told the
legislators.
   ---
   Bush was advised by the top U.S. military commander in the
Gulf, Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, that his ground forces won't
be fully prepared for an all-out assault against Iraq until
February, Pentagon officials said. Meanwhile, Iraqi
ambassadors headed home for urgent consultations with Saddam
Hussein.
   ---
   A Suriname army chief pledged following a bloodless coup
Monday that he would relinquish power to an elected
government within 100 days. Ivan Graanoogst, who joined with
other officers in overthrowing Suriname's President Ramsewak
Shankar, said he wouldn't impose a curfew because "there is
no danger whatsoever."
   ---
   A study by federal scientists failed to support a widely
circulated report that a gene related to alcoholism had been
discovered. In the new experiment, researchers said they
found that the putative alcoholism gene wasn't any more
common among 40 alcoholics than among 127 nonalcoholics.
   ---
   Salman Rushdie promised on Monday he won't authorize a
paperback version of his novel, "The Satanic Verses," and
said he doesn't agree with any statements made by characters
in the book that cast aspersions on Islam. Rushdie has been
in hiding in London since a February 1989 death edict by the
late Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini.
   ---
   The Israeli army upheld expulsion orders against four Gaza
Strip Palestinians but defense lawyers said they would submit
an appeal to Israel's Supreme Court. The army said a
three-officer appeals panel ruled that the Arabs were senior
leaders of an Islamic fundamentalist group involved in a
three-year-old Palestinian uprising.
                                                                                                       

   A Soviet envoy in Jerusalem presented his credentials as
consul-general to Israel, underscoring warming ties between
the Israelis and the Kremlin, which severed diplomatic
relations during the 1967 Middle East war. In a similar
ceremony in Moscow, an Israeli official presented his
credentials.
   ---
   A study found that teen suicide prevention programs in
schools may actually stir up depressed feelings rather than
help youths who have tried to kill themselves. The report is
published in today's Journal of the American Medical
Association.
   ---
   Serbia's ruling Communists won a landslide victory in
Yugoslavia's biggest republic, according to official results
from the first free Serbian elections since World War II,
held Sunday. The Communists, renamed Socialists, have lost
power this year in elections in four of Yugoslavia's six
republics.
   ---
   Romania's former monarch returned to his homeland after 43
years of exile, but faced the possibility of arrest. King
Michael, 69, who lives in Geneva, was forced by the
Communists to abdicate in 1947.
   ---
   San Francisco's mayor plans to sign a watered-down version
of a city ordinance requiring employers to provide health
safeguards for employees who use video display terminals. Art
Agnos met with business and union leaders last Saturday and
obtained general agreement to support six amendments limiting
the ordinance's scope.
   ---
   A Kashmiri Moslem group rejected an offer by Indian Prime
Minister Chandra Shekhar to negotiate with the rebels, who
want to secede from India. But in Punjab, where Sikhs also
are fighting for secession, a political leader said he was
prepared to talk to the government if he received a formal
invitation and a written agenda.
   ---
   Died: Karl H. Hinke, 84, a former executive vice president
of Marine Midland Bank and the creator of what is now known
as the MasterCard credit card, Saturday, in East Aurora, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Americans Bring
   Christmas Trees,
   Menorah to Moscow
   ---
   Even Lenin's Ghostly Groans
   Can't Stifle the Hymnals
   From Soviet Navy's Band
   ----
   By Andrea Rutherford
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 32
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- "Lenin must be smiling in a special way," says
the Rev. J.W. Canty. More likely, Vladimir Ilyich Lenin,
founder of the Soviet state, was rolling over in his
mausoleum on Monday night.
   Just a few yards from Lenin's final resting place in
Moscow's Red Square, Mr. Canty, an Episcopalian priest from
New York, was reading the Christmas story aloud to hundreds
of rapt Soviets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For 70 years, Soviet leadership restricted religious
observances, encouraging people to perform holiday traditions
-- decorating evergreen trees and exchanging gifts -- on New
Year's Day instead. But this year, Americans brought the
Christmas tree and the Hanukkah menorah back to the Soviet
Union.
   Soon after the Soviet Parliament legalized religion in
October, Mr. Canty joined Soviet rock star Alla Pugacheva to
organize Christmas celebrations in Moscow. Such normally dour
institutions as the Soviet Chamber of Commerce and the Moscow
Police Department agreed to help, and 24 American companies
gave almost half a million dollars' worth of donations. The
result is a three-week long "Merry Christmas Moscow" festival
that includes religious services, international gift
exchanges and a series of charity events.
   Working on the assumption that "whatever isn't forbidden
is allowed," 44-year-old Mr. Canty opened "Merry Christmas
Moscow" with a Christmas Eve service right outside the
Kremlin. "Unbelievable," murmured astonished passers-by,
pushing their children forward to listen. Even the Soviet
Navy Marching Band played an enthusiastic rendition of "Oh
Come All Ye Faithful."
   Despite these small miracles, Mr. Canty says recreating an
American-style Christmas in the Soviet Union has been
"tough." General Electric Co. wanted to put lights on the
trees lining Red Square, but the Moscow City Committee on
Shrubs and Trees was worried about foliage damage. "It's just
something they've never done before," shrugs Mr. Canty.
   The difficulties of running a religious holiday in the
Soviet Union are familiar to another New Yorker, Lubavitcher
Rabbi Moshe Chaim Levin. A year ago, his Hanukkah service was
relegated to a small Moscow synagogue. But this year, the
Lubavitchers' huge menorah stands near the center of the
city.
   And Hanukkah was celebrated last Tuesday at Moscow's
Telecenter television and radio station. The Telecenter is
usually a classified building, says Rabbi Levin, but
intervention by Russian republic leader Boris Yeltsin
procured the Lubavitchers "special permission" to use it.
Moscow was linked up to an international Hanukkah
"telebridge." And a standing-room only crowd of Moscow Jews
watched celebrations in Brooklyn, N.Y., as well as in 10
world capitals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- State and Local Spotlight:
   State Legislators Take Closer Look at Managed Growth
   ---
   Small Firms Back Efforts to Prevent
   Backlash Against Development
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
CONSUMER &amp; HOUSEHOLD SERVICES, LAWN CARE, TAX PREPARATION (CSV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   GROWTH MANAGEMENT elbows its way up the legislative agenda
in many states.
   Although budget and tax woes grab the biggest headlines,
two new surveys by the National Conference of State
Legislatures suggest that several issues of critical
importance to small business are emerging near the top of
many lawmakers' wish lists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Among legislative leaders, interest grows significantly in
the issues of land use and how to manage growth. Leaders in
California, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Oregon, Rhode Island
and Washington identified both among their top priorities for
1991. Leaders in Arizona, California, Delaware, Maryland and
Pennsylvania say growth management is particularly important
for the longer-term interests of their states.
   The issues "have been a fairly low profile kind of topic
before," notes Doug Sacarto, the NCSL's state-issues
director. But lawmakers say that failure to address them
"will lead to a backlash to stifle economic development," he
says.
   In a separate survey, states' legislative-committee
chairmen continue to rank a half dozen small-business topics
very high for deliberation in 1991. For spurring economic
development, efforts to expand tourism and foreign trade
rated highest, followed by aid to distressed communities,
especially rural areas. Lawmakers in 29 states listed
assistance to start-up enterprises as important, and those in
27 states cited efforts to develop high-technology
businesses.
   Next year's agenda on labor issues apparently again will
focus on corralling workers' compensation costs; 40 states
ranked that as their top labor issue. Other issues moving up:
family-leave policies for employees, job retraining and
employee drug testing. The small-business lobby favors a
workers' compensation overhaul and generally opposes
mandatory family-leave measures.
   But interest wanes in helping troubled and mature
industries. Only nine states gave a priority label to issues
such as plant-closing legislation and state financing to help
turn around failing companies.
   ---
   NEW ENGLAND, Mid-Atlantic states register big gains in
black-owned firms.
   Nationally, the number of black-owned firms rose 38%
between 1982 and 1987, to 424,165 from 308,260, a new Census
Bureau report shows. Posting the strongest growth were
several New England and East Coast states, while Pacific
states showed the slowest growth.
   New Hampshire led the nation with an 86% gain, spurred by
a proliferation of service-related businesses, though the
number of black-owned businesses there remains low at just
229. Wyoming, bringing up the rear, actually had a 10% drop
in such businesses, to 81 from 90.
   Regionally, New England had a 68% increase in the
five-year period, followed by the Mid-Atlantic states of New
Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania, with a 50% increase, and
the eight-state South Atlantic region, at 47%. The slowest
growth came in the Pacific states, with a 23% increase; the
Great Lakes states, at 27%; and the South-Central states, at
28%.
   California has the most black-owned businesses, 47,728,
followed by New York, 36,289, and Texas, 35,725. States with
fewer than 100 black-owned firms: North Dakota (the only
state without a black-owned manufacturing firm), South
Dakota, Montana, Wyoming and Vermont, the survey said.
   ---
     Where Black-Owned Firms' Growth Is Fastest, Slowest
                                                                                                       

 Percentage change in number of black-owned firms from 1982
to 1987
                                                                                                       

                        TOP 5 GAINERS
                                                                                                       

 New Hampshire                             +86.2
 Rhode Island                              +72.8
 Massachusetts                             +71.1
 Connecticut                               +65.4
 Florida                                   +63.7
                                                                                                       

                       BOTTOM 5 LOSERS
                                                                                                       

 Wyoming                                   -10.0
 Washington, D.C.                          + 1.2
 North Dakota                              + 5.6
 Idaho                                     +11.9
 Iowa                                      +16.6
                                                                                                       


   ---
   ONE-STOP SHOPPING: Toledo, Ohio, officials have
established a Central Permit Center downtown that speedily
issues any of the city's 112 different permits. Previously,
people starting a business and other applicants had to go to
each department involved. Officials think the center may be
bringing in more permit fees because its convenience keeps
prospective applicants from giving up in frustration.
   ---
   CLEANING UP: Arizona, South Carolina and Tennessee have
eased procedures allowing laundromats and dry cleaners to
dispose of unclaimed items. New Jersey moves to make it
easier for these firms to get rid of unclaimed carpets. And
Connecticut lawmakers reduce to one from two the number of
required inspections of dry cleaners by fire marshals,
reports State Net, which tracks legislation.
   ---
   WARY WATCHDOGS: For three years, members of the Council of
Independent Business Owners in Asheville, N.C., have been
monitoring city and Buncombe County governing boards. The
upshot: The small-business group this month filed a petition
for a 10% cut in Asheville property taxes and asked that the
city council or Asheville residents vote on the plan early
next year. The business owners said their monitoring
convinced them "the only way to achieve a more frugal
government is through a forced reduction in funding."
   ---
   STATES SEEK increasingly to link small business to
anti-illiteracy efforts.
   A tax credit for Mississippi businesses went into effect
early this year and Colorado lawmakers are expected to
consider a similar measure to be introduced next month.
Businesses can write off 25% of any direct costs for
providing basic-skills training to employees.
   Colorado's comprehensive literacy bill is expected to
include several other provisions to tap small-business help,
including grants for workplace literacy training. Jim
Henderson, a regional small-business advocate at the Small
Business Administration, says chances "are good" that some
form of literacy legislation will pass.
   Mr. Henderson notes that about half the state's lawmakers
attended at least one of 15 literacy hearings around the
state this fall. A 1985 study placed the illiteracy rate for
Colorado adults at 8%, lower than the 13% national average,
but Mr. Henderson thinks it's actually higher.
   In South Carolina, with a 15% adult illiteracy rate, the
governor's office has held talks with business owners to
promote literacy efforts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mid Am to Buy Farmers Savings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MIAM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOWLING GREEN, Ohio -- Mid Am Inc. said it agreed to buy
the Farmers Savings Bank of Stony Ridge, Ohio, in a stock
transaction valued at $6.2 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Waste Management's Overseas Unit,
   Majority-Owned Concerns to Swap Stakes
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   WMX CHW WTI
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- Waste Management Inc. plans to have its
fast-growing international business and two other
majority-owned companies swap stakes, and the concern could
also take the overseas operations public within about one
year, the company said.
   In an interview, James E. Koenig, the parent company's
chief financial officer, said the moves are designed to help
finance Waste Management International Inc., which is
expected to report 1990 revenue more than doubled from last
year's $388 million, and to avoid having the three Waste
Management-controlled companies needlessly compete in foreign
markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The two companies each granted an option to swap their
common shares for a 15% stake in Waste Management
International Inc. are Chemical Waste Management Inc., the
78%-owned hazardous waste handler, and Wheelabrator
Technologies Inc., a waste-to-energy and
environmental-services company in which Waste Management
recently increased its stake to 55% from 22%.
   Without stakes in the overseas business, those two
companies could be compelled to open their own foreign
offices, which would be a costly duplication of effort, Mr.
Koenig said. Waste Management is investing heavily to
increase its domination over the garbage, hazardous waste and
other waste businesses, and keeping its costs down is crucial
to maintaining strong profits during this period.
   For the first nine months of this year, net income was
$489.1 million, or $1.04 a share, after a $24.5 million
charge, on revenue of $4.2 billion. A year earlier, net was
$409.2 million, or 89 cents a share, on revenue of $3.3
billion.
   Marc Sulam, an analyst at Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. in New
York, said he expects the international unit to post 1990
revenue of about $900 million, and that revenue will rise to
between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion next year for the unit.
The company has been acquiring garbage hauling operations,
particularly in Europe, where it hopes 1992 economic
unification will allow it to further expand.
   The operations' value isn't clear because, although it is
growing rapidly, Waste Management International's profit
margins are about one-half of those of the company's domestic
solid waste business, Mr. Sulam said, in part reflecting cost
of doing business overseas. Nevertheless, the unit could be
valued at $2 billion or more by the time Waste Management is
ready to take it public in 1992, Mr. Sulam said.
   Mr. Koenig, who said the earliest a public offering of
shares in the international unit could occur is 1992,
wouldn't estimate the value of the unit and wouldn't disclose
its profits.
   Under the plan, Chemical Waste and Wheelabrator wouldn't
pursue customers outside of North America, but could share in
the foreign growth by owning a stake in the international
unit. Waste Management, while operating the companies
separately, is trying to get them to share customers and
technologies.
   Chemical Waste and Wheelabrator's options are to buy the
15% stakes at a 15% discount of Waste Management
International's value, to be determined by outside
appraisals. They can exercise the option beginning Jan. 1,
1991.
   In addition, as part of increasing its Wheelabrator stake
to 55%, Waste Management agreed to:
   -- Help Wheelabrator obtain an "A" or better rating from
major credit rating agencies. Among other things, that could
involve Waste Management investing as much as another $200
million in Wheelabrator by buying subordinated debt
securities or preferred stock.
   -- Sell its still-small medical waste business to
Wheelabrator at a 15% discount to its estimated value. The
medical waste business has sales approaching $50 million, but
could grow rapidly because Waste Management already has
garbage hauling contracts with many hospitals.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Design:
   Look Up There] It's a Bird] It's a Plane]
   No, the Latest Addition to Japan's Skyline
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN J.ASB J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Overshadowing a huddle of grubby pubs and noodle
stalls in a downtown district of Tokyo is a glittering,
pear-shaped blob.
   "I didn't know what to make of it at first," concedes
Yoshinobu Takeda, a spokesman for Asahi Breweries Ltd., owner
of the 150-foot-long structure that sits atop a black
building. Speculation by local residents as to the nature of
the gold-colored blob ranged from a giant beer drop to more
earthy objects.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Actually, the blob -- symbolizing a flame of passion -- is
the work of Philippe Starck, a French architect. Asahi built
it to mark its 100th anniversary.
   "We wanted a building that people would find interesting
30 years from now," says Mr. Takeda.
   The blob -- or flame, rather -- is just one of some 60
wacky architectural projects recently finished or being built
by foreign artists in Japan these days. More than 40 foreign
architects have flocked to Japan in the past few years.
   Financing the boom are cash-rich Japanese manufacturers,
land developers and restaurant owners striving to boost their
image by replacing their tattered buildings with eye-catching
modern constructions. Just as Japanese consumers are turning
to foreign designers for fashion, many companies are paying
American and European architectural designers to dress up
their buildings.
   "There's a belief that if it's the best, it's got to be
foreign," says Philip Stewart, an international business
manager for PAE International, an American architecture
concern based in Japan for more than 30 years. A higher value
of the yen against the dollar is also making foreign names
more affordable.
   Japan's obsession with design is a major change from its
traditional outlook on architecture, which focused entirely
on a building's practical functions and gave little attention
to individual names and designs.
   Now, in a country with few legal restraints on buildings'
outward appearances (they must be able to withstand
earthquakes) the demand for things bizarre seems endless.
Consider Mazda Motor Corp.'s research center, designed by a
young Japanese architect and expected to be completed next
year. It features a four-story building with mirrored walls
and an oversized Greek column, among other architectural
elements. Or "Via Stagione," a passageway at a Tokyo shopping
center. The work of an Italian team, it has bumpy white walls
covered with a mosaic of broken glass.
   As much as a fifth of Tokyo is rebuilt every five years,
developers estimate. Tokyo "is organized chaos, which {gives}
the architects freedom to express themselves any way they
want," says Shi Yu Chen, an architect and developer who has
worked with Japanese companies seeking foreign architects.
The country has "become a theater for international
architects."
   That means that a designer such as Britain's Nigel Coates
can work on larger projects in Japan than back home in
Britain. "There's a greater need in Japan for a status
attached to an architectural designer," says Mr. Coates, who
now has half of his projects in Japan. "For architects like
us that are more avant-garde, it's very important that we're
given an opportunity to realize our potential to the full
extent." Japan is where that is most possible, he says.
   Five years ago, Mr. Chen spotted some of the creations of
Mr. Coates, then an architecture professor little known
outside Britain, in a magazine. The designer's landmarks
around Japan have spread Mr. Coates' name world-wide. Some of
his bigger works include a bar and disco in a central Tokyo
building with a facade resembling a solid brick wall, with
windows only on the top floor. He put a giant Noah's Ark with
a Chinese restaurant inside it in the middle of a northern
Japanese city.
   "In Europe, we are restricted by what the rest of the city
looks like," says Mr. Coates. "It would be difficult to build
an enormous concrete rock building like Noah's Ark in
London."
   The mass of splashy buildings, however, is a little much
for some. Aldo Rossi, an Italian architect, designed a red
stone hotel in Japan's southern city of Fukuoka, coving the
surface with a criss-cross of red pillars and green
horizontal metal bars. The eight-story windowless hotel
certainly stands out enough to make drunken salarymen gawk as
they sway out of neighboring bars. But amid the blinding neon
signs in a seedy love hotel district, the creation looks
rather miserable, says Yoshiyuki Kitamura, a 43-year-old
Fukuoka architect.
   "If that were built in Italy, it would be a different
story," says Mr. Kitamura, who says he generally has great
respect for Mr. Rossi's works. "Here, it looks as though it
can't communicate in a foreign country."
   Designers on the cutting edge are expanding into interior
decoration, too. Jasmac Co., a Tokyo land developer, assigned
the interior decoration of a bar and restaurant to Zaha
Hadid, an Iraqi-born London architect famous for designing
buildings considered unbuildable. Striving to satisfy the
"ice" theme of the building, Ms. Hadid designed glass dining
tables with corners so sharp that managers worried that
customers would cut themselves. The glass staircase was so
sharp and narrow, says Seiichi Kaga, director of the
building, that a customer fell and put a hole in the floor.
But the restaurant has attracted crowds of young visitors.
   One area that foreign architects are only just beginning
to crack is large-scale public works. Rafael Vinoly, an
Argentine-born American designer, last year won a government
contract to build a 130 billion yen ($960 million) conference
hall in central Tokyo. Renzo Piano, an Italian architect, is
designing the terminal building for the Kansai International
Airport.
   As Japanese companies increasingly try to lure consumers
with aquariums, golf courses and resort hotels, foreign
architects with more experience in those fields than Japanese
counterparts will have an even greater opportunity,
developers say.
   The rush by Japanese companies to hook up with foreign
designers is making some Japanese architects uneasy. Kiyokazu
Arai, a Tokyo architect, says he is inspired by some of the
novel designs of his foreign counterparts. But he is critical
of companies that "don't mind who they get as long as they're
foreign and well-known."
   Some designers question how long Japan's appetite for
wacky buildings will last. "I wonder if people will keep
wanting to be `stimulated,'" says Ittaku Katsuki, chief
producer at Creative Box Inc., a Tokyo design company.
Eventually, he says, "the buildings will also grow up."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Israel Land Development Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST ILDCY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TEL AVIV -- Israel Land Development Co. said it submitted
an independent proposal to purchase a controlling interest in
United Mizrahi Bank, the fourth-largest bank in Israel. Terms
weren't disclosed.
   Israel Land said its proposal was submitted to Nechasim
M.I. Ltd., a government-owned corporation established for the
privatization of Israeli banks. It said it proposes to
acquire a controlling interest in the bank by acquiring at
least 26% of the bank's shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hallador Petroleum Co. Meeting
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HPET
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Hallador Petroleum Co. said a special meeting of
shareholders that had been scheduled for last Friday to vote
on a 1-for-10 reverse stock split was delayed, owing to a
one-day delay in mailing notice of the meeting. The effective
date for the split is expected to be next Monday, the day for
which the meeting was rescheduled.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   BMY
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., a pharmaceutical
company, said it received Food and Drug Administration
approval to market an imaging agent that helps to measure
quickly the blood flow to the heart.
   The technetium agent, which will be marketed under the
name CardioTec, is the first such diagnostic agent to receive
FDA approval, the company said. CardioTec, one of the first
of a new class of imaging agents, can help a physician
evaluate within minutes coronary blood flow in a patient at
rest or under stress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FRE
</CO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Monday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         MORTGAGE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities, offered by Lehman Brothers. The
offering, Series FHLMC Gold 1036, is backed by Freddie Mac 9
1/2% gold participation certificates. Lehman said Monday that
further details would be released today.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   There were no major European debt issues priced Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   U.S. Dilemma: How to Hammer Iraq in a Battle
   Without Smashing It, Emboldening Iran, Syria
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 32
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- When President Bush and his advisers huddle
to talk about a possible Persian Gulf war, they naturally
discuss what kind of military strike would overwhelm Iraqi
troops occupying Kuwait.
   But periodically, a senior official says, they also
discuss the flip side of that issue: their desire to prevent
war from fully destroying or dismembering Iraq.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush and his top advisers worry -- as do many outside
analysts -- that any military campaign that tears apart Iraq
or leaves it too weakened could greatly enhance the power of
Iran and Syria and bring about a new regional instability as
dangerous as the current incendiary situation. "That is
something we've thought a lot about," says the senior Bush
aide. "We're not interested in destroying Iraq."
   As a result, although the Bush administration has pledged
to use whatever power is necessary to prevail if war erupts,
it also is quietly hoping to calibrate its use of force to
drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait swiftly and destroy some
Iraqi military power without bringing the entire country to
its knees.
   That might prove to be an exceedingly difficult
undertaking. Military analysts say it's tricky trying to
calibrate military force that precisely once a chaotic war
situation is unfolding.
   But a look at the map explains the desirability of such a
strategy. Iraq sits directly between Syria and Iran, two
equally ambitious and dangerous regional powers that might
literally gobble up pieces of a disintegrating Iraq. At a
minimum, Syria and Iran would be able to take advantage of
the void left by a dazed and staggering Iraq to expand their
own influence. Many experts believe that Syria and Iran are
as great a threat to U.S. interests in the region as Iraq.
   In addition, northern Iraq is populated by a
Kurdish-speaking minority that has long sought its own nation
-- the same kind of Kurdish minority that lives in adjoining
parts of Iran and Turkey. A war that hobbles Iraq might
inspire a new drive among Kurds to carve out their own nation
-- a development that would alarm Turkey and Iran as much as
Iraq and could set off a violent reaction from them.
   "If Iraq were truly dismembered you could have a scramble
for the remains and set off a secondary conflict," says
William Quandt, a Middle East analyst at the Brookings
Institution. "That could set off another round of fighting
among fairly substantial powers in the region."
   Even those analysts who have been the most hawkish on the
showdown with Iraq share that view. "I don't want to leave
them completely wiped out," says Richard Perle, a former top
aide in the Reagan administration Pentagon who is part of an
ad hoc group urging that the U.S. maintain a credible
military threat against Iraq. "They are entitled to some
capacity to defend themselves."
   The cohesiveness of Iraq is a question mark because modern
Iraq, though situated on the spot of the ancient civilization
of Mesopotamia, actually is a fairly young nation made up of
a sometimes uneasy ethnic mix and lands traditionally coveted
by others.
   Turkish and Iranian regimes over the centuries have laid
claim to much of what is today Iraq. Saddam Hussein himself
proclaimed in a speech in 1980: "They used to take turns on
Iraq. Turkey goes and Iran comes; Iran goes and Turkey
comes."
   And while Saddam Hussein buttresses his claim to Kuwait by
asserting that it is an artificial country created by British
colonialists, the fact is that Iraq's own borders are perhaps
an even more artificial colonial creation.
   British diplomats sketched out the borders of today's Iraq
in the 1920s, mostly to serve the needs of the British empire
at that time. Iraq then was granted its independence in 1932.
But Baghdad governments ever since have had to struggle to
create a common identity among Iraq's diverse population of
Shiite Moslems in the south, Sunni Moslems in the center and
Kurds to the north.
   Iraq's leaders have had some success in unifying these
groups. Most notably, they held Iraq together throughout the
pressures of an eight-year war with neighboring Iran, a
Shiite nation that actively tried to win over the loyalty and
territory of Iraq's Shiites.
   Still, there is a risk that a war with a powerful
international coalition might unleash new forces and send out
unpleasant ripple effects.
   For starters, Syria has been a bitter rival of Iraq in
recent years, and the two nations have served as a check on
each other's power and influence in the Arab world. If Iraq
is laid low, Syria's influence would increase. It's hard to
guess just how much. Israel still would serve as a check on
Syrian power. And a decline in Iraqi clout also would enhance
the power of moderate, pro-American Egypt inside the Arab
world -- a development that would please the U.S.
   For those reasons, some analysts are more worried about
the chance that Iran might move in to lay claim to part of
Iraq if it were seriously weakened.
   Even if Iran doesn't have any current plans for a land
grab, it might be drawn in once fighting starts. Shireen
Hunter, a former Iranian foreign service officer who now is
an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, doubts that Iran has any plans to claim any
territory. But she worries that if Iran suspects others are
going to try to slice off pieces of Iraq, such as its Kurdish
area, it may feel compelled to stake a claim of its own.
   "If there is a scramble for the area, Iran may feel that
in order to protect itself it has to get involved," Ms.
Hunter says. Similarly, she worries that if Shiite holy sites
in southern Iraq are damaged in any fighting, Iran might feel
compelled to move in to defend such sites, if only in
response to popular opinion at home.
   And at a minimum, a war that seriously weakens Iraq would
prevent it, at least temporarily, from continuing to serve as
the Arab world's main bulwark against Iranian efforts to
spread its version of Islamic rule around the region.
   "Whatever one thinks of Saddam Hussein, it is indisputably
true that in the 1980s no one other than Iraq was willing to
stand up to an Iranian bid for hegemony in the gulf," says
Mr. Quandt of the Brookings Institution. "If Iraq is out of
the picture, then there isn't really any counterweight to
Iran."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Federal Savings &amp; Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EBCI
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MORGANTOWN, W.Va. -- First Federal Savings &amp; Loan
Association of Morgantown said it agreed to convert from a
mutual to a stock form of organization and, simultaneously,
be acquired by a unit of Eagle Bancorp Inc., Charleston. The
merger/conversion will be accomplished through the offering
of additional shares of Eagle Bancorp's common stock, but
terms weren't disclosed. First Federal will merge with First
Empire Federal Savings &amp; Loan Association, a unit of Eagle
Bancorp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Baby Ads Spark Debate Over Ethics
   ----
   By Cynthia Crossen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pamela Quillin and Rob Hosinski got their baby through the
classified ads.
   Seeking an infant to adopt, the Sacramento, Calif.,
husband and wife pooled some money with several other
prospective adoptive couples to buy an ad in USA Today's
"Life" section.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ad told women with unplanned pregnancies about "open"
adoption, in which the two sets of parents get to know each
other. A 26-year-old Georgia woman read the ad and responded.
A few months later, Ms. Quillin and Mr. Hosinski adopted her
baby.
   Under the laws of some 20 U.S. states, publishing this
kind of ad is illegal, although offenders are rarely
prosecuted. Now a California adoption center is seeking to
change that state's law restricting adoption ads, claiming it
impedes a constitutionally protected communication of a
desire to adopt.
   At a time when advertising has spread into just about
every corner of America -- from law to medicine to topless
models -- some people believe advertising for babies
represents a border that should never be crossed. "It's like
opening a bazaar, and children are the product," says Jim
Brown, chief of adoptions for California's department of
social services.
   Yet proponents of adoption advertising say they're only
disseminating a message that otherwise gets short shrift in
the public debate about birth control and abortion. "We're
not forcing anyone to call us," says Bruce Rappaport,
executive director of the Independent Adoption Center in
Pleasant Valley, Calif. "We just want to make sure women know
the choice exists. We're doing what the state and federal
governments won't do -- funding adoption education."
   In some states, including California, licensed agencies
alone can place adoption ads; attorneys, individuals or
unlicensed agencies are barred from ad pages. In other
states, advertising for babies by anyone is strictly
forbidden.
   Yet even in states with rigid rules about such ads,
regulators say the ads constantly crop up in local and
regional newspapers. The regulators then call or write to the
newspapers, reminding them of the state's law, which usually
curtails the practice -- at least temporarily. Ads in
national publications like USA Today, which estimates it runs
some 500 a year, are technically illegal in some states, but
are mostly ignored by regulators. Us and Rolling Stone
magazines, with their youthful demographics, also publish
such ads.
   The people who oppose such advertising worry that
prospective adoptive parents will vie for scarce healthy
white infants by pitching their life style as though it were
a competitive product. "Have large Victorian home, two lazy
cats, in a neighborhood filled with playmates. Summer
weekends at lakeside mountain camp, with doting grandparents
and cousins to play with," read one recent ad in USA Today.
"$$ Security, books/music, outdoor sports, holidays with
family and LOVE," read another.
   Mr. Brown, the California adoptions chief, says he's
concerned that a pregnant woman might read about and choose
one couple, then another and another, leaving a trail of
bereavement behind her.
   "Someone runs an ad saying `Two Harvard-educated
physicians are seeking an infant,'" says Mr. Brown. "A birth
mother says okay. Then someone runs an ad saying, `Two
Harvard-educated physicians with Oxford postgraduate
fellowships . . . .' The woman says, `That's even better.' We
see things like that now. Imagine what we'd see without the
law."
   About 40% of the inquiries Diane Michelsen, a California
adoption attorney, gets from prospective birth mothers come
from advertising, according to a recent book, "An Open
Adoption," by Lincoln Caplan. Ms. Michelsen, in an interview,
confirmed that she advertises in college towns and areas with
high unemployment and tries not to advertise in places where
there has just been a catastrophe, such as a tornado or
hurricane. She also tries to advertise in places where the
physical characteristics of the native population might match
those of some prospective adoptive parents -- for tall,
Scandinavian-looking couples, for example, she might
advertise in Minnesota and Wisconsin.
   "I love advertising -- I think it's a real appropriate way
to get people together," says Ms. Michelsen. "But it's true
that there are more attempted scams through advertising than
any other way of connecting birth mother and adoptive
parents."
   Although in many states licensed agencies have the right
to advertise their services, most agencies that advertise at
all do so cautiously and conservatively, concentrating on the
Yellow Pages.
   One exception is a Cherry Hill, N.J., adoption agency
called the Golden Cradle, which has advertised not only in
the Yellow Pages, but also on billboards, bus benches,
television, radio and in the classified pages. When the
agency first decided to advertise about 10 years ago, says
Marlene Piasecki, the agency's executive director, the Yellow
Pages wouldn't accept the ads even though they had a category
for abortion services.
   "There was a tremendous uproar when we started
advertising," says Ms. Piasecki. "But our founder was an
entrepreneur, and he thought some of the same principles that
make an effective business could also make an effective human
service. People said, `That means you're selling a baby.' We
said, `No, we're offering a service, and sometimes it ends up
with an adoption taking place.'"
   In Kentucky, which has one of the highest out-of-wedlock
birth rates in the country, not even licensed agencies are
allowed to advertise for babies. "It seems like a terribly
risky way to find adoptive homes for children," says Sue
Howard, adoption specialist for the state. Ms. Howard says
she herself approached USA Today to inform the paper that the
advertising it was carrying violated Kentucky law. "Someone
in the classified section told me, `Oh, we don't bother with
state laws,'" says Ms. Howard, who referred the matter to the
state attorney general's office.
   A USA Today spokesman says the paper tries to protect
children with its strict guidelines about who can publish the
ads and what they say.
   But to Pam Quillin and Rob Hosinski, a classified ad ended
five years of sadness and frustration and brought them a
daughter named Caitlin. "I called the county about adoption,
and they wouldn't even put my name on a list to get on a
list," says Ms. Quillin. Meanwhile, in Georgia, Caitlin's
birth mother had herself been frustrated by the attitude of a
local agency, which urged her to give up any concerns about
the fate of her baby.
   "I would never presume to tell someone what to do about an
unplanned pregnancy," Ms. Quillin says. "But young women tend
not even to consider adoption. Advertising is a way of
letting them know it's there."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A&amp;P to Back Offer
   That Will Decrease
   Its Stake in Isosceles
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 31
</SO>
<CO>
   GAP U.ISO G.TWA
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, CONVENIENCE STORES (FDR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTVALE, N.J. -- Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. said it
will support a new share offering by Isosceles PLC that would
reduce A&amp;P's stake in the debt-laden British supermarket
retailer to 6.6% from the 19.9%.
   A&amp;P, a supermarket chain that is 52%-owned by the
Tengelmann Group of Germany, and Isosceles fought last fall
for Gateway Corp., another British food retailer. Isosceles
won the takeover battle, and A&amp;P in turn wound up with the
19.9% stake in Isosceles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A&amp;P said Isosceles is proceeding with the new share
offering, which is part of a previously announced
restructuring to provide it with about #222 million ($418.8
million) in new equity and converted debt.
   A&amp;P said it doesn't intend to purchase any shares in the
offering, but intends to vote in favor of the shareholder
resolutions authorizing the transaction. A&amp;P also said it
will retain its directorship on the Isosceles board.
   A&amp;P's investment in Isosceles has a current value of about
$140 million, an A&amp;P spokesman said. "We decided not to put
any more of our funds into Isosceles at this time, because we
feel we have enough invested as it is," he said. "But we
recognize the need for Isosceles to refinance, and this
equity will help them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Whoever Claimed
   Uncle Sam Can't
   Play Santa Claus?
   ---
   Struck by Holiday Spirit, IRS
   Opts Not to Ship Forms
   The Day After Christmas
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Today taxpayers get a late Christmas
present, courtesy of the Internal Revenue Service: a mailbox
that doesn't contain 1990 tax forms.
   In past years, the IRS has let cries of "Scrooge" be
damned and had the postal service deliver tens of millions of
tax forms the day after Christmas. This year, like Ebenezer
Scrooge after encountering a few ghosts, the IRS is allowing
taxpayers to extend their holiday spirits.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But only for a few days.
   "We've targeted delivery on the 28th to get it a little
further out from Christmas," says Arthur Altman, a 30-year
IRS veteran who oversees the production and distribution of
all those forms. The IRS expects to send out about 97 million
tax-form packages, and another 11 million postcards to those
who last year used forms provided by a professional tax
preparer.
   Moreover, in its struggle to become more user-friendly
under Commissioner Fred Goldberg, the IRS has reworked the
simpler 1040A form so an additional 4.5 million older
taxpayers -- mostly those with retirement income -- can use
it rather than the long form 1040. Unlike previous years,
form 1040A now can be used by people with pension or annuity
income, Individual Retirement Account distributions or
taxable Social Security benefits. Also, those who claim the
tax credit for the elderly or disabled, and those who pay
estimated taxes, can take advantage of the shorter form.
   In another move aimed at making things easier for those
who don't file complicated returns, the IRS has created a
separate instruction booklet for the one-page form 1040EZ,
which can be used by unmarried people. Previously, the EZ
form was contained in the 1040A booklet. This year's EZ form
instruction booklet is 24 pages, while the 1040A instructions
run nearly 70 pages.
   Other changes this year include:
   -- An increase in the standard deduction to $5,450 for
married couples filing jointly; to $2,725 for married people
filing separately; to $3,250 for single people; and to $4,750
for heads of households.
   -- A rise in the income limit for taxpayers to qualify for
the earned-income tax credit. A person who has a dependent
child and who had income under $20,264 can get a credit up to
$953. The income limit for 1989 taxes was $19,340.
   -- The itemized deduction for personal interest falls to
10% of interest paid from 20% on 1989 taxes. This is the last
year such interest is deductible.
   Congress passed several changes to the tax laws this year,
including an increase in the top rate and a cap on itemized
deductions for wealthy people, but those changes don't take
effect until the 1991 tax year.
   To order tax forms and publications, dial 1-800-TAX-FORM,
or 1-800-829-3676.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hercules to Realign
   Officers; Retirement
   Set for Engebretsen
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   HPC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WILMINGTON, Del. -- Hercules Inc. said Arden B.
Engebretsen, vice chairman and chief financial officer, will
retire next Tuesday, as the chemical and aerospace company
realigns top management to refocus on its aerospace business
and reassess its strategic direction.
   A successor wasn't named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hercules also announced a series of changes in its
reporting relationships, effective Tuesday. Richard Schwartz,
executive vice president and the Hercules aerospace unit's
president, will report directly to Thomas L. Gossage, who is
to become chairman and chief executive officer, succeeding
David Hollingsworth on his retirement next Monday. All other
operating units, including the fragrance and food materials
group and the advanced materials unit, will report to Fred L.
Buckner, president and chief operating officer.
   The company also will group several of its business
activities -- technology, international, planning and
environmental -- to develop a new long-term direction.
   Hercules was set back by difficulties recently, including
technical troubles and order delays in its rocket-booster
operations, which led to a $221.9 million charge against
results for 1989, when the company had a net loss of $81.3
million, or $1.76 a share, on sales of $3.09 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   American Capital &amp; Research Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   ACRCA
</CO>
<IN>
POLLUTION CONTROL, WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVICES (POL)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN CAPITAL &amp; RESEARCH CORP., Fairfax, Va., said it
completed a private placement of $25 million in senior
preferred stock with units of Ifint S.A., an international
investment firm affiliated with Italy's Agnelli group of
companies. American Capital, a provider of environmental and
engineering services, said it initially intends to use the
proceeds to reduce debt. It issued 250 shares of 9.75% senior
preferred sold with detachable warrants to purchase 2.2
million Class B shares at $12 a share. The transaction gives
Ifint an option to purchase an additional 250 shares of
senior preferred for $25 million in the next one to two
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Offenses Against the Rule of Law: This Year's Winners
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   What a year this has been for filers of absurd lawsuits
and prosecutors of noncrimes. In the spirit of the charitable
season, however, let's honor those whose creative energies
have challenged the law as it had been understood. Herewith
entries for the most brilliantly frivolous legal argument of
the year.
   There was the lawyer who sued Huntington Beach, Calif., as
a RICO racketeer after police there gave him three speeding
tickets. Other cases that have appeared in this space include
a Tennessee couple who sued a hospital for $4 million when
their newborn was temporarily and harmlessly dyed blue by a
medical procedure, then called a "Smurfette" by a nurse,
allegedly causing "distressing and permanent emotional
damage." And the federal prosecutors who forced a broker to
spend nearly a year in jail before federal judges announced
that being a fourth-hand tippee of insider information
violated no law because no such law exists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also consider the New York City man who fell drunk on a
subway track. He lost his arm when he was hit by a subway
train, so naturally sued the city's transit system for
damages. A jury decided that the accident wasn't his fault,
that a subway worker should have noticed his inebriated state
and forced him off the platform. The award for $9.3 million
was reversed by a party-pooping judge, who announced that the
"jury acted irrationally."
   Then there is the case that wins the special-award
category of Whose Ox Is Suing? showing that the corporation
that complains about excessive litigation might be the next
plaintiff to gore another corporate defendant with a
rule-breaking lawsuit. In Travelers Insurance v. Budget
Rent-a-Car, a parking valet for a restaurant in Maui caused
an accident involving a rental car. The valet was not covered
by the Budget rental agreement that limited the number of
authorized drivers. Travelers paid the claim on behalf of the
restaurant, but then tried to collect from Budget. The
argument was that despite the clear language about who was an
authorized driver and who was not, judges should interpret
the contract as implying that a valet is covered.
   Los Angeles federal appeals Judge Alex Kozinski would have
none of it. Contracts such as the rental agreement "are
useful only insofar as each side can count on being able to
hold the other to the terms of the agreement." The problem,
Judge Kozinski wrote, is that "increasing uncertainty through
judicial meddling raises insurers' costs of doing business;
inevitably those costs are passed on to customers."
   The sharp-eyed Judge Kozinski noted that Travelers had
taken the opposite view of the law in a similar case in New
York in the 1970s where Allstate sued Travelers -- and,
surprisingly, won. "While parties are free to argue on good
faith whatever position they deem advantageous in a
particular case," Judge Kozinski said, "we doubt that such a
myopic litigation strategy contributes to the healthy
development of the law or serves the long-term interest of
those whose livelihood depends upon certainty and
predictability in the enforcement of commercial contracts."
   These cases make honorable runnersup, but the envelope
please. The winner of the most frivolous case is Carroll v.
Otis Elevator, where Chicago federal appeals court Judge
Frank Easterbrook began his opinion with these enticing
words: "Those seeking to burlesque modern products liability
law could do no better than to examine this case."
   Here goes. A clerk for a department store in downstate
Illinois was injured on an escalator when a child played a
prank by pressing the emergency stop button. The store
reimbursed the clerk for her medical expenses and lost wages
under the workers' compensation law, but she also sued Otis
for her pain and suffering. Her argument was that Otis should
have known better than to put a bright-red emergency button
on each end of the escalator.
   There is a reason escalator manufacturers make emergency
stop buttons easy to find and press. They know that clothing
or fingers, especially of children, sometimes get caught in
the moving stairs. A quickly pressed button can avoid
injuries and even death. So buttons should be easy for
children to press, but common sense is no defense in today's
courtroom.
   "For reasons best known to itself," Judge Easterbrook
noted, Otis limited its appeal to the narrow issue of whether
the trial judge erred by letting the plaintiff call an expert
witness to say that brightly colored buttons will entice
mischief. Otis lost the appeal. It was perhaps out of
exasperation with the Monty Pythonness of the legal arguments
here that Judge Easterbrook inserted into his opinion the
visual illusion reproduced nearby. The lines separating the
cubes don't look parallel, but they are; in principle, an
expert could show that children are somehow lured to press
bright escalator buttons.
   Judge Easterbrook, a former University of Chicago law
professor, wrote that the real outrage with this case was
more fundamental than silly expert testimony: "Why should
escalator design be a question for juries?" Even with the
help of experts, juries and judges aren't likely to design a
better escalator. Easily found buttons might lead to rare
false stops, but will also help avoid more serious injuries.
"The ex post perspective of litigation exerts a hydraulic
force that distorts judgment," Judge Easterbrook wrote.
"Jurors see today's injury; persons who would be injured if
buttons were harder to find and use are invisible." A
plaintiff wins but the losers are those who "must pay higher
prices, who will be deprived of beneficial products or who
will be injured in turn if manufacturers change their designs
to be jury-proof."
   The jury decided that Otis should pay some $43,000 in
damages. Yet no one expects Otis to change its
emergency-button design, which meets or exceeds industry
standards. Despite the judgment against it, Judge Easterbrook
wrote that "Otis won't (and shouldn't) color its emergency
stop buttons blue, or even pink; it won't (and shouldn't)
make them harder to push, or put them five feet off the floor
where toddlers can't reach them."
   Instead, he said, this is another case where judges impose
liability "where they have never done before." Hard
experience shows that assessing liability where there is no
fault raises prices but also that the legal system rarely
acknowledges its own excesses. Judge Easterbrook concluded
his opinion with the hope inspired by so many cases these
days, that "state judges who are tomorrow's pathfinders will
take these comments as a skeptical report from the front."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   All American Television Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 26
</SO>
<CO>
   ALLT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ALL AMERICAN TELEVISION Inc., a New York-based distributor
of television programming and seller of commercial time to
advertisers, said it revised its record date for payment of a
cash dividend in connection with its proposed merger with
closely held Scotti Brothers Entertainment Industries Inc., a
Los Angeles-based entertainment company. Holders of All
American common are to receive a $2.50-a-share cash payout
when the merger is completed. This will be payable to shares
on the transaction's closing date, rather than on Jan. 2. The
record date for voting at the annual meeting remains Jan. 2.
Thus, All American shares won't trade ex-dividend until the
first business day following the date the dividend is
payable, which hasn't been determined. Completion of the
merger, which is scheduled for late January or early
February, is subject to conditions such as approval by All
American holders of its recapitalization.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   When Being a Bigger Criminal Pays
   ----
   By Harry Hellerstein
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Michael Milken was sentenced to 10 years in prison, and
Judge Kimba Wood made it clear that she would probably reduce
the sentence if Mr. Milken cooperated with the government. If
it is true, as Mr. Milken has repeatedly contended, that he
did his business in a legal manner for the most part, then he
will have very little to offer the government, and his
10-year sentence will probably stand. But if he was involved
in criminal activity on a large scale, then he can name a lot
of names, tell about a lot of deals -- and he will probably
get a significant sentence reduction.
   Sound ridiculous? Welcome to the real world of federal
criminal law.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's usually, but not always, a drug case.
   Congress said it wanted to be sure that drug "kingpins"
got long prison sentences, so it legislated severe mandatory
minimum sentences for drug-distribution offenses. They can be
five, 10 or 20 years, depending primarily upon the amount of
the drug involved. There is less than two months a year
good-time credit allowed with these sentences.
   The only way you can be sentenced to less than the
mandatory minimum is by giving the government "substantial
assistance in the investigation or prosecution of other
persons."
   It does not matter that you are a mother with a previously
clean record and with young children who need you. The mother
will get the mandatory minimum sentence. So will a father who
has been supporting by his hard work a large family for 20
years. So will a college student who was helping a friend and
who had no idea of the seriousness of what he was doing.
Since they are not really involved in the drug underworld,
they cannot help themselves by offering information about the
illegal activities of others.
   But if you are a serious, long-term drug dealer with many
associates and former associates with whom you have done
dozens or hundreds of deals, you can get your sentence
reduced. You may not have to do any time at all. If you are
especially charming and manipulative, the government will pay
you to get the mother or the father or the college student
involved in drug trafficking, and, if you are successful,
that person will get the mandatory minimum sentence. The law
allows the kingpin to walk, and gives unconscionable prison
sentences to poor shleps who made one bad decision in their
lives.
   Don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about innocent people
here. I'm talking about people who have been convicted of
drug-trafficking offenses.
   Like the woman in Texas with five children. She drove a
van into Mexico and was arrested at the border when she was
returning home. She said she had no idea there was cocaine in
her van; she said the van belonged to a boyfriend. The jury
didn't believe her. They convicted her, and she got the
10-year mandatory minimum sentence. She was what we call a
"mule." She didn't know about any significant drug activity,
so she couldn't make a deal with the government. What little
she did know, she was afraid to tell.
   In another case the main prosecution witness had three
drug-sales convictions. Whenever he was caught, he decided to
cooperate. After a large amount of marijuana was found when a
search warrant was executed at his home, he decided to
cooperate again. The government didn't even file charges
against him. The defendant whom he set up -- the snitch was
careful to make it legal so there would be no dismissal on
the grounds of entrapment -- had a previous record of only
drunken driving. The defendant is now in jail for 15 years.
The government informant is still on the street, probably
still getting paid by you and me.
   Mr. Milken's dilemma surfaces every day in federal courts
nationwide. The American Lawyer magazine says there are
"hundreds of peripheral players in other people's drug deals"
now serving long mandatory minimum prison terms.
   My clients are poor. Nobody knows who they are, except
their families and friends. This newspaper doesn't write
editorials on their behalf. Growing up, nobody ever told them
that the best chance you have for a light sentence is to be
heavily involved in crime.
   Mr. Milken has the best legal advice money can buy. Still,
I doubt that his family ever dreamed there would come a time
when they'd be hoping and praying that their Michael was a
much bigger crook than they had thought, so he could get a
big reduction in his sentence.
   ---
   Mr. Hellerstein is an assistant federal public defender in
San Francisco.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Ground Troops Won't be Set for Assault
   On Iraq Till February, Commander Says
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 32
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The top U.S. military commander in the
Persian Gulf has advised President Bush that his ground
forces won't be fully prepared for an all-out assault against
Iraq until February, according to Pentagon officials.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney conveyed that message to the
White House from Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf and other
high-ranking American commanders, these officials said,
during a pre-Christmas briefing on the military situation in
the Middle East.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The recommendation to delay any major offensive moves, for
at least two or three weeks after the Jan. 15 United Nations
Security Council deadline requiring Iraqi withdrawal from
Kuwait, is certain to complicate Mr. Bush's deliberations
about whether and when to resort to force.
   Both Mr. Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, are believed to support the overall
thrust of the Gulf commander's recommendations. Some Pentagon
planners, however, have emphasized that a first round of air
strikes could begin before all of the approximately 250,000
U.S. ground forces are deployed and fully prepared for desert
warfare.
   Administration spokesmen have declined to provide details
about Monday's briefing, and White House spokesman Marlin
Fitzwater said only that "we're assured that the forces will
respond as necessary, and the buildup continues."
   From Gen. Schwarzkopf's perspective, the extra time is
important to build up supplies of munitions and high-tech
missiles, improve coordination among U.S. units as well as
between American and allied forces and ensure proper training
for the most recent arrivals. Weather and transportation
problems have slowed the arrival of heavy tanks from Western
Europe, while many pilots in the Gulf still are waiting for
special navigational equipment and other hardware intended to
give the U.S. an edge in battles at night.
   Mr. Cheney and his aides have quietly warned lawmakers and
others that some U.S. troops won't be ready to fight on Jan.
15. But the issue erupted in controversy last week when Lt.
Gen. Calvin Waller, in his first major interview since
becoming the deputy commander of Operation Desert Shield,
surprised the White House by bluntly telling reporters that
U.S. forces "will not be ready for combat activities" by the
Jan. 15 deadline. The lieutenant general added that he "can't
imagine" President Bush ordering an offensive that quickly.
   Without congressional action, Pentagon officials are
concerned that many reserve units now in the Gulf will have
to start returning to the U.S. by February or March.
   Secretary Cheney and the White House initially tried to
play down Lt. Gen. Waller's comments, emphasizing that they
threatened to undercut the strategy of keeping maximum
political and military pressure on Iraq's Saddam Hussein.
   But Pentagon officials noted that during their recent tour
of Saudi Arabia, Secretary Cheney and Gen. Powell received
messages of caution from other commanders in the field. And
so far, Mr. Cheney has gone out of his way to show that he
isn't prone to second-guess the day-to-day decisions of the
career soldiers running the operation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Growing Ambition:
   Fast-Rising Banc One,
   Already Big in Texas,
   Looks at Other Areas
   ---
   So Far, Ohio Firm's Purchase
   Of MCorp Is Successful,
   But Some Pitfalls Remain
   ---
   Wooing Consumers Intensely
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   ONE M
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
CENTRAL U.S. BANKS (BAC)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- In the dawn light, a funeral procession
marching to "Amazing Grace" carries a coffin through
downtown. The deceased: A failed local thrift, Capitol City
Savings, whose burial is about to commence on the premises of
its new owner, Bank One.
   As former employees dressed in black gather round, the
"minister" proclaims that Capitol City has been saved] The
coffin lid is pulled open. Blue Bank One balloons fly out. To
the tune of "When The Saints Go Marching In," the mourners
rip off their black clothes to reveal Bank One T-shirts. Then
everyone breaks into dance, even William Renfro, the balding,
55-year-old chairman of Bank One, Austin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The party's just beginning for Banc One Corp., the
Columbus, Ohio, holding company that runs Bank One, Austin.
Banc One entered the Texas market last year by buying MCorp's
20 failed banks in a $500 million, federally assisted
transaction. Banc One has also been buying up sick thrifts,
among them Capitol City. The Texas foray has plunged Banc One
into risky, unfamiliar waters, but so far with considerable
success. The newly created Bank One, Texas, earned a total of
$38 million in the 1990 second and third quarters -- 18% of
the parent company's profit.
   Texas may be just the beginning for Banc One, which until
a few years ago was little known outside Ohio. Even without
the Texas operation, Banc One now is the nation's
24th-largest bank -- and including the Texas properties, the
15th-largest, with more than $40 billion in assets. It also
is one of the industry's most consistently profitable banks.
And as banking's weak sisters get blown down in the current
economic storm, the cash-rich Banc One should be among the
strongest survivors, able to plunge into new regions and pick
up the pieces of fallen rivals.
   Banc One Chairman John B. McCoy doesn't hide his broader
ambition. "I never imagined we'd be in Texas," he says. "But
we have a process that could take us to many states, and
that's what we ought to do."
   Mr. McCoy says that he would "look at New England," where
several large banks are struggling, and that California is a
possibility. But he says he will stay out of New York,
explaining that he doesn't know how to run a money-center
bank. And Banc One won't enter a new market unless it can
quickly establish a major presence and has credit protection
against the acquired bank's bad loans.
   That was the case in Texas, which is an important proving
ground for Banc One's national ambitions. Mr. McCoy says he
was initially reluctant to buy MCorp, mainly because he saw
Texas as unfamiliar territory where the risks outweighed the
rewards. But subordinates convinced him that the deal was too
good to pass up and that MCorp management was strong.
   During the bidding, Banc One was considered a dark horse.
Its officials weren't even permitted inside MCorp's opulent
Dallas headquarters; they had to study the bank's books in a
hotel.
   But Banc One won the bidding, reportedly against First
City Bancorp. of Texas, Chemical Bank-owned Texas Commerce
Bank, NCNB Corp., Bank of Scotland and Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts &amp; Co. Banc One pledged $500 million to recapitalize
the MCorp banks. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. ponied
up $2.5 billion to spin off the MCorp bad loans into a
special debt-collection bank that Banc One manages for a fee
paid by the agency.
   Now, the acquisition looks like a winner. "Banc One is the
best retail bank in the country, and Texas is the country's
most underserved retail banking state," says Dennis Shea, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "I don't see how they can
lose."
   Whether it's golf, gin rummy or salmon fishing, losing is
something Mr. McCoy hates. At 48, he still looks like a
choirboy, while his low-key manner hides a fierce
competitiveness. Since becoming chief executive in 1984, Mr.
McCoy has more than tripled the bank's assets by buying
profitable but underperforming Midwest banks. Among his
rules: Keep management in place, consolidate back-office
functions, build up the retail business. And never buy a bank
more than one-third the parent company's size.
   The fast growth has brought risks, however. Banc One's
nonperforming assets jumped 19% in the third quarter,
primarily from real-estate loans, and more bad loans are
likely to surface as the Midwest property market slumps.
Without Bank One, Texas, the parent company's profit in the
second and third quarters would have been about flat. (The
parent recently announced that fourth-quarter net would
increase 5% to 10% from the year-earlier $92.6 million, or 70
cents a share, despite a one-time charge of $25 million.)
   "The big challenge for Banc One is how to keep consumer
lending up in an economy that's slowing down," says James
Sheldon, a money manager at Alliance Capital in New York.
"Where is there consumer growth? Texas."
   In courting consumers, Banc One has a proven track record.
In the 1960s, when few banks used broadcast advertising,
comedienne Phyllis Diller was the bank's television
spokeswoman. In addition, Banc One was among the first to
offer automatic teller machines, drive-through windows, cash
management for consumers and affinity-group marketing of
credit cards. It keeps many branches open on weekends and
recently began 24-hour telephone service in some markets.
   But in taking on insolvent MCorp, Banc One has had to call
upon all its marketing savvy. MCorp was formed in 1984, when
Mercantile Texas Corp. merged with Southwest Bancshares Inc.
Like most Texas banks, MCorp got caught up in the frenetic
growth-at-any-cost 1980s, and bad real-estate and energy
loans forced the government to bail it out in one of the
largest bank rescues in history.
   The MCorp-Banc One link was an odd combination, like
bringing together J.R. Ewing and Woody Hayes. At MCorp's
towering headquarters in Dallas, the atrium lobby has marble
floors, granite arches and $8 million worth of cherrywood
paneling. At one point, Bank One officials apologized to
analysts for the extravagance of MCorp's fifth-floor
executive suites, which were decorated with paintings and
sculptures valued at $2.5 million and now likely to be sold
off. Bank One officials have since moved off the floor (the
bank leases space in rather than owns the building).
   At Banc One's nondescript headquarters in Columbus, in
contrast, the most conspicuous picture in the chairman's
office is a painting of Mr. McCoy's predecessor -- his
father, John G. McCoy, a steely executive who used to patrol
the building at night to see that desks were neat.
   Inside the Ohio headquarters, discipline and efficiency
are prized. Employees who have a glass of wine, or any other
alcoholic beverage, at lunch are told not to return in the
afternoon. They also aren't allowed to drink coffee at their
desks. When the younger Mr. McCoy became chief executive, a
vice president asked him to lift the coffee ban. Mr. McCoy
wouldn't consider it.
   Although Banc One has shied away from applying all those
rules in branch offices, it has, right from the start, found
ways to minimize its risks in Texas. When Banc One bought
MCorp, it took a 7.2% stake, while the FDIC got the rest. The
bank agreed to buy out the government's position over the
next five years with profits from Bank One, Texas. If the
Texas operation posts losses, however, the value of the
FDIC's stake will drop, effectively reducing Banc One's
acquisition cost.
   Banc One also has installed more conservative financial
practices at its Texas operation. Aware of MCorp's past
troubles with bad real-estate loans, Mr. McCoy is trying to
make sure that lightning won't strike twice. He has sent to
Texas a team of iron-fisted executives to review loans and
impose austerity.
   Banc One has cut $100 million in annual costs by
renegotiating leases on everything from office space to
copying machines and by trimming some operations and
executive perks. In each branch, it has installed an
electronic management information system, which monitors its
finances and shows bankers how their operation is doing
compared with Banc One's other 747 branches across the
country.
   The most lucrative market probably will be consumers.
Until recently, branch banking wasn't allowed in Texas; so
large banks catered to corporations, and savings and loans
got the consumers. But as the thrift industry collapses,
people are scrambling to move their deposits.
   To build a retail network, Mr. McCoy has doubled the
number of Bank One branches through acquisitions, including
the huge Bright Banc Savings Association in Dallas. Bank One
now has the second-largest number of retail offices in every
major Texas market except Houston.
   New automatic teller machines should help strengthen
customer relationships. Bank One, San Antonio, is using a
tie-in with Diamond Shamrock to install ATMs in the chain's
350 convenience stores.
   Marketing ideas are bubbling up from the bottom. At a Bank
One, San Antonio, branch, tellers wearing safari hats stand
beneath paper snowflakes, as a parade of cut-out penguins
look on from the back wall. It's all part of a marketing
tie-in with the zoo. And in the small Gulf Coast town of
Orange, the Bank One branch has a popcorn machine in the
lobby. Does it help business? Hard to say, but Robert Morgan,
the branch's president, notes: "If the fresh popcorn's not
popped, the customers want to know why."
   MCorp, in contrast, had been primarily a commercial
lender. Bank One officials insist that they won't abandon oil
and energy lending. They foresee commercial loans ultimately
making up 60% of the Texas portfolio.
   Analysts expect Bank One to hold its own as a
middle-market lender, partly because of the problems of most
other large Texas banks, which, the analysts say, don't have
balance sheets as strong as Banc One's.
   Bank One's toughest competitor in Texas is likely to be
NCNB Corp., of Charlotte, N.C. Now the largest bank in Texas,
NCNB has racked up profits since it entered the state in 1988
through its acquisition of the failed First RepublicBank
Corp. Bank One, Texas, with $13.6 billion in assets, is the
state's fifth-largest bank.
   And Bank One could be hurt in Texas by a fragile economy,
already-slow loan growth and the possible threat of a deep
recession. In addition, Thomas E. Hoaglin, a veteran Banc One
executive who now is president of Bank One, Texas, concedes
that he has seen his Texas lending officers in action only
for a short time and doesn't know how they will perform.
   Motivating and educating the troops has been a top
priority from the outset. On the first business day after the
MCorp acquisition was announced, Banc One parachuted 250
officials into 35 MCorp branches across the state and spent
$18,000 to give a videotape, outlining Banc One's philosophy,
to each of the 6,000 Texas employees.
   "We wanted to see, talk to, touch all our new employees,"
says William Boardman, Banc One's point man on acquisitions.
   The wooing of employees had just begun. One rainy night
last January, Bank One held a statewide pep rally. Employees
across the state were bused to balloon-filled auditoriums,
which were hooked up by satellite. Thousands of bankers in
paper hats waved blue foam-rubber No.1 signs and watched
high-school bands, fireworks and the Dallas Cowboy
cheerleaders. Executives declared that this was a winning
team, and, at the close, employees belted out the Bank One
fight song.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pan Am Stalls
   Merger Plans
   With TWA
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   PN TWA PPW NWA UAL AMR F.ABI
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Merger talks between Pan Am Corp. and Trans World Airlines
are beginning to sour.
   Trans World Airlines owner Carl Icahn said yesterday that
Pan Am officials pulled out of a scheduled Monday meeting
concerning his proposed acquisition of Pan Am. But Pan Am
said it hadn't committed to any meeting, and lambasted the
financier for asking them to consider "a series of long
ramblings."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spat casts a shadow over the chances of any peaceful
negotiations between Pan Am and Mr. Icahn.
   Mr. Icahn sent a letter to Pan Am Chairman Thomas Plaskett
late Monday, stating he was "troubled and confused by the
attitude" of Pan Am over a merger with TWA. He wrote: "The
conflicting attitudes and signals that we have received from
you and other representatives cause us to wonder whether you
are serious" that a Pan Am-TWA marriage would be a positive
move.
   A Pan Am spokesman, however, said: "We have yet to receive
a definitive proposal from Mr. Icahn." Pan Am executives are
also said to be opposed to a TWA condition that Pan Am file
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection before TWA gives Pan Am
any money.
   Moreover, it's understood Pan Am is considering a $150
million offer for its lucrative shuttle from PacifiCorp,
based in Portland, Ore. As reported, NWA Inc.'s Northwest
Airlines would operate the shuttle. Completion of the sale
has apparently been complicated by disagreements concerning
whether Northwest would take Pan Am union employees currently
working for the shuttle operations. A sale of the shuttle
would provide Pan Am with the cash infusion it desperately
needs, most probably lessening its interest in a combination
with Mr. Icahn's carrier.
   Mr. Icahn said that on Saturday representatives from both
sides scheduled a Monday meeting at TWA's Mt. Kisco, N.Y.
headquarters to discuss the financing terms on any TWA
purchase of Pan Am. Mr. Icahn has said he is interested in
buying Pan Am's 150 million outstanding shares for $1.50 a
share in cash and $1 a share in subordinated notes. That
comes to $225 million cash and, at the most, $150 million in
subordinated notes.
   Early Monday morning, however, Mr. Icahn said Pan Am
backed out of the meeting, which was apparently scheduled for
11 a.m. EST. It's understood that when Mark Buckstein, TWA's
general counsel, called Richard Francis, Pan Am's chief
financial officer, to confirm the meeting, Mr. Francis told
him Pan Am's team would not attend, and that TWA should send
its term sheet via fascimile transmission. According to
people close to the talks, irked TWA officials, who worked
over the weekend to detail their offer, haven't yet sent the
term sheet.
   The Pan Am spokesman said his airlines' officials were
waiting all day Monday for a definitive TWA proposal before
scheduling further talks, and that if any meeting was missed
with Mr. Icahn it was due to a "misunderstanding."
   Mr. Icahn and his team have mostly been working on how TWA
would provide Pan Am with a bridge loan, short-term financing
that's often repaid with proceeds from the sale of an asset.
In a letter Friday to Mr. Icahn, Mr. Plaskett expressed
support for a TWA-Pan Am merger but only on the condition Pan
Am get a bridge loan.
   Pan Am executives' interest in a merger has dimmed
considerably because Mr. Icahn has been insisting he would
only give Pan Am so-called "debtor-in-possession" financing
that requires New York-based Pan Am to first file for Chapter
11 bankruptcy court protection. That type of financing
typically protects an investor's money in an ailing company
because the investor is usually the first to be repaid before
other creditors.
   Pan Am's Mr. Plaskett is essentially in a race to stay
afloat until he gets government approvals for the second
stage of a $400 million pact with UAL Corp.'s United
Airlines. In that stage, Pan Am would get $290 million by
selling its routes to London's Heathrow airport to United.
   Pan Am was hoping to get bilateral approval from the U.S.
and U.K. governments by year end, but talks between the two
governments stalled late last week and it is likely that the
pact won't be cleared until mid-January, at the earliest.
   Most international routes are governed by bilateral trade
agreements.
   Mr. Icahn claimed in his letter that Mr. Plaskett has
rebuffed other attempts by TWA to merge with Pan Am. In
mid-October, he said Pan Am didn't respond to a TWA merger
proposal that would have involved selling duplicate London
routes to another airline for $800 million. That other
airline is understood to be AMR Corp.'s American Airlines,
which just agreed to buy TWA's London operations for $445
million. As previously reported, Mr. Icahn offered Pan Am
bridge financing of $100 million to $125 million. Instead,
Pan Am agreed to sell its London operations and other assets
to United. Mr. Plaskett has said he pursued that pact because
he was looking for a marketing agreement that United was
willing to join. The spokesman said Mr. Icahn never told Pan
Am about any competitor's willingness to buy the London
routes.
   Mr. Icahn said Pan Am ignored another merger proposal in
early November. In his letter, he suggested Monday's rebuff
comes because Pan Am might be able to get cash by selling its
Pan Am shuttle.
   Indeed, Pan Am seems to be buying itself some time. As
expected on Monday, Pan Am received a $20 million advance
from United for San Francisco facilities that are part of the
$400 million pact. Pan Am said the transfer isn't expected to
win clearance from San Francisco city officials until early
next year. Pan Am already has received $80 million for two
jets and $10 million for spare parts. However, most of that
money was spent on debts on the planes, Pan Am said.
   Pan Am is getting hit by its cash crunch. It said on
Monday that A.I. Leasing II, an affiliate of Airbus
Industrie, terminated the leases on 21 Airbus A300 and A310
aircraft because the company's Pan American World Airways
unit hasn't paid $16 million due it. Airbus is an European
aircraft manufacturing consortium.
   Airbus has issued Pan Am a Jan. 20 deadline to relinquish
the use of the aircraft. The original lease wasn't scheduled
to expire for several years. Pan Am said the two parties are
negotiating to enter into new lease agreements to extend use
of the aircraft beyond the Jan. 20 deadline.
   Should the two sides fail to reach a new lease agreement,
"it would be very significant," the Pan Am spokesman said.
"But we have every bit of confidence that we will be able to
further the leases," he said. Without a new accord Pan Am may
face having to cancel many flights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Washington Docket:
   Official Mulls Ways to Bar Prosecution
   Of Polluters That Clean Up Their Acts
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- After a record-breaking year of criminal-law
enforcement, the Justice Department's environmental chief is
considering ways to create safe harbors to shelter from
prosecution polluters that are trying to clean up their acts.
   Assistant Attorney General Richard Stewart, a professor on
leave from Harvard Law School, has intensified criminal
prosecution of environmental violations, which only a few
years ago typically were addressed through civil litigation.
In the year ended Sept. 30, federal grand juries returned 134
felony indictments for environmental crimes, 33% more than in
the previous year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Both the statistics and the big cases" -- such as the
indictment of Exxon Corp. for the 1989 Alaska oil spill --
"indicate the advancement of innovative concepts for
protecting the environment and enforcing existing laws," says
Fred Krupp, executive director of the Environmental Defense
Fund, a research and advocacy group here.
   Mr. Stewart himself speaks proudly of this aggressive
approach. But in almost the same breath, he says that federal
prosecutors "don't have coherent guidelines on how to draw
the line between criminal and civil" enforcement.
   Noted for his seminal academic work on creating economic
incentives for pollution control, Mr. Stewart fears that
ironically, overly enthusiastic criminal prosecution may
encourage companies to overlook their environmental
transgressions and cover up those they do know about.
   The treatment of internal corporate environmental audits
illustrates the problem.
   Over the past decade, businesses increasingly have relied
on in-house reviews to try to stay in compliance with the
expanding number of environmental statutes and regulations.
Experts in the field applaud the trend toward self-policing.
But in an era of stiffened criminal enforcement, internal
documents describing instances of noncompliance can become
evidence of "knowing" violations that send people to jail. As
a result, says John Quarles, a former Environmental
Protection Agency official who now practices corporate law
here, his clients "are agonizing over" whether to document
their own environmental shortcomings honestly.
   The stakes can be high: Last year, the president of
MacDonald &amp; Watson Waste Oil Co., Johnston, R.I., was
sentenced to 28 months in prison for environmental crimes
after a prosecution that relied in part on evidence from
internal audit documents.
   "The normal reaction of the prosecutor is (that) you don't
give any aid or comfort to violators of the law," says Mr.
Stewart. "The problem is that we aren't talking about bank
robbers here. We are talking about" companies engaged in
"productive economic activity, and we want there to be
incentives for improved compliance."
   Industry advocates have sought federal legislation
immunizing companies from criminal liability based on
internal audits. Some lawmakers expressed interest in the
idea, but it wasn't included in this year's amendment of the
Clear Air Act.
   Not waiting for legislative action, Mr. Stewart says he is
drafting standards for prosecutors. He hopes to issue them
early next year. He is nervous about sharing specifics before
the guidelines are cleared by more-senior administration
officials, but basic principles he is mulling include
establishing that audits won't be used in criminal
prosecutions if they were performed in "good faith" and
resulted in "prompt remedial action."
   Those terms obviously would be vulnerable to manipulation
by lawyers. "The danger," Mr. Stewart says, "is, what do you
do when a company rushes out to do an audit as cover" for
earlier violations.
   Corporate defenders applaud Mr. Stewart's concern, but
they remain cautious. "He sure found the problem," says Mr.
Quarles. But the former EPA official adds, "The solution is
nowhere in sight."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, December 24, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 9 1/2%-10%. The base rate on corporate loans
at large U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 7 1/4% high, 2% low, 1% near closing bid,
3% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 6.50%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9% to 9 1/2%. The charge on loans to brokers
on stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.50%
30 days; 8.10% 60 days; 7.85% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.48% one month; 7.53% two
months; 7.51% three months; 7.49% six months; 7.60% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.55% one month; 8% three months;
7.70% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 8.85% 30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.80% 90
days; 7.65% 120 days; 7.45% 150 days; 7.35% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON EURODOLLARS: 8 7/8% - 8 3/4% one month; 8 3/8% - 8
1/4% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% three months; 8 1/16% - 7
15/16% four months; 7 15/16% - 7 13/16% five months; 7 7/8% -
7 3/4% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 13/16% one
month; 8 3/16% three months; 7 7/8% six months; 7 3/4% one
year. The average of interbank offered rates for dollar
deposits in the London market based on quotations at five
major banks. Effective rate for contracts entered into two
days from date appearing at top of this column.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 12.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
8%; Switzerland 10.50%; Britain 14%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, December 17, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
6.78% 13 weeks; 6.77% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.74%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 7.85%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.37%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   And if This Doesn't Do the Trick,
   They May Call for Squirrel Rifles
   ----
   By Ann Hagedorn
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Balloons make good targets.
   Environmentalists have long said balloons that land in the
sea choke marine life. Now California says metallic balloons
do a number on power lines.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So, starting Jan. 1, Californians who unleash
helium-filled metallic balloons will be committing a crime
under a new law. First-time offenders will be fined $100, and
repeat offenders face as long as six months in jail and a
$1,000 fine.
   The new balloon law results from the lobbying efforts of
California utilities and the state's Public Utilities
Commission. Their crusade was inspired by a commission report
that fugitive metallic balloons and their streamers cause
nearly 1% of California's power outages each year.
   Metallic balloons, on the market since the early 1970s,
are made of aluminum-coated nylon. They stay aloft longer
than latex balloons because the aluminum coating prevents the
helium, which has very tiny atoms, from leaking out. Metallic
balloons account for about $400 million of the nation's $1
billion balloon industry.
   Utility companies were so concerned about the commission's
findings that they wanted to ban the sale of the balloons.
But the Silver Balloon Association, a Sacramento-based group
representing metallic-balloon vendors and manufacturers,
convinced legislators that such a ban would devastate
thousands of small businesses.
   "Squirrels and birds cause nearly 2.5% of the outages,"
says Silver Balloon Director Lisa Rea. "And automobiles and
the weather cause a lot more. But you can't ban squirrels,
birds and storms; so they went after balloons."
   As of Jan. 1, the sale or distribution of any balloon
attached to metallic ribbons or streamers will be prohibited.
Metallic balloons must have a weight attached and bear a
label warning consumers about the dangers that balloons pose
for power lines. And vendors can sell metallic balloons in
bunches only if the balloons are attached to an object, like
a mug or a key chain.
   Still, balloon companies don't seem too deflated.
   Alan Harris, a vice president of M&amp;D Balloons, a large
U.S. balloon maker, thinks the weighted balloons will be
popular. "The new product will prevent a child from losing a
balloon in a grocery store with 20-foot ceilings. And there
will no longer be a need for people to tie their balloons to
their desks or weight them down with a book, only to lose the
balloon once the book is lifted . . . We're optimistic."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Drop 12.37,
   Bonds Ease
   ---
   Foreign Exchange Is
   Bright Spot as Dollar
   Gains on Mark, Yen
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
U.S. STOCK MARKET STATISTICS (STT)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Grinches raided the financial markets Christmas Eve.
   While many traders and investors found ample reason Monday
not to be in their offices, the diehards who showed up were
decidedly pessimistic. The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost
12.37 points to close at 2621.29 in a short pre-holiday
trading session. Bond traders bid the prices of long-term
Treasury bonds down. The only bright spot was in the foreign
exchange market, where the dollar posted gains against both
the mark and the yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Traders said weekend saber rattling spooked investors
Monday. Secretary of Defense Richard Cheney said Saturday
that "the clock is ticking" quickly toward a war in the
Middle East. Iraq's President Saddam Hussein, meanwhile, said
Tel Aviv will be Iraq's first target if war breaks out. And
in Israel, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir said the danger of
war "is very close." Adding to concerns was Iraq's recall of
its ambassadors to the U.S. and United Nations for talks in
Iraq.
   In the bond market, the war worries combined with year-end
profit-taking to drive prices of long-term Treasury bonds
down sharply. The more popular short-term debt securities
were off only modestly, even though the bond market is
bracing for the sale later this week of a record $12.5
billion of two-year Treasury notes and a record $8.5 billion
of four-year notes. Thin trading volume exacerbated the
downward trend, analysts said.
   Trading on the New York Stock Exchange was thin, too.
Volume on the Big Board totaled a mere 57.2 million shares,
eclipsing the previous slowest day of the year when 63.4
million shares traded on the day after Thanksgiving. The
stock exchange closed at 2 p.m. Monday, two hours earlier
than usual.
   Laszlo Birinyi, a market analyst with his own research
firm, said that despite the down day on Christmas Eve, the
stock market hasn't performed badly in recent weeks.
"Everyone is sitting around pooh-poohing this as a bear
market rally, but it is a 10% rally" from the October lows.
What's more, he said, so far this year the market is down a
mere 1% on a total return basis, which takes into account
dividends as well as price changes. "It hasn't been all that
bad a year," he said.
   "Overall, we're seeing some positive things," he said.
"The people on Wall Street are very negative, but if you look
at how well many investors did in 1990, all the negative news
gets confusing."
   Even all the concern about the Middle East doesn't seem to
have a very damping effect on stocks, he said. "The Middle
East is obviously a question mark, but if you look at the
prices of crude oil and gold as a proxy for investor concern
about the Middle East, you would have to think the market is
relatively unconcerned." Gold prices are almost unchanged
since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August and, while the
price of oil shot up as high as $40 a barrel, it has since
fallen to about $27, up from a 12-month low of about $15.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell. Declining issues on the Big Board
outpaced gainers, 842 to 527.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were down sharply. The Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond lost seven-eighths of a point, or about $8.75
for each $1,000 of face amount. The yield on the issue rose
to 8.36%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar gained. In New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.5440 marks and 136.00 yen, compared with 1.5289
marks and 135.55 yen Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Older Rebel Does Own Thing
   ----
   By Andrew Blum
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- When Richie Havens sang "Freedom" at Woodstock
in 1969, little did he know that 21 years later it would
still be his biggest hit. But his Woodstock-earned reputation
has allowed him to parlay singing into his own sort of
freedom: the chance to do what he wants.
   Sitting in his company's midtown Manhattan office
recently, Havens, an imposing but friendly figure with hands
full of rings, expounded on music, a new album due out next
month, television and radio ads, environmental projects and
philosophy, always philosophy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the subject of Woodstock, Havens said he wishes the
event was more understood. "Kids are discovering Woodstock
every day . . . It's been a 20-year job for me just defending
Woodstock's actuality." Folklore has it that Woodstock was
his big break, but Havens stressed that he had performed
overseas by 1969 and had done albums by then. Nevertheless,
the legendary outdoor concert certainly didn't hurt his
popularity, and he was the first performer on stage, thanks
to a twist of fate. "I went on first because there was no one
else there to go on," he said. All the other groups were
still stuck in traffic.
   Havens is a man who insists he's happy scrambling. At 49,
he claims fans of all ages and appears at jazz, rock, folk
and blues concerts. But he hasn't always enjoyed big
financial success with his records. "So many companies," he
said; "the minute I put out an album they go out of
business." But, he added, "I don't need a record to allow me
to work."
   A guitarist/singer who performs with backup guitar or
four-piece band, Havens has done 19 albums, three of them
gold (sales of more than 500,000). He has also done
soundtracks for the television program "The Wonder Years" and
the film "Coming Home." One of his latest albums, "Simple
Things" (RBI), sold more than 100,000 copies in the U.S.
after it was issued two years ago, but then RBI folded. He
reissued the record in Europe recently on his own ELO label
and it sold 40,000 copies in Italy alone.
   These are not astounding figures. Indeed, Havens's career
has been a tepid affair since the '60s, perhaps because of
the kind of music he performs. "Richie Havens is essentially
an interpretive singer in the folk genre," said Rolling
Stone's Anthony DeCurtis, the point being that interpretive
singers in the folk genre didn't ship much platinum in the
'70s and '80s. But Havens stayed alive and his number may be
coming up again, in the wake of recent successes by folky
artists such as Tracy Chapman. Mr. DeCurtis thinks it's "not
impossible for Richie Havens to stage a comeback."
   Johanan Vigoda, the Los Angeles co-producer of Havens's
upcoming album, called "Richie Havens Now," has his sights
set high for a commercial success. The album, which will
include a Jimi Hendrix song, one Cyndi Lauper tune and eight
to 10 originals, will be released by Solar Records, a soul
label distributed by CBS. That, Mr. DeCurtis remarked, should
be a boost to Havens, who has suffered in the past under
smaller labels that lacked marketing and promotion clout. "A
lot of people have heard of him, but have never heard him,"
said Mr. Vigoda, a long-time industry hand who represents
Stevie Wonder.
   Actually, millions have heard Havens without knowing it.
He sings jingles for a variety of commercials. The Woodstock
rebel's voice now hymns Amtrak, Folgers coffee, Bell
Atlantic, MasterCard, Kodak and others. He won a 1990 Clio
award for an ad he sung for the cotton industry.
   "I like Richie Havens," said Amtrak spokesman Clifford
Black. "Havens's voice gives {the ad} a signature that makes
it special."
   The jingle business can bring a volume singer in New York
as much as $10,000 under union scale in residuals over the
life of a commercial. Havens earns over scale, industry
executives say. And, added Mr. DeCurtis, Havens's jingles are
"very lucrative," noting "no one's going to have to take up a
collection for Richie Havens." Havens himself downplays the
part played by jingles in his current career: "Every jingle
house calls me up and I refuse most. It's not my business.
The ads are projects. I support my own ideas in that kind of
way."
   Havens does indeed seem to be constantly in motion, doing
concerts "all over the planet" every weekend in large and
small settings. His recent schedule included a trip to Prague
for two days for an Italian television special with Joe
Cocker and Billy Preston, then California a few days later.
He also performed at a concert honoring Nelson Mandela in New
York earlier this year.
   Time was, of course, he was on the road every day, but he
says he has cut his traveling to three or four days a week,
to leave time for a variety of projects. The North Wind
Underseas Institute on New York's City Island, which he
co-founded, developed a device to rescue whales and teaches
harbor seals to rescue people trapped underwater. He is also
starting a cable project called Weekend Future Television.
   If the new album takes off, the only thing Havens will
have to worry about is another jingle singer who imitates the
Havens voice so well that "a lot of times I thought it was
me, too."
   ---
   Mr. Blum is a reporter for the National Law Journal.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Divinely Chosen for a Cruel Destiny
   ----
   By William McGurn
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   Dalai Lama means different things to different people. To
some it means that I am a living Buddha, the earthly
manifestation of Avalokiteshvara, Bodhissatva of Compassion.
To others it means that I am a "god-king." During the late
1950s it meant that I was a Vice President of the Steering
Committee of the People's Republic of China. Then when I
escaped into exile, I was called a counterrevolutionary and a
parasite. But none of these are my ideas. To me "Dalai Lama"
is a title that signifies the office I hold. I myself am just
a human being, and incidentally a Tibetan, who chooses to be
a Buddhist monk.
   With these words Tenzin Gyatso begins "Freedom in Exile:
The Autobiography of the Dalai Lama" (Harper/Collins, 288
pages, $22.95). As the title itself implies, the Dalai Lama
may be the supreme temporal as well as spiritual leader to
the Tibetan people, but legally speaking he is just another
another stateless refugee from Communist China. More than
three decades after he fled the Land of the Snows and a year
after the Nobel Committee awarded him its Peace Prize, the
Dalai Lama is telling his story. In so doing he pulls back
some of the mysterious curtains on his Buddhist faith and the
homeland to which he has never returned.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Born in 1935 to peasant farmers in a cowshed in
northeastern Tibet (with his eyes wide open, according to his
mother), the Dalai Lama had a normal childhood and even
recalls enjoying such unlamalike activities as playing
soldier. This normal childhood changed when a search party
identified the boy -- not quite three -- as the reincarnation
of the 13th Dalai Lama, after he'd correctly identified some
of his predecessor's belongings. Shortly thereafter, he was
taken from his parents and prepared for the Lion Throne.
   The arrival of the Chinese Communists did not immediately
fill him with foreboding, he now recalls. The Chinese signed
an agreement promising to respect Tibet's traditions and
local autonomy (just like they did in the 1984 Sino-British
Joint Declaration on Hong Kong). And the notion of creating a
sort of Buddho-Liberation Theology was appealing to the
teen-ager. "The more I looked at Marxism," he writes, "the
more I liked it." Personal audiences with Mao only confirmed
his youthful ardor, though the actual destruction wrought by
the Chinese soon demonstrated that the Great Helmsman's words
were like a rainbow: "beautiful, but without substance."
   Now, the relationship between China and Tibet has never
been as clear or straightforward as either side insists,
though history leans decidedly toward Tibetan claims. A stone
monument outside Jokhang Cathedral in Lhasa records the 821
A.D. treaty between Tibet and China and delineates clear
boundaries between two separate nations. Beijing dates its
claim to the 13th century, when the Mongol Khans established
an empire that ruled both China and Tibet ("Dalai Lama," in
fact, is a Mongol title). But what really counts for China is
that Tibet covers about a quarter of its land mass and serves
as a nuclear armament base.
   At the time of the invasion, Tibet had only about 8,500
mostly ceremonial soldiers, and the Dalai Lama's urgent
appeals to the United Nations never elicited a response
largely because Tibet in its geopolitical indifference "had
never sought to become a member." These days the Dalai Lama
is an internationalist.
   Yet for all his bitter personal experience with Sino
communism he remains astonishingly open to its premises. Like
the current pope, the Dalai Lama seems to think that the
problem with Marxism lies not in its anti-human premises but
only in the barbaric application of them by overly ambitious
(and godless) men. "Some responsibility for the excesses of
Communism rest squarely on the West," he writes. Elsewhere he
confesses he has still not given up the possibility of an
ideological rapprochement. "The two approaches to life
{Buddhism and Marxism} are so obviously complementary," he
says. "It is sad that people tend to think of them as being
in opposition."
   He can be similarly confusing about his beliefs. The Dalai
Lama is a bit coy about whether he really thinks he is a
reincarnation of the other Dalai Lamas. ". . . I have no
difficulty accepting that I am spiritually connected both to
the 13 previous Dalai Lamas, to Chenrezin {the Spirit of
Compassion}, and to the Buddha himself," he writes.
   Whether he is in fact a reincarnation of the Spirit of
Compassion I am unable to say. I am even less willing to
concede his peculiar interpretation of Marxist theory and its
potential for good. But these are abstractions, and there can
be no doubt that in practice the Dalai Lama has been a
consistent champion of freedom. And as a refugee living in an
India that would just as soon not have him, as the head of a
Tibetan government-in-exile nobody but his own people
recognizes, and spokesman for a nation that has suffered so
much under communism, he is a living reminder of the heavy
price paid by those courageous few who could have gone along
-- and didn't.
   ---
   Mr. McGurn is Washington bureau chief of the National
Review.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Opens `Dumping' Case
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA FREST T.SMT
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Department of National Revenue for Customs
and Excise said a "dumping" investigation has been initiated
regarding certain stainless-steel welded pipe originating in
or exported from Taiwan. Dumping is the selling of a product
in a foreign market at a price lower than the cost of
production or the domestic price.
   The investigation follows a complaint filed by Associated
Tube Industries, a division of Samuel Manu-Tech Inc. of
Toronto, alleging the injurious dumping of these goods. A
decision to end the investigation or to make a preliminary
determination of dumping is expected within 90 days.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department also has asked the Canadian International
Trade Tribunal to judge whether there was sufficient evidence
of injury to initiate this investigation. If the tribunal, in
making its decision within 30 days, indicates evidence wasn't
sufficient, the case will be terminated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Theater:
   Mixed Bag Off-Broadway
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 5
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Those of us who have long observed that
off-Broadway possesses the vitality that used to glisten on
the Great White Way itself are finding it hard to defend that
position this season. Of course, it's only December -- and
yet to come are a Sondheim musical, a complete Henry IV at
the Public, and a David Mamet adaptation of "The Three
Sisters." But so far there's nothing new off-Broadway likely
to last more than a few weeks. Nor is there anything that apt
to off its "off" prefix and follow the examples of "Six
Degrees of Separation," "Once on This Island" and "Prelude to
a Kiss," three O-B shows upgraded to B-status earlier this
year.
   Of all the plays that have opened off-Broadway in the past
month, Richard Greenberg's "The American Plan" (Manhattan
Theater Club) promises much and therefore disappoints most.
Mr. Greenberg is a talented playwright with a gift for
dialogue. He has made a specialty of writing about smart,
articulate people on the fringes of society. "Eastern
Standard," an earlier play, is about a man dying of AIDS and
some yuppies who adopt a homeless woman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Each of the five characters in "The American Plan" is
disaffected in some way: Lili, an emotionally unstable poor
little rich girl who longs for a Prince Charming to sweep her
away; her manipulative mother, Eva, who's a refugee from the
Nazis; their black housekeeper, whose Sphinx-like decorum
masks some never-explained anger; Lili's too-perfect,
boy-next-door suitor, Nick; and a shifty stranger who
disrupts Lili's love affair.
   Act I revolves around Lili and Nick's budding romance, and
Eva's savage attempts to sabotage the match while seemingly
encouraging it. Joan Copeland makes a fascinating Eva. Her
grand gestures and exuberant manner are tinged with menace.
Wendy Makkena is equally fine as Lili, radiant and witty with
Nick, sullen and spiteful with her mother. At intermission
we're left with two not uninteresting questions: Will Eva
succeed in tearing the lovers apart and is Lili emotionally
strong enough to break free of her clutches?
   When the curtain rises on Act II, however, these questions
have been dropped and the focus shifts to the far duller
Nick, who has to come to terms with a homosexual episode from
his past. Does he really love Lili or only her money? Can he
marry her and live a double life as a closet homosexual?
These are not uninteresting questions either, but they are
only tentatively explored. Moreover, they come out of the
blue -- there's little hint of them in the first act. It's
almost as if Mr. Greenberg folded another play into the one
he started to write. I missed Eva and Lili. As a play about
mother love, "The American Plan" shows much promise. As one
about homosexual love, it's pretty mundane.
   ---
   Mother love is the subject, too, of "The Caucasian Chalk
Circle," Brecht's famous play about a kitchen maid who
rescues a baby abandoned by its rich mother and the
Solomon-like judge who must determine the better parent. In
George Wolfe's imaginative staging at the Public, the setting
is moved from Soviet Georgia to Papa Doc's Haiti. The actors
speak in musical (though not always consistent) island
accents, and reggae tunes syncopate in the background.
   Mr. Wolfe's production highlights the highly allegorical
nature of Brecht's play, which is about the triumph of
goodness and justice in this otherwise wicked world. The
evildoers are larger than life -- quite literally in a couple
of cases thanks to outlandish costuming. And the good folks
do a lot of singing and dancing that I suspect would surprise
Brecht.
   This is all extremely diverting -- even considering that
it goes on for nearly three hours. But is it Brechtian? To my
mind, it's rather too much of merry romp. It's not possible
to take the heavies seriously -- even when they wear
jackboots. A happy ending is never in serious doubt. Of
course, now that the totalitarianism that Brecht was
inveighing against in 1948 is on the decline even in the
Caucasus, perhaps it's fair to take a happy ending for
granted.
   ---
   A merry romp about which I have absolutely no
philosophical reservations is "Daugherty &amp; Field
Off-Broadway," a sparkling two-man revue at the Double Image
Theater in Soho.
   Bill Daugherty and Robin Field are a smooth cabaret team
who, after several hot years on the cigarette-and-martini
circuit, are seeing if they can hold the attention of an
audience not working its way through a two-drink minimum.
   Their show really isn't much different from one they would
deliver in a nightclub -- just two guys in dinner jackets
tinkling the ivories, crooning some oldies and cracking some
goofy jokes. They specialize in tunes from the '20s, '30s and
'40s, including some gag songs (my favorite is their
rendition of Spike Jones's "Pagliacci," a hillbilly ode to
opera). Not surprisingly, they devote a lot of time to
Broadway melodies -- in fact, they probably deserve a place
in the Guinness Book of World Records for cramming the most
showtunes into a single medley.
   Mr. Daugherty, who looks as if he's in his early 20s, is a
glorious Irish tenor with a cockeyed Midwestern
wholesomeness. Mr. Field is a fortysomething sophisticate
with a lighter voice but classier patter. He plays the piano
with panache and it's his snappy arrangements that tie the
numbers together. Together, they provide a nostalgic,
cheerful evening. It's almost enough to make a girl take up
cigarettes and martinis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonald &amp; Co. Investments
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   MDD
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CLEVELAND -- McDonald &amp; Co. Investments said it expects to
purchase $6.1 million principal amount of its 8% convertible
subordinated debentures, due March 1, 2011, tendered at or
below $70 for each $100 principal amount of debentures under
its Dutch auction tender offer, which expired Friday.
   In a Dutch auction, the price is gradually lowered until
it meets a responsive bid and is sold. Each tendering holder
whose debentures are to be acquired will receive a cash
payment of $70 for each $100 principal amount of debentures
tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonald said the offer was oversubscribed by about
$250,000 principal amount of debentures and will require pro
rata acceptance. It said it expects that about 96% of
principal amount of the debentures tendered will be accepted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pill Warning:
   Diet Drugs Teens Use,
   Often in Huge Doses,
   Bring Calls for Controls
   ---
   Kids Can Buy All They Want
   Of Nonprescription Items
   Despite Danger in Overuse
   ---
   Case of the Late Noelle Smith
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   Z.CIG SGP Z.SAN
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   A cheerleader for the Little Cyclones, a swimmer and
gymnast, Noelle Smith was popular at Ames High School in
Ames, Iowa. And she seemed well-adjusted. But she thought she
was fat.
   To get ready for a Christmas dance during her junior year,
Noelle lost five pounds. After a mediocre report card a few
weeks later, the youngster, weighing 120 pounds and standing
5-foot-3, told her parents she was going on a diet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At first, she refused to eat anything but half a piece of
toast a day. Later, she began devouring over-the-counter diet
pills, as well as laxatives and diuretics. Eventually, she
was taking as many as 10 boxes of appetite suppressants a
week. Although Noelle tried to hide her habit, her parents
occasionally would find empty boxes of diet pills such as
Dexatrim and Acutrim in her pockets.
   In July 1989, Noelle died of heart failure. She was 20
years old.
   For the eight million Americans said to suffer from eating
disorders, the lure of readily available, over-the-counter
diet drugs often seems irresistible. The pills hold the
promise of quick, low-cost, painless weight loss, without the
need of a prescription. Doctors say that the majority of
patients they treat for anorexia or bulimia, mainly young
women, routinely misuse diet pills, diuretics, laxatives and
drugs such as ipecac that induce vomiting.
   The problem isn't confined to those with textbook eating
disorders. Many outwardly healthy teen-agers think of these
drugs as a standard way to diet. An astonishing 49% of
teen-age girls responding to a recent survey by Sassy
magazine reported using diet pills, while 13% of the
magazine's young readers have tried laxatives or diuretics
for weight loss.
   In the grip of compulsive dieting, many youngsters come to
depend on large doses of drugs, often with serious
consequences to their health. Taken in excess, common diet
pills can cause anxiety, high blood pressure and even
cerebral hemorrhages. Big doses of laxatives and diuretics
can deplete body levels of electrolytes such as potassium and
sodium. This can lead to cardiac failure.
   Young people have no trouble buying diet pills, which are
available throughout the country without any age
restrictions. If they choose, drugstores can exert some
control over their sale, such as keeping the products behind
the counter. But most don't. "There was nothing we could do
to shut off the supply," says Noelle's father, Anthony Smith.
"No one ever asked why a 16-year-old-girl was constantly
buying diet pills, laxatives and diuretics."
   A congressional inquiry earlier this year focused
attention on the problem. "The role {diet pills} play in
eating disorders has been documented," says Rep. Ron Wyden
(D., Ore.), whose subcommittee of the Small Business
Committee conducted the inquiry. "These products should be
kept out of the hands of kids."
   But after nearly a decade of reviewing the pills, the Food
and Drug Administration has done little but mull the problem.
Although it recently proposed banning 111 ingredients used
historically in nonprescription diet drugs (110 to be banned
as ineffective, and one, guar gum, as dangerous), most of
these aren't used anymore.
   The FDA has indicated it will continue to approve
phenylpropanolamine (PPA). This is the active ingredient in
the most common nonprescription diet pills, including
Dexatrim (made by Thompson Medical Co.) and Acutrim
(Ciba-Geigy Corp.), which together dominate the $220 million
market. PPA is also the ingredient critics say causes the
trouble. A mild stimulant chemically similar to adrenalin,
PPA is also found in such cold remedies as Contac and
Alka-Seltzer Plus -- products that aren't abused by dieters
and in which PPA isn't considered a problem.
   Marketers of the over-the-counter diet medications insist
their products are safe and effective. Industry-sponsored
studies recently submitted to the FDA prove it, says Bill
Soller, director of science and technology for the
Nonprescription Drug Manufacturers Association.
   The industry also points to a 1988 study by the National
Institute of Drug Abuse that says abuse of over-the-counter
diet pills has in fact declined over the past few years
because fewer kids use them. Twenty-two percent of
high-school seniors, boys and girls, currently use them,
according to the study.
   Critics of PPA-based diet pills contend such drugs
actually contribute to the development of eating disorders in
teenagers. At the same time, they say, there is no proof the
pills promote significant or permanent weight loss -- while
for some allergic or hypersensitive individuals and people
with certain health problems, the drugs are dangerous even
when taken according to directions.
   Labels warn of risk to diabetics and people with high
blood pressure and other conditions. But critics' indictment
of the drugs is much more sweeping: "They are neither
effective nor safe," asserts Thaddeus Prout, a physician who
chaired an FDA committee in the 1970s that reviewed
prescription diet drugs.
   Aggressive marketing by pharmaceutical companies has also
come under attack. Between them, Ciba-Geigy and Thompson
Medical spend $30 million a year advertising the products,
often holding out the promise of effortless weight loss.
Though the industry itself claims the drugs will help dieters
lose less than a pound a week, Dexatrim's packaging invites
buyers to "lose weight fast."
   Just about any drug can be dangerous when used improperly,
but some researchers say PPA is riskier than other commonly
available medications, in part simply because it is abused by
desperate people. In a recent report, Paul Raford, a
physician specializing in public health who advises Rep.
Wyden's subcommittee, concluded that PPA is far more
dangerous than ingredients in the sort of over-the-counter
drugs that people aren't tempted to take in huge quantities.
   Some marketers deny there is any abuse of the drugs. "I
don't have any data that show people under the age of 18 are
using our products," asserts Alison Mann, brand manager for
Thompson Medical's Dexatrim.
   Amphetamines, drugs once prescribed for dieters and
frequently abused, lost favor among doctors in the mid-1970s.
Now most doctors shun the potentially addictive drugs in
favor of behavior modification and nutrition training
programs.
   However, doctors estimate that 60% of patients with eating
disorders take laxatives, as purgatives. And many routinely
consume diuretics to achieve a temporary loss of fluids.
Anything for a quick weight loss. "They don't think about the
consequences; kids feel as if they are immortal," says Vivian
Meehan, president of the National Association of Anorexia
Nervosa and Associated Disorders, in Highland Park, Ill. "The
drugs help kids to eat chaotically."
   Consider Kelli Kirkpatrick, now 26. At 16, she would drink
mouthwash after meals to help make herself vomit, then take a
handful of laxative pills. "I'd be in a lot of pain after I
took them, but it didn't matter much to me," she says. "I
would feel my hip bone, and if the bone stuck out from my
stomach, I'd feel successful."
   Meredith Lee, a 16-year-old junior in suburban Chicago,
says diets and drugs often go together in her school. She
began dieting with a friend when she was in the eighth grade,
at first eating only carrots and rice cakes for lunch. Soon,
the two stopped eating altogether. Then Ms. Lee began using
nonprescription diuretics "to flush the extra water out of
me." She began taking two pills in the morning and two at
night. But once, after downing more than 20 pills, she awoke
to feel her room spinning. She was violently ill for days and
had to take medication to stop vomiting.
   Despite the quantities of drugs some young women consume,
many are initially successful at concealing their behavior.
Ms. Lee convinced her mother that her diuretics overdose was
a bout of flu. Doctors note that people with eating disorders
are often ashamed and very secretive.
   Even though Noelle Smith's parents were aware of her
illness and had her hospitalized several times, they couldn't
stop her drug use. Every time they confiscated a box of diet
pills or laxatives, she would buy more. She told friends she
would resort to shoplifting when she couldn't borrow the
money for them.
   Access was never a problem for Jessica McDonald, now a
20-year-old college junior in Washington, D.C. She started
buying diet pills at 12, taking a cue from a friend at ballet
school. Two years later, she added diuretics and laxatives as
drugs of abuse. Though she shopped at the same drugstore
nearly every day, "No one ever said anything to me," she
says.
   Because these drugs are available without a prescription,
they are widely thought to be innocuous. Their very
availability bestows an aura of safety.
   Neither Ex-Lax nor Correctol brands of chemical laxatives,
which doctors say are popular with obsessive dieters because
they quickly produce temporary weight loss, have label
warnings about misuse by dieters, though they do caution
against prolonged use. "We are aware the abuse of these
products exists, but we haven't done anything to encourage
it," says a spokesman for Schering-Plough Corp., maker of
Correctol. A Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corp. spokesman says he
is unaware of any abuse of the company's Ex-Lax.
   The label on a box of Acutrim warns only that the pills
aren't for children under 12. It doesn't warn against taking
too much. Boxes of Dexatrim urge somewhat more caution. They
warn users not to exceed the recommended dosage and they tell
youngsters between 12 and 18 to consult a doctor before
taking the pills.
   A spokesman for Ciba-Geigy says that he doesn't believe
Acutrim is heavily abused, but that the company plans to
alter labeling in the next few months anyway. Boxes will say
Acutrim isn't intended for those under 18. "There's been a
lot of publicity about this issue," he says, "and we feel a
responsibility to do something."
   Rep. Wyden advocates making directions on diet pills more
specific or including warnings about misuse. The National
Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders has
proposed some limitations on selling diet pills, laxatives
and diuretics to customers under 18, like keeping the
products behind the counter where they have to be asked for.
   But retailers and manufacturers point out that the drugs
have been approved by the FDA, and say the agency is
virtually certain to bless the continued use of PPA in
nonprescription diet drugs even if it recommends new
labeling. "Limiting the access of minors would be very
difficult," says Mr. Soller of the manufacturers'
association. "Teen-agers found a way to buy alcohol.
Restricting access simply camouflages the problem."
   For now, that problem remains right there in the open on
drugstore shelves. Mr. Smith, Noelle's father, spreads on his
dining-room table snapshots he took of a display of diet
pills and diuretics at a local drugstore. "We weren't perfect
parents," he says. "We made mistakes, but they were loving
mistakes. We just didn't know over-the-counter drugs could
cause such a problem."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- Frank Masi was named
head of international equity sales and trading, a new post,
effective Jan. 1, in the world-wide equities unit of Lehman
Brothers, the investment banking and trading division of
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., a subsidiary of this travel,
financial and information services firm. Mr. Masi was
previously a managing director in charge of international
equities and head of over-the-counter trading at First Boston
Corp., a unit of CS First Boston Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Attempt to Confirm Link Between Gene
   And Alcoholism Fails in Federal Study
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A new experiment by federal scientists failed to support a
widely circulated report last spring that a gene related to
alcoholism had been found.
   In the new experiment the scientists found that the
putative alcoholism gene wasn't any more common among 40
alcoholics than among 127 nonalcoholics. Moreover, they
couldn't find any linkage between the putative alcoholism
gene and alcoholism in two families where a tendency to
alcoholism appeared to be inherited.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new study throws a splash of cold water on an
experiment reported last April by pharmacologist Kenneth Blum
of the University of Texas at San Antonio and alcoholism
researcher Ernest P. Noble of the University of California,
Los Angeles.
   Drs. Blum and Noble reported in the Journal of the
American Medical Association that a variation of the dopamine
receptor gene was associated with alcoholism. The variation
is known as the A1 version of the gene. The gene itself
enables a nerve cell to receive molecules of dopamine, one of
the chemicals that transmits nerve impulses from cell to
cell.
   The two researchers last April said they had checked brain
cells of 70 deceased people, half of whom had been severe
alcoholics and half of whom were nonalcoholics. The A1
version of the dopamine receptor gene was present in 69% of
the deceased alcoholics but in only 20% of the nonalcoholics,
they reported.
   The finding, Drs. Blum and Noble suggested, hinted that
the A1 version of the gene may render people more susceptible
to alcoholism than people with other versions of the dopamine
receptor gene.
   The new experiment, reported in this week's issue of the
Journal of the American Medical Association, checked blood
cells of living individuals for the A1 version of the
dopamine receptor gene. It found that 38% of 40 alcoholics
possessed the A1 version of the gene, almost half the
prevalence seen in the experiment by Drs. Blum and Noble. Of
the 127 nonalcoholics 30% had the A1 version of the gene,
which was almost the same prevalence seen in the alcoholics.
   The new experiment also looked at two families that
appeared to be haunted by a tendency toward alcoholism. One
parent in each family had begun heavy drinking in
adolescence. Of the 10 children in the two families, six had
followed their parent into early stage alcoholism and nine
had become drug abusers.
   In neither family, however, could the researchers find any
evidence that the A1 version of the dopamine receptor gene
was being inherited along with the tendency toward early
alcoholism.
   Neither Dr. Blum in San Antonio nor Dr. Noble in Los
Angeles could be reached Monday for comment.
   The new experiment was reported by David Goldman and his
colleagues from the federal National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism in Bethesda, Md.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Union Fury Provoked by Management
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   TRB LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   While I believe that justice is on the side of the
striking Daily News unions, I so far have restrained from
fueling the tension with any public words of my own. But when
Michael Gartner, president of NBC News (an employer of many
IATSE Local One members), said the striking unions were
orchestrating a conspiracy of violence and compared them with
terrorists and murderers in his Nov. 29 op-ed Viewpoint
column, "Nation Shrugs as Thugs Firebomb Freedom," I had to
try to douse his reckless rhetoric with a little common
sense.
   Mr. Gartner blamed the unions for all the violence and
described the newsstand boycott of the Daily News as sweeping
proof that the unions are violating First Amendment freedoms.
He doesn't even acknowledge what many analysts have said:
that many newsstand owners volunteered to boycott the Daily
News out of loyalty to the drivers and their customers. Mr.
Gartner brushed aside the intimidation campaign orchestrated
by the Tribune Co. aimed at driving workers to a point of
fury so that they would strike and the unions could be
permanently replaced and destroyed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many Americans would be more conversant with the issues
facing working people, from child care to occupational health
and safety, if they were given more coverage on the network
news. A study by journalist Jonathan Tasini found that in
1989 the three network evening-news programs devoted a little
more than 2% of the total air time to all workers' issues
while business reporting received twice as much coverage. Our
journalists, and yes our network-news-division presidents,
have a professional responsibility to take us beyond their
own bias, beyond the easy cliches, slogans, myths and
preconceptions that govern much of our social discourse. News
professionals must show us the issues behind the conflict.
   Has Mr. Gartner really looked into the background of the
News strike? Violence has occurred on both sides, and the New
York City Police Department has testified that no organized
conspiracy of violence exists among the union members. For a
year the Tribune Co. has used guard dogs and armed security
guards to intimidate, harass and pressure workers. Mr.
Gartner fails to mention that the unions have offered
compromises but found the way to settlement blocked by the
Tribune Co.
   Mr. Gartner wails about First Amendment rights, but his
diatribe is selective about which rights are important and
which aren't. It is interesting that "freedom of speech" has
been News publisher Jim Hoge's biggest argument. Mr. Gartner
ignores all the other civil and economic rights at stake in
this dispute. The Tribune Co. has interfered with the unions'
right to strike without being permanently replaced, to
bargain collectively, to protest and to assemble peacefully.
   Mr. Gartner misses the point when he accuses New Yorkers
of "standing by" with little concern for the violence. New
Yorkers care about the strike because they care about union
issues -- the disappearance of good-paying jobs and the right
of workers to have some voice in their own economic future.
An independent poll commissioned by the unions showed that
people who regularly read the Daily News support the strikers
by a dramatic 60%.
   Management is insisting that the News's unions give up the
voice of union representation and protection, and a lot of
people are upset about that.
   Ronald  Vitelli
   President
   Stage Employees Local One
   IATSE, AFL-CIO
   Theatrical Protective Union
   New York
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<LP>
   All My Children
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   It frightens, it paralyzes,
   It leaves me aghast --
   This manner in which the present
   Surpasses the past:
   The girl who spent two hours
   Powdering her nose
   Earns fifty thousand a year
   Designing offbeat clothes,
   And the lad who flunked arithmetic
   (Too busy with his scooter)
   Becomes another Einstein
   On an electronic computer.
   -- Al Bernstein.
   ---
   Empty-Nest Celebration
                                                                                                       

   Our last-born child was wed today,
   And, while we feel the lack,
   There is a bright side, I must say --
   We got our car keys back]
   -- Dick Emmons.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Decline Slightly in Sparse Trading
   As Market Still Worries About the Weaker Yen
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN FREST CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stocks posted modest losses in razor-thin activity
Tuesday. Professionals were practically the only
participants, traders said.
   In London Monday, share prices also eased in slack
trading. The market was closed Tuesday and today for
Christmas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 issues shed 351.72
points, or 1.5%, to 23767.88. The index had lost 405.34
points Friday; the market was closed Monday for a national
holiday.
   In early trading Wednesday, the Nikkei Index was up 26.42
to 23794.30.
   Volume on the first section Tuesday was estimated at a
meager 210 million shares, down from 350 million shares
Friday. Declining issues outnumbered gainers 860 to 131,
while 84 issues remained unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all first-section issues,
which fell 30.55 points Friday, dropped a further 39.65
points, or 2.2%, to 1725.17.
   The Second Section Index, which gave up 41.63 points
Friday, declined 46.40 points, or 1.7%, to close at 2735.24.
Turnover on the second section was estimated at six million
shares, thinning from 8.5 million shares Friday.
   Comments on the day's trading ranged from "totally
incoherent" as dealers repeatedly covered positions purely on
technical factors, to "deathly dull" as brokerage-house
activity dried up because of the yen's weakness and general
holiday sluggishness.
   With so few players in the market, the impact of any move
was magnified. The Nikkei dropped about 250 points early
morning on selling by brokerage houses and then stabilized
until just before the close.
   Leftover profit-taking on the market's early-December
rally picked up toward the end of the day, causing the index
to close at its low for the day. Judging by the Nikkei, the
market rallied nearly 14% this month before hitting
profit-taking.
   Selling related to concerns about Soviet Foreign Minister
Eduard Shevardnadze's resignation last week also continued to
damp sentiment Tuesday.
   Traders said the yen's weakening against the dollar
following the Shevardnadze news is one concern keeping
institutional investors on the sidelines. The greenback,
traditionally seen as a safe investment in times of turmoil,
rose sharply in the wake of Mr. Shevardnadze's resignation.
Traders said they see further weakness ahead for the Japanese
currency, particularly in light of the Persian Gulf crisis.
   Although long-term interest rates, such as the yield on
the Japanese government long bond, have come down sharply in
the past few weeks, short-term rates are still high. Traders
reiterated Tuesday that unless the Bank of Japan relaxes
monetary policy, the stock market is unlikely to show much
strength.
   Japan's three long-term credit banks will lower the
long-term prime lending rate in January by 0.3 percentage
points to 7.8%, a spokesman at one of the banks said. But
traders said the move won't have much impact on stock prices
unless the central bank subsequently eases credit.
   Shipbuilding, steel, construction, electric power and
other issues that appreciated sharply during the market's
early-December rally continued to be pulled lower by
profit-takers Tuesday.
   IHI shed 19 yen to 666 yen, Mitsubishi Heavy fell 15 yen
to 670 yen and Kawasaki Heavy lost 19 yen to 521 yen.
   Nippon Steel gave up 8 yen to 437 yen, NKK declined 10 yen
to 391 yen and Sumitomo Metal lost 9 yen to 448 yen.
   Sumitomo Construction fell 58 yen to 721 yen, Maeda
Construction slid 60 yen to 1700 yen and Nippon Hodo tumbled
150 yen to 2650 yen. Also lower were Kajima, down 60 yen to
1560 yen, Kumagai Gumi, down 35 yen to 752 yen, Tokyu
Construction, off 50 yen to 1130 yen.
   Tokyo Electric Power fell 100 yen to 3530 yen.
   In London, share prices closed lower in thin Christmas Eve
dealings Monday as further Middle East war talk weakened the
market.
   As expected, trading was unusually thin and many big
players were absent, starting Christmas holidays early,
traders said.
   Nevertheless, it was "one of the quietest Christmas Eves"
in recent years, a trader commented.
   The trader said declines were triggered by weekend Persian
Gulf rhetoric, with U.S. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney
suggesting that war was increasingly likely. They said the
impact of his statement was exaggerated by thin market
conditions.
   Falls were limited, however, by the pound's slip to
$1.8745 from $1.8835 Friday, which helped to buoy some
leading international stocks, traders added.
   The broad-based Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share
Index closed down 8.1 points at 2156.3.
   The narrower FT 30-Share Index closed down 9.5 points at
1678.9.
   At the final bell, volume was 103.2 million shares. In the
futures markets, the December FT-SE 100-Index contract closed
7 points lower at 2,163.0.
   Among corporate features, water stocks were firm on demand
shortly ahead of their ex-dividend day on Jan. 14.
   Thames Water rose 4 pence (7.5 cents) to 270, Anglian
Water increased a penny to 271, Severn Trent strengthened 3
to 240 and North-West Water rose 2 to 266.
   Shares in the recently privatized regional electric
companies came under selling pressure as personal investors
locked in quick profits. Shareholders were notified in the
last few days about the number of shares they were alloted in
the initial clamor for the issue.
   The package of electricity shares declined 40 pence to
14.60 pounds.
   Traders said that most oil stocks gained from the Middle
East war talk. British Petroleum was up 4 to 339, Enterprise
Oil gained 11 to 610 and Shell was up 6 to 467.
   Elsewhere Monday, share prices closed softer in Brussels,
mixed in Amsterdam and unchanged in Zurich. Other European
markets were closed for the holiday, as was the Johannesburg
market.
   Stocks closed lower Monday in Sydney, Hong Kong, Taipei
and Seoul. The markets in Singapore, Manila and Wellington
were closed.
   Most markets were closed Tuesday.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                               % This
                          Dec 21      Dec 20     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .................    308.7       307.5    - 2.8
 Britain ..............    645.6       643.8    - 7.7
 Canada ...............    365.2       366.6    -14.9
 Japan ................   1004.4      1021.3    -38.3
 France ...............    432.8       433.2    -22.7
 Germany ..............    229.9       229.7    -14.5
 Hong Kong ............   2209.9      2209.8    + 3.6
 Switzerland ..........    170.7       168.9    -21.7
 Australia ............    265.8       267.1    -18.9
 World index ..........    462.4       468.4    -16.6
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Bureaucrat
   Gets His Orders:
   Make Le Rock Roll
   ---
   Envious of U.S. and Britain,
   Culture Ministry Finances
   Clubs, Singers, Rappers
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARIS -- Most places, it's only rock 'n' roll. In France,
it's an urgent question of public policy.
   The problem here has been the embarrassing failure of the
private sector to come up with a French mega-star to rival
Madonna and Michael Jackson. So 18 months ago the government
decided to take matters into its own socialist hands and
appoint the nation's first Minister for Rock 'n' Roll.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bureaucrat who holds this unofficial title is Bruno
Lion, a clean-cut, 27-year-old one-time amateur bass-guitar
player, who also holds some degrees from the Sorbonne. As
assistant to Culture Minister Jack Lang, Mr. Lion was given a
budget of 40 million francs ($8 million), a fax machine and a
computer (but no stereo) and was charged with the formidable
task of making French rock roll. His dream is that one day
American stars will fight for air time against the likes of
Patricia Kaas, Guesch Patti and Vanessa Paradis.
   Who?
   These "vedettes" of French rock are hot stuff here, but
they're ice cold outside France, and that's where the
challenge lies. Mr. Lion says that by subsidizing rap groups,
remodeling rock clubs in Tours, sponsoring music festivals in
Nimes and holding concerts in Harlem (New York), his ministry
is "building the frame in which French rock music can
flourish" at home and abroad.
   But a Minister for Rock 'n' Roll?
   "French governments have always intervened to support
culture," says Mr. Lion, puffing a cigarette in his top-floor
office, "from early court concerts and opera through the
founding of the Ministry of Culture in 1959 by de Gaulle."
   Indeed, spreading French culture, and above all the French
language, has long been a national priority. Even before Mr.
Lion was appointed, his boss floated an abortive idea for
quotas for French-language songs on radio and television.
Another Culture Minister, Francois Leotard, launched an
equally abortive campaign to force French TV stations to
subtitle in French any English-language rock videos they
broadcast.
   Besides meddling in rock, the current Socialist government
supports a lot of nutty-sounding programs. There are
ministers for humanitarian action, for technological risks
and major natural disasters, for the sea, and for the
forests. But given France's minor-league status in global
rock, some here argue that a rock ministry is about as
appropriate to France as an Alpine ski team is to Holland.
   "It's stupid, a complete waste of money," fumes Lionel
Rotcage, editor of the French-language version of Rolling
Stone magazine. "We're one of the only countries in the world
where the government feels it has to put its stamp on
culture. Rock music is by definition anti-establishment,
anti-institution, so how can you possibly institutionalize
it?"
   Furthermore, says Mr. Rotcage, the French would be better
off sticking to traditional romantic ballads and leaving rock
riffs to the Americans and British who invented them.
"There's no reason for there to be French rock 'n' roll," he
says.
   Mr. Lion is too busy to be rattled by such sentiments.
When he's not traveling around France persuading local
governments to find space for more rock clubs and music
halls, he's engaged in giving seed money to small French
record companies to back unknown groups -- like les Croaks,
Elmer Food Beat, Fly and the Tox, les Monotones and
Loudblast, each of which recently received $8,000 in
government subsidies.
   Or he's jetting to the U.S. to shake hands with French
rockers at a recent government-aided bash at Harlem's Apollo
Theater, where a glittery, invitation-only, French-speaking
crowd was on hand to cheer their home-grown talent, among
them Misses Kaas, Patti and Paradis. Unfortunately, these
stars were soundly upstaged by two Americans -- Cab Calloway,
singing "Minnie the Moocher" in English, and Grace Jones,
vamping her way through the Edith Piaf classic "La Vie en
Rose," mostly in French.
   Mr. Lion may be facing a long and winding road, but he has
had some success. One group he helped discover is the Gipsy
Kings, which has a gold album in the U.S. Their music is more
Latin and African-influenced than classically French, but
they do live in Paris. Chico Bouchikhi, the band's leader,
says Mr. Lion helped promote a festival in Nimes where the
then-unknown group performed. "Rock is a part of the culture
like everything else," Mr. Bouchikhi says in defense of
government funding. As for Mr. Lion: "He listens to groups
before anybody else does."
   Since "Monsieur Rock" came to office, there are 80 more
rock venues than before, more festivals, more new groups
recording and a few more records being sold outside France.
"Five years ago the only piece of French music you ever heard
outside our national boundaries was Ravel's `Bolero,'" Mr.
Lion contends.
   He also is encouraged by the popularity of "world music,"
an eclectic blend of African, South American and other beats.
There's nothing especially French about it, but many of its
practitioners are based here. Mr. Lion's critics, however,
point out that by far the biggest-selling examples of "world
music" are "The Rhythm of the Saints" and "Graceland," both
by Paul Simon, an American.
   Mr. Lion confronts this problem every day: The French go
gaga over Paul Simon, Madonna and Michael Jackson, but
Americans are indifferent to French rockers. Last year Mr.
Lion brought seven largely unknown French groups to New York
as part of the French Revolution Bicentennial celebrations.
They came, played and left, still largely unknown.
   The biggest French stars, such as Johnny Hallyday, a
Gallic Elvis Presley now rocking into his late 40s, can pack
football stadiums in Paris but probably couldn't crowd a
phone booth in Pasadena. Lesser lights might conquer Belgium,
but rarely make it to Britain. Even Mr. Lion, who formerly
published an annual guide to the French music industry,
concedes he grew up listening to the Beatles, the Clash and
the Police, all British.
   Still, there's time to change the course of rock history.
Mr. Lion's strategy is to encourage anybody who sings in
French, regardless of nationality. Local rappers are usually
of Algerian extraction; Mr. Lion recently handed out $400,000
to rap groups. And anyway, France has always been a vocal
melting pot. Of its biggest international stars, Edith Piaf
was half German, Yves Montand is Italian, Jacques Brel was
Belgian, and Charles Aznavour is Armenian.
   A current bright hope is Ms. Kaas, whose mother is German.
Ms. Kaas is a star in France and the Soviet Union and "is on
the verge of making it big in Japan," says Mr. Lion. In time,
he thinks she'll be hitting it big in the U.S. with soulful
ballads like "D'Allemagne," (Of Germany):
                                                                                                       

   Of Germany where the past is painful,
   Of Germany where the future is an adventure,
   Of Germany where I know forbidden meanings,
   I know where the rifles sleep."
                                                                                                       

   Skeptics remain unconvinced. "Patricia Kaas is great in
France," says Mr. Rotcage. "But is the teen-ager in Memphis
really going to buy a song sung in French by a girl from
Strasbourg about the difficulties of Franco-German
relations?"
   ---
   The excerpt is from "D'Allemagne," by D. Barbelivien and
F. Bernheim, used by permission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Mobil Exploring Three-Way Oil Venture
   With Soviets to Tap Vietnamese Sources
   ----
   By Nayan Chanda
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   TX MOB FREST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Mobil Oil Corp. and Vietnamese and Soviet
officials are quietly exploring a possible three-way
oil-production venture off Vietnam that could lead to the
first U.S.-Soviet cooperation in the energy sector in a third
country.
   If the 15-year-old U.S. trade embargo against Vietnam is
lifted, Mobil hopes to join with a Soviet-Vietnamese venture,
Vietsopetro, in drilling for oil in an offshore block off
southern Vietnam where the U.S. company struck oil before the
communist victory in 1975. According to diplomatic and
oil-industry sources, the idea for the three-way project was
broached by Mobil after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, when oil
prices shot up and U.S.-Soviet cooperation reached new
heights.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John Lord, a Mobil spokesman, said the company is "very
interested" in cooperation with the Soviet Union and has been
talking with Vietnam. "We want to go back to Vietnam, and
naturally we want to go back where oil is," he said.
   Sources said Mobil representatives met with Vietnamese
officials in New York in September to propose technical
collaboration with Vietsopetro. Addressing a U.S. business
group in New York several weeks later, Vietnamese Foreign
Minister Nguyen Co Thach disclosed the existence of a
proposal for a three-way venture, though he didn't mention
Mobil. According to participants at the meeting, he said he
had discussed the idea in New York with his Soviet
counterpart, Eduard Shevardnadze. Mr. Shevardnadze, who
announced his resignation last week, was said to have told
Mr. Thach that he favored the idea, but that details would
have to be worked out with oil officials in Moscow.
   According to one source, both Texaco Inc. and Mobil
proposed a venture with the Soviets and Vietnamese. A Texaco
official, however, said he was unaware of any proposal for a
three-way arrangement. A Texaco spokesman said several
company officials visited Vietnam in September and discussed
the possibility of cooperation "if and when" the trade
embargo is lifted. He also said Texaco has been working with
the Soviet Union on a feasibility study for oil exploration
in the Russian republic.
   Another oil-industry official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said Mobil proposed three-way cooperation in
Vietnam for both immediate and long-term considerations.
Having earlier prospected in the field where Vietsopetro is
now producing, Mobil possesses technical data, as well as
technology, that could substantially increase the field's
output. And by working closely with the Soviets in Vietnam,
the company hopes to stand in good stead for more-profitable
cooperation in oil fields in the Soviet Union itself.
   Several weeks ago, a senior Vietnamese diplomat at the
U.N. confirmed that oil officials in Moscow are receptive to
the idea of three-way cooperation. "The Soviets have said
that such collaboration with American companies can be
considered in the blocks held by Vietsopetro, but not in the
field currently being exploited" by the joint venture, the
diplomat said.
   U.S. business groups, including oil companies, have
recently intensified their lobbying in Washington for an end
to the trade embargo against Vietnam. The Bush administration
says normalization of relations with Vietnam can come only
after the settlement of the Cambodian issue, which it says
was created by the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia in 1978.
   But the administration recently raised the possibility
that the embargo may be lifted before establishment of full
diplomatic relations if Vietnam shows a cooperative attitude.
Speaking to a group of U.S. business executives, Richard
Solomon, assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the
Pacific, said that because of the signing of the Paris accord
on Cambodia last January, "the U.S. is prepared to take
certain confidence-building steps as a measure of our
willingness to work with Vietnam to turn the page on the
sorry page of history that we hope to leave behind us." Asked
in a telephone interview if the envisaged steps include
lifting the embargo, Mr. Solomon said, "IMF and World Bank
loans (and) the lifting of the embargo are important for the
Vietnamese, and we have to see some important developments on
Cambodia in order to move on those."
   Administration sources confirmed that Mobil has been
seeking administration support for a three-way venture, but
they added that Washington has no plan to lift the embargo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Rub a Dub Dub,
   Too Much for a Tub
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   In your Nov. 23 page-one article on bathtubs, you report
that a certain Hungarian bathtub is made of cast iron two
inches thick and weighs a tenth of a ton. Surely it's
two-tenths of an inch thick. Otherwise, it would weigh more
than a full ton, and would fall through the castle floor.
   Either you've made a metrics mistake, or they're really
building battleships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alan Mole
   Boulder, Colo.
   ---
   You apparently visited Lilliput and mistook it for
Hungary. A two-inch-thick cast-iron bathtub "weighing in at a
tenth of a ton" would be about nine inches long, nine inches
wide and nine inches deep. Just about right for a
Lilliputian.
   R.J. Russell
   York, Pa.
   ---
   "Nobody makes tubs like this anymore" is an understatement
-- nobody ever did.
   The article brought back memories of a bathtub factory in
Pennsylvania, long closed, where I worked in the early 1950s.
Working conditions were arduous, but the job was interesting
and fun. At that time, stamped-steel tubs were considered
inferior substitutes, and plastic tubs had not begun to
appear. Even today, as the article notes, some people, myself
included, prefer the rigidity and durability of a good
cast-iron porcelain-enameled tub.
   Malcolm G. Murray Jr.
   Murray &amp; Garig Tool Works
   Baytown, Texas
   ---
   (Editor's Note: The tub's thickness in fact is five
millimeters, or 0.2 inch, not five centimeters, or two
inches. A decimal point apparently was moved in the
translation from Hungarian to metric to English.)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Retailers' Final Tallies for Christmas
   Expected to Be the Worst in Many Years
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   DH S NOBE
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SPECIALTY APPAREL RETAILERS (SAP)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   'Twas the year that even Santa Claus made do with less.
   Retailers had hoped that a surge of last-minute shoppers
would salvage a bleak season. They stepped up advertising and
discounting and kept their stores open longer than usual. But
receipts for the season slipped below last year's at many
stores, according to analysts and industry executives. And
after adjusting for inflation, which is running in the range
of 2% to 5%, the final tallies are expected to be the worst
in many years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's been very difficult to get business," said Kenneth
Macke, chairman and chief executive officer of Dayton Hudson
Corp. in Minneapolis. "Consumer confidence is as low as I've
ever seen it."
   "It's been a tough season for most retailers," agreed Jack
McMillan, president of Nordstrom Inc. in Seattle.
   Kurt Barnard, a trade newsletter publisher who surveyed 60
executives of chains and independent retailers, said: "For
most people, it was a struggle just to stay even with last
year. . . . In many cases, retailers have fallen below last
year by as much as 10% or 12%."
   The holiday season is crucial to merchants, who typically
ring up about half of their annual profit in the weeks
between Thanksgiving and Christmas. But this year's sluggish
sales, combined with heavy discounting, are likely to squeeze
industry profits and force some weak chains to seek
bankruptcy-court protection.
   With evidence of a recession mounting and fears of a
Middle East war growing, consumers simply refused to be
coaxed into a spending frenzy. Some shoppers said they
already felt the pinch of rising unemployment and falling
real estate prices. Others were bracing for hard times. And
some were just swearing off the free-spending habit of the
1980s.
   Carolynn McNally, a mother of three from suburban
Riverside, Ill., says her family discovered the fun of
sharing each other's company this year. "You're just as happy
without a ton of stuff under the tree," she asserted while
shopping in Chicago over the weekend.
   Katherine McGee, a graphic designer in Tempe, Ariz., also
was more frugal. On Saturday, she still hadn't bought a gift
for her husband, Jim. But she said she intended to spend less
than last year. "My pocketbook is tighter this year," she
explained, adding that "in the past, my spending was probably
excessive."
   Terry Boyle, a Mabank, Texas, contractor, and his wife,
Rosie, a nurse, decided to spend less this year, too. And
they spent only cash. "We're rebelling against the credit
card society," Mr. Boyle said. "We've already paid off and
torn up two credit cards this year."
   Dayton Hudson's Mr. Macke said shoppers around the country
clearly traded down this Christmas to less expensive gifts.
One indication is that his company's Target discount store
chain did best among Dayton Hudson's divisions, recording a
sales increase of 1% to 2% at stores open at least a year.
The company's Mervyn's chain of low-priced department stores
had "relatively flat" sales, meaning they matched last
year's, Mr. Macke said. But at the company's traditional
Dayton's, Hudson's and Marshall Field's department stores,
sales fell 2% to 3% from last year, he said.
   Mr. Macke added that consumers this season stayed away
from "frills" and "frou-frou fashion" items, choosing basic
clothes such as sweatsuits, sweaters, turtlenecks and
practical small appliances such as coffee makers. Some new
fashions were hot, however. Mr. Macke said ties in new
patterns were popular, as were women's stirrup pants and big
sweaters.
   Toy buyers, he said, also seemed to be going back to
basics. Bicycles, dolls and board games sold better than
high-priced electronic games, he said, adding: "The biggest
disappointment across the board is the electronic game
business," primarily Nintendo games, where sales fell by 20%
to 30% from a year ago.
   A spokesman for Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., said sales over the
weekend were "much better than our expectations" but results
for the season overall were "slightly below our
expectations." He declined to say whether sales for the
season were better or worse than last year, but retail
consultant Walter Loeb said he expected Sears to match last
year's showing.
   The Sears spokesman called the decision to launch Sears's
usual after-Christmas clearance sale of cold-weather apparel
early this month as "very effective." He said that "sales
increased and we were able to reduce inventories in those
lines."
   Sears also offered more discounts on big-ticket appliances
and electronics and extended its deferred billing deal
through the end of the year. But, with the exception of
home-office equipment such as personal computers, fax
machines and telephones, sales of big-ticket items "continued
to be sluggish," the spokesman said.
   Nordstrom's Mr. McMillan, saying sales at his
department-store chain were running about equal to last
year's, summed up the season this way: "There were plenty of
people in the stores, but they weren't buying as much."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Judicial Discretion
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in San Jose has come up with a brilliant
solution to the annual holiday rush of lawsuits by the
American Civil Liberties Union. One of the ACLU lawsuits this
year was against an allegedly unconstitutional creche in
front of City Hall in Monterey, California. Supreme Court
precedents obliged the judge to hear the case, but he decided
to schedule arguments for today. Other judges might want to
follow this precedent for postponing hearings until the day
after Christmas, or in the case of menorahs after Hanukkah.
This is one case where mootness sings the loudest tidings of
good cheer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor --
   Milken's Sentence:
   You Call That Justice?
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 7
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
SECURITIES (SCR)
SECURITIES REGULATIONS AND ENFORCEMENTS (RGU)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   On Nov. 23 you printed comments from various people
concerning "Milken's Sentence: Was Justice Done?"
   These comments were from important people but not from a
guy called "the average American taxpayer" who will again get
stuck with the bill to clean up another mess. You did not
solicit my comments as an average American taxpayer, but I
will give them to you anyway.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Was justice done? Absolutely not. Michael Milken should
have received the maximum prison sentence with no hope of
parole due to the damage he has done to our economy.
   If he is released from prison early and is required to
perform community service, what will he do, teach the younger
generation how to manipulate stocks and bonds? The only
community service he should be permitted to do is to clean
the streets of Alaska.
   Bob Allen
   Newport, Ky.
   ---
   What Mr. Milken did for corporate America was to introduce
(through greed) unmanageable corporate debt and siphon off
hundreds of billions of dollars from needed capital
improvements into the pockets of manipulative investors,
arbitragers and attorneys, thereby so weakening corporate
structure as to displace hundreds of thousands of workers.
These displacements and a loss of confidence in the
marketplace have brought about a very real recession. To say
that there were no victims is to belie the fact that our
entire country was the victim.
   M.O. Willis
   Danbury, Conn.
   ---
   In my opinion, having lost money in a number of Mr.
Milken's manipulations, I think the sentence was not stiff
enough. He probably will be sent to a country-club type of
prison, like San Luis Obispo or Eglin AFB. He needs to do
"hard time." I suggest a prison like Joliet.
   George C. Szego
   Annapolis, Md.
   ---
   Investor Harold C. Simmons characterized the sentence
given as "too strenuous." There is no disputing that Mr.
Milken is a brilliant man and contributed greatly to our
country's wealth and financial history, but he broke the law,
and I believe his sentence was anything but strenuous.
   Anyone who is in a position to alter greatly the course of
events, as Mr. Milken was, must be above reproach. Michael
Milken had control over millions of dollars at any given
moment and, whether he realized it or not, controlled the
fate of many lives as a result.
   How can Mr. Simmons say this is a victimless crime, with
more than 40,000 people on Wall Street out of work already
and more to come? When is the small investor going to feel it
is safe enough to venture back into the market?
   Louis P. Sitnik
   Silver Spring, Md.
   ---
   It is truly amazing that Mr. Simmons could suggest there
were "no victims."
   Mr. Milken, through his junk-bond shenanigans, is second
only to Congress in causing the savings-and-loan debacle. The
taxpayers will pay billions of dollars in the decade ahead to
cover the S&amp;L losses. Mr. Milken, through his crimes, has
cost innocent stockholders of savings and loans, banks,
mutual funds and closed-end funds additional millions. Many
insurance companies, college endowment funds and pension
funds have fewer assets today than they did a few years ago
due to Mr. Milken's greed. Further, the number of jobs lost
and careers destroyed because of his manipulation of the
markets and destruction of heretofore viable enterprises far
outweighs any good he may have done.
   No victims? Mr. Simmons must have been emulating Rip van
Winkle these past few years.
   Arthur J. O'Connor
   Sarasota, Fla.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Business Plans Become
   Tool for More Small Firms
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   SMALL BUSINESSES increasingly develop formal business
plans, consultants and others say. These plans, which lay out
long-term strategies and targets for a firm, have been a
common tool of large companies for quite a while.
   "We are definitely seeing a lot more small-business owners
doing business plans," says a spokesman for the National
Federation of Independent Business, a small-business trade
group based in Washington, D.C.
   In the past, observers say, small-business owners
generally only drew up a business plan if they needed to
raise outside money. With times getting tougher, however,
entrepreneurs are using them to become more competitive, says
Mark Smitt, manager of consulting services for McGladrey &amp;
Pullen, an accounting firm that caters to small businesses.
Mr. Smitt says informational seminars by his firm on business
planning draw 60 to 70 clients, several times the number that
shows up for seminars on other topics, such as tax or estate
planning.
   Frank Martin, president of Martin-Harris Construction in
Las Vegas, says his business went for 13 years without any
formal business planning. "We just took on anything and
everything that came up," says Mr. Martin.
   However, growth got out of hand and led to a big 1989 loss
for the company, he says. As a result, the company produced a
formal business plan, laying out how fast it wanted to grow
and what markets it wanted to focus on as well as which ones
it wanted to avoid.
   With much more carefully focused marketing, the company
has returned to profitability despite a souring business
climate, says Mr. Martin. Now he and his managers meet every
two months to review and refine their business plan. "I'm a
100% fan of planning," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Family Companies Seek
   European Investors
                                                                                                       

   FAMILY FIRMS in the U.S. are turning to Europe for
minority investors.
   Francois de Visscher, president of de Visscher &amp; Co., a
Stamford, Conn., consultant, says U.S. firms are being pushed
by the increasing difficulty of raising money in this
country. Their hope is that European companies are becoming
more willing and able to invest in the U.S., says Mr. de
Visscher. Among other reasons, the weaker dollar makes it
less expensive for European companies to make cash purchases.
   Mr. de Visscher says this year he arranged his first two
sales of stakes in U.S. family firms to European companies
and three more such deals are in the works. In one case, a
Swiss drug company paid $17 million for a 40% interest in a
U.S. vitamin company. For the Swiss company, the investment
is tantamount to a joint venture because the two parties also
signed cross-marketing and cross-licensing agreements, says
Mr. de Visscher.
   Even so, some finance specialists say such marriages may
be tough to arrange in large numbers. For one thing, "it's
very difficult for a minority investor to be fully protected
and liquid," says Alain D. Bankier, an investment banker in
the New York office of Banque Nationale de Paris's Banexi
International unit.
   One Banexi client, he says, plans to buy a 33% stake in a
closely held U.S. medical firm. But the buyer is demanding
guarantees it will have majority control in a few years and
veto power over certain decisions until then.
                                                                                                       

   High-Tech Start-Ups
   Lose Lure for Investors
                                                                                                       

   THE INVESTMENT climate for high-technology start-ups
continues to worsen.
   Venture-capital investments in such firms fell to $249
million in the third quarter, down 14% from $290 million in
the year-earlier quarter, reports Technologic Computer
Letter, a New York-based industry newsletter. The decline in
the first six months was only 3.3%.
   Many venture capitalists are conserving their money to
finance additions to existing investments, says Anthony
Hoberman, who invests in venture-capital partnerships for
Alliance Capital Management, New York. "Bank financing for
even the more established companies has all but dried up. And
with little capital forthcoming from initial public
offerings, venture capitalists are being forced to support
their companies with more of their own dollars."
   Venture capitalists say they feel more comfortable in
mature businesses, away from high technology. Prudential
Venture Capital Management, New York, for example, invested
this year in Health Management Associates, a Naples, Fla.,
hospital management company, and Georgetown Leather Inc., a
Washington, D.C., specialty leather products supplier.
   Businesses in financial and health-care services can earn
the same high returns that high-tech companies once did, says
Robert Knox, president of Prudential Venture. Less than 5% of
Prudential's $500 million in assets is currently invested in
high-tech companies.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ERNST &amp; Young found 79% of the 200 entrepreneurs queried
in a recent survey thought the economic climate next year
would be worse than this year. The same survey a year earlier
found 86% expected the coming year would be better. . . . The
most profitable companies in the U.S. are small firms that
have been in business more than 10 years and employ fewer
than 20 people, according to the federal Small Business
Administration. . . . Some 79% of businesses with sales
between $2 million and $100 million provide for a holiday
office party and 51% give gifts to employees, says a survey
by accountants BDO Seidman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   NSB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended Dec. 21,
1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing in
editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to be
definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                      MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   CHICAGO HEIGHTS, ILL., will redeem, on Feb. 1, 1991, its
industrial development first mortgage revenue bonds, series
1975. (The B.F. Goodrich Co.-lessee.) Harris Trust &amp; Savings
Bank, Chicago, is paying agent.
   MARION COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING CORP., IND., will call
for redemption on Jan. 1, 1991 its 5.3% bonds due Jan. 1,
1992 and 1993, and its 5.25% bonds due Jan. 1, 1994. The
bonds are dated Dec. 1, 1971. INB National Bank, trustee.
   SOUTH RIPLEY HIGH SCHOOL BUILDING CORP., IND., will redeem
on Jan. 1, 1991, $105,000 principal amount of its first
mortgage bonds dated Dec. 1, 1964 and due Jan. 1, 1992-1994.
Friendship State Bank, Ind., is trustee.
                                                                                                       

                       CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

   NORTHEAST SAVINGS, F.A. will call its U.S. $150,000,000
collateralized floating rate notes, due 1996, on Feb. 13,
1991. Bankers Trust New York is trustee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Insurers Plan
   Cuts in Loans
   For Real Estate
   ---
   Big Firms to Trim Exposure
   To Commercial Projects,
   Adding to Credit Crunch
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   TIC AET LNC
</CO>
<IN>
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
INSURANCE (INS)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Big insurance companies say they plan to sharply cut back
or stop their commercial mortgage lending activity altogether
next year, making the credit crunch in real estate even
tighter.
   By stepping back from new commercial mortgages, insurers
make it more difficult for banks and developers to find
long-term financing for construction loans. Typically,
insurance companies step in after construction on a project
is completed, often replacing a construction loan from a bank
with a long-term mortgage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It contributes to the overall liquidity problem in the
market and over the next few years," says Kenneth Pinkes,
director of financial institutions research at Moody's
Investors Service Inc. Without insurers playing as large a
role, real estate prices could drop further, he said, because
projects are likely to be sold in an already saturated market
in order to pay back short-term bank loans.
   The cutback is sharpest among insurance companies with the
heaviest exposure to real estate. Travelers Corp., with about
$13 billion in real estate, plans to shut off its new
commercial mortgage lending activities next year, a spokesman
said. In October, the company added $650 million to loss
reserves for mortgage and real estate loans.
   Aetna Life Insurance Co. also said it will be cutting back
on its commercial mortgage investments, but a spokesman
declined to say by what amount. Aetna has about $19.6 billion
invested in real estate, equal to about 51% of its invested
assets.
   Even insurance companies with real estate portfolios that
are proportionately smaller than the industry average are
pulling in their horns. "It's a combination of our concern
over security and whether we can get paid enough for the risk
we are taking," said Richard Robertson, executive vice
president of Fort Wayne, Ind.-based Lincoln National Life,
with 22% of its invested assets in real estate.
   Some companies say they are avoiding new commercial
mortgage lending, but plan to add to their portfolio by
buying mortgages from other insurance companies in the
informal secondary market for these investments.
   "We'll be making cold calls on our counterparts at other
insurance companies and telling them we are interested in
buying loans out of their portfolio," according to Scott
Noble, senior vice president at Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co.
   Meanwhile, the company has put a moratorium on new
mortgage lending until returns in that business improve.
These days the company's mortgage lending officers are
spending their time reviewing existing loans and
restructuring the ones that are in trouble, Mr. Noble says.
   Weston Hicks, vice president at Moody's, says he expects
insurance companies to begin investing in mortgage-backed
securities and municipal bonds as a replacement for
commercial real estate. Massachusetts Mutual, for example, is
planning on increasing its purchases from banks of packaged
blocks of single family mortgages by 50% next year to $600
million.
   "It's a 2-for-1 situation for the banks," he says. "They
reduce their real estate exposure and raise capital." For its
part, Massachusetts Mutual believes the loans are high
quality.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Transtector Extends Deadline
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TTOR
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HAYDEN LAKE, Idaho -- Transtector Systems Inc. said it
extended to April 30, 1991, from Nov. 30, 1990, the deadline
for either the company or a group of managers to terminate a
previously announced plan to take the company private.
   The electronics company said the agreement was extended
because of generally poor market conditions and its weak
financial performance. The company also said it will reduce
its work force by 10% and trim overhead costs because of a
change in its marketing programs and the weakening of the
economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Transtector entered into the pact with managers in May.
The original date for completion, Sept. 1, was extended to
Nov. 30. The company's stock was quoted at 12.5 cents a share
bid in over-the-counter trading Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Gorbachev Gets
   Slim Approval
   For Expansion
   ---
   Leader Is Allowed to Change
   Setup of Government
   Despite Rising Criticism
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev narrowly won
approval for constitutional changes that will give him vast
new powers and redesign the government.
   The Congress of People's Deputies, the nation's highest
legislative body, was expected to pass the president's
proposal, despite last week's startling resignation by
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze, who warned that such
new powers could lead to a new, law-based dictatorship.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The vote among the 1,827 delegates scraped by with only 17
votes beyond the two-thirds majority needed to authorize
constitutional changes. Under Soviet parliamentary procedure,
elements of the proposal are still to be debated and some
could be amended before a final vote.
   Since the congress started meeting on December 17, almost
every important vote has transpired in accordance with Mr.
Gorbachev's wishes. A hotly debated proposal for a new union
treaty that purports to permit real sovereignty for the
Soviet republics while retaining strong central control,
passed the congress in principle on Monday. The president's
proposal to hold two nationwide referenda on crucial
questions, the union treaty and private ownership of land,
was also approved.
   The congress also voted to keep the official name of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, rather than the "Union
of Soviet Sovereign Republics," despite the fact that several
republics that are seeking independence have already dropped
the word "socialist" from their own official names.
   But for Mr. Gorbachev, enforcing such decisions is sure to
prove more difficult than winning them. Russian republic
leader Boris Yeltsin, the most popular politician in the
nation and often a direct rival to Mr. Gorbachev, said before
the vote that he wouldn't support the new powers. "I'm
against giving too much power to one man -- it's too risky,"
he told reporters at the congress.
   Mr. Yeltsin said the president was trying to push around
the Russian people, in particular with regard to the
referendum on land and property reform. Exactly how or when
such referenda would be conducted, or how its results would
be applied, aren't clear. But the vast Russian Federation,
which includes more than half the Soviet population, has
already approved its own concept of private land ownership
and is drawing up legislation to let farmers own land and
pass it on to their children.
   The congress's decisions reveal how conservative the
legislative body is, and increasingly how it fails to reflect
the sentiment in the republics it represents. Created less
than two years ago, the congress is composed of 2,200
delegates, about two-thirds of them elected representatives
and the remainder appointees from major Soviet institutions
such as labor organizations and the Academy of Sciences. At
the time, the Communist Party was still the only legal
political organization and voters had had almost no exposure
to democratic methods. Liberals say a new election should be
held based on multiparty politics permitted since February.
   This congressional session is particularly out of step
with national trends, as delegations from some of the most
independence-minded republics -- the Baltics, Georgia,
Armenia and Moldavia -- have either walked out or boycotted
the meeting. A roll call taken Tuesday showed that 730
delegates registered themselves within the Communist Party
faction, 561 aligned with the right-wing group Soyuz, or
Union, and only 229 considered themselves part of the radical
Interregional Group of Deputies. Many members of that group
are among the delegations boycotting the congress.
   The congress revealed its greater allegiance to the center
than to republican governments in its vote on an integral
element of government structure that was designed to give
republics a stronger voicethe Federation Council. That
council was originally conceived as an organization
subordinate to the president and comprised of the heads of
the 15 republics, which would coordinate and carry out
republican policies. The congress voted to expand the council
to include representatives of 38 autonomous republics,
regions and areas, which will turn it into a huge and
unwieldly structure. Many of those autonomous areas are
seeking sovereignty from the republics in which they are
located, preferring to ally with the center in hopes of being
granted full-fledged republic status.
   Mr. Gorbachev did lose nominally on a couple of issues
Tuesday: on establishing a control commission to monitor the
implementation of laws, and granting executive powers to a
new position of vice president. But many delegates expect
that, as often happens, he might return with re-worded
proposals this week for another vote, which could go in his
favor.
   Worries that Mr. Gorbachev has been drifting toward
conservatism in recent weeks were heightened Saturday, when
KGB chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov gave a lengthy speech
denouncing dangerous foreign interference in Soviet affairs
and economic sabotage and warning against the breakup of the
union. On Tuesday he held a rare solo press conference in
which he deftly evaded questions asking him to substantiate
his accusations.
   "It's strange how people understand things," he said. "I
didn't say economic sabotage from the West, I said it
resembles economic sabotage and that isn't one and the same
thing." The Soviet intelligence director said he favored
cooperation with Western business while attacking unnamed
"unscrupulous" firms.
   He took an unusually long perspective on Soviet history,
justifying the union by linking it to the pre-1917 revolution
days of the Russian empire. "The union is our great
achievement. It was formed during more than one century."
   The KGB chief dismissed Mr. Shevardnadze's warnings of an
advancing dictatorship. "If life has become abnormal, maybe
some extraordinary measures may become necessary," he
continued. "But I am convinced that if our president does
introduce extraordinary measures, it won't mean going back to
dictatorship. It will just mean restoring the order that
everyone is craving."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Big Board Blocked in Bid to Fine Drexel
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   A U.S. bankruptcy court judge barred the New York Stock
Exchange from seeking a record fine of $50 million from
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. for securities-law
violations.
   The Big Board wants to punish Drexel and its brokerage
unit for the six trading-related felonies that the company
pleaded guilty to in September 1989. The stock exchange and
Drexel were in the middle of settlement talks earlier this
year when the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under bankruptcy law, the exchange can't take action
against Drexel without the bankruptcy court's permission.
U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Francis Conrad, however, sided
with Drexel, ruling that the exchange's efforts would result
in "the misallocation of scarce resources" that should go to
other creditors.
   A spokesman for the exchange said: "The New York Stock
Exchange is reviewing the decision to determine whether an
appeal is appropriate." The exchange was seeking a fine of as
much as $25 million each for Drexel and its brokerage unit,
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which joined the parent company
in bankruptcy-court proceedings.
   The Big Board claimed that it needed to fine Drexel to
send a message to other firms that wrongdoing won't be
tolerated. But Judge Conrad, who is presiding over Drexel's
bankruptcy proceedings in Manhattan, said: "The public policy
reasons for the New York Stock Exchange's desire to go
forward in its forum don't appear to accomplish much more
than that which has already been accomplished by the U.S.
attorney and the Securities and Exchange Commission."
   The U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan prosecuted the
case that resulted in Drexel's guilty pleas and a settlement
with the SEC. As part of the settlement, Drexel agreed to pay
$650 million in fines and penalties. The six fraud charges
involved securities transactions from 1984 to 1986.
   Judge Conrad also said that allowing the Big Board to
proceed would divert Drexel from its main task -- coming up
with a bankruptcy reorganization plan. Drexel's "professional
attention must remain focused on this critical stage," the
judge said.
   The stock exchange is continuing to investigate whether to
take disciplinary action against individual Drexel employees
in connection with the company's guilty plea. Those
investigations won't be affected by the judge's ruling.
   ---
   FLORIDA'S SUPREME COURT endorses restrictions on attorney
advertising.
   The state's highest court last week agreed to
recommendations by the state bar association that will
tightly control how lawyers can advertise on TV.
   The rules, which take effect Jan. 1, will prohibit lawyers
from dramatizing their profession or their services. No music
will be permitted in commercials. Nor will slogans or
testimonials from clients (real or simulated). And no more
than one voice speaking will be allowed.
   Supporters of the measures say they want to ensure that
the public gets accurate information about attorneys'
services and that the legal profession maintains a
respectable image.
   But opponents say the restrictions are nothing less than
an attack on First Amendment rights to free speech. David W.
Singer, a personal-injury attorney who spends about $500,000
a year on ads, says the restrictions unfairly dictate how an
attorney should best reach potential clients and will result
in little more than "cookiecutter" commercials.
   Several U.S. Supreme Court rulings have supported
attorneys' rights to advertise but have left room for states
to impose restrictions.
   Some attorneys have characterized Florida's rules as the
toughest in the nation. Mr. Singer says a group he helped
found, Citizens Against Censorship, plans to fight the
measures, either by filing an appeal in federal district
court and climbing the federal appellate ladder, or by
appealing directly to the U.S. Supreme Court.
   "It's not going to end here," Mr. Singer said. "I'm very
confident we're going to have the last laugh."
   ---
   INSURER ISN'T LIABLE for naturally occurring pollution,
appeals court rules.
   A Colorado appeals court in Denver ruled that West
American Insurance Co. of Anaheim, Calif., doesn't have to
pay for cleaning up contamination in Red Mountain Creek, in
southwestern Colorado.
   It is believed to be the first time that a court has ruled
that a property owner is not entitled to insurance coverage
for pollution damage arising from natural causes rather than
intentional activity by the policyholder.
   West American sued Frank W. Baumgartner, who owns mining
properties in the area, alleging the insurer was not
responsible for Mr. Baumgartner's legal defense or potential
damages in an environmental suit.
   Mr. Baumgartner has been sued by three mining companies
that allegedly released hazardous substances into the creek.
In the pending suit, the companies allege that acid water
from Mr. Baumgartner's land seeped into the creek and
contributed to the contamination.
   In an opinion late last week, the appeals panel ruled that
Mr. Baumgartner's insurance policies do not cover pollution
that occurs over a long period of time, regardless of how it
was caused.
   In a dissent, Judge Sandra I. Rothenberg said that it was
unfair to deny coverage to Mr. Baumgartner for the pollution.
She said Mr. Baumgartner had not intentionally polluted the
creek and that the acid water from his property occurred as
the result of a natural leaching process.
   Mr. Baumgartner said he would not appeal.
   Lawyers for the insurer could not be reached for comment.
   Barry Ostrager, a lawyer with the New York law firm
Simpson Thacher &amp; Bartlett who represents insurance companies
in such disputes, said the case is unusual but that the
ruling is consistent with principles applied by other courts.
   "Coverage is not available for gradual pollution. This
situation is no exception," he said.
   ---
   FILING AN AMENDED tax return isn't evidence of fraud,
appeals court rules.
   The decision by the U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals
in Manhattan overturns the conviction of James Dyer, former
mayor of Danbury, Conn. Mr. Dyer was found guilty last year
of filing a false tax return for 1986 after the trial judge
told the jury that Mr. Dyer's amended return was an admission
of guilt. The jury acquitted Mr. Dyers of six other charges.
   In the amended 1986 return, Mr. Dyer included the $10,357
in income that prosecutors charge he was trying to avoid
taxes on. Prosecutors claimed that the circumstances
surrounding the filing of the amended return indicated that
Mr. Dyer knew all along that the original return was
incorrect.
   But the appeals-court panel said: "An amended return
cannot provide an inference of fraud; it can only support an
inference of mistake." The court ordered a new trial for Mr.
Dyer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Protect College Athletes, Not Athletics
   ----
   By William F. Shughart II
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Clemson University's football program was placed on
probation last spring for the second time in six years, and
the coach who guided the team to a national championship in
1981 quit or was forced to resign. Last season's Heisman
Trophy winner played at the University of Houston, a school
banned from TV and postseason bowl appearances by the
National Collegiate Athletic Association; Southern Methodist
University fields a team barely resurrected last fall from
the "death penalty" it received three years ago; and scandals
have rocked the basketball programs at Kansas, Kentucky,
Memphis State and North Carolina State.
   Each of these events, which are only the latest in a
series of NCAA rules violations, has generated the usual
amount of hand-wringing about the apparent loss of amateurism
in college sports. Nostalgia for supposedly simpler times
when love of the game and not money was the driving force in
college sports has led to all sorts of reform proposals. The
NCAA's decision to require its member institutions to make
public athletes' graduation rates is perhaps the least
controversial example. Proposition 48's mandate that freshman
athletes must meet more stringent test score and grade point
requirements to participate in intercollegiate sports has
been criticized as a naked attempt to discriminate against
disadvantaged (and mostly minority) high-school graduates who
see athletics as a way out of poverty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But whether or not one supports any particular reform
proposal, there seems to be a general consensus that
something must be done. If so, why stop at half-measures? I
hereby offer three suggestions for solving the crisis in
college athletics.
                                                                                                       

   1. Create four-year degree programs in football and
basketball. Many colleges and universities grant bachelors'
degrees in vocational subjects. Art, drama and music are a
few examples, but there are others. Undergraduates who major
in these areas are typically required to spend only about one
of their four years in basic English, math, history and
science courses; the remainder of their time is spent in the
studio, the theater or the practice hall honing the creative
talents they will later sell as professionals.
   Although a college education is no more necessary for
success in the art world than it is in the world of sports,
no similar option is available for students whose talents lie
on the athletic field or in the gym. Majoring in physical
education is a possibility, of course, but while PE is hardly
a rigorous, demanding discipline, undergraduates pursuing a
degree in that major normally must spend many more hours in
the classroom than their counterparts who are preparing for
careers on the stage. While the music major is receiving
academic credit for practice sessions and recitals, the PE
major is studying and taking exams in kinesiology, exercise
physiology and nutrition. Why should academic credit be given
for practicing the violin, but not for practicing a
three-point shot?
                                                                                                       

   2. Extend the time limit on athletic scholarships by two
years. In addition to practicing and playing during the
regular football or basketball season, college athletes must
continue to work to improve their skills and keep in shape
during the off-season. For football players, these off-season
activities include several weeks of organized spring practice
as well as year-round exercise programs in the weight room
and on the running track. Basketball players participate in
summer leagues and practice with their teams during the fall.
In effect, college athletes are required to work at their
sport for as much as 10 months a year.
   These time-consuming extracurricular activities make it
extremely difficult for college athletes to devote more than
minimal effort to the studies required for maintaining their
academic eligibility. They miss lectures and exams when their
teams travel and the extra tutoring they receive at athletic
department expense often fails to make up the difference.
   If the NCAA and its member schools are truly concerned
about the academic side of the college athletic experience,
let them put money where their collective mouth is. The
period of an athlete's eligibility to participate in
intercollegiate sports would remain four years, but the two
additional years of scholarship support could be exercised at
any time during the athlete's lifetime. Athletes who use up
their college eligibility and do not choose a career in
professional sports would be guaranteed financial backing to
remain in school and finish their undergraduate degrees.
Athletes who have the talent to turn pro could complete their
degrees when their playing days are over.
                                                                                                       

   3. Allow the competitive marketplace to determine the
compensation of college athletes. Football and basketball
players at the top NCAA institutions provide millions of
dollars in benefits for their respective institutions.
Successful college athletic programs draw more fans to the
football stadium and to the basketball arena. They generate
revenues for the school from regular season television
appearances and from invitations to participate in postseason
play. There is evidence that schools receive increased
financial support from public and private sources -- both for
their athletic and academic programs -- if their teams win
national ranking. There is even evidence that the quality of
students who apply for admission to institutions of higher
learning may improve following a successful football or
basketball season.
   Despite the considerable contributions made to the wealth
and welfare of his or her institution, however, the
compensation payable to a college athlete is limited by the
NCAA to a scholarship that includes tuition, books, room and
board, and a nominal expense allowance. Any payment above and
beyond this amount subjects the offending athletic program to
NCAA sanctions. In-kind payments to players and recruits in
the form of free tickets to athletic contests, T-shirts,
transportation and accommodations are also limited. These
restrictions apply to alumni and fans as well as to the
institutions themselves. The NCAA also limits the amount of
money athletes may earn outside of school by curtailing the
use of summer jobs as a means by which coaches and team
supporters can offer higher wages to athletes.
   The illegal financial inducements reported to be
widespread in collegiate football and basketball represent
conclusive evidence that many college athletes are now
underpaid. The relevant question is whether the current
system of compensation ought to remain in place. Allowing it
to do so will preserve the illusion of amateurism in college
sports and permit coaches, athletic departments and college
administrators to continue to benefit financially at the
expense of the players. On the other hand, shifting to a
market-based system of compensation would transfer some of
the wealth created by big-time college athletic programs to
the individuals whose talents are key ingredients in the
success of those programs.
   It would also cause a sea change in the distribution of
power among the top NCAA institutions. Under current NCAA
rules, some of the major college athletic programs, such as
those of Alabama, Notre Dame and Penn State in football, and
North Carolina and Indiana in basketball, have developed such
strong winning traditions over the years that they can
maintain their dominant positions without cheating.
   These schools are able to attract superior high school
athletes season after season at the mandated NCAA wage with
the offer of a package of nonmonetary benefits (well-equipped
training facilities, quality coaching staffs, talented
teammates, national exposure and so on) that increases the
present value of an amateur athlete's future professional
income relative to the value added by historically weaker
athletic programs. Given this factor, along with NCAA rules
that mandate uniform compensation across member schools,
these top institutions have a built-in competitive advantage
in recruiting the best and brightest athletes.
   It follows that under the current system, the weaker
programs are virtually compelled to offer illegal financial
inducements to players and recruits if they wish to compete
successfully with the traditional powers. It also follows
that shifting to a market-based system of compensation would
remove some of the built-in advantages now enjoyed by the top
athletic programs. It is surely this effect, along with the
reduction in the incomes of coaches and the "fat" in athletic
departments to be expected once a competitive marketplace is
permitted to work, that is the cause of the objection to
paying student-athletes, not the rhetoric about the
repugnance of professionalism.
   It is a fight over the distribution of the college sports
revenue pie that lies at the bottom of the debate about
reforming NCAA rules. And despite the high moral principles
and concern for players usually expressed by the debaters on
all sides of the issue, the interests of the athlete are in
fact often the last to be considered.
   ---
   Mr. Shughart is a professor of economics at the University
of Mississippi.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T Gulf Program
   Mistakenly Brought
   Billings to Families
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   T MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   BASKING RIDGE, N.J. (AP) -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph
Co. said 25,000 families and friends of people serving in the
Persian Gulf were mistakenly billed for telephone calls that
were supposed to be free, and the charges will be canceled.
   AT&amp;T's offer to let men and women serving in the Gulf make
free calls during Thanksgiving week resulted in 140,000
calls. But some local phone companies did not follow through
on instructions not to bill the troops' families for the
calls, AT&amp;T spokesman Richard Wallerstein said. The calls
were placed to families all over the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wallerstein said no one will have to pay for the
bills, no matter how high they were. The offer was for one
three-minute call for each soldier, but Mr. Wallerstein said
AT&amp;T had no way to enforce the limit. He said he had heard
some of the bills had reached $500, but had no specific
information.
   AT&amp;T first offered free calls home for a week in
mid-October, then renewed the offer for Thanksgiving. A total
of about 275,000 calls were made during the two weeks. Each
offered week of free calls cost AT&amp;T more than $1 million,
Mr. Wallerstein said.
   Meanwhile, AT&amp;T announced a free call-home campaign for
U.S. Navy sailors and Marines stationed on ships in the
Middle East. The offer is good through New Year's Eve, and
Mr. Wallerstein said he didn't expect any problems. "We'll
just do the bills right this time," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Coming Soon to Your Local Video Store: Big Brother
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 9
</SO>
<CO>
   BV
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   The next time you pick up a James Bond movie at the
world's biggest video chain, the spying may start long before
you turn on the television.
   The Blockbuster Entertainment Corp. chain is quietly
taking advantage of a loophole in the nation's privacy law to
prepare a massive data base of the movies its 30 million
customers rent. It plans to sell information from the data
base next year to direct mailers, for planning
target-marketing campaigns.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many businesses commonly sell their customer lists, but
Blockbuster is one of a small fraction using sophisticated
computers to keep records of each individual's transactions.
Its data base promises to raise especially difficult privacy
issues, for the same reason it should be such a gold mine for
direct mailers: Video choices are among the most revealing
decisions a consumer makes.
   A two-year-old federal law forbids video stores to
disclose the names of movies its customers rent. But the law
permits stores to tell direct marketers "the subject matter"
of movies a customer has rented.
   Blockbuster, whose members represent one out of six
American households, says its data base will be legal because
it will only monitor video categories, not specific titles.
The chain currently organizes its shelves by 37 categories,
and plans to add as many as 30 to 40 more.
   The new categories may be almost as descriptive as movie
titles themselves. Blockbuster says categories under
consideration include James Bond, Police Buddy Movies, and
Slasher Horror. Blockbuster already has such precise headings
as Hitchcock, Elvis, Religious, and "Le Bad Cinema."
   Blockbuster doesn't carry X-rated videos, though it stocks
movies with the new adults-only NC-17 rating.
   Direct-marketers are ravenous for information about
consumers' taste and life styles, because such data help
pinpoint targets for expensive mail campaigns. Blockbuster
envisions selling lists of mystery movie renters to mystery
book clubs, kids movie renters to toy stores, classics
renters to senior-citizen marketers, and many such other
matches.
   "I can turn around and promote all the John Wayne names to
the national Republican Party," says Allan Caplan, the
Blockbuster vice president overseeing the database project.
"We not only will know their tastes in movies -- we'll know
their frequency and that will give us a little more
information about their life style."
   The Fort Lauderdale, Fla., chain also intends to make
heavy use of its data base for its own marketing. Mr. Caplan
says Blockbuster customers will be able to stay off other
mailing lists by checking a box when they sign up for a
membership.
   Even so, the Blockbuster plan worries some civil-liberties
advocates.
   "It seems so directly at odds with the purpose of the
video-privacy bill," says Marc Rotenberg, the Washington
director of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility,
and a former Senate lawyer who helped draft the law. "What
does a privacy law mean, if you can't say he rented the movie
`Misery,' but you can say he rented a suspense thriller by
Stephen King?"
   Congress hastily passed the video privacy bill in 1988,
after a Washington reporter cajoled a video-store clerk into
showing him the rental records of Judge Robert Bork, then up
for confirmation for the U.S. Supreme Court.
   The reporter published his findings in a local weekly,
revealing that the controversial jurist liked Alec Guinness,
Alfred Hitchcock and James Bond movies. The ensuing
legislation immediately became known as the "Bork Bill."
   Since then the subject has virtually disappeared from the
public eye. Meanwhile, advances in computers have made it
easier and cheaper for businesses of many different types to
gather and store customer-by-customer records -- if they can
induce consumers to identify themselves at the cash register.
   For example, Waldenbooks, the giant bookstore chain owned
by K mart Corp., keeps records of members of its 10-month-old
"Preferred Reader" program. Members who pay $10 a year
present a card and receive a 10% discount on books. For 14
cents a name, direct mailers can buy the membership list
complete with address, children's ages, and interest in
romance, self-improvement, sci-fi and five other categories.
Waldenbooks doesn't sell data about specific book titles.
   An even more aggressive data-collector is Staples Inc., a
Newton, Mass., chain of 68 office-supplies stores for small
businesses. Staples customers can get a free "membership"
card simply by filling out a form. Customers who don't
present a card pay 5% more than the posted prices -- a rare
example of penalizing consumers who don't want their
purchase-records to be collected. Staples sells its customer
addresses and professions for six to eight cents a name.
   Systems like these don't always run smoothly. Last month,
Citicorp dismissed about half the staff of a big project to
collect individual shoppers' purchase data at supermarkets.
Citicorp says the expensive program wasn't gathering enough
data to meet its goals.
   Privacy advocates don't dispute the business merits of
these data bases, but they worry that the consequences aren't
adequately disclosed to consumers.
   "The basic principle is that information collected for one
purpose shouldn't be used for another purpose without an
individual's consent," says Mary Culnan, a Georgetown
University business professor specializing in electronic
privacy issues. "Even if people check off a box but they
don't understand how the information is sold, basically
that's violated the principle."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   San Francisco Mayor
   To Sign Weaker Law
   On the Use of VDTs
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Mayor Art Agnos plans to sign a
watered-down version of a city ordinance that requires
employers to provide health safeguards for employees who work
at video display terminals.
   Mr. Agnos met with business and union leaders last
Saturday and obtained general agreement to support six
amendments that limit the ordinance's scope. The amended
rules will be presented to the Board of Supervisors for
approval by Jan. 7, said Paul Chignell, a mayoral aide. Even
in its more-restricted version, the law, which the mayor said
he will sign tomorrow, still is seen as a possible model for
future legislation in other cities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As the use of VDTs has grown, a number of health problems
have been attributed to prolonged use of them. Carpal tunnel
syndrome, a painful wrist ailment; eye strain, lower-back
strain from poorly designed chairs, and concern about the
effects of low-level radiation emitted from the displays have
been the subject of controversy between computer operators
and their employers for a number of years.
   The ordinance requires employers to provide workers with
adjustable seats, monitors and keyboards; sets guidelines for
eliminating screen glare; and requires regular 15-minute
breaks for workers and replacement of substandard equipment.
   Under the amendments the mayor proposed, companies have
four years instead of the originally proposed two years to
replace substandard equipment. Companies will be required to
retrofit substandard computer equipment within 30 months at a
cost of as much as $250 per machine. All new computer
workstations purchased within a year of the adoption of the
Dec. 17 ordinance will have to meet the new standards set by
the ordinance.
   Workers at the Pacific Stock Exchange and operators of
computer-aided design and display machines -- used in
architectural and other design-oriented industries -- are
exempt under the new rules.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Thailand's Copyright
   Enforcement Inquiry
   Is Initiated by U.S.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. initiated an investigation of
Thailand's copyright enforcement practices, U.S. Trade
Representative Carla Hills said.
   The investigation under U.S. trade laws was begun Friday
in response to a petition filed by organizations representing
U.S. copyright interests and alleging piracy of U.S. movies,
music and other copyrighted works.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We have repeatedly expressed our strong concern to Thai
officials at all levels that the rights of U.S. copyright
holders are not adequately safeguarded," Mrs. Hills said.
"Unfortunately, we have seen no improvement in Thailand's
willingness to shut down the considerable illegal copying of
U.S. movies, music, books and computer software, or to ensure
that U.S. companies obtain prompt and effective redress
through Thailand's legal system."
   Mrs. Hills said, "Thailand's stake in improving protection
is considerable, both in terms of attracting desired foreign
investment and ensuring that its own artists and
entrepreneurs receive fair compensation for their efforts."
   The U.S. is seeking to schedule prompt consultations with
the Thai government on the issues raised in the petition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Monitoring Mortgages for Miscalculation
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 13
</SO>
<IN>
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Are your mortgage payments too high?
   It often feels that way for many homeowners, particularly
now, as they try to cut costs in the face of a slowing
economy. But for those with adjustable-rate mortgages, it may
pay to check: Thousands of mortgage holders may actually be
paying more than they should be on variable-rate loans,
because the lenders have miscalculated periodic adjustments
in the monthly payments.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unlike fixed-rate mortgages, which carry the same interest
rate for the term of the loan, the rate on an adjustable
mortgage changes periodically in line with a specific index.
A specified amount, often between two and three percentage
points, is added to the index to determine the mortgage rate.
   Figuring out whether you are being overcharged is fairly
easy, once you have all the information. When there is an
error, "it's usually a question of using the wrong index or
picking the wrong week" in figuring the adjustment, says Paul
Havemann of HSH Associates, a mortgage-information service in
Butler, N.J.
   Most lenders have automated systems to calculate the
adjustments; some concede that there could be clerical errors
in entering the data.
   For borrowers, the hard part of checking the rate on an
adjustable-rate mortgage is often determining just what rate
is used as the index. While federal regulations require that
indexes be publicly available, borrowers still sometimes have
trouble tracking them.
   "You have to read your loan document very carefully to see
exactly what it says," advises Michael Wilson, deputy
director of research for the U.S. League of Savings
Institutions.
   There are indexes based on various Treasury securities,
banks' and thrifts' cost of funds, and even on the London
interbank offered rate -- or Libor. Some indexes are based on
a single date, others are moving averages. Some loans are
adjusted monthly, others every six months, annually or every
three years.
   Besides the index and the frequency of adjustments, the
loan agreement stipulates the maximum change in each
adjustment period and for the life of the loan, as well as
when the new rate is calculated. Lenders generally must
notify mortgage holders of the new rate 45 days before it
takes effect.
   If digging out the papers and looking up interest rates
sounds like more bother than it's worth, keep in mind that a
recent report from the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, said some analysts believe as
many as a quarter of adjustable-rate mortgages may have been
billed incorrectly. Mr. Havemann of HSH Associates says that
between 10% and 20% of the thousands of homeowners who have
called in the past few years seeking help calculating their
payments have found errors.
   Although the GAO said federal law probably doesn't require
lenders to reimburse consumers for any overcharges, some
financial institutions have already issued refunds. HSH says
most lenders probably would give borrowers a choice of having
overpayments credited against their mortgage or receiving a
check for the full amount. The rate would also be adjusted
for future payments.
   Here's a look at some indexes and how to find out about
them.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities. Interest rates on six-month and
one-year Treasury bills and on three-year and five-year
Treasury notes often are used for adjustable-rate mortgage
indexes, particularly on the East Coast. Some lenders take
the rate on a certain day, usually 45 days before adjustment
date; others use a weekly average.
   Rates and yields on Treasury securities are published in
this newspaper and in the business section of many local
papers. The Federal Reserve Board also publishes these
numbers. Individuals can get on the mailing list for the
Fed's release H-15, issued weekly, and G-13, issued monthly,
by contacting the publications office of the Federal Reserve
in Washington. Mr. Wilson of the U.S. League of Savings
recommends getting both. The total cost is $20 a year. (Write
to: Publications Services, Federal Reserve Board, 20th and
Constitution Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20551.)
                                                                                                       

   Cost-of-Funds Indexes. The 11th District Cost of Funds
index, issued monthly by the Federal Home Loan Bank in San
Francisco, is more popular among West Coast lenders. The bank
has a telephone hotline (415-616-2600) with a recorded
announcement giving the index.
   The national median cost of funds is a weighted average
reported monthly by the Office of Thrift Supervision in
Washington. Although the office's toll-free telephone number
has been discontinued, individuals can get on a mailing list
for the monthly release by calling the thrift agency's public
affairs office (202-906-6677).
                                                                                                       

   Libor. The London Interbank Offered Rate, an interbank
lending rate used by London banks on dollar-denominated
deposits, can vary daily. It is published in this newspaper
and in business sections of some local papers.
   The various indexes also are available through several
computerized data bases.
   What happens if after figuring it all out borrowers
discover that they are being undercharged? HSH Associates
says that in most states the lender probably can't bill
mortgage holders for the difference.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Economy's Faulty Barometers
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The end of an old year may be an appropriate moment to
recall an old economist: Arthur F. Burns, who served as
Federal Reserve Board chairman for nearly a decade in the
1960s and 1970s.
   While best remembered for his Fed role, Mr. Burns carried
out many other duties in his long life. These spanned
teaching economics to a young Milton Friedman; serving as
President Eisenhower's chief economist; ambassadorial duty in
Bonn; and heading the National Bureau of Economic Research,
official arbiter of when recessions start and end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's the last of these activities that comes to mind now,
when policy makers in Washington are struggling to limit a
new recession that clearly began in recent weeks but still
awaits the National Bureau's official stamp.
   Mr. Burns's long tenure there ran, with public-service
interruptions, from 1930 to 1967. While there, he stressed
developing data that would help public and private planners
better assess the economy's health and prospects. The
economist, who died at age 83 in 1987, often recalled with
dismay the paucity of such data when the Great Depression set
in.
   "We were flying blind in those years," he said. He would
have welcomed a federal effort to maintain a broad
job-vacancy series, and he was distressed that some
barometers, such as the rate at which workers were quitting
their jobs, were being scrapped in cost-reduction drives he
labeled "penny wise and pound foolish."
   An unfolding paradox brings Mr. Burns's concern about
economic data to mind now. The statistical barometers on
which policy makers rely for early signs of trouble in
general have performed poorly, giving little warning that a
recession was imminent. As a result, efforts in Washington to
limit the downturn, such as moving to easier money at the
Fed, have been woefully slow in materializing. This
tardiness, in turn, could allow a deeper, longer slump than
might otherwise occur.
   To be sure, no economic barometer could have signaled the
Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the consequent surge in oil
prices. But Geoffrey Moore, the director of Columbia
University's Center for International Business Cycle Research
and a top authority on such matters, reckons in retrospect
that the new recession began as long ago as June, well before
the Iraqi move. Yet, economic planners in the Bush
administration, as well as Fed chairman Alan Greenspan, were
still forecasting recession-free growth as late as November.
   By no coincidence, the Fed showed little inclination to
ease monetary policy. Compounding matters is the rising sea
of fiscal red ink that gives pause to the sorts of federal
tax-cutting and boosts in spending that typically play a
recession-fighting role. Of late, in fact, the trend has been
toward higher taxes, particularly at state and local levels,
and curbs on outlays.
   The inadequacy of the nation's economic "radar" can be
seen, among other places, in the behavior of the Commerce
Department's index of leading indicators in recent months.
Since World War II, the index has entered sustained declines
some 10 months, on average, before recessions have set in.
But this time the index was continuing to rise as recently as
June.
   A closer look at the index shows its serious shortcomings,
which partly stem from what Mr. Burns would call penny wise
and pound foolish cutbacks at the statistics mills. (Since
1985, federal outlays for economic and statistical analysis
have fallen about $4 million, or about 10%.)
   One of the index's 11 components -- initial claims for
unemployment insurance -- often tends to move up or down
coincidentally with general business activity, rather than in
advance. The indicator was rising as the 1981-82 recession
struck and falling as the 1973-75 recession ended. It serves
as a leading indicator only because, to pare spending on
data-collection, the government some years ago discontinued
several labor-oriented series -- including the labor layoff
rate, which faithfully led the economy's ups and downs. A
substitute series that was also linked to labor was needed
and the unemployment-insurance measure was deemed closest to
filling the bill.
   While some 75% of the labor force now holds service-type
jobs, the only other index component that bears directly on
labor is the average workweek for production workers in
manufacturing industries. Of the remaining nine components,
five monitor manufacturing, ranging from the level of
unfilled orders in durable-goods industries to the new-order
rate for manufacturers of consumer goods. A measure of
building permits for new homes is the sole component gauging
housing activity, a hugely important economic sector.
   The remaining components are all of questionable value as
leading indicators.
   The stock market, as mirrored in the monthly averages of
the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index, was severely tarnished
as a barometer after its colossal false alarm in 1987. A
measure of "consumer expectations," based on surveys by the
University of Michigan, has a checkered record as a leading
indicator. It has fallen steadily before some recessions,
such as the moderate downturn of 1969-70, but risen just
before others, such as the severe 1981-82 recession.
   The remaining component is a money-supply indicator -- the
broad M2 money gauge, adjusted for inflation. It also shows
an erratic performance, falling sharply before the mild,
short recession of 1980 but no worse than flat as the 1981-82
recession approached. The indicator "is poorly designed" to
reflect a tightening of credit, since it focuses more on "how
the public wants to hold money," says PaineWebber's Maury
Harris. There are no interest-rate gauges in the index.
   Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a monthly newsletter based
in Sedona, Ariz., recently asked some 50 prominent
forecasters whether they felt that the government's "economic
statistical gathering system has deteriorated significantly
over the past decade." Seventy-six percent believed this to
be the case, 17% were "not certain" and only 7% disagreed.
   The survey also sought suggestions on how the government
might improve its data. Sixty-five percent of the Blue Chip
economists urged "increased funding" to improve "the quality
and timeliness of the data." Other popular suggestions
included more coordination between the various federal
agencies that collect and supply data, a greater effort to
gather information about the economy's growing service
sector, more comprehensive data on international
transactions, greater personal contact between Washington's
data-gatherers and those who supply information, and more
attention to the so-called underground economy, comprising
legal and illegal off-the-books transactions.
   All are suggestions Arthur Burns would have endorsed. His
presence is sorely missed now, as Washington belatedly
scrambles to contain a new recession.
   ---
   Mr. Malabre is this paper's economic news editor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Continue
   To Slide, Particularly
   At Major Brokerages
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 31
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields on certificates of deposit continued to
slide in the latest week, with the biggest declines coming on
CDs sold by major brokerage firms.
   The average yield on small-denomination, three-month CDs
sold directly by banks slipped under 7% in the latest week,
according to an 18-bank national survey by Banxquote Money
Markets, a New York information service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The three-month average eased to 6.93% Monday, from 6.99%
last Thursday and 7.01% the previous Tuesday, Banxquote
reported. The average yield on five-year consumer CDs
declined to 7.62% Monday from 7.68% the previous Tuesday.
   Average yields for large-denomination CDs, which typically
require deposits of $90,000 or more, also eased. The average
yield on six-month jumbo CDs declined to 7.12% from 7.16% the
previous Tuesday, while the average yield for five-year
jumbos declined to 7.73% from 7.81%.
   The decline in yields was most noticeable at major
brokerage firms, which negotiate CD rates with banks and then
sell the CDs to brokerage customers. The average yields on
small-denomination six-month CDs sold by leading
broker-dealers declined to 7.52% from 7.67% the previous
Tuesday, while the average yield for five-year broker-sold
CDs declined to 7.73% from 8.15%, according to Banxquote.
   Banxquote's usual Tuesday survey was conducted on Monday
because of the Christmas holiday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Italian Government Facing Decision
   On an Early Deregulation of Airlines
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.ALI
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROME -- Italian Transport Minister Carlo Bernini has been
thrown a hot potato. He must decide whether to unleash
airline competition in Italy now or wait until 1993, when new
European Community rules will mandate freer airline
competition throughout the 12-member EC.
   The issue landed in Mr. Bernini's office in September,
with the expiration of Alitalia Airlines' government-granted
concessions to fly on domestic and international routes. A
handful of carriers seized on the expiration to ask for
scheduled route concessions in Italy and internationally. Mr.
Bernini must now decide, in renewing the 81% state-owned flag
carrier's mandate, whether to allow other Italian airlines to
compete with Alitalia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Like so many business issues in Italy, this one involves
politics as well as the bottom line. Mr. Bernini's decision
will affect troubled Alitalia's financial health and its work
force, the survival and growth of secondary Italian airlines
and, not least, the opportunities for travelers to get a
better deal.
   "In the U.S., one person out of three flies once a year,"
says Mauro Dutto, a transport-committee member of Italy's
Chamber of Deputies. "In Italy, it's one person out of 50.
Our railway is in crisis. Our highways are overcrowded. We
have to develop these air relations."
   Not everyone agrees. "The private airlines are really
pushing for deregulation," says Nicolao Denobili, an airline
analyst for Cimo, a Milan brokerage firm. "But for the
Italian government, there is a lot of pressure to keep things
the way they are."
   In Italy, there is visceral opposition to cuts in funding
that could jeopardize public employment and expose protected
state enterprises to competition. At a time when
privatization is the watchword world-wide, Italy is still
nationalizing industries. And the country often is a laggard
in implementing EC rules. "Italians -- the government and
politicians -- are the best Europeans in Europe," says
Maurizio Codurri, a Milan-based lawyer who does some aviation
work. "But we hardly apply all the European regulations. We
say one thing and do another."
   Against this backdrop, Mr. Bernini must decide whether to
go the route of a few other EC states and allow second
airlines to fly to major EC cities in competition with the
flag carrier, something that will be possible in any case
after 1992. He might also stick with the status quo, give
Alitalia two more years of protection and frustrate the
aspirations of a clutch of newcomers. Or he could find a
compromise.
   Mr. Bernini and his staff declined to be interviewed. But
Federico Quaranta, director-general of the Italian Civil
Aviation Authority, says he expects that a plan will emerge
in two or three months. "The minister is sensitive to the new
situation in the European market," notes Mr. Quaranta, who
also suggests that Alitalia will probably lose some of its
grip on domestic routes and that and a few other airlines
will be licensed on internal and international routes. "This
is the moment when change has to come."
   Even now, money-losing Alitalia doesn't have the entire
Italian domestic market to itself. Some 10% of the business
is held by Alisarda, a Sardinian carrier controlled by the
Aga Khan. But profitable Alisarda operates with the tacit
approval of Alitalia and held government-granted route
concessions before they expired along with Alitalia's in
September.
   The two airlines jointly own a commuter carrier called
Avianova. Alisarda's launch of a Rome-Milan shuttle service
in March -- an event billed as a competition breakthrough --
essentially is a subcontract from Alitalia and the two must
charge identical prices. Even Alisarda's hope of setting up a
base in Florence and flying to European cities isn't seen as
a threat to Alitalia, because Florence has a short runway and
the national airline's planes are too large to land there.
   Apart from Alisarda, the few remaining Italian regional
airlines -- TAS Airways, Transavio, Air Dolomites and
Aliadriatica -- are insignificant. And the list of those that
went out of business is long.
   On many routes, Alitalia does have the market to itself.
For a traveler wishing to fly from Pisa to Palermo, there is
only one choice: Alitalia's commuter subsidiary ATI. From
Genoa to Rome, again the only possibility is Alitalia. "I fly
almost every week," says Kevin Tempestini, who follows the
airline industry for the Milan merchant bank Euromobiliare.
"And I never even saw any Alisarda planes."
   For Italians who fly abroad, the situation isn't much
different. Aside from some charter airline offerings, the odd
commuter connection from a provincial center to a nearby
country and Alisarda's summer routes to Europe from Sardinia,
Alitalia has an exclusive franchise on international routes
out of Italy. Thus, the choice is Alitalia or the airline
from the destination country.
   "We are still in a monopoly situation," says Mr. Codurri,
the Milan lawyer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   DDB Compensation Plan Gets Slow Start
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   OMC T UT
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Clients aren't stampeding to sign up for DDB Needham's
daring compensation plan -- despite the advertising agency's
promise of "guaranteed" results.
   In a proposal it hailed as groundbreaking just last
spring, the Omnicom Group unit offered clients a rebate of as
much as 30% off a negotiated base rate if they agreed to a
long list of tough conditions and if specific results weren't
reached. Clients were to pay DDB Needham a bonus for meeting
those goals, such as specific sales increases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   DDB Needham presented the compensation idea to its 55 U.S.
and Canadian clients. So far, about five small clients have
enrolled, but not one major company has endorsed the plan.
And rival agencies were skeptical from the outset, deriding
the idea as a publicity gimmick.
   Negotiated incentive and bonus systems have become more
common on Madison Avenue in recent years as a measure of
agency performance and as a substitute for the once-standard
15% commission of a client's ad budget. Agencies rarely try
to guarantee results, however.
   The Omnicom plan "has been a limited success," conceded
Bruce Crawford, Omnicom president and chief executive
officer, after an analysts' presentation in New York two
weeks ago. But "it has had tremendous success in focusing
discussions on agency performance."
   Although the agency's own research suggests nearly 88% of
its clients aren't even interested in the plan, DDB Needham
is now pushing the plan harder among prospective clients.
According to DDB Needham, more than one-third of the
prospects have expressed interest, and the agency, like most
nowadays, needs to use every possible lure to attract new
business.
   DDB Needham President John Bernbach, trying to accentuate
the positive, says he's "real pleased" with would-be clients'
level of interest, adding, "we're ready to go when anybody is
ready to go." Mr. Bernbach says the program should get a
boost next year because the heads of DDB Needham offices in
cities such as New York, Los Angeles and Chicago have pledged
to sign up two or three clients apiece during 1991.
   But officials at competing agencies believe the scant
acceptance justifies their initial skepticism about the plan.
"I told {DDB Needham executives} in the beginning" that it
wouldn't work because "they wanted control of everything,"
recalls Philip H. Geier, chairman and chief executive of
Interpublic Group, parent of the McCann-Erickson and Lintas
agencies.
   Among other things, DDB Needham initially insisted that it
be given total, unquestioned control over a client's entire
marketing program -- including work done by outside
public-relations, direct-mail and other unrelated marketing
firms.
   Major clients apparently have resisted the plan because
they feared the loss of established relations with other
marketing services. Notes the chief of one midsized agency:
"It's extremely hard to quantify incentives and to give your
{ad} agency total control of your marketing."
   DDB Needham now may be backing away from demanding
complete control, however. Peter Tate, a DDB Needham account
executive, says that the agency never expected clients to
abdicate their marketing responsibilities, but that it still
does insist that they use solely the agency's creative ideas
in direct marketing and similar promotional efforts. For an
interested company, another DDB Needham account executive
says, "we would try to find a middle ground where the client
could have his vote" in overseeing marketing.
   That's the case with Olympus. Last month, the U.S.
consumer-products arm of Japan's Olympus Optical picked DDB
Needham's New York office to handle the estimated $12.5
million account for its 35mm cameras. Olympus probably will
decide by mid-January whether to adopt the "guaranteed
results" program, says David Willard, the Olympus unit's
senior vice president of marketing.
   But the DDB Needham proposal wouldn't give the agency
total control over marketing the cameras. The issue, Mr.
Willard says, "was never even part of the original
discussions."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   PHONE ADS: American Telephone &amp; Telegraph should drop or
modify its ad claims about "wasted" set-up time for
long-distance calls, the National Advertising Review Board
ruled. Rival US Sprint, a unit of United Telecommunications,
had challenged an AT&amp;T ad that claimed: "On average, MCI and
US Sprint take over 50% longer than AT&amp;T to set up long
distance calls. When you multiple that 50% difference by the
number of calls a large company makes a year, it comes out to
hundreds of wasted work hours if you use MCI or US Sprint."
US Sprint said the ruling backed its argument that the claim
was "blown out of proportion." AT&amp;T said it will take the
NARB's concerns into account, but "we will probably continue
to emphasize the speed of our call set-up time." The board,
the appeals arm of the Council of Better Business Bureau's
National Advertising Division, upheld other AT&amp;T claims about
set-up time.
                                                                                                       

   MAGAZINE REVENUES: Total magazine advertising revenues
dropped 1.04% in November from a year earlier, while ad pages
fell 5.46%, according to the Publishers Information Bureau.
So far this year, ad revenues were up a marginal 1.44%, but
ad pages declined 3.97%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Deukmejian Boom
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<LP>
   California Governor George Deukmejian shortly will join
Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher in private life. As he
leaves the helm of the world's eighth-largest economy, the
liberal pundits say his state is in disarray. His eight years
in office have been much like those of the nation at large
over the same years: explosive growth and change, divided
government and, in the end, malaise.
   In some ways, California has simply been more manic.
Already a megastate, it grew by fully a quarter in the past
decade. Much of that influx came from abroad: Mexico,
especially, and East Asia, but also in large numbers from
places you might not expect, such as Iran and India. As late
as 1982, more citizens were naturalized in New York state,
but now California has twice as many yearly. In the years
1982-88, foreigners accounted for 1.1 million of California's
3.6 million new residents. The smaller number doesn't include
children born after their parents' arrival.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Much as we like to see the doors to opportunity in this
country open, there's no denying the tumult that accompanies
large-scale immigration. Urban schools are jammed, hospital
emergency rooms become doctor's offices of first resort,
uninsured motorists contribute to traffic havoc and, yes,
some newcomers are disposed to long-term welfare and crime.
Where Californians sense wear and tear on their society, much
of it is caused by demographics beyond the control of any
Governor.
   Mr. Deukmejian nevertheless prided himself on prudent
governance, and the state's high bond rating testifies to it.
In some areas, such as mental facilities and thrift
supervision, managerial corners were cut. But with all the
California commotion came a remarkably pliant and robust
economy; one in every seven new American jobs was to be found
there. But prosperity isn't purely a natural phenomenon; it
can be squashed under a load of taxes and regulation. Under
politically difficult conditions, George Deukmejian mostly
acted to check that burden.
   He was not considered the conservative choice when first
nominated in 1982, having initially opposed the tax revolt
that began to sweep the state four years earlier. But he
acted to safeguard most of the tax-relief measures that put
California's burden near the middle of the 50 states instead
of the top. And beginning with his first budget, he showed
the tremendous power that a line-item veto can wield. He
lopped $6.8 billion from state spending in that manner.
   As with Ronald Reagan's presidency, the liberals have
never forgiven Mr. Deukmejian's refusal to allow them a
general tax increase. They call this a failure of leadership.
Yet with the Democratic Legislature, state spending grew by
double-digit percentages for most of his term.
   The Governor did make one major concession -- in our view,
a mistaken and fateful one. This past June, he led a
"bipartisan" drive to double the state's gasoline tax and
relax its constitutional limits on spending. He did so
because he believed it was the only way to gain significant
highway improvements and provide some budgetary leeway the
schools lobby had sought to deny him. With Democrats backing
the plan, it carried narrowly and briefly gave rise to
tax-revolt obituaries around the country.
   Like others across the nation, Mr. Deukmejian's
transportation department has opened up to market-oriented
approaches to cutting congestion, but as long as freeways are
expanded they will continue to fill up because they are . . .
free. Meanwhile, with the Governor's partial blessing,
California has set off on a rail-transit binge that will cost
taxpayers dearly before it is over.
   Mr. Deukmejian is a former prosecutor, and his heart has
always been in putting criminals behind bars. He and other
factors have had enormous impact in that area -- California's
prison population has tripled, the number of supervised
parolees quadrupled. Yet the justice system buckles under the
caseload weight, many arrestees walk, and the state may not
end up a good test of whether locking up large numbers on
drug-related charges will improve society's lot.
   On many other issues, the Governor has greatly deferred to
the traditional Republican constituency of organized
business. Where that orientation has led him to contest a
culture of overregulation and high ancillary costs such as
workers' comp and torts, his restraint has helped the broader
entrepreneurial climate.
   The Governor's admirable fortitude in so often saying
"no," however, was not always complemented by imaginative,
affirmative policies to enhance liberty. Empowerment
initiatives have yet to gain a powerful voice in California.
For all his battles with the education claque, Mr. Deukmejian
wouldn't take up the choice mantle. And his best shot at
shelter for the masses was billions in "affordable housing"
bonds. We suspect a "new paradigm" is likely to prove
necessary to break free from entrenched poverty, stagflation
and crime.
   Still, California's outgoing chief executive strikes a
model politicians in other states and future times should
ponder. In the course of the political horse trading that
will accompany and often dilute bold concepts, voters are
also going to value officials with the steadfast, quiet
conservatism George Deukmejian embodied.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP MDEST FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
BANKS (BNK)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DUTCH HOSTAGE CONTROVERSY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Netherlands plans to charge nationals held hostage for
months in Baghdad for the cost of their hotels, but the
former captives say they won't pay.
   "We'll organize as a group against it," one angry former
hostage, identified only as L. Roskam, was quoted as telling
a Dutch newspaper. The Dutch Foreign Ministry said it didn't
yet know the total cost of the hostages' involuntary stay in
Baghdad but had already been billed for about $47,000 by
hotels.
   "The hostages were offered accommodation in Dutch
Embassy-owned buildings, which would have been free, but most
did not take up the offer, so we will pass on to them the
cost of their hotel bills," a ministry spokeswoman said.
   About 160 Dutch hostages were held in Iraq, but 105 of
them were sailors who lived aboard dredgers under contract to
deepen the navigation channel to the southern Iraqi port of
Umm Qasr.
                                                                                                       

   IN FRANCE, A HOLIDAY WARNING
                                                                                                       

   A French radio station warned New Year revelers to beware
of flying champagne corks. "Eye trauma by champagne cork is
the main cause of eyes lost in this country," radio
France-Infos told listeners in a list of holiday safety tips.
"You aim the bottle in jest at someone near you when opening
it and -- pop -- off it goes into their eye or into yours."
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG TOURISM IMPROVES
                                                                                                       

   Tourist arrivals in Hong Kong totaled 5.4 million in the
year's first 11 months, the Hong Kong Tourist Association
said. That figure was up 10% from the same period in 1989,
when tourism to the region fell sharply following the
suppression of China's democracy movement. Despite the marked
growth in tourism so far this year, visits by North
Americans, considered to be among the biggest spenders, were
off 2%. The numbers of tourists from Japan and Taiwan, who
together account for more than two-fifths of all visitors,
were up 13% and 18%, respectively.
                                                                                                       

   ILLEGAL SOVIET PAYMENTS
                                                                                                       

   The Soviet State Bank warned foreign banks and financial
institutions not to accept illegal payments in rubles from
Soviet banks and businesses. The bank said Soviet enterprises
have recently tried to make tens of billions of rubles of
payments to foreign companies, claiming they have the
government's backing. Soviet law forbids anyone, be it an
individual or a business, from exporting more than 30 rubles
without special permission. The Soviet Union is concerned
about an accumulation of rubles abroad, which could be dumped
back into the economy without notice.
                                                                                                       

   `COME TO ISRAEL'
                                                                                                       

   Israel's ambassador to Bonn, Benjamin Navon, said Israel
was troubled that Soviet Jews fleeing anti-Semitism and
dismal living conditions were streaming to newly united
Germany. In an interview with the Berlin daily Neue Zeit, Mr.
Navon said the Soviet Jews' fleeing to Germany "is contrary
to the Zionist position that since the state of Israel has
existed, there can be no more Jewish refugees in the world."
He added: "The issue of refugees is totally unacceptable for
us. If they leave the Soviet Union, they should come to their
old and new homeland Israel, where they are wanted and
loved."
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDONESIA
                                                                                                       

   Indonesia has approved $8.7 billion of foreign investments
in 1990, a jump of 84% over the 1989 figure, the chairman of
the nation's Coordinating Investment Board said. Sanyoto
Sastrowardoyo said Japan was the biggest foreign investor in
Indonesia in the period, with a total investment of $2.23
billion in 75 projects. Following were Hong Kong with $993.3
million in 36 projects, South Korea with $720.9 million in 85
projects and Taiwan with $616 million in 93 projects.
                                                                                                       

   DRUG SWEEP IN IRAN
                                                                                                       

   More than 1,900 alleged drug traffickers and 16,000
addicts were arrested in Iran in a five-week nationwide
sweep, Tehran Radio reported.
   The broadcast quoted the Komiteh, the organization
responsible for internal security, as saying that more than
1,653 pounds of various drugs were confiscated in the
crackdown. The radio said 57 guns and 80 vehicles also were
seized.
   Iranian law calls for a mandatory death sentence for
possession of drugs. More than 1,500 people accused of drug
trafficking have been hanged in the past two years, and more
than 100,000 people accused of being addicts have been sent
to hard labor camps.
   Iranian opposition groups and independent human-rights
organizations maintain the executions actually are carried
out to crush political opposition.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The South Korean government marked Christmas by releasing
470 prisoners and juvenile delinquents in a general amnesty,
the Justice Ministry said. However, political prisoners and
those jailed for organized crime, drug use and burglary were
excluded from the special pardon. . . . Albania plans to make
its police independent from the ruling Communists as part of
the country's conversion to democracy after four decades of
Stalinism. "We will be independent and act according to the
laws and not according to the orders of the party," said
Police Commander Bajram Yzeri in Albania's capital city of
Tirana.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Decertifying Stock Certificates
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The familiar curlicued and embossed stock certificate has
long been the financial world's bow to artistry. These proofs
of ownership come in all shapes and colors, some so
beautifully designed that they are suitable for framing,
though they usually end up in safe-deposit boxes.
   In today's 24-hour world of international stock markets,
the new high art is writing the computer software to speed
transactions. Stock certificates are destined to go the way
of carbon paper; for all nostalgia, paperless stock trading
is inevitable. The only question is how soon.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key issue is the time it takes to process
transactions. The U.S. now requires five days for the actual
exchange of cash for stock, but industry leaders think that
within a few years the international standard will be three
days. An international group of bankers and brokers called
the Group of 30 issued a report this past summer highlighting
the cost savings from abolishing certificates.
   One part of the problem is that the settlement and
clearance of securities trades has become a two-class system.
Institutional investors do their trades by modem, but retail
customers still rely on the mail. The 1987 stock crash caused
special back-room problems for firms that clear trades
because of the added risk of a high number of unsettled
transactions in a volatile market.
   Among the few voices that have objected to moving toward
paperless securities trading are brokerage houses that want
to keep the float created when customers pay before the
required date. It's hard to imagine that many investors would
prefer having to worry about physical certificates when a
computer entry seems at least as reliable. Mutual funds don't
issue certificates, but haven't found this is any problem
with investors. The U.S. government still manages to attract
even the most old-fashioned investors even though it offers
Treasuries only in book-entry form.
   The Securities and Exchange Commission seems to be of two
minds. SEC Commissioner Mary Schapiro has backed the idea,
especially because Europe plans three-day clearances by 1992.
SEC Chairman Richard Breeden, however, says he wants
investors to have the option of physical certificates. This
would allow only some of the efficiencies of book entry. One
possibility is to charge a fee to anyone who wants a
certificate, which probably would quickly reduce the number
of certificates.
   We have a compromise proposal. By all means we should have
required computerized entry for stock ownership and trading,
but there's no reason to deprive investors of all concrete
evidence of ownership. Brokerages could send the
confirmations of stock transactions in the form of
computer-generated stock certificates -- curlicues and all.
These would not be legal tender, but sometimes the road of
progress seems easier if you keep an old friend along for the
ride.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   AST Bucks Gloomy Trend in Computers
   ---
   Agile Moves Lift Firm
   From Clone-Maker Ranks
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   ASTA
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Conventional wisdom suggests that the
computer industry eventually will come to be dominated by a
small number of companies, as is the case in the auto
industry.
   The case of AST Research Inc. suggests otherwise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While high-tech mergers are back in the news with American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s attempt to take over NCR Corp.,
and with a raft of aging computer concerns retrenching, some
younger computer manufacturers are growing rapidly, reaping
the rewards of building relatively inexpensive computers
around standard designs and powerful microprocessors.
   The performance of AST, an up-and-down company that lately
has hit its stride, illustrates why the ranks of computer
makers will probably remain thick for some years. The company
is a textbook case of how to build market share quickly by
developing a variety of computers that blend the latest
me-too features with appealing variations, then pricing them
aggressively.
   AST's growth, meanwhile, suggests that International
Business Machines Corp., Apple Computer Inc. and Compaq
Computer Corp. may not have the elite segment of the personal
computer industry to themselves forever.
   "AST has pulled away from the pack of second-tier"
personal computer companies and, in some corporate accounts,
is challenging the top trio, said Andrew Neff, an analyst at
Bear, Stearns &amp; Co.
   Indeed, AST said last week that earnings for its fiscal
second quarter ending Dec. 28 will nearly double, exceeding
expectations and driving the stock up 21% to close at $32 a
share, a 52-week high. AST stock closed Monday at $33.50,
down 25 cents, in national over-the-counter trading.
   It isn't likely AST can find a home in the top ranks of
the PC industry any time soon. Its future depends on the
reception given various new computers. And the company has
stumbled in the past, posting a loss less than two years ago.
Yet AST seems to have shed its image as a "clone maker," a
pejorative reference to those bare-bones PC suppliers who
merely knock off the most popular features of brandname
makers and sell them cheap.
   AST has won the business of many large purchasers of PCs
through a string of skillful moves such as the following:
   -- It introduced in July 1989 a line of PCs with
replaceable microprocessors, allowing customers to benefit
from improvements in processing speeds without discarding
their entire machine. The feature is such a hit that even
rivals such as IBM are adopting it.
   -- It began selling in Japan this fall a machine
compatible with NEC Corp.'s personal computer, which
dominates Japan's market but is incompatible with the IBM PC.
Some observers consider AST's effort the most ambitious by
any U.S. concern competing in Japan's tough PC market.
   -- It introduced in October a PC powered by Intel Corp.'s
top 486 chip for $4,000, less than half the price of
comparable machines from IBM and Compaq.
   -- It unveiled last month its first notebook computer,
with features similar to Compaq's model but at a price tag
half the size. Neither Apple nor IBM offer notebook models at
all.
   By such steps, "AST has demonstrated they are not a clone
company; they are an engineering firm with the resources to
produce quality products," said William O'Kelly, an
information manager for Sony Corp.'s Columbia Pictures unit,
which has bought hundreds of AST models in the past 18
months.
   AST opened it doors 10 years ago, the brainchild of three
immigrant engineers who saw a chance to make a fortune
selling add-ons to IBM's original PC. The company began
making devices that connected the PC to mainframe and
minicomputers, then in 1983 hit it big with a product called
SixPakPlus, which expanded the number of peripherals that
could plug into the PC and increased its memory, allowing
users to run larger programs on their machines. Over the next
three years, AST's revenues went from $12.7 million to $138.6
million.
   But just before the add-on business began to deteriorate
because IBM and others started shipping PCs with greater
amounts of memory and more slots for peripherals, AST opted
to build its own PCs.
   "We realized the writing was on the wall (for add-on
companies) and that we were vulnerable," said Albert Wong, a
cofounder who left the company two years ago. "We knew we had
to go into (PCs) or face the consequences of slowing growth."
   The company got off to a strong start, offering PCs with
Intel's lastest microprocessor and "matching Compaq (the
pacesetter among IBM-compatibles) machine for machine," said
Stewart Alsop, editor of PC Letter.
   But AST stumbled in late 1988 because of an initial
failure to match a new Compaq feature and because of costs
tied to its departure from much of its board business. For
its fiscal year ended June 30, 1989, it posted its first loss
and laid off 6% of its work force.
   The reversal caused soul-searching among AST's three
founders. Mr. Wong departed, leaving the company in the hands
of its other two founders, Safi Qureshey and Thomas Yuen.
Rather than continue trying to match Compaq stride for
stride, Mr. Qureshey and Mr. Yuen decided to launch a new
product line that would allow customers to simply plug in the
latest, fastest microprocessor while retaining the rest of
their machine.
   The move was a hit with customers and the new line helped
AST hold down costs, another key to its current strength.
Executives now boast that the company can undercut prices
significantly on IBM and Compaq machines because its costs
are low.
   Indeed, AST's spending could be too low in some areas. In
its latest complete fiscal year, ended June 30, AST spent a
mere $18.4 million on research and development, or 3.4% of
revenue. But while many other computer makers spend twice, or
even three times as much, AST appears to be getting plenty
for its money.
   AST has hit some snags along the way. In April, the
company won kudos for planning an assault on the heart of
Japan's PC market. It had designed a machine compatible with
those sold by market-leader NEC and planned to sell it under
the brand name of a major Japanese electronics concern such
as Sharp. Eight months later, AST still intends to compete in
Japan with its products, but powerful Japanese companies have
shunned it and now AST must peddle its wares using its own,
largely unknown label.
   According to Mr. Yuen, AST's greatest strength lies in its
ties to a cadre of sophisticated computer resellers in the
U.S. While most other second-tier PC makers have left their
fortunes in the hands of traditional storefront retailers,
AST gets a hefty slice of its sales from so-called
value-added resellers, which often are chosen to outfit
corporations with PCs.
   That tie-in puts AST in position to exploit the weaknesses
of such ailing minicomputer makers as Wang Laboratories Inc.
and Data General Corp. Networks of PCs are increasingly
replacing older minicomputers that support a number of dumb
terminals. As that shift occurs, resellers who have
specialized in minicomputers are scrambling to adopt PC
makers.
   Still, AST almost lost the loyalty of its value-added
resellers a few years back. "In 1987-88, we made some major
blunders" by slighting smaller dealers in a misguided bid to
win points with major retail chains, Mr. Yuen said.
   "A lot of (retailers) told us they could make us," added
Mr. Qureshey. "You don't build a company that way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Calton Inc.:
   Pact Reached With Lenders
   Revising $85 Million Credit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<CO>
   CN
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Calton Inc., Freehold, N.J., said it reached an accord
with lenders that would revise its $85 million secured credit
agreement by restructuring it and extending the term.
   Under the proposed restructuring, the interest rate on its
borrowings will rise to half a percentage point above the
prime rate from the current one-quarter of a point over the
prime, and the method of determining how much may be borrowed
will be changed. The revised agreement also prohibits Calton,
a housing developer, from paying dividends, incurring
additional debt or acquiring additional land without the
lending group's consent, except under certain circumstances.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The accord is conditioned on, among other things, Calton
entering into a definitive agreement to exchange certain
properties and joint-venture interests for about $18 million
face amount of its 16 5/8% senior subordinated notes by Jan.
10. Calton has said it has a nonbinding letter of intent to
acquire the notes and expects to have a definitive agreement
with the holder of the notes by Monday.
   The accord with lenders would extend the credit agreement
until Dec. 1, 1991, from April 30, 1991.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- U.S. Home Corp.:
   Some Debt Retired, Accord
   Is Set on Paying Off More
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 19
</SO>
<CO>
   UH
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   U.S. Home Corp. said that during the fourth quarter, it
retired $10 million principal amount of subordinated debt and
agreed to retire an additional $11.5 million of subordinated
debt and $7.5 million of senior debt.
   The Houston-based home builder said the agreement involves
two institutional holders and provides for exchanging the
debt for certain real property and mortgage notes not being
used in the current business operations. Completion of the
transactions will result in annual interest savings of more
than $3.9 million, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said that, in connection with continuing
discussions with its banks on restructuring its $156 million
credit agreement, the banks have agreed to reschedule to Feb.
1 a $5 million amortization payment that was due Dec. 17.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Oregon Steel Mills Inc.
   Company Planning to Offer
   2.5 Million Shares to Public
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   OS
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oregon Steel Mills Inc. said it plans a public offering of
2.5 million shares. Proceeds will be used to repay short-term
bank debt, fund capital expenditures and for other general
corporate purposes, which may include working capital and
acquisitions.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the Portland, Ore., company said the offering will be managed
by Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and PaineWebber Inc., and includes an
option that allows the underwriters to purchase as many as
375,000 additional shares for covering any over allotments,
if any.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In composite trading Monday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Oregon Steel's stock closed at $22.25 a share, down
$1.75.
   Oregon Steel produces steel plate and large-diameter steel
pipe and has facilities in Portland, Ore., and Fontana and
Napa, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Southwestern Bell Corp.:
   Manager Cuts to Reduce
   Quarter Net by $36 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 2
</SO>
<CO>
   SBC
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Southwestern Bell Corp., St. Louis, said its
fourth-quarter net income will be cut by about $36 million,
or 12 cents a share, as a result of one-time payments to
about 1,100 managers who participated in a plan to reduce the
company's management ranks.
   In the year-earlier quarter, the company earned $297.2
million, or 99 cents a share, on revenue of $2.32 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the number of participants in the plan
was in line with its expectations. In October, the company
offered managers on its corporate staff, as well as managers
at Southwestern Bell Telephone and Southwestern Bell Yellow
Pages, as much as one year's salary if they left the company
by year end.
   Southwestern Bell said it will report results for the
fourth quarter and the year in late January.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Monday,
Southwestern Bell shares closed at $56.375, down 25 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Nelson Holdings'
   Entertainment Sets
   Purchase by Swid
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<CO>
   NNH T.NNH T.NVT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- The New York financier Stephen C. Swid
signed a letter of intent to acquire Nelson Entertainment
Group Inc. for $30 million in cash and notes and the
assumption of $186 million in debt.
   As part of the transaction, Mr. Swid also would infuse $30
million of capital into the ailing entertainment company,
which is the principal operating subsidiary of Toronto-based
NHI Nelson Holdings International Ltd. Like many other
Hollywood independents, Nelson Entertainment has fallen on
hard times and been searching for an investor to bail it out.
For the nine months ended Sept. 30, Nelson Holdings had a net
loss of $12.1 million, or $3.33 a share, on revenue of $54
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Swid is chairman and chief executive officer of SCS
Communications Inc., which owns Cinecom Entertainment Group,
Spin magazine and the textbook publisher Westview Press. For
the past two years, he has been hunting for an ailing movie
company to buy at bargain-basement prices, but was
unsuccessful in attempts to acquire Qintex Entertainment Inc.
and the now-bankrupt Weintraub Entertainment Group.
   Mr. Swid began investing in entertainment companies after
building his fortune in carpeting and furniture makers. In
1986, he and two partners paid CBS Inc. $125 million for CBS
Songs, with a 250,000-title library that includes classics
such as "Over the Rainbow" and "Singin' in the Rain," and
contemporary hits by James Taylor and Marvin Gaye. Three
years later, the group turned around and sold the music
publishing business to Thorn EMI for $337 million.
   An acquisition of Nelson Entertainment would give Mr. Swid
home-video distribution rights in North America to an
800-title library, including feature films and children's and
music programming, and distribution in North American
home-video markets and all international markets of films
co-produced with Castle Rock Entertainment, including the hit
"When Harry Met Sally" and the current thriller "Misery."
   Under terms of the letter of intent, a newly created
company controlled by Mr. Swid would pay $5 million in cash;
a $5 million note due within one year and secured by a lien
on all of Nelson Entertainment's assets; and a $20 million,
seven-year note, which would be non-interest-bearing and
subject to prepayment under certain conditions after March
31, 1992.
   In addition, Mr. Swid's new company would assume Nelson
Entertainment's debt outstanding of about $166 million --
including $108 million it owes under a credit facility with
its principal lender, Credit Lyonnais Bank Nederland N.V. --
plus $20 million of Nelson Holdings' debt under a secured
convertible debenture issue, due March 31, 1992.
   The agreement also would give Mr. Swid's new company a
five-year warrant to acquire 5% of Nelson Holdings' 69%-owned
Nelson Vending Technology Ltd. subsidiary, an owner and
operator of videotape vending machines in the Toronto area.
Nelson Holdings would get a five-year warrant to acquire a 5%
stake in Mr. Swid's new company.
   A Feb. 4 deadline has been set for a definitive agreement.
Nelson is free to pursue other offers before that time,
though it must pay separation fees if a deal with Mr. Swid
isn't completed. Nelson's adviser is Lazard Freres &amp; Co., and
Mr. Swid's adviser is Ocean Capital Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Isuzu Motors Inc.:
   Auto Maker's Fiscal Year
   Earnings Declined by 38%
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 14
</SO>
<CO>
   J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Isuzu Motors Ltd. said pretax earnings in the fiscal year
ended Oct. 31 tumbled 38% to 15.370 billion yen ($113.5
million) from 24.805 billion yen despite a 9.5% gain in
sales.
   Net income fell 49% to 7.640 billion yen, or 7.41 yen a
share, from 14.977 billion yen, or 16.30 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales amounted to 1.196 trillion yen, in contrast with
1.092 trillion yen in the previous fiscal year.
   Isuzu, Japan's medium-sized maker of cars and trucks,
plans to keep its dividends for the year unchanged at five
yen.
   Company officials said sales were strong during the year
owing to Japan's sustained economic growth as well as robust
demand overseas.
   However, they added, growing material, personnel and
research and development costs cut deeply into earnings.
Those costs came to some 26.3 billion yen, officials said,
more than the gains amounting to about 22 billion yen
resulting from cost cutbacks and better production
efficiency.
   In addition, they noted, extraordinary gains, which
included those from the sales of fixed assets and securities,
plunged to 3.536 billion yen from 12.481 billion yen in the
prior fiscal year, though extraordinary losses also dwindled
sharply, to 6.046 billion yen from 12.329 billion yen. Among
those losses were depreciation on company investments and
retirement pension payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   EJV Partners L.P.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS CCI MS SB Z.CSH DJ AXP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   EJV PARTNERS L.P. (New York) -- Three people joined as
senior executives at this joint venture, which was formed to
distribute bond prices and other market information via
desktop terminals. Randall C. Hoyle, 53 years old, who joins
in a senior operations role, previously was an information
resources executive with Bankers Trust Corp. George R. Reis,
52, who will take a senior financial and administrative
position, was previously a senior manager at County NatWest
Inc., a unit of National Westminster Bank PLC. Gerald D.
Mintz, 38, who will assume a senior sales and marketing
position, leaves as vice president and general manager of
Telerate Canada, which is part of Telerate Systems Inc., a
wholly owned unit of Dow Jones &amp; Co. EJV Partners is jointly
owned by Citicorp, First Boston Corp., Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.,
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., Salomon Brothers Inc., and Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Peter Pae
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW RULE BOOSTS INTEREST on disputed corporate
underpayments.
   The interest rate applied to large corporate taxes being
contested increases in 1991 to 13% from 8%, under new IRS
regulations. The higher rate applies only to underpayments
that exceed $100,000, and only for calculating interest
accumulating after 1990, even if the disputed tax is for an
earlier year. It also kicks in only after the IRS issues
either a 30-day or a 90-day assessment notice. Firms must
decide either to pay the amount up front before litigating or
risk larger interest costs while in Tax Court.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lawyers say the rule makes it less attractive for
companies to contest in Tax Court; instead, many may pay and
then litigate in federal court or Claims Court for any
recovery. "It's very unfair," says Jere McGaffey, head of the
American Bar Association's tax unit. "For some firms with
disputes going back six or seven years, the interest is going
to be more than the tax." Albert Ellentuck, a Washington tax
lawyer, says, "You might not want to proceed with a marginal
case."
   Congress expects the IRS to raise $2 billion over five
years by nudging firms to speed up payments.
                                                                                                       

   MOVING TO THE MARIANAS isn't a way out of paying federal
tax.
   Debra and David Preece, Spring, Texas, were informed that
a company in which they were shareholders might be sold.
Hoping to benefit from a territorial income tax that's 95%
lower than federal tax, the Preeces moved to Saipan in 1985.
They took up residency by opening up a bank account and
registering to vote, among other things. A month later, the
company was sold, netting the couple about $5.2 million. The
Preeces filed a return in Saipan, noting their stock gain was
subject to territorial tax. Soon after, they returned to the
U.S.
   The IRS said the Preeces improperly failed to file federal
returns. They turned to Tax Court, arguing that as residents
of the Marianas they were relieved of the obligation to file
U.S. returns. Chief Judge Nims concluded otherwise, saying
their bid to establish residency was contrary to an
anti-abuse provision of tax law that prevents individuals
from avoiding federal tax merely by moving to U.S.
territories.
                                                                                                       

   CALIFORNIANS get infant-care credit if they forgo income
and stay home.
   A new California law supplements existing child-care tax
credits to businesses and employees. Now, families can elect
to have one parent give up income to remain home and care for
an infant, and get a tax break based on estimated lost
income. A maximum of $1,000 credit per family is allowed. The
child can't be more than 13 months old, and the credits are
reduced if the married couple earns more than $40,000 a year,
or a single head of household earns more than $28,500.
   Take a Sacramento family earning $39,000. While the
husband works full time, the wife stays home to care for the
baby from July to December, after having worked the first six
months. The couple may claim a credit of $500, or half of the
maximum allowed, against their tax bill.
   The credit may be carried over to future years until used
up, says state Sen. Morgan, who sponsored the bill.
                                                                                                       

   TAX WORK TOPS LIST of most frequent causes of claims filed
against CPA firms, the American Institute of CPAs says. Of
the claims covered by the group's professional liability
insurance plan, 46% were related to tax work while 40%
involved accounting and audit services. Only 3% of claims
were related to business and investment advice.
                                                                                                       

   CHARGE IT] Montana becomes the first state to permit
payment of 1990 personal income taxes with credit cards. A
taxpayer who charges $500 in taxes to a card pays a fee of
$15 to a third party handling the payment. Some states
already allow card payments for certain other taxes, on a
limited basis.
                                                                                                       

   ELDERLY CALIFORNIANS get a tax break if an unrelated
housemate dies, starting next year. The state permits credits
to taxpayers over 65 who earn no more than $37,500, and who
qualify as a head of household, for the person who died
during the preceding two taxable years. The credit is 2% of
taxable income, up to $750.
                                                                                                       

   NOTHING'S FREE: A gift house comes with unpaid taxes on
it.
   John Jennings, a Madison, Conn., self-employed engineer,
filed a return in 1984 but didn't include payment, saying he
won't pay taxes because of his political views. Jennings
successfully rebuffed IRS collection efforts, which included
letters and a visit to his home. A check of land and bank
records also showed Jennings had no assets: He had withdrawn
dividends from his life insurance policy and had transferred
the title to his home to his live-in mate, Darlene Ranno.
   The IRS, claiming that the house was transferred to evade
taxes, went after Ms. Ranno for the tax and interest due on
Jennings's return -- $6,192. She turned to Tax Court, arguing
that the transfer wasn't fraudulent and that the IRS didn't
try hard enough with Jennings. The judge disagreed, finding
the transfer was "constructively fraudulent."
   It was done without regard to whether it would render
Jennings insolvent, the judge said.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: IRS booklet 1544 gives businesses a rundown on
reporting cash transactions over $10,000 . . . Excise taxes
in the 12 months ended June 30 grew to $20.19 billion from
$19.65 billion a year earlier, or about 20% of the more than
$1 trillion the IRS collected in total taxes.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   INTEREST RATES on corporate underpayments of taxes under
the new tax act will increase in 1991 to about 13% from 11%.
The current year's rate was misstated in Wednesday's Tax
Report column, which also misstated the excise tax
proportion, 2%, of total taxes collected by the Internal
Revenue Service in the 12 months ended June 30.
   (WSJ Dec. 28, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   How Salomon Lost Bond Issues in Japan
   Stirs Rumors; Ministry Starts Inquiry
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 28
</SO>
<CO>
   SB JAPAN J.NOM J.NKT J.YMS J.OJI J.FJP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- For weeks, financial-market rumor mills here have
been buzzing with the story of how a big Salomon Brothers
Inc. bond-underwriting coup was undone. Rival Japanese
security firms, the story had it, pressured the two Japanese
companies issuing the bonds to drop the American firm as the
issue's lead manager.
   It seemed like so many of the rumors that regularly
electrify this city of rumors: Plausible, but unprovable.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the rumor gained at least a bit of credence with the
revelation that Japan's Finance Ministry has launched a
fact-finding inquiry. Tadashi Uemura, a Financial Ministry
official, said the ministry is gathering evidence from three
big Japanese brokerage firms "in order to grasp the entire
picture of what has actually happened."
   Mr. Uemura added that "If the decisions were made entirely
spontaneously by the two firms, it is fine. But {we} want to
know if it was the case or not."
   The three brokerage firms are Nomura Securities Co., Nikko
Securities Co. and Yamaichi Securities Co.
   Why the Finance Ministry has mobilized to look into this
rumor at this time is one of the many mysteries surrounding
the case. Salomon Brothers didn't complain to the ministry.
Mr. Uemura cited Japanese press coverage, but one of the most
definitive stories to date in the Japanese press, which ran
on an inside page in last week's Nihon Keizai Shimbun,
doesn't directly suggest any pressure or intimidation in the
dropping of Salomon as lead manager.
   One possible explanation is that the inquiry is an attempt
to deflect or defend against attacks from Washington. The
U.S. Treasury recently criticized Japan for not moving faster
in opening its financial markets to foreign firms, and some
Congressmen are eager to pass retaliatory legislation.
   In November, Oji Paper Co. and Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co.
were firming up plans to issue Euroyen convertible bonds
through Salomon. It would have been the first time that a
foreign brokerage firm had been the lead manager for an issue
of yen-based bonds, and that prospect clearly upset rival
Japanese security firms.
   Most Japanese companies prefer to do business with
longtime Japanese suppliers, much to the frustration of
would-be foreign newcomers. A Swiss banker in Tokyo puts it
this way: If he takes an interesting deal to a potential
American client and the client likes it, he gets the
business. But if he takes the interesting deal to a potential
Japanese client, the Japanese client turns around and
convinces his regular Japanese banker to offer the same deal,
and the Japanese banker gets the business.
   Now, suddenly, Salomon was offering Oji and Fujisawa a
deal, and instead of taking it to their longtime Japanese
underwriters, the two companies were preparing to do business
with Salomon. It's difficult to verify what happened next,
but the rumor is that Japanese securities firms reminded Oji
and Fujisawa of their dependence on them for other services,
like selling their stocks to Japanese investors. If it turns
out that such veiled threats took place in the Salomon case,
Japan's effort to defend its cozy supplier system against
American attacks will have suffered a serious setback.
   The only public hints of such threats up to now have been
extremely tenuous. Through most of the Nihon Keizai story,
for example, the financial newspaper reported that the two
companies had decided to drop Salomon for fear that the bonds
might eventually be used in arbitrage trading. Then came the
final sentence: "There seems to be another aspect as well in
the cancellation," the story concluded. "Japanese companies
can't help giving up the offers, taking into consideration
their relations with Japanese brokerage firms."
   A Fujisawa official declined to comment. An Oji official
said he didn't know the reason why the bond issue had been
canceled.
   In the past, Yamaichi Securities has served as Fujisawa's
lead manager and Nikko Securities as Oji's. It isn't clear
exactly why Nomura is included in the Finance Ministry's
inquiry, although Nomura officials were apparently extremely
critical of Salomon's lead manager role.
   A Salomon official in Tokyo, who declined to be
identified, said he personally spoke to several bond-issuing
Japanese companies, who told him that big Japanese securities
companies had tried to discourage them from using Salomon. He
declined to say whether Fujisawa and Oji were among the
companies he spoke to.
   The official also attempted to play down the whole
incident, suggesting that it was "simply business
competition. It has nothing to do with Japan and the U.S."
   He added: "There's no way for us to know what the Japanese
banks said to issuer companies. Obviously they tried to stop
it. That's no surprise. But threatening -- I don't think
that's the right word."
   All three of the Japanese securities firms denied that
they threatened or pressured anyone. Takashi Yamamoto, a
Nikko general manager, called the charge "groundless."
   Nikko and Yamaichi confirmed that they have been
questioned by the Finance Ministry.
   A Nomura spokesman said the incident has nothing to do
with Nomura, because Nomura hasn't been a lead manager for
Oji or Fujisawa. He said a Nomura executive was misquoted in
a Japanese English-language paper as criticizing the Oji and
Fujisawa deals with Salomon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Rushdie Issues a Statement
   On `Satanic Verses' Novel
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 10
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON (AP) -- The author Salman Rushdie promised he won't
authorize a paperback version of his novel, "The Satanic
Verses," a group of Islamic and Egyptian officials said. The
announcement was confirmed by a spokesman for Mr. Rushdie's
defense committee.
   In a statement released by Hesham el-Essawy, president of
the Islamic Society for the Promotion of Religious Tolerance,
Mr. Rushdie also said he doesn't agree with any statements
uttered by characters in the book that cast aspersions on
Islam, question the authenticity of the Koran, or reject the
divinity of Allah. And he agreed he won't authorize any
further translations of the book.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "That is his statement and he signed it," said Frances
D'Souza, the defense committee chairman. Mr. Rushdie has been
in hiding under police guard since February 1989, when the
Iranian leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini said, before he
died, that the writer deserved death as a blasphemer.
   "This is the way we hope that will earn Rushdie's release
from his predicament," Mr. el-Essawy said of the statement.
"This is how we intend to make him a free man." He said that
he met Mr. Rushdie on Friday, and that they were joined by
Mohammed Ali Mahgoub, an Egyptian government official who
heads the Supreme Council of Scholars of Islamic Affairs;
Youssef Ahmed El Sharkawy, an Egyptian Embassy official; and
two clergy from the Regent's Park Mosque in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 1
</SO>
<LP>
   CITICORP IS RAISING the fees it charges for a wide range
of services, part of an accelerating trend among banks to
generate additional fee income from consumers and
small-business clients. For the hard-pressed company, the fee
increases are the first since 1988 and in some cases amount
to more than 25%.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   TWA owner Carl Icahn said Pan Am pulled out of a meeting
about his proposed purchase of the carrier. But Pan Am
officials said they hadn't committed to any meeting, and
lambasted the financier for asking them to consider "a series
of ramblings."
   ---
   Major insurance concerns plan to sharply cut back or halt
their commercial mortgage lending activity next year, making
it more difficult for banks and developers to find long-term
backing for construction loans.
   ---
   Retailers' final results for the holiday season are
expected to be the worst in many years, despite efforts by
stores to lure shoppers with increased advertising and
discounting.
                                                                                                       

   Toy makers' stock prices have taken a beating as the
industry has been hit by the budding recession and tough
competition over prices.
   ---
   Insider selling at companies is picking up for the first
time since Iraq invaded Kuwait, as executives, directors and
other major holders are moving to take advantage of the
recent rebound in the stock market.
   ---
   Waste Management plans to have its fast-growing
international business and two other majority-owned companies
swap stakes, and the concern could also take the overseas
operations public within about one year.
   ---
   A failed Salomon deal to underwrite corporate bonds in
Japan has sparked a government inquiry, which is examining if
rival Japanese securities firms pressured the issuers to drop
the U.S. firm as lead manager.
   ---
   Stock prices declined in an extremely light, pre-holiday
session on Monday. The Dow Jones industrials dropped 12.37 to
2621.29. Bond prices fell sharply, with the Treasury's
30-year issue losing nearly  point.
   ---
   Tokyo stocks fell in thin trading Tuesday. The Nikkei
Index shed 351.72 points, or 1.5%, to 23767.88.
   ---
   Financier Stephen Swid agreed to buy Nelson Entertainment
Group for $30 million in cash and notes and the assumption of
$186 million in debt. Swid would also put $30 million of
capital into the ailing company.
   ---
   Mobil Oil and Vietnamese and Soviet officials are quietly
exploring a possible three-way oil-production venture off
Vietnam that could lead to the first U.S.-Soviet cooperation
in the energy sector in a third country.
   ---
   Monday's Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 57,200,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2621.29, off 12.37; transportation 920.91, off 3.00;
utilities 210.70, off 0.69.
   Bonds: Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3627.58, off 24.47.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 125.93, up 0.13; spot
index 123.88, up 0.03.
   Dollar: 136.00 yen, up 0.45; 1.5440 marks, up 0.0151.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Lucky Ltd.:
   Venture Will Be Formed
   With 2 Japanese Companies
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 24
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SUC J.NSK C.LGG
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Japan's Sumitomo Chemical Co. and Nippon Shokubai Kagaku
Kogyo Co. Ltd. agreed to form a joint venture company with
Korea's Lucky Ltd. to produce a raw material for an
industrial resin.
   The three companies said they would build a plant in Korea
to produce an ingredient for methacrylate resin, used to
enhance transparency or weather resistance in items such as
housing materials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The plant, scheduled for completion in the spring of 1993,
is capitalized at 24 billion won ($33.6 million). Fifty
percent of financing will be provided by Lucky Ltd.; the rest
will come from the Japanese firms in equal shares.
   The plant will be built in the Lucky Goldstar Group's
petrochemical complex in Yeochun, Korea, the companies said.
The new venture will be called Lucky MMA Corporation.
   The plant will make 40,000 tons annually of the MMA
monomer used in the industrial resin, and 35,000 tons yearly
of isobutylene, MMA monomer's raw material.
   Currently, the materials that the plant is expected to
make are all imported into Korea, as there are no local
producers, the companies said.
   The two Japanese companies, which have been cooperating in
the development of their own MMA monomer operations, run a
joint venture in Japan called the Nihon Methacrylate Monomer
Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<LP>
   PRESIDENT BUSH said he will veto any bill specifying that
congressional cost estimates supersede administration
estimates. Mr. Bush's statement was characterized incorrectly
in Monday's edition.
   (See: "Bush Threatens To Veto Planned House Rule Change"
-- WSJ Dec. 24, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Airlines Says
   Pilots Are Staging Sickout
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   AMR LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS (AP) -- AMR Corp.'s American Airlines charges that
its pilots are staging a sickout over stalled contract talks
and have contributed to flight cancellations, but the pilots'
union denies there's any organized protest.
   American management and the Allied Pilots Association have
been negotiating a revised contract for 14 months, but have
made little progress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The increase in the number of pilots calling in sick,
coupled with bad weather, the holiday traffic crush and the
airline's loss of 230 pilots to Operation Desert Shield led
to an unusually high number of flight cancellations over the
weekend, said American spokesman Marty Heires.
   At its hub at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport on
Sunday, the carrier canceled 37 arriving and 37 departing
flights, amounting to about 9% of its flights.
   The Fort Worth-based carrier said the number of pilots
calling in sick over the weekend soared to record numbers,
almost 70% higher than normal, airline officials said.
   Robert W. Baker, American executive vice president for
operations, told the Dallas Morning News that 529 of
American's 9,000 pilots were on sick leave Monday and about
500 called in sick over the weekend.
   The typical pilot absentee rate is 250 during normal
periods and 300 during Christmas holidays, said Mr. Heires.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   CVB Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 26
</SO>
<CO>
   CVB
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CVB FINANCIAL Corp., Ontario, Calif., said it increased
its quarterly dividend 7.7% to seven cents a share from 6.5
cents, payable Jan. 18 to stock of record Jan. 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hillsborough-Curragh Project
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CZP T.HLB CZP CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRAMPTON, Ontario -- Hillsborough Resources Ltd., an
engineering and contracting services concern serving the
Canadian mining industry, said it and Curragh Resources Inc.,
a Toronto-based lead and zinc mining concern, obtained 55
million Canadian dollars (US$47.4 million) in financing for
their Mount Hundere lead-zinc project.
   The venture, of which Curragh owns 80% and Hillsborough
20%, was formed to develop a lead-zinc deposit in Canada's
Yukon Territory. Curragh is the project operator.
Hillsborough said the financing was obtained from a Canadian
bank. Commercial production is expected to begin next summer.
Curragh officials couldn't be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Pre-Christmas Trading Is Light, but Markets
   Study Effects of Severe Cold Snap on West Coast
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 26
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Though trading activity was light Monday -- most U.S.
commodity markets were closed for a long weekend in
observance of Christmas -- concern remained high about the
severe weather that has hit the West Coast and is moving
east.
   Southern California over the weekend was sent reeling by
record and near-record low temperatures in the citrus-growing
San Joaquin Valley. Readings ranged from the low teens to the
low 20s on Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights, according to
Peter Leavitt, vice president of Weather Services Corp., of
Bedford, Mass.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Preliminary estimates indicated considerable damage to
fruit still on the trees," Mr. Leavitt said.
   Some California groves have equipment to combat cold
spells, Mr. Leavitt said. There is some heating equipment,
but mostly it consists of very powerful fans, mounted on
towers that take warmer air 30 to 50 feet above the ground
and drive it down toward the ground to dispel the cold air
that collects there, he said. Even helicopters are used
sometimes for this purpose, he said.
   "In this case, the cold was so deep and extended so high
above the towers that the fans were ineffective," Mr. Leavitt
said.
   The effect of the freeze damage will be to sharply reduce
or wipe out the supply of California oranges that are used
for fresh fruit. More orange juice than normal will be
created because damaged oranges will be salvaged by using
them for juice, he said.
   Normally, only a minor portion of the California orange
crop goes to juice. Prior to the frost, California was
expected to produce an estimated 20 million gallons of juice,
compared with Florida's 236 million gallons. Florida itself
is in the process of rebounding from the devastating frost
that hit that state's citrus-growing areas last Christmas.
   Mr. Leavitt said the current West Coast freeze is the
worst since January 1937, when the citrus-growing industry
was in its infancy in California.
   Temperatures in California are expected to moderate as
this week goes on, but turn colder again at the weekend, Mr.
Leavitt said.
   None of this cold weather, however, is expected to reach
Florida, according to Mr. Leavitt. Lowest temperatures in the
Florida citrus belt will remain well above freezing during
the week, ranging mostly in the 40s and 50s, he said.
   In other commodity markets Monday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Political tensions in the Soviet
Union depressed grain futures prices as traders worried that
a retreat to authoritarianism in that country would dim
prospects for U.S. food aid.
   In a public statement, a KGB official said that a
crackdown might be necessary to quell unrest, analysts said.
Such a crackdown might cause the Bush administration to
rethink the $1 billion in food credits it has granted to the
shortage-plagued country, they said.
   In light pre-holiday trading Monday, the price of the corn
futures contract for March delivery declined 0.75 cent, to
$2.3325 a bushel; the price of the soybean contract for
January delivery fell 0.5 cent to $5.6225 a bushel.
   Foreign demand for U.S. corn and soybeans already is
anemic: Soybean exports are at their lowest since 1974, and
corn sales to foreign customers this year trail last year's
sales by 510 million bushels. Any reduction of the
administration's announced credit allocation would exert
downward pressure on soybean and corn futures prices,
analysts said. Moreover, a return to dictatorship in the
Soviet Union would all but eliminate prospects for the
administration to grant more credits to buy U.S. grain early
in the new year.
   In addition to the Soviet leadership's ominous
pronouncements, the World Bank in an International Monetary
Fund report said food aid to the Soviet Union will do little
to help the country until a free-market economy is
established there. "It basically said that all this food aid
from countries around the world is going into a black hole,"
said Daniel Basse, grain analyst for AgResource Co., Chicago.
Traders weren't encouraged by the report, Mr. Basse said.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Pork futures prices declined slightly
on expectations that more hogs will come to slaughter when
the current cold snap eases, analysts said. The cold weather
has slowed shipment of hogs, but farmers are expected to make
up the slack when conditions improve. In light trading
Monday, the pork belly futures contract for February delivery
fell 0.42 cent to 64.2 cents a pound; the hog contract for
February delivery declined 0.3 cent to 48.77 cents a pound.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Treasury Bonds Fall for Fourth Session in a Row
   On Growing War Fears, Year-End Profit-Taking
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Lynn K. Adler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 29
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK AND BOND REGISTRATIONS, PRICINGS (REG)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices fell sharply Monday for the fourth
consecutive session in nervous pre-holiday trading.
   Traders said the increased likelihood of war in the Middle
East added to the pressures of year-end profit-taking and
looming supply, pushing yields on long-term bonds to the
highest levels in several weeks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell nearly 7/8
point, or $8.75 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
yield on the benchmark bond, which was as low as 8.08% on
Dec. 12, rose to 8.36% from 8.28% Friday.
   Shorter-term securities posted smaller declines. Prices of
two-year notes, for example, fell just 1/8 point.
   Dealers said Monday's losses were exaggerated by the
extremely thin Christmas Eve trading conditions. The Public
Securities Association suggested a 2 p.m. EST close for the
government securities market, and many dealers closed their
trading desks an hour or two before that. Financial markets
were closed yesterday for the Christmas holiday.
   Kevin Flanagan, a money market economist at Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc., said prices weakened Monday as investors sold
bonds to try to capture profits.
   "It's the end of the year, so people have closed out their
books," Mr. Flanagan said. "They want to cash in and take a
portion of the profits" generated during the market's recent
13-week rally.
   Bond prices also were hurt by heightened perceptions that
the U.S. will end up going to war with Iraq. Fanning their
fears were comments from officials in both countries. U.S.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney warned Sunday that "the clock
is ticking" quickly toward war. Meanwhile, Iraqi President
Saddam Hussein said Tel Aviv will be Iraq's first target if
war breaks out in the Persian Gulf, whether Israel joins in
the war effort or not.
   Some analysts say the market's poor tone might not improve
much this week because it will be hit with a large new supply
of securities. The Treasury is scheduled to sell a record
$12.5 billion of two-year notes today and a record $8.5
billion of four-year notes tomorrow.
   In when-issued trading, the new two-year notes were quoted
to yield 7.28%, up slightly from Friday. The yield on the new
four-year notes was also quoted higher at 7.73%.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late
Monday at a price of 104 6/32, down from 105 Friday.
   Three-month Treasury bills, however, moved in the opposite
direction as prices rose and rates continued to decline. The
average discount rate on three-month bills ended at 6.54% for
a bond equivalent yield of 6.72%, down from a discount rate
of 6.59% to yield 6.77%.
   Six-month bill rates were little changed. The discount
rate on six-month bills ended at 6.64% for a bond equivalent
yield of 6.94%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Investment-grade corporate bonds finished with moderate
losses as slumping Treasury bond prices weighed on the
market.
   Long-term high-grade issues registered losses of as much
as 5/8 point, but the declines weren't as steep as some of
those in the long-term Treasury market.
   As a result, the spread, or difference in yields between
Treasury and corporate bonds, narrowed by as much as five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, traders said.
   "With the long bond down nearly a point, corporate spreads
have definitely tightened," said one trader.
   However, Robert Schwartz, senior financial economist at
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., said he wouldn't attach much
significance to the tightening.
   It's fairly typical, he said, when the Treasury market
registers steep losses, for corporate bond movements to lag
and the spreads to tighten.
   "I would think any price action you are seeing today
reflects nominal markups and markdowns rather than any real
trading," Mr. Schwartz said Monday.
   He said it will be difficult to gauge spreads in the
corporate bond market until activity in the sector picks up
again after the first of the year.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Securities
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bond prices ended an abbreviated session
unchanged to 5/8 of a point lower, dragged down by escalating
concerns about possible war in the Middle East.
   Following Treasury issues downward in thin trading, the
New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue due in 2018 was
down 5/8 at 98 1/4 to 99 1/4, yielding 7.26%.
   While the week's economic data are expected to prove
bearish for the economy and positive for the credit markets,
Mideast headlines may supersede and continue to dominate the
market's tone, traders say.
   November durable goods data are scheduled to be released
tomorrow, and the leading economic indicators are set for
Friday release.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Louisville Gas &amp; Electric
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LGE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE -- The Louisville Gas &amp; Electric Co. has been
granted a rate adjustment that will increase annual gas and
electric revenue by $6.1 million. The company had annual
revenue in the year ended June 1990 of $679.3 million.
Louisville Gas &amp; Electric had requested an annual increase of
$34.9 million from the Kentucky Public Service Commission.
   The average monthly residential electric bill will rise to
$72.52 from $71.75 in the summer and will increase to $44.46
from $43.91 in the winter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PHM's Sperlich Quits
   As Chairman, Chief;
   Pulte Succeeds Him
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 12
</SO>
<CO>
   PHM WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
</IN>
<LP>
   BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich. -- Harold K. Sperlich resigned as
chairman and chief executive officer of PHM Corp., and
William J. Pulte, founder of the home building company,
succeeded him at the company's helm.
   Mr. Sperlich, 61 years old, had been in command of PHM
only since April. Before that he was a private consultant.
Mr. Sperlich is better known as the intense auto executive
who was the driving force behind the development of Chrysler
Corp's. "K Cars" and its popular minivans. He resigned from
Chrysler in 1988.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pulte, 58, will resume control of the company. In
1984, he was part of a three-person office of the chief
executive. Mr. Pulte also had previously been chairman of the
company's executive committee. At the beginning of the year,
he owned 19% of PHM's common stock.
   Neither Mr. Sperlich nor representatives of PHM were
available for comment on Mr. Sperlich's resignation, so the
circumstances surrounding his departure aren't clear.
   Nearly three years ago Mr. Sperlich resigned as president
of Chrysler Motors, after recurring clashes with Chairman Lee
A. Iacocca and with Gerald Greenwald, then Chrysler's
second-ranking executive.
   A statement released with the resignation announcement
said Mr. Sperlich will continue as a consultant to PHM. The
statement quoted Mr. Sperlich as saying, "I am delighted to
see Bill Pulte back in the saddle again, where he belongs."
   For the first nine months of this year, PHM had earnings
of $5.2 million, or 22 cents a share, compared with earnings
of $9.5 million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue
declined to $822.3 million from $841.7 million.
   PHM shares closed at $9.875, down 37.5 cents in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   PHM Corp. posted net income of $26 million, or $1.03 a
share, for 1990's first nine months, compared with $40.6
million, or $1.53 a share, in the year-earlier period. The
results were misstated in yesterday's editions.
   (WSJ Dec. 27, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carnival Cruise Lines
   Expects Slight Rise
   In Per-Share Earnings
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 3
</SO>
<CO>
   CCL
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MIAMI -- Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. expects to report
per-share earnings for the fiscal year ended Nov. 30 of about
$1.50 to $1.55, up from $1.44 in the previous year, said
Micky Arison, chairman and chief executive officer.
   In the year ended Nov. 30, 1989, Carnival had net income
of $193.6 million on revenue of $1.15 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Through the nine months ended this August, Carnival had
net of $1.39 a share, indicating that this year's
fourth-quarter earnings will be about 11 cents to 16 cents a
share. Net in the year-earlier fourth quarter was 16 cents a
share.
   Mr. Arison said in an interview that the flat to lower
fourth-quarter results don't reflect trouble in the company's
overall cruise business, which he characterized as "good." He
said he is "very satisfied" with advance bookings, which
cover travel over the next six months or so.
   Despite greater capacity -- this year the company has
added one new ship and a greater number of "berths," or beds
on another -- Carnival's bookings are currently at about the
same percentage of occupancy as this time last year, he said.
   The trouble spot was the company's resort and casino
business in Nassau, the Bahamas. That business was "clearly
impacted by the economy," particularly by the economic
slowdown in the Northeast -- a key base of customers for
Carnival's Crystal Palace Resort &amp; Casino in the Bahamas,
said Mr. Arison.
   Discounting in the cruise industry has been more
widespread than normal in recent months, the chairman
conceded.
   "We have been doing quite a bit of discounting on the
Mardi Gras and Carnival," said Mr. Arison, referring to two
of the company's older ships. "We would anticipate, to some
degree, {the discounting} will continue in that segment as
the economy stays soft."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Japan's Trading Firms Line Up,
   Awaiting the Race Into Vietnam
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 4
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST J.NIW J.KNG J.MIB J.NIM J.MRB J.SUT JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL TRADE NEWS (TRD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Major Japanese trading companies are rushing back
to Vietnam, poised to launch full-scale operations as soon as
Tokyo and Washington give their blessings and resume economic
assistance.
   Of Japan's nine biggest trading companies, Tomen Corp. and
Nissho Iwai Corp. already have offices in Vietnam, and
Kanematsu Corp. is about to open new offices there.
Mitsubishi Corp., Nichimen Corp., Marubeni Corp. and Sumitomo
Corp. are waiting for approvals from Hanoi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Vietnam is a mountain of treasures," says Seisuke Enami,
a senior official at Tomen, which recently signed
joint-venture contracts in Vietnam to produce detergents and
pine resin. The company is conducting feasibility studies,
including plant construction, for an additional 20 to 30
projects.
   The Asian nation is practically virgin territory for
Japanese companies, "so everyone has set their eye on it.
There will be a rush of Japanese companies" seeking business
ties there, adds Kiyoshi Hashimoto, Tomen's executive
director.
   "Making the trek to Vietnam is a boom among Japanese
companies," particularly manufacturing firms, seconds Hiroshi
Kondo, general manager of Meiwa Trading Co., an affiliate of
Mitsubishi. Beyond being wide open in terms of opportunity,
Vietnam also has a good supply of inexpensive labor and
untapped oil reserves.
   Until recently, most of Japan's major trading firms
delegated business with Vietnam to their minor affiliates,
which kept low profiles. For example, Mitsubishi has been
importing crude oil from Vietnam since late 1987, but the
business has been handled through Meiwa Trading, an affiliate
specializing in trade with communist countries.
   Trading companies essentially handle financing and trade
in goods and also work as overseas coordinators for
investments of Japanese companies. Once additional Japanese
trading firms gain entry into Vietnam, their activities are
expected to range widely -- from the development of natural
resources and trading activities, to coordination of joint
ventures between Japanese and Vietnamese companies.
   Until recently, Nissho Iwai was the only major Japanese
trading company with an office in Hanoi. But it couldn't take
full advantage of its unique position because of political
pressure from the U.S. and neighboring Asian countries as
well as the Japanese government.
   Japan, in a joint effort with the U.S. and other allies,
suspended its official economic assistance to Vietnam in the
wake of Vietnam's invasion of Cambodia in 1978. The aid,
which consisted of 17.5 billion yen (US$129.1 million) in
grants and 10 billion yen in credit, originally had been
extended following Japan's opening of an embassy in Hanoi in
1975.
   The withdrawal of Vietnamese forces from Cambodia last
year, combined with recent progress in relations between the
U.S. and Vietnam, have brightened chances that the sanctions
may be eased in the near future. Last September, Secretary of
State James Baker and Vietnam Foreign Minister Nguyen Co
Thach met in New York. It was the first high-level meeting
between a Vietnamese foreign minister and the U.S. since the
Paris talks in the early 1970s held to discuss an end to the
Vietnam War.
   Industry officials say Japan is preparing for the
resumption of economic aid to Vietnam, but they add that
Japan won't precede the U.S. in lifting the economic
sanctions. Some observers had speculated that Washington
would act before the end of this year, but now say the
Persian Gulf crisis has made that unlikely.
   Tomen's Mr. Enami notes that while business opportunities
are vast, Vietnam's roads, harbors, power supply and other
infrastructure have remained in shambles since the war. "Now
the question is whether the {Japanese} government will pay
for" the necessary infrastructure development, the Tomen
official says.
   Most industry officials, including those at Tomen, are
optimistic that Japan will help foot the bill. Once economic
aid is resumed, industry officials believe Japan will provide
very favorable terms to Vietnam for development, partly
because the nation's stability is of strategic interest in
the region.
   "Vietnam is a little bit different {in Japan's eyes} from
a country in other regions. Its stability is necessary for
the stability of all of Asia," said Chuji Kikutani, director
of the quasi-governmental Japan External Trade Organization.
Mr. Kikutani recently visited Vietnam to study the investment
climate.
   Vietnam's newly found oil resources are also attractive to
Japan as Tokyo tries to further diversify its sources of oil.
Vietnam is now producing oil off Vung Tau in a joint venture
with the Soviet Union. It is also exploring several other
areas off the coast jointly with European companies.
   Japan is Vietnam's biggest oil customer. It is also
Vietnam's second-biggest overall trading partner, after the
Soviet Union, and business between the two countries has been
on the rise. Japan's imports from Vietnam in the first nine
months of this year soared 64% from a year earlier,
reflecting increasing imports of oil, to 55.9 billion yen.
Japan's exports to Vietnam, mainly of machinery and
chemicals, jumped 70% to 23.8 billion yen.
   Meanwhile, an acute labor shortage in Japan as well as a
rise in labor costs in other Asian countries provide
additional incentive for Japanese companies looking to invest
in Vietnam. One Japanese trading firm official says labor
costs in Vietnam could be about half of Thailand's. Some
officials predict a move among Japanese companies to shift
additional investment to Vietnam from other Asian countries,
particularly in labor-intensive light industries such as
clothing and food processing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ901226-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
901226-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FCC Clears MCA
   To Spin Off TV Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
12/26/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE 27
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA MC VCR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- MCA Inc. said the Federal
Communications Commission approved the spinoff of WWOR-TV,
clearing another hurdle on the way to completion of the
company's $6.59 billion acquisition by Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co.
   The Secaucus, N.J., television station is being spun off
to MCA shareholders because TV stations are prohibited from
being more than 20%-owned by foreign interests. MCA holders
are to receive an "equity stub" in the station in addition to
the $66 a share they receive when the tender offer is
completed. MCA has estimated the stub to be worth about $5 a
share; holders will receive one share of the new company for
every five MCA shares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts believe the station will be sold within a short
period of time. MCA bought it for $386 million in 1987.
   The acquisition of MCA by Matsushita is expected to be
completed anytime within the next three weeks. The Securities
and Exchange Commission still must approve the transaction,
and a hearing in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles set for
Friday will rule on one shareholder suit which hasn't joined
five others in a tentative settlement. The tender offer is
scheduled to expire Friday.
   An antitrust suit filed by Go-Video Inc. seeking to block
the merger is on appeal after a federal court in Phoenix
denied a temporary restraining order. Another shareholder
suit which had claimed that foreign ownership of a U.S. media
company violated the U.S. Constitution was dismissed by a
federal judge in New York last Friday. A call by Interior
Secretary Manuel Lujan for a review of MCA's proposed
placement of its Yosemite Park and Curry Co. into escrow
pending its sale isn't thought to be an obstacle to
completing the merger.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
