<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0175
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0175.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Profits' `Quality'
   Erodes, Making
   Them Less Reliable
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   As the takeover-giddy 1980s fade, investors are again
showing respect for hard numbers like quarterly earnings.
   But those reported earnings numbers are becoming less and
less trustworthy, analysts say. The "quality" of reported
profits is falling, which means those earnings are really
weaker than they look.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "One can make the statement unequivocally that the quality
of earnings has been declining since 1986-87," says Steven
Einhorn, co-chairman of the investment policy committee at
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. This has troubling implications for
investors, he says, "because the stock market hasn't
accommodated this deterioration yet."
   Quality of earnings measures how much the profits
companies publicly report diverge from their true operating
earnings. Low quality means the bottom line is padded with
paper gains -- such as the profit-fattening effect of
inflation on a company's reported inventory values, or gains
produced by "underdepreciation," when a company doesn't write
off plant and equipment as fast as their real value is
falling.
   Because a decline in quality means companies' reported
earnings are weaker and less sustainable than they appear, it
indicates likely trouble for future earnings -- whether or
not a recession arrives. If history is any guide, those
lower-quality earnings also will come home to roost in lower
stock prices, analysts say.
   "We have found that quality-adjusted earnings are much
more closely related to the behavior of stock prices than
reported earnings" over time, says Baruch Lev, an accounting
professor from the University of California at Berkeley. "A
deterioration in quality of earnings would suggest a
deterioration in stock prices in the future," he says.
   To make reported profits better reflect reality, analysts
factor in higher costs for replacing assets and inventories,
and adjust the bottom line for accounting nuances, such as
gaps between "cash" taxes paid and "book" taxes reported on
income statements.
   Today, quality-adjusted earnings suggest that stock prices
"are very high," says Susan Lakatos, an investment strategist
at Kidder Peabody &amp; Co. For instance, she estimates that the
stocks in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index are trading at 17.2
times her quality-adjusted earnings estimates for next year.
"That's higher than almost any time since the early 1970s,
and its very, very worrisome," she says.
   The quality of reported earnings has been dropping for
more than three years, and analysts say it probably will
continue to fall as higher oil prices translate into higher
inflation, which distorts inventory and asset values. But the
deterioration isn't as bad as it can get. For instance,
earnings quality in 1980 was very low -- with true profits
some 40% below reported profits, says Goldman's Mr. Einhorn.
   Speedier depreciation (ushered in by 1982 tax-law changes)
and falling inflation sent operating profits soaring over the
next several years, at the same time that reported profits
remained essentially flat. By 1986-87, quality-adjusted
profits were 50% higher than the reported numbers, Mr.
Einhorn estimates. "That explosion in quality-adjusted
earnings was one reason why the stock market did as well as
it did" in the 1982-87 period, he says.
   Since then, however, quality-adjusted profits have
deteriorated steadily to levels that he estimates are now 10%
below reported earnings. (Kidder's Ms. Lakatos calculates
that quality-adjusted profits are close to 25% below reported
profits today.)
   Moreover, almost all the factors that affect the integrity
of reported earnings "are negative now," says Norman Weinger,
a managing director at Oppenheimer &amp; Co. And that means the
drop in earnings quality is likely to continue. Consider:
                                                                                                       

   INFLATION, which hurts the quality of companies' earnings
by bloating the value of the plant, equipment and inventories
they report on their balance sheets. This cheapens the
quality of reported profits, especially for companies that
use "first-in-first-out," or FIFO, accounting methods -- and
that includes a heavy proportion of smaller firms, says Mr.
Lev.
                                                                                                       

   TAX CHANGES also are skewing the relationship between real
profits and the earnings companies report to the public. For
instance, reported earnings, which book taxes at the going
corporate rate, continue to reflect the benefits of the
lowering of tax rates to 34% this year from 46% prior to the
1986 tax law. This benefit hasn't helped true profits,
however. On the contrary, real corporate tax bills have
actually risen since the 1986 law, which sharply cut back
companies' ability to shelter income from taxes through
aggressive write-offs of assets. The sizable paper gains on
income statements have only tended to mask the real state of
affairs.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTING STANDARDS will only worsen the tax discrepancy
between reported and real profits. New standards effective
last year require that part of the old deferred tax liability
(the one produced by speedy write-offs under the pre-1986 tax
law) be booked as a gain on company income statements. That's
because this liability was being calculated at a 46% tax rate
and now will be carried at a 34% rate. While this change
won't affect real profits one iota, the accounting change
alone will produce about $3 a share of paper profits for the
S&amp;P 500 stocks in 1989-91, estimates Kidder's Ms. Lakatos.
That equates to about 13% illusory profit growth in that
period.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN EXCHANGE gains resulting from the dollar's tumble
also raise questions about the quality of soon-to-be released
earnings reports for those U.S. firms with big foreign
operations. For example, American Family Corp., Gillette Co.,
American Brands Inc. and Colgate Palmolive Co. all derive
more than 60% of their sales from foreign operations,
according to Oppenheimer's Mr. Weinger. Investors should
"watch that they don't pay too much for currency-related
earnings," he says. "These earnings shouldn't carry a
humongous multiple because they're really a one-time gain
that could easily reverse itself."
                                                                                                       

   LEVERAGE, a big feature of the go-go 1980s, is likely to
return to haunt balance sheets in the 1990s, analysts say.
Rising debt can help boost earnings when business is booming,
as long as the return on that borrowed money exceeds the
interest costs to the company (which are, of course,
tax-deductible). But those interest payments can quickly
overwhelm profits when business slows. "More leverage on the
balance sheet suggests more volatile, and therefore riskier,
earnings," says John Silvia, vice president and financial
economist at Kemper Financial Services.
   The stock market already has punished many debt-laden
companies, including Bally Manufacturing Corp., Beverly
Enterprises, Marriott Corp., Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.
and Time Warner Inc., because of worries about their interest
burden in a sluggish economy.
   Even without a business slowdown, the fillip that rising
leverage gave to profits in the 1980s won't reoccur. And a
reduction of debt levels through early repayments -- which
already is taking place at some companies such as Shoney's
Inc. and TW Holdings Inc. -- would actually tend to hinder
future profit growth, analysts say. "Deleveraging is a trend
that's destined to continue and which will drag corporate
profitability," says Carmine Grigoli, chief equity portfolio
strategist at First Boston Corp.
                                                                                                       

   PENSION EXPENSES, once a boon to corporate earnings, could
become a negative in years to come. Rallying stock and bond
prices in the 1980s caused company pension funds to become
"overfunded" in relation to their long-term pension
liabilities -- which meant new contributions could be slashed
to almost nothing. However, "companies are no longer
overfunded because of the markets' decline," says Robert
Raiff, director of research at C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell
Inc. If that trend persists, pension funding requirements are
likely to increase, which would eat into earnings in the
future, he says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0174
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0174.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   General Mills Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS GIS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   GENERAL MILLS Inc. (Minneapolis) -- Gwendolyn A. Newkirk,
a University of Nebraska professor, was elected a director of
this packaged foods and restaurants concern, succeeding Betsy
Ancker-Johnson, a General Motors Corp. vice president, who
retired from the board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0173
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0173.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thrift Regulators
   Dealt a Setback
   In Oregon Case
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Portland, Ore., dealt regulators
another setback in their increasingly troubled effort to
enforce thrift reforms mandated by last year's savings and
loan bailout bill.
   As expected, Judge Owen Panner issued a permanent
injunction that bars regulators from nullifying capital
forebearances and other breaks regulators granted to
Portland-based Far West Federal Bank in 1988. The breaks
exempted the thrift from normal accounting and capital
standards and have enabled it to stay in business; without
those exemptions, Far West would have negative tangible
capital of $270 million, making it one of the most deeply
insolvent thrifts in the country.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bailout bill invalidated such forebearances and
accounting gimmicks and called for stricter accounting and
capital standards, in hopes of avoiding the kind of financial
legerdemain that helped swell the cost of the U.S. thrift
debacle to its present estimate of $500 billion. Regulators
informed Far West early this year that they would wipe out
the thrift's special treatment, instantly rendering it
insolvent. Far West sued in January to block that move.
   Judge Panner's latest ruling was his court's final say in
that lawsuit. It wasn't a surprise because it echoed his
previous rulings, in granting Far West temporary and
permanent restraining orders last spring, that federal
regulators could not renege on their previous promises of
forebearance.
   Nonetheless, the ruling underscores the intensifying legal
muddle surrounding the bailout. Earlier this month, a federal
judge in Kansas ruled that regulators did not have the right
to seize Franklin Savings Association of Ottawa, Kansas, an
unorthodox thrift that did little lending and focused instead
on complex investments in mortgage-backed securities and
hedging instruments. That judge ruled that regulators were
incompetent to understand Franklin's high-finance strategies
and ordered the thrift returned to the control of its
controversial chairman, Ernest Fleischer. However, the
government won a stay of that order while its appeal is
pending.
   In other cases, courts have held that regulators can
renege on capital forebearances similar to those granted Far
West. The legal twists and turns have stalled regulators'
efforts to overhaul the industry and eliminate practices that
in the past have led to huge losses.
   A spokesman for the Office of Thrift Supervision said it
would appeal Judge Panner's decision in the Far West case.
Ultimately, lawyers believe the Supreme Court will be asked
to determine what new powers regulators have under the thrift
bailout bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0172
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0172.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Passes Bill Allowing Regulators
   To Raise Deposit Insurance Premiums
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House approved a bill that would allow
federal regulators to increase deposit insurance premiums
paid by banks and savings and loans to whatever level the
regulators saw fit.
   The House moved with unusual speed to pass the bill, which
also would give the regulators freedom to change the premiums
whenever they believed it necessary, in the wake of dire
reports last week that the bank deposit insurance fund could
require taxpayer assistance if a recession struck.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bill is nearly assured of becoming law because it has
the backing of the Bush administration and strong support in
the Senate, where it is likely to come up shortly. In the
face of that consensus, the banking industry isn't lobbying
heavily against it.
   Separately, the federal banking agencies settled a
year-long dispute over the minimum level of capital -- the
cushion against losses that is drained before deposit
insurance funds are called in -- banks must hold. The Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency acceded to a Federal
Reserve Board proposal to set the minimum at $3 for every
$100 of assets for banks that receive the highest ratings
from their regulators -- about one bank in five. Other banks
would be required to hold somewhat more capital.
   The deposit-insurance measure passed by voice vote under
an expedited procedure. It was sponsored by Banking Committee
Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas) and the committee's
ranking Republican, Rep. Chalmers Wylie of Ohio, and had
broad bipartisan support.
   In a clear sign of Congress's election-season sensitivity
that it not be blamed for dawdling if a crisis like the
savings and loan mess strikes the banking industry, the bill
moved directly to the House floor without any hearings or
Banking Committee action. Under the rules that expedited the
bill, a two-thirds vote was required for passage, but there
appeared to be no opposition and there were only a few
congressmen on the House floor when the measure was cleared.
   The legislation would allow the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. to set the annual premiums for banks and thrifts as
high as it wishes, removing the cap of 32.5 cents per $100 of
deposits. Currently the FDIC can raise premiums a maximum of
7.5 cents in any one year. Just a few weeks ago, after
expressing fears that continued bank failures could cause a
$2 billion loss to the bank insurance fund this year, the
agency increased the premiums to 19.5 cents per $100 for 1991
from 12.5 cents in 1990.
   If the bill becomes law, the FDIC isn't expected to move
to raise the premiums quickly, but the FDIC's chairman,
William Seidman, wants the added flexibility.
   Edward Yingling, a top official of the American Bankers
Association, said the trade group wouldn't fight the
legislation but added that "the premiums could quickly reach
the point where additional premiums are counterproductive" by
draining funds from banks. Another trade group, the National
Council of Savings Institutions, noted that "institutions are
already experiencing very severe operating budget problems."
   On capital requirements, the Comptroller pushed for a 3%
minimum capital ratio -- $3 for every $100 of assets -- while
the FDIC wanted a 4.5% level that would accept some less
tangible forms of capital in the extra 1.5%. Under the Fed
rule accepted by the comptroller, banks rated the strongest
by regulators would have a 3% floor, while others would be
required to hold as much as 5%, determined on an individual
basis. The FDIC is expected to pass the Fed's capital rules
this afternoon.
   Because savings and loan capital requirements by law must
be as stringent as those for banks, the Fed's position will
affect some thrifts. A spokesman for the Office of Thrift
Supervision said it expected that 730 of the nation's 2,450
thrifts won't meet the capital requirements when they go into
effect at the end of the year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0171
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0171.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pentagon Seeks Authority to Disburse
   Foreign Contributions to Mideast Effort
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Pentagon is seeking sweeping authority
to accept and disburse, without future congressional
approval, billions of dollars in aid from foreign governments
to help pay for the cost of U.S. troops in the Mideast.
   New legislation backed by the Defense Department is
proposed as part of a nearly $1.89 billion supplemental
appropriations bill sent to Congress by the Bush
administration. The measure, which must be rushed through
before the end of the current fiscal year which ends Sept.
30, would help cover initial costs of the operation and
carries a second provision sought by the State Department to
forgive Egypt's $6.7 billion military debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Both issues face challenges in Congress, and new estimates
within the Congressional Budget Office indicate the cost of
canceling Egypt's debt will be more than $2.4 billion over
five years, or more than twice the $1 billion figure given by
the administration.
   Though it has received little attention so far, the
prospect of foreign governments financing a major portion of
a U.S. military operation poses unprecedented problems for
Congress, which relies on its control of the purse as a check
on the executive branch and its war-making authority.
   Both sides in the debate hope to avoid an outright
confrontation but, absent approval of the proposed
legislation, the Defense Department has signaled it may
invoke a little-known statute empowering the Treasury to
accept gifts for defense purposes. Adopted in 1954, the law
was designed to foster patriotism and to facilitate gifts
from American citizens, but no specific limitation exists to
bar its application to the current situation.
   "I would like updated legislation but the exisiting
legislation works," said Terrence O'Donnell, the Pentagon's
general counsel.
   Preliminary estimates by the Pentagon indicate foreign
donations could cover as much as $7 billion of the $15
billion in costs over the next year for the "Desert Shield"
operation.
   The new legislation, unlike the 1954 law, removes the
Treasury and General Services Administration from the process
and gives the Pentagon its own gift account through which
money could be moved without specific appropriation or
authorization by Congress.
   Mr. O'Donnell said expenditures would be reported to
lawmakers and subject to existing legislative limitations,
but Congress would clearly give up leverage it now enjoys
over spending.
   By a simple majority vote in both houses today, members
can withhold money as they did in the Vietnam War or the more
recent Nicaragua conflict. But in order to put any curb on
the use of foreign support for the present operation,
opposition lawmakers would have to be prepared to command
two-thirds majorities in both chambers to override a veto.
   Mr. O'Donnell said the monies, once allocated by the
Pentagon, would merge with existing appropriations accounts
for operations or personnel, for example, but would be exempt
from any across-the-board Gramm-Rudman cuts. The specific use
of the funds would be guided by the stated intentions of the
donor, he said. But lawmakers are concerned that this gives
broad discretion to the executive branch, which has the most
direct relationship and leverage over the foreign governments
and leaders involved.
   "Neither branch of government, the legislative or
executive, should be able to combine the power of the sword
and the power of the purse," said Senate Armed Services
Committee Chairman Sam Nunn (D., Ga.) in a warning last week.
"The founding fathers did not want that to happen because
that was the way kings operated."
   Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) said,
"Serious concern exists about accountability of third-party
contributions to the government. In the case of contributions
in support of Desert Shield, the Congress intends to insure
full accountability and oversight over the expenditure on the
funds."
   The separate dispute over Egypt's military debt centers
less on the $6.7 billion in capital than on interest costs.
The new CBO estimates are significant as a measure of the
long-term impact on deficit projections, but the more
immediate impact may be to encourage other nations to seek
relief as well.
   The State Department has sought to blunt this pressure by
arguing that Egypt is a special case since the U.S. has no
chance of recovering the debt. As the cost estimates are
revised upwards, however, the result is that other countries
such as Turkey may argue for comparable consideration on
their military financing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0170
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0170.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oracle Systems
   Fires 400 Workers
   In Cost-Cutting Bid
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   ORCL
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Oracle Systems Corp. laid off 10% of its domestic work
force and made major changes at the management level, in an
attempt to recoup from its expected first quarterly loss
ever.
   About 400 people were fired Monday, effective immediately,
and four top executives resigned, were shorn of their titles
or took a leave of absence. The cuts are likely to save the
company at least $24 million a year, analysts estimated. The
company declined to comment on the cost savings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Oracle cut two levels of its five-layer sales hierarchy,
folded Oracle USA's finance and administration group into its
corporate finance and administration division, and
consolidated its various international organizations into a
single division. Michael Musson, investor relations manager,
said the company does not anticipate any more cuts and will
not comment on specifics until it releases its financial
results Sept. 25.
   Following the shakeout, the senior vice president of the
intercontinental organization, Peter R. Tierney, departed.
Oracle USA Chief Financial Officer Atam Lalchandani also
resigned, although people within the company said he is
leaving for personal reasons unrelated to the restructuring.
   In addition, Tom Siebel, Oracle USA's vice president and
general manager of direct marketing, took a one-year leave of
absence as a result of the reorganization, the company
confirmed. And, as previously announced, the president of
Oracle USA, Gary Kennedy, stepped down as president of Oracle
USA. He is still chairman of Oracle Complex Systems, a
subsidiary dealing with systems integration.
   The software company has been under pressure to make hefty
cost reductions ever since it reported in early September
that it would post a loss of about $27.4 million or 20 cents
a share for the first quarter ended Aug. 31.
   The company's stock was battered in over-the-counter
trading yesterday, closing at $6.875, down 62.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0169
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0169.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hogan Leaves Turner Broadcasting
   To Become a Vice Chairman at Whittle
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TBSA WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- Gerald Hogan, 44 years old, resigned as the No.
2 executive of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. to become vice
chairman of Whittle Communications LP, continuing an exodus
of senior executives from the cable programming concern.
   In the past 13 months, Chairman Ted Turner has lost both
of his top two lieutenants. Robert Wussler, Mr. Turner's
right-hand man for 10 years, resigned in August 1989 to
become chief executive officer of Communications Satellite
Corp.'s Comsat Video Enterprises unit. And now, Mr. Hogan, a
protege of Mr. Turner's since 1971 and president of Turner's
entertainment networks since 1987, is leaving to run several
of Whittle's publications as well as some confidential
businesses still on the drawing board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moreover, earlier this year Arthur Sando, Turner
Broadcasting's former vice president of marketing and
communications, left the company to join Mr. Wussler at
Comsat, and Farrell Reynolds, Turner Broadcasting's former
vice president of sales, resigned to take a similar post at
Whittle.
   The departures have left Mr. Turner with a dearth of
senior talent, said analysts and executives close to the
company.
   "The bullpen is not particularly deep," said Larry
Gerbrandt, senior vice president of Paul Kagan Associates
Inc., a Carmel, Calif., market research firm. "There isn't
anybody there who I can point to and say, `He's ready to take
over.'"
   Mr. Turner wasn't available for comment, but he issued a
two-sentence statement crediting Mr. Hogan with helping make
Turner Broadcasting successful and wishing him well. He
didn't name a successor for Mr. Hogan, who departs the
company in two weeks. Mr. Turner's response was in sharp
contrast to Mr. Wussler's departure, when he issued a
detailed statement outlining how the executive's former
duties would be reassigned.
   The conspicuous silence led some executives close to the
company to speculate that Mr. Turner will try to add
management from outside -- something he has done infrequently
over the years. In July, he brought in W. Thomas Johnson Jr.,
former vice chairman of Times Mirror Co., to be president of
Cable News Network.
   At Whittle, 50%-owned by Time Warner Inc., Mr. Hogan will
join two other executives with the rank of vice chairmen.
Each of them is also a senior partner in the limited
partnership, as is the company's chairman, Chris Whittle. Mr.
Hogan will presumably help Whittle diversify its media
properties, which are targeted at specific audiences such as
school children and patients in doctors' offices. The company
has been trying in recent years to expand from its strength
in print into video-based media.
   Mr. Hogan said he is making the move because "the next
position here is Ted's, and that isn't available." In
addition, he said, "I think I enjoy the building part {of
business} more than the operating part. I'm not learning a
lot at this point. I'm repeating things."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0168
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0168.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Applebee's to Buy Back Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A18
</SO>
<CO>
   APPB
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   KANSAS CITY, Mo. -- Applebee's International Inc. said its
board authorized the purchase of its common because the board
believes the current market price doesn't reflect its true
value.
   The restaurant developer said it will make "aggressive
purchases" of as many as 100,000 shares in the open market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Applebee
closed at $9.75 a share, up $1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0167
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0167.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Inventories Rose
   0.7% During July;
   Sales Fell 0.5%
   ----
   By Helaine Olen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Business inventories rose 0.7% in July while
sales fell 0.5%, the Commerce Department reported, another
indication that the economy is vulnerable to recession.
   Economists have been watching inventory levels closely,
fearing that if stockpiles of unsold goods grow too high,
businesses will cut back on orders and production. With the
economy barely growing, the chain reaction could lead to a
recession.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   July's rise in inventories followed a 0.5% decline in
June.
   The figures "are not worrisome in themselves, but taken
with other data seen of late they suggest we are dealing with
an economy that is fragile," said Robert Dederick, chief
economist at Northern Trust Co., Chicago, pointing to recent
declines in retail sales and housing starts and an increase
in the unemployment rate.
   Aubrey Zaffuto, vice president and economist at IBJ
Schroder Bank &amp; Trust Co., New York, predicted there will be
a cut in production to offset the growing inventory figures.
"People are intolerant of small increases in inventories,"
she said.
   Inventories equaled 1.49 months' sales in July, meaning it
would take companies just under a month and a half to sell
off current stocks. This is up slightly from June's figure of
1.47 months but the same figure as in May and is still
considered manageable by most analysts.
   Joan Schneider, senior domestic economist at Continental
Bank National Trust &amp; Co., Chicago, said she saw "nothing
truly alarming" in the July figures. "The inventory-to-sales
ratio is up a little from June but it's not out of line from
the past year," she said.
   Inventories of retailers, wholesalers and manufacturers
totaled $801.94 billion in July, up from $796.47 billion in
June.
   But total sales fell to $539.52 billion from $542.44
billion, the 0.5% decline just about wiping out June's gain
of 0.6%.
   All the numbers were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
                                                                                                       

   Here is a summary of the Commerce Department's report on
business inventories and sales in July. The figures are in
billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted:
                                                                                                       

                                 (billions of dollars)
                                 July     June     July
                                 1990     1990     1989
                                                                                                       

   Total business inventories   801.94   796.47   788.62
     Manufacturers ............ 373.27   370.69   370.80
     Retailers ................ 236.50   234.52   231.79
     Wholesalers .............. 192.17   191.26   186.02
                                                                                                       

   Total business sales ....... 539.52   542.44   516.15
                                                                                                       

   Inventory/sales ratio ......   1.49     1.47     1.53
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0166
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0166.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Plan to Modernize Beef Inspection
   Needs Revamping, Science Panel Asserts
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<GV>
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (AGD)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A National Academy of Sciences panel
criticized the government's plan for modernizing beef cattle
inspection as being "probably no better," and in some
instances worse, than current procedures at U.S.
slaughterhouses.
   The committee said the Agriculture Department should
proceed with its so-called streamlined inspection system, or
SIS, but only after revamping it. At the same time, the
committee emphasized that much more fundamental changes in
meat inspection are needed to protect consumers from such
health hazards as salmonella, campylobacter and other
bacteria as well as chemical residues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a bluntly worded critique, issued yesterday, the panel
said that the SIS plan isn't "designed to detect and
eliminate microbial or chemical hazards." The department's
Food Safety and Inspection Service was urged, among other
things, to develop speedy methods for testing beef before it
is shipped and to establish mandatory finished-product
standards.
   Streamlined inspection, proposed for the beef industry's
80 largest packing plants, would be the first major change in
bovine meat inspection since the government began inspecting
cattle in 1906. Under the plan, plant quality-control
employees would take greater responsibility for visible
contamination, such as hair and mud, freeing federal
inspectors to focus more on food safety, rather than quality.
   The plan would allow meatpackers to operate production
lines faster, boosting productivity as much as 40%. But
consumer advocates denounce streamlined inspection as
"deregulation in disguise" and a threat to public health,
while union officials see it as a move to drastically cut the
force of inspectors.
   The committee, headed by Robert Kahrs, dean of the
University of Missouri's College of Veterinary Medicine, also
expressed misgivings about the SIS plan, which is being
tested at several pilot plants.
   "From a food safety viewpoint," the panel said,
"SIS-Cattle alone is probably no better and, in some
situations, can be less effective than traditional inspection
because the reduced oversight by government inspectors isn't
compensated by a total commitment to product quality on the
part of the industry."
   The panel cautioned that streamlined inspection should be
inaugurated only at plants where managers and employees have
demonstrated a commitment to effective quality control. In
recent months, several federal inspectors at SIS test plants
have reported serious lapses in food safety.
   "The academy's report is a gratifying vindication of what
50 whistle-blowers stated in sworn affidavits: In its present
form, SIS weakens the USDA seal of approval," said Thomas
Devine, attorney for the Government Accountability Project, a
Washington-based defense group for meat inspectors and other
whistle-blowers.
   The committee also faulted the Agriculture Department for
failing to heed key recommendations from two other academy
panels, which studied meat inspection and other food safety
issues in 1985 and 1987. For one thing, the department hasn't
yet developed a method for tracing contamination in beef
products back to specific feedlots or farms shipping tainted
livestock, the panel said. For another, the department hasn't
yet done any risk assessment.
   "There is no evidence that SIS-Cattle confers greater
benefit to the public health than traditional inspection,"
the panel asserted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0165
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0165.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Air Force Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   BA NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Boeing Co. was given a $140.5 million Air
Force contract for engine modification kits for KC-135R
aircraft.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Northrop Corp. received a $67 million increase to an Air
Force contract for risk-reduction activities for the Advanced
Tactical Fighter.
                                                                                                       

   Calcasieu Refining Co. got a $29.7 million Defense
Logistics Agency contract for jet fuel.
                                                                                                       

   Flameco Engineering Inc. won a $15.6 million Air Force
pact for engine-nozzle segments used on F-15 and F-16
aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Tennessee Apparel Corp. was awarded a $14.9 million
modification to a Defense Logistics Agency contract for
cold-weather trousers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0164
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0164.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Raw-Steel Production
   Fell 0.2% Last Week
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Raw-steel production by the nation's mills
decreased 0.2% last week to 1,882,000 tons from 1,886,000
tons the previous week, the American Iron and Steel Institute
said.
   Last week's output rose 8.4% from the 1,736,000 tons
produced a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The industry used 84.3% of its capability last week,
compared with 84.5% the previous week and 78.1% a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   The American Iron and Steel Institute reported:
                                                                                                       

                              Net tons         Capability
                              produced         utilization
                                                                                                       

   Week to Sept. 15 ........  1,882,000           84.3
   Week to Sept. 8 .........  1,886,000           84.5
   Year to date ............ 69,879,000           84.6
   Year earlier to date .... 70,799,000           86.4
                                                                                                       

   The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed
to indicate at what percent of its production capability the
industry is operating in a given week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0163
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0163.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Charter Medical Set
   To Cut Advertising
   For Psychiatric Care
   ---
   Campaigns Were Criticized
   As Scare Tactics Aimed
   At Attracting Patients
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Charter Medical Corp. said it plans sharp
cutbacks in advertising, including campaigns that critics
have said use scare tactics to lure patients to psychiatric
hospitals.
   The decision reflects the financially troubled hospital
company's effort to stem expenses. But it also comes as
purchasers of psychiatric care bristle at soaring costs of
inpatient psychiatric care, particularly for adolescents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Several private psychiatric hospitals and hospital
companies, including Charter, have used emotional commercials
portraying parents distraught over troubled teenagers to
market their facilities. Some research suggests that more
than half of teen-age admissions to psychiatric hospitals are
unnecessary.
   "There are some forms of advertising that do bring people
into hospitals who don't need to be there," said Stephen L.
White, Charter's vice president, customer service. "It's
something we want to get away from."
   Robert Friedel, the Macon, Ga., company's vice president
for psychiatric medicine and research, disclosed the
advertising plans in a presentation at a conference here on
mental health benefits. The weekend conference was sponsored
by the Institute for Behavioral Healthcare.
   The company's 90 hospitals spent about $40 million on
advertising last year. Dr. Friedel and Mr. White said that
could be reduced as much as 80% this year and next.
Advertising will be consolidated at the company's
headquarters and developed by one agency -- not yet selected
-- instead of the more than 35 agencies that handled
individual accounts at Charter's hospitals around the
country. Mr. White said in an interview at the conference
that the company's own evaluation indicated television
advertising was only minimally effective in attracting
patients. "It's ironic because advertising is the thing that
angers and annoys most of the group purchasers," he said.
   New advertising will take on an "educational theme," Dr.
Friedel said, aimed at informing people of broad offerings of
mental health care. He said studies suggest that just 20% of
people suffering from some mental illness are actually
getting treatment, while 80% of people with physical ailments
are getting care.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0162
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0162.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   It Takes a Lot of Grit to Compete,
   And There's Always a Good Finish
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   It's got the right stuff to go all the way in the sports
world: speed, difficulty and a hint of danger to thrill its
macho audience. On top of which, it puts a great finish on
oak.
   Belt-sander racing, a longtime underground activity for
vocational-education students and naughty carpenters, has
found a new following. Organized beltsander races have popped
up at the Triple R Bar in Bath, Maine, where aficionados can
cheer as machines zoom across specially designed tracks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, questions arise about racing power tools. At
least one belt-sander maker calls the practice "inherently
unsafe." People in the carpentry field agree. "If the
students did this, I'd take care of them real quick," insists
Albert Konecink, a carpentry instructor at the Ranken
Technical College in Missouri.
   Despite the risks, fans of belt-sander racing -- many of
them carpenters -- revel in the sport. "Once somebody sees
it, it's contagious," says Karl Grose, co-owner of the Triple
R and one of six members of the National Belt Sander Racing
Association. "People go nuts when they see it happening. One
was clocked at 2.5 seconds for 40 feet. It surprises the hell
out of you."
   The races at the Triple R, a watering spot popular with
motorcyclists, began a couple of years ago when some bored
carpenters spied the flying belt sanders on "Bob Uecker's
Wacky World of Sports" TV show. Since then, the sport has
grown, attracting as many as 100 patrons and five to six
competitors to the Triple R's annual Spring Nationals, Winter
Nationals and Summer Nationals.
   Nationals? "The names give us something to say when we
advertise them," says Mr. Grose.
   Interest in the races is growing in Bath. The United
Bikers of Maine now races belt sanders at its meetings, and
the Triple R has formed a team to take on bikers in Augusta.
A local bottler of Budweiser has begun sponsoring the races
by providing ribbons and trophies. And the bar has even been
contacted by businesses interested in placing their names on
the race tracks.
   With competition heating up, some owners have modified
their belt sanders to control their direction, while others
have added devices to prevent their racers from backing up.
Several belt sanders sport painted themes -- one features a
small motorcycle mural. And some of the racers even have
names. "They're probably not printable," warns Mr. Grose.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moody's Reviews
   Ratings of Three
   Japanese Banks
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   MBK J.TKB J.LTC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it is
reviewing its ratings of the long-term debt of three Japanese
banks and some units for possible downgrading.
   The three banks are Mitsubishi Bank, rated triple-A; Tokai
Bank, rated double-A-2; and Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan,
or LTCB, also rated double-A-2. The respective Prime-1
ratings of the short-term debt of the banks aren't being
reviewed, Moody's said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mitsubishi and Tokai are Japanese "city banks,"
institutions with nationwide networks of branches. LTCB is
one of Japan's three designated long-term credit banks, which
are primarily wholesale lenders.
   Last month Moody's downgraded two Japanese city banks,
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank and Fuji Bank, after placing them under
review in the spring. And still earlier this year Moody's
downgraded several trust banks, Mitsui Trust &amp; Banking Corp.,
Mitsubishi Trust &amp; Banking Corp. and Yasuda Trust &amp; Banking
Corp.
   Now put under review, Moody's said, are:
   -- Mitsubishi Bank's long-term deposits, senior debt and
standby letter-of-credit obligations and the senior debt of
the bank's guaranteed subsidiary, Mitsubishi Bank of
Australia Ltd.
   -- Tokai Bank's long-term deposits, senior debt and
letter-of-credit backed obligations.
   -- LTCB's long-term deposits, senior debt and long-term
standby letter-of-credit obligations, Long-Term Credit Bank
of Japan Finance N.V.'s senior debt and LTCB Australia Ltd.'s
long-term deposits.
   Moody's cited Mitsubishi Bank's "relatively weak core
profitability and competitive positions among its Japanese
peers" and "vulnerability to domestic asset-quality
deterioration."
   In reviewing Tokai Bank, Moody's will look at the lender's
quality of assets, especially "its domestic real
estate-related loan portfolio and its overseas credits," as
well as its core earnings and competitiveness, the rating
concern said.
   Meanwhile, LTCB's "weakening franchise as a wholesale
bank" as well as the bank's asset quality will come under
scrutiny, Moody's said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Time Off: Diversions and Excursions Sept. 18-Oct. 1
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A28
</SO>
<LP>
   ART
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pierpont Morgan Library, New York: "Treasures of Eton
College Library: 550 Years of Collecting" -- More than 200
medieval and Renaissance manuscripts, rare books, drawings,
prints and objets d'art from England's Eton College.
Highlights include the only surviving copy of the earliest
English comedy, "Ralph Roister Doister," written in 1567 by a
headmaster at Eton; a large silver gilt model of the college
chapel presented to the school by King William IV; and
English drawings and watercolors by artists such as
Gainsborough and the portraitist Sir Thomas Lawrence. 29 East
36th St., Sept. 26-Nov. 25.
                                                                                                       

   Cleveland Museum of Art: "Reckoning With Winslow Homer:
His Late Paintings and Their Influence" -- About 50
paintings, many depicting the rocky coast of Maine, by Homer
(1836-1910) and other American artists influenced by him
(Edward Hopper, N.C. Wyeth, John Marin). 11150 East
Boulevard, Sept. 19-Nov. 18. The show then travels to the
Columbus Museum of Art, Dec. 16, 1990-Feb. 10, 1991; and the
Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., March 16-May 12,
1991.
                                                                                                       

   Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution:
"Antoin Sevruguin: Photographs of Iran" -- More than 25
photos by this commercial photographer of Armenian and
Russian descent who worked in Tehran between the 1880s and
the 1920s. His patrons included at least two rulers of the
Qajar dynasty (1779-1924), as well as wealthy Iranians,
foreign scholars and tourists. In subject matter and
composition, many of the works closely resemble 16th- and
17th-century Persian paintings and drawings. 1050
Independence Ave., Sept. 30, 1990-May 26, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   The Jewish Museum, New York: "A Day in the Warsaw Ghetto"
-- On Sept. 19, 1941, German Army Sgt. Heinz Jost spent his
birthday taking pictures inside the ghetto, where
half-a-million Polish Jews were forcibly contained. Never
before exhibited in the U.S., the 85 photographs document
street scenes inside the ghetto, where some 85,000 people
died "natural" deaths from starvation and illness. Diary
excerpts accompany the photographs. On view here till Nov. 1
(1109 Fifth Ave.), the exhibition will tour the country
through March 1995.
                                                                                                       

   Museum of Modern Art, New York: "Lady Hawarden, Victorian
Photographer" -- The dreamy young women captured in a variety
of poses and costumes in these 50 albumen-silver prints are
the photographer's daughters. Taken in family homes in London
and Ireland, the photographs seem like fragments from a lost
world. 11 West 53rd Street, till Oct. 9.
                                                                                                       

   FILM
                                                                                                       

   New York Film Festival: This year's 2 1/2-week movie
marathon offers scores of films from 14 countries. There's
already a buzz about the opening attraction, "Miller's
Crossing," a gangster film by Joel and Ethan Coen ("Raising
Arizona") starring Gabriel Byrne and Albert Finney. Other
highlights include two black comedies from Finland's Aki
Kaurismaki, a documentary about music man Quincy Jones, and
new offerings from French auteurs Jean-Luc Godard and Eric
Rohmer. Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, 65th and Broadway.
Sept. 21-Oct. 7. (212) 362-1911.
                                                                                                       

   The 14th annual Margaret Mead Film Festival presents 45
documentary films on such diverse topics as sex, love and
marriage in Ethiopia; the relationships between women and
Japanese soldiers stationed in Papua New Guinea during World
War II; and the difficulties of shooting a major Western
motion picture in China. New Yorkers and others familiar with
or curious about the Big Apple shouldn't miss "Outrageous
Taxi Stories," a short film by Joe Berlinger featuring
taxi-drivers' bizarre tales as well as one really outrageous
story told by a female passenger. Central Park West at 79th
Street, Sept. 2427. Screenings 6:30-10:30 nightly; ticket
sales begin at 5 p.m. (212) 769-5305.
                                                                                                       

   MUSIC
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Opera: The season opens Sept. 24 with Mirella
Freni and Placido Domingo in "La Boheme" and continues in its
traditional way offering "Der Rosenkavalier" on the 25th,
"Rigoletto" on the 26th and "Don Giovanni" on the 27th.
Debuts include Guido Ajmone-Marsan leading June Anderson in
"Rigoletto," and mezzo Anne Sofie von Otter, who sings the
rosebearing sex toy, Octavian, in a revival of the Strauss
comedy conducted by Carlos Kleiber. Lincoln Center. (212)
799-3100.
                                                                                                       

   New York City Opera: Arnold Schoenberg's big work for
chorus, soloists and several naked virgins, "Moses und Aron,"
receives its first New York staging in sets by Achim Freyer,
with Hans Neugebauer directing and the company's general
director, Christopher Keene, in the pit. Lincoln Center.
Sept. 22, 27; Oct. 3, 6, 10, 12. (212) 870-5570.
                                                                                                       

   Seattle Opera: The company opens its fall season with a
revival of that old dog and pony show, "Cavalleria
Rusticana," coupled, for a curious change of pace, not with
"I Pagliacci" but a new production of Puccini's "Gianni
Schicchi" directed by Francesca Zambello and designed by
Bruno Schwengl. Bolshoi soprano Makvala Kasrashvilli sings
Santuzza; tenor James Hoback is the feckless Turridu. Julian
Patrick portrays the wily Schicchi and Cal Stewart Kellogg
conducts. Seattle Opera House. Sept. 22, 23, 26, 28, 29; Oct.
3. (206) 443-3299.
                                                                                                       

   Bill Bruford's Earthworks: One of pop's premier drummers
and his trio play the lustrous jazz fusion showcased on their
album "Dig?" (Editions EG). Dates include: Oberlin, Ohio
(Oberlin College), Sept. 28; Chicago (Park West), Sept. 30;
Pittsburgh (The Graffiti), Oct. 1; Cambridge, Mass.
(Nightshade), Oct. 3; New York City (Bottom Line), Oct. 4-5;
Philadelphia (Chestnut Cabaret), Oct. 10; Washington (Bayou),
Oct. 11; Sacramento, Calif. (Crest Theater), Oct. 14; San
Francisco (Great American Music Hall), Oct. 17; San Diego
(Bacchanal), Oct. 20.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Four REITs Change
   Payout Dates, Citing
   Cash-Flow Uncertainty
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A28
</SO>
<CO>
   CMETS NIRTS IOT TCI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Four real estate investment trusts controlled by
Gene E. Phillips and William S. Friedman, former top
executives of Southmark Corp., said dividends will be
determined on an annual basis after the trusts' current
calendar year ends, Dec. 31. Currently, dividends are
determined on a quarterly basis.
   A spokeswoman attributed the change to continuing
uncertainty over the ability of many of the trusts' borrowers
to meet their obligations and variable cash flows caused by
the expense of improving the trusts' real estate portfolios.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite the change in policy, the trusts will continue
making distributions agreed to earlier this year as part of
the settlement of a class-action suit over management of the
trusts. The four trusts agreed to make a minimum of the
following per-share distributions by May 23, 1991:
Continental Mortgage and Equity Trust, 94 cents; National
Income Realty Trust, $1.96; Income Opportunity Realty Trust,
33 cents; and Transcontinental Realty Investors, Inc., $1.06.
Per-share amounts are based on current numbers of shares
outstanding, the spokeswoman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Gantt Strikes a Chord With Carolina Democrats
   In His Uphill Senate Campaign to Unseat Helms
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A32
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   SMITHFIELD, N.C. -- Harvey Gantt keeps on "keepin' on."
   Cast as the underdog against Republican Sen. Jesse Helms,
the black former mayor of Charlotte is waging a serendipity
campaign that may yet confound his powerful conservative,
white rival. Better financed and more experienced men have
failed before him, but there is an infectious appeal to the
new challenger that strikes a chord among Democrats looking
for leadership after years out of power.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At a rail depot in urban Greensboro, hundreds of younger
voters, many of whom have never before participated in
politics, turn out to contribute money and cheer Mr. Gantt.
Here in rural Johnston County, where a Ku Klux Klan billboard
welcomed visitors until the late 1970s, pillars of the white
establishment stammer and hesitate -- but don't outright
reject the historic candidacy before them.
   The Mideast crisis could prove a fatal distraction, but
Mr. Gantt's newfound celebrity brings out the curious -- and
he hopes, the convertible. His gray-flecked hair and Baptist
roots comfort more conservative whites, and taking a page
from Mr. Helms's book, he makes a virtue of standing up to
his rival in the Senate race. "We won't take any stuff," the
47-year-old Mr. Gantt says. "This year we want you to know
what he stands up for."
   Although savvy, unrelenting and confident, Sen. Helms at
68 is facing a changing world. As Ronald Reagan's tough
ideological ally, he last won in 1984 by painting then-Gov.
James Hunt as a whimpering pol. Today, with George Bush
talking taxes with Congress and peace with the Soviets, the
senator is reduced to toting around "homoerotic" photos for
shock value in his war against the National Endowment for the
Arts. "Men only," he says, like a chivalrous guardian
protecting women from seeing the pictures.
   "I'd find something better to spend my time on," says
Barrett McLendon, a 28-year-old foundry worker whose own
concern is a toxic-waste dump in his rural county in the
Piedmont foothills. A self-described conservative, Mr.
McLendon is one of many young voters who backed Mr. Bush and
Mr. Reagan in the past but who now find themselves rethinking
Mr. Helms on environmental and social issues.
   Race remains a factor, but the election also dramatizes
the class and education divisions in the newly urbanized
South. In a posh Greensboro neighborhood, college-educated
Republican women toast Mr. Gantt for his stand for abortion
rights while a black band plays on the veranda. Chilled white
wine is served at Mr. Helms's first stop in Smithfield, at
the handsome home of a state senator. Iced tea is served at a
second stop, where a more working-class crowd fans itself in
the heat as a young girl and a puppet sing, "We're in this
Thing Together, Jesus and Me."
   A master parliamentarian in Washington, Sen. Helms refuses
to debate Mr. Gantt at home. He is so bent on avoiding
reporters that the state Associated Press sent out a message
recently asking its members to help track the senator's rare
public campaign stops. The Mideast crisis yields a political
windfall by accenting his standing on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, though he overreaches, skipping over his
record as an early critic of the Iraqi regime to emphasize
the dubious heroics of a brief trip to the Middle East.
   "There were many times I didn't think I was coming back,"
Mr. Helms tells supporters in Charlotte. At a ceremony in
Raleigh, he strains to make reference to the heat -- "It's
cool compared with where I came from" -- and to his
familiarity with heads of state. "I have met with a lot of
presidents these days," he says.
   With a showman's flair, Mr. Helms remains unsparing in his
anti-federalism and strikes a pose separate from Washington
and such problems as the savings-and-loan debacle blamed on
the Capitol. (In fact, he was present, and voted for,
legislation to deregulate savings and loans more than a
decade ago.) He likens the Senate to turkeys on the way to
market, and announces to applause that "it was only when the
federal government took over control of the schools of
America that the quality of education began to plummet."
While chastising Mr. Gantt for supporting cuts in defense,
the senator urges Mr. Bush to stand aside and let "the chips
fall where they may" with automatic deficit-reduction
spending cuts of more than $85 billion -- half from the
Pentagon -- next month.
   This outward austerity contrasts with an internal campaign
memo listing two dozen cases -- suitable for local ads --
where Mr. Helms tapped federal resources for home-state
interests. Included is a $905,000 grant in 1988 to assist in
the below-market financing for a privately owned
turkey-processing plant in southeastern North Carolina. Mr.
Helms personally intervened with then-Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development Samuel Pierce on behalf of the project,
according to the memo; and federal records separately show
the senator received a $2,000 contribution this summer from
the president of the plant's parent corporation.
   Mr. Gantt, though beginning with strong black support,
must still win nearly 40% of the white vote to prevail in
November, and his emphasis on education and abortion rights
takes aim at the very suburban voters who have been crucial
to Republican success in the South. Six years ago, Mr. Helms'
winning margin -- about 86,000 votes -- was built on a strong
showing through the state's Piedmont corridor, and the
challenger must make inroads here while matching the showing
of Mr. Hunt, the 1984 challenger, in rural counties on the
plain east of Raleigh.
   While the senator's negative ratings have increased only
marginally since 1984, Mr. Gantt has so far preserved a
more-favorable image than Mr. Hunt enjoyed at this point six
years ago. Pounded by negative ads, the governor fell into
the trap of endlessly explaining why he wasn't a liberal. Mr.
Gantt talks more about why he is a Democrat.
   The Mideast crisis caught him flatfooted on
national-security questions; but on domestic issues, his
message of unrepentant Democratic pride is a rallying cry for
those party regulars longing to win back the governorship in
1992. "I feel like the Maytag man," says Rufus Edmisten of
his lonely vigil as the Democratic secretary of state.
   Sen. Helms's backers argue that the press -- not the
senator -- inserts race into the contest. Still, racial
allusions make their way into his campaign. Mailings have
included a picture of Ron Brown, the black national
Democratic Party chairman, as well as a prominent reference
to a black lesbian activist. Mr. Gantt is labeled in one
television ad as not only "extremely liberal" but also
"extremely different."
   Most sensitive perhaps is the Democrat's past investment
in a minority media firm in Charlotte that won a television
license in 1985 and shortly after sold it for $3 million. Mr.
Gantt denies any favoritism because no other final applicant
was before the Federal Communications Commission, but in a
prior campaign the issue was used to suggest he profited from
his race and minority preferences.
   As Mr. Helms's ads begin to take effect, the coming weeks
will be a crucial test of Mr. Gantt's staying power. In a
battle of margins, he must at least contain Sen. Helms in
counties like Johnston. The conflicting pressures are seen in
the face of Frank Holding, a county commissioner and banker
whose brother is a major Helms backer. "The Democratic Party
has been very good to me," says Mr. Holding. "I expect to
support the Democratic ticket."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Home Shopping Network Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HSN
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOME SHOPPING NETWORK Inc. (St. Petersburg, Fla.) -- Les
R. Wandler was named an executive vice president and director
of this video retailer, effective Sept. 25. Mr. Wandler, 44
years old, will retain his position as chief financial
officer and treasurer. He succeeds Nando DiFilippo Jr., 42,
who resigned Friday as executive vice president and general
counsel. A company spokeswoman said Mr. DiFilippo resigned
for personal reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Hamptons Bancshares
   Suspends Its Dividend
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HBSI
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SOUTHAMPTON, N.Y. -- Hamptons Bancshares Inc. said it
temporarily suspended quarterly cash dividends while it is
boosting provisions for loan losses from real estate.
   The company paid 11 cents a share quarterly in the first
half. The suspension will save Hamptons Bancshares $93,360
this quarter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On July 16, the bank holding company reported a six-month
net loss of $593,000, or 70 cents a share. President John F.
Kidd said the company within the past month has taken several
steps, including limited layoffs, and elimination of bonuses,
certain benefits and payment of directors' fees. In the
second quarter, the company added $1.3 million to loan-loss
reserves, up from $120,000 a year earlier.
   Officials wouldn't speculate on the duration of the
dividend suspension, but said they would consider reinstating
the payout when the company's capital position shows a strong
positive trend.
   Hamptons Bancshares owns the Bank of the Hamptons,
Hamptons Mortgage Corp. Leasehampton Corp. and Appraisal
Center Inc. The company has $153 million in assets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Will Offer
   $1.4 Billion in Bonds
   In Four Maturities
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government said it will offer 1.6
billion Canadian dollars (US$1.4 billion) of government bonds
in four maturities this week.
   The sale will involve 10.25% bonds due Feb. 1, 1994;
10.25% bonds due March 1, 1996; 10.5% bonds due March 1,
2001; 11.25% bonds due June 1, 2015. Offering terms are to be
announced today. The Bank of Canada agreed to purchase at
least C$100 million of the new bonds. The remainder will be
available to public investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Proceeds of the issue will be used to redeem C$1.1 billion
of government bonds maturing Oct. 1 and for general
government purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Peter Pan and His Sharp Pen
   ----
   By Richard Locke
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A28
</SO>
<LP>
   Those whom the gods love die young -- in spirit, if not in
flesh -- and though Kenneth Tynan died 10 years ago at 53,
inside his wasted, emphysematic body he was always the
brilliant boy who took your breath away. Tynan was for many
the greatest evocative drama critic of our time (indeed the
best since Shaw), a theatrical reviewer nonpareil in London
and New York from 1951 to 1963, then literary manager of
Laurence Olivier's National Theatre for the next 10 years. He
also was the man who said "the naughtiest of all four-letter
words" on BBC-TV in 1965 and "devised" the erotic revue "Oh]
Calcutta]" in 1969. A scamp, a Peter Pan.
   A friend of the famous and the toast (or gadfly) of two
continents for nearly 30 years, this glittering virtuoso
lived in "a state of apoplectic veneration" of his heroes,
the great "high-definition performers" in art and life
(actors, writers, comics, matadors). He wrote some 170
profiles of them, and 50 are collected in the book "Profiles
by Kenneth Tynan" (selected and edited by Kathleen Tynan {the
author of the fascinating "Life of Kenneth Tynan"} and Ernie
Eban, Bessie/Harper &amp; Row, 437 pages, $29.95 cloth, $14.95
paper).
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though the motto pinned above his desk was "Rouse tempers,
goad and lacerate, raise whirlwinds," these profiles are
passionate celebrations of performance -- not least his own.
They run from two superprecocious effusions over Alexander
Woollcott and Orson Welles, published in 1943 in a school
magazine when Tynan was 16; to legendary full-length
portraits of Ralph Richardson, Tom Stoppard, Mel Brooks and
Louise Brooks published in The New Yorker from 1977 to 1979,
a year before Tynan's death. Seventeen have never appeared in
book form before, and since all of Tynan's 10 books are out
of print, this is a necessary volume, at once a duty and a
pleasure. Tynan approved of the Renaissance definition of art
as "that which instructs through delight," and it serves
splendidly to describe this artful book. Just think of
delight in boldface.
   The people we meet here are actors, directors, writers,
comics, a few critics (a wonderful essay on Cyril Connolly,
man and beast, gourmand and man of letters), two jazz
musicians, two Oxford eccentrics and a bullfighter, Antonio
Ordonez, who "kills with kindness." The directors include
Peter Brook and Joan Littlewood, the writers Brecht and
Tennessee Williams, the comics W.C. Fields, Beatrice Lillie
and Lenny Bruce -- "a nightclub Cassandra bringing news of
impending chaos, a tightrope walker between morality and
nihilism, a pearl miscast before swine."
   The actors range from bozos to tragedians, from movies to
nightclubs, from America to Germany. Tynan is superb on
Bogart (who always died like a Senecan stoic, with "such
model nonchalance"); on Cagney with his "spring-heeled walk
and the rich, elated derision of his voice"; on Dietrich,
Garbo and Katharine Hepburn ("her vitality is deafening"); on
Noel Coward ("the monocle of all he surveys"); on Nicol
Williamson in a fine frenzy at Nixon's White House in 1970;
and on Orson Welles (three times), whom Tynan adored as an
"incomparable bravura personality." "Orson coming into a room
is like the sunrise," he once said.
   Incomparably bravura, too, are the profiles of the great
triumvirate of English actors, Laurence Oliver, John Gielgud
and Ralph Richardson. Richardson's "unique physical presence
{is} at once rakish and stately, as of a pirate turned
prelate . . . {He has} a yeasty, agile voice. Where Olivier
would pounce upon a line and rip its heart out, Richardson
skips and lilts and bounces along it, shaving off pathos in
great flakes."
   Gielgud's acting, however, is "a tourney between body and
soul, which soul invariably wins. It is a troubled soul, even
in comedy, where its best moments come from discomfiture,
from dignity dislodged. What is certain is that Gielgud's
style lacks heart and stomach. When Olivier enters, lions
pounce {again]} into the ring, and the stage becomes an
arena. Gielgud, on the other hand, appears; he does not `make
an entrance' . . . The face is reposeful, save when emotion
convulses it, and then it twitches, suddenly constricted,
working intensely, as if a bowl of ammonia had been thrust
beneath its nostrils." To Gielgud's "art" Tynan contrasts
Olivier's "nature," to Gielgud's "beautiful," Olivier's
"sublime." There's even a virtuoso two-column comparison of
them including air/earth, poet/peasant, mind/heart,
spiritual/animal, feminine/masculine, introvert/extrovert,
claret/burgundy.
   As we read, bedazzled, we note how often Tynan works in
brilliant contrasts -- W.C. Fields vs. the Marx Brothers,
Arthur Miller vs. Tennessee Williams, Mel Brooks vs. Woody
Allen. This is pure Oxford Union debating style, the
reductive certainty, the flashing dichotomy, the precise wit
that runs to paradox and aphorism. "The secret of comedy {is}
man's inhumanity to man, and his positive bestiality towards
woman." Or, "It is one of the paradoxes of the theatre that
though every actor's ambition is to stop the show, his
instructions are that it must go on." When Tynan went down
from Oxford in 1948 it seems to have occasioned universal
mourning: "The Golden Age is finished, gone the grace,"
lamented the undergraduate magazine Isis, "Who now so fit to
fill Ken Tynan's place?" Who indeed? Those whom the gods love
die young. As John Osborne implied in a review of Tynan's
biography, the last word belongs to William Shawn, the great
editor of the New Yorker, who upon hearing of Tynan's death
uttered the perfect epitaph: "He was just a boy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Selwyn Feinstein
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   IRS EASES TESTS for retirement plans. But benefit
consultants want more.
   In 67 pages of amendments to 300-plus pages of rules
proposed four months ago, the IRS has softened the tests it
wants companies to perform to prove that tax-favored
retirement plans don't discriminate in favor of highly
compensated employees. The new version doesn't make it any
easier to avoid the tests; most big companies still can't
qualify for so-called safe harbors that are automatically
judged fair, consultant Towers Perrin says. Nor will it be
any easier to assemble and program the extensive salary and
benefits information needed for the tests, Buck Consultants
adds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, in response to complaints that the original tests
simply weren't workable, the IRS's new rules say companies
will be able to break the data into smaller sets of numbers
to show that plans aren't skewed in favor of top-paid
managers. "Most plans now are likely to pass," Towers Perrin
declares. Mercer notes that employee stock ownership plans
also get a break.
   In hearings next week, the consultants will press for more
flexibility and softer rules for 401(k) savings plans.
                                                                                                       

   TOUGH TIMES prove worth of giving workers more say,
companies assert.
   Rubbermaid Inc. says it would "be surprised" if anyone
were scrapping innovative programs giving employees more
voice in their work lives in favor of old-line management
controls. Hewlett-Packard Co., even with cost controls and
hiring curbs, "looks to people involved in teams to take more
responsibility and help more with decision-making." To Analog
Devices Inc., "the argument is survival."
   H.J. Heinz Co. figures it will generate $200 million in
annual savings within four years by listening to teams of
employees enlisted to boost productivity and trim waste. In
one such effort at a StarKist factory in Puerto Rico,
employee teams observed that tuna was being wasted because
workers couldn't keep up with an accelerated processing line.
Spending $4 million for additional equipment and $5 million a
year for extra hands now saves the company $100 million
annually, Heinz says.
                                                                                                       

   WEAK ECONOMIES force some cities to trim payrolls. But
many plug on.
   Baltimore, balking at raising property taxes to meet
budget pressures, in the past year has sent layoff notices to
200 workers and trimmed a further 800 staffers through
attrition, bringing to 2,500 the number cut in the past 2 1/2
years. Dallas adds 150 police officers but drops 140 workers
and freezes hiring in other departments in the fourth year of
a retrenchment campaign. Stamford, Conn., lays off 55 of its
1,500.
   But Harrisburg, Pa., which considers itself
recession-proof because of federal and state offices, has
been increasing municipal employment 3% to 5% a year over the
past eight years. New York City, which went through a major
crunch several years back, plans to add several thousand
police. Richardson, Texas, has added 30 workers over the past
five years.
   Syracuse, N.Y., beefs up its staff of in-house lawyers on
the presumption they are cheaper than outside counsel.
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVE HIRES cost more. The Employment Management
Association says companies spent an average of $7,488 to hire
a professional or managerial employee last year, up 23% from
1988. Hourly workers, at $672 a hire, cost 24% less.
                                                                                                       

   GOALS CHANGE. Employers adopting flexible-benefit plans
now say their primary motivation is holding down
health-insurance costs, consultant Noble Lowndes says.
Companies previously had said they were responding to
employee needs.
                                                                                                       

   EQUALITY, ALMOST. Female employees accounted for one in
five transfers last year, up from one in 25 a decade ago, the
Employee Relocation Council says.
                                                                                                       

   NETWORK WORLD, a computer weekly, taps its data base to
bring together recruiters and subscribers. For a $1,000 fee,
it scrolls through its roster of 100,000 subscribers to find
up to 100 candidates, and then asks who is interested in the
job.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH PROMOTION brings dollars-and-cents return, a study
shows.
   Each dollar invested in workplace health education can
yield $1.42 over two years in lower absentee costs. So
concludes a study in the American Journal of Public Health by
Robert Bertera, manager of health promotion programs at Du
Pont Co. The report, based on a two-year study of Du Pont
blue-collar workers, shows absences from illnesses unrelated
to the job dropped 14% at 41 sites where the program was
offered, against a 5.8% decline at 19 sites that didn't have
the campaign.
   The program -- which includes a health-risk survey,
counseling and classes on smoke-cessation, general fitness,
diet, stress management and healthy backs -- in the first
year returned $1.11 in lower absentee costs for each dollar
spent, even with relatively high start-up expenses. The
second year's return jumped to $2.05, the study finds.
   Other studies show health promotion also can lower medical
insurance costs, Mr. Bertera says.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: We knew there's going to be a shortage of
workers at the end of the century, but bosses, too?
Consultant Right Associates says nearly half the executives
surveyed think there won't be enough supervisors to go
around. . . . As for today's unemployed, is this the silver
lining? Kennedy Publications says the outplacement business
grew 42% in 1989 and should top $500 million this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chemical Closes
   Swiss Unit, Related
   Tokyo Subsidiary
   ----
   By Glenn Whitney
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHL
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   ZURICH -- Chemical Banking Corp. is closing its Geneva
unit due to insufficient profitability.
   Chemical was one of the most active market-makers in Swiss
franc bonds but high local interest rates and the collapse of
the Tokyo stock market have made the bank's activities in the
Swiss market harder to justify. With Chemical's departure,
the so-called "grey market" loses a key player.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision to close down the operation was part of the
U.S. banking group's strategy to "focus only on activities
where maximum profitability can be achieved," says Francois
Larsen, director of the Geneva unit, called Chemical N.Y.
Capital Market Corp.
   At the same time, Chemical announced the closure of
Chemical Securities Co. in Tokyo, which concentrated on the
marketing and trading of Japanese equities and equity-linked
bonds and was under the direction of the Geneva office. The
Tokyo unit has a Japanese securities license.
   Mr. Larsen says the Geneva operations had been "sometimes
profitable, sometimes not" in the past year as increased
volatility of financial markets, especially in Tokyo, made
business more difficult.
   He also says the capital market's group found it
increasingly difficult to market its services after selling
its Geneva private banking subsidiary in November 1988 to the
French financial firm Dumenil-Leble S.A., Mr. Larsen said.
   "Institutional and private banking is the essence of
business in Switzerland," Mr. Larsen says. "It's very
difficult to deal in securities without the backing of
captive customers."
   Chemical is also closing its foreign exchange and money
market operations in Geneva, leaving a seven-person cash
management branch office of the New York-based bank in Zurich
as its sole Swiss presence.
   The 55 Geneva-based employees, including 15 traders and
salesmen, will be dismissed after clearing operations are
complete, probably in the next three months. Trading formally
ended yesterday. The Tokyo unit's approximately 30 employees
will be relocated elsewhere in Chemical's Japan operations,
Mr. Larsen says.
   Patrick Voegeli, head trader at the bank, says two factors
hurt profitability most in the past year: high short-term
Swiss interest rates, which made it very expensive to finance
bond positions, and sharp drops on the Tokyo stock exchange,
which made Swiss investors reluctant to trade Japanese
equity-linked instruments.
   New issuance of Japanese equity-linked paper is down by
almost 50% in the first eight months of the year compared
with the same period in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Euphoria Dies Down in Czechoslovakia
   ---
   Many Find Revolution
   Is Easier Than Reform
   ----
   By William Echikson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia -- Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier
looks down at the courtyard three floors below to the spot
where Czechoslovakia's last democratically appointed foreign
minister, Jan Masaryk, was found dead a few days after the
1948 Communist coup.
   The official explanation of Mr. Masaryk's death was
suicide. But the circumstances surrounding it have fueled
speculation ever since.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Dienstbier suddenly moves toward the ledge. "You see
how easy it would be to fall," he says. Then he laughs and
adds, "Don't worry, I won't jump."
   Mr. Dienstbier isn't about to do anything desperate, but
his dark joke reflects how much Prague's euphoria has
evaporated since Czechoslovakia's velvet revolution toppled
the Communists last November. Like many other East European
leaders vaulted from opposition to power, Mr. Dienstbier came
to office believing that his most important task was to
consolidate freedom from the Soviet Union and democracy at
home. Now, he finds himself confronted with the practical
problems of foreign trade and a collapsing economy.
   "Dienstbier is like many of the other philosophers running
this country," complains Karel Dyba, finance minister for the
new Czech Republic. "He doesn't seem to understand that
unless we act on the economy, nothing else we do will count."
   In his apartment at the 17th-century Cernin Palace, which
serves as Czechoslovakia's Foreign Ministry, a weary Mr.
Dienstbier acknowledges that he underestimated the difficulty
of economic overhaul. He and his former prisonmate, President
Vaclav Havel, have now begun to warn their countrymen that
painful austerity lies ahead. Mr. Dienstbier says he has been
working until 2 a.m. dealing with crisis after crisis: the
abrupt reduction of Soviet oil deliveries, the rupture of
East German commercial contracts and now the Persian Gulf oil
shock.
   "It was easier to make a revolution than to write 600 to
800 laws to create a market economy," he sighs.
   For Mr. Dienstbier, Mr. Havel and other former dissidents,
toppling the old Communist regime was like a fairy tale. Mr.
Dienstbier had been fired from his position as a Czechoslovak
Radio foreign correspondent for opposing the 1968 Soviet
invasion and was forced to work as a furnace stoker in the
construction of the city subways. In 1977, he helped found
the Charter 77 human-rights group, which led to his
imprisonment.
   When his role as a spokesman in last fall's revolution won
him appointment as foreign minister in the new government
last December, he joked that he couldn't take the post until
he found a replacement for his coal-shoveling job.
   Since taking office, Mr. Dienstbier has launched a series
of innovative plans, including a proposed Arab-Israeli peace
settlement and a program to give Western aid to the Soviet
Union to be spent on East European goods. Above all, he has
argued for creation of a Pan-European security structure to
replace both the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the
Warsaw Pact. The calls to dissolve NATO created a storm of
criticism in some Western capitals, particularly Washington.
"The Americans are furious with Dienstbier," a Western
diplomat says.
   While Mr. Dienstbier's grand ideas for reshaping Europe
have turned Czechoslovakia into a lively, if controversial,
diplomatic player, the more mundane and intractable problems
of foreign trade frustrate the foreign minister. He has
embraced German political unity, saying a democratic Germany
represents no danger for Europe. But he worries about German
economic unity; East German companies have refused since
monetary union to take nonconvertible Czech crowns as payment
and have stopped commercial deliveries.
   Mr. Dienstbier says West Germany must pay reparations for
the Czech losses. "Many of our companies will go bankrupt
unless the East Germans keep their contracts," he says.
   Dealing with Moscow is even more complicated. President
Havel and Mr. Dienstbier have negotiated the withdrawal of
Soviet troops from Czechoslovakia, and Mr. Dienstbier says he
has no fundamental differences with Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev. But he expresses alarm about the Soviet decision
this summer to reduce oil deliveries 30%. And he says the
lack of strong authority in Moscow makes it difficult to
cement agreements.
   "You just don't know who is responsible there," he
complains. "If you make an agreement with the central
government about oil or anything else, you don't know if the
Russian Republic will cancel it the next day."
   Similar difficulties exist in relations with other
neighbors. While a dissident, he forged close links with the
leaders of Poland's Solidarity that he hoped would create an
alliance between the two neighboring Slavic states. They
haven't.
   Against his earlier wishes, Mr. Dienstbier ended up
keeping tight border controls between Czechoslovakia and
Poland after the Ministry of Foreign Trade persuaded him such
controls were necessary to prevent a run on inexpensive Czech
goods. "It's terrible," he says. "The borders go down in the
West and up in the East."
   Another nagging problem concerns his own ministry's heavy
bureaucracy, inherited from the Communists and filled with
scores of incompetent careerists. Since taking office, Mr.
Dienstbier has shaken up Czechoslovakia's diplomatic
establishment by naming some old dissident friends to
ambassadorships. He also has dismissed some secret-police
spies.
   But critics say he hasn't done enough to get rid of the
incompetents or those who oppose democracy. "Dienstbier is
just too nice, he just can't bear to fire people," says one
close associate in private. "For every new diplomat like me,
there are three from the old regime."
   Sitting in his small apartment in the palace, Mr.
Dienstbier doesn't hide the difficulties. "There are times
when I feel like a prisoner of this chateau," he says. "You
can't change everything overnight."
   He points to his bedroom where three open suitcases
overflow with dirty clothes. "Sometimes I wish I still was a
stoker," he says. "At least then I got some sleep."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Accounting Change
   Drove Pension Cost
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 14 Heard on the Street, "Pension Expense May
Drag Down '90s Corporate Profits," missed the biggest single
reason for fluctuation in pension expense from 1982 to 1989.
A change in accounting method propelled companies toward low
pension expense with an inevitable uptrend of pension expense
in years following the adoption of the new method.
   The Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 87
required adoption of this new policy in fiscal 1987, though
many companies adopted in 1986 and a few in 1985. It is easy
to see from the chart in the article the enormous drop in
1986 expense for companies that found it advantageous to
adopt FAS No. 87 early. Virtually every client of ours that
forecast pension expense at the time saw an immediate
substantial decrease in pension expense followed by a
gradually increasing expense in future years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The statement required acceleration of gains in the market
value of pension assets that had accumulated from the late
1970s and the 1980s. For most companies the rules also
required a less conservative (lower) measurement of liability
accompanied by less conservative actuarial assumptions. The
analyst you quoted commented that pension costs cannot go to
zero. In fact, many public companies have experienced
negative pension expense -- positive pension income -- in
recent years, mostly due to this accounting change.
   The rules also allowed accumulated benefits of the change
in policy to be recognized in one year if liabilities were
settled with a third party such as an insurance company. This
approach was used widely by banks to offset losses due to
write-down of nonperforming loans, as well as by other
companies that were capturing surplus pension assets through
reversions.
   Your conclusion appears correct. Pension expense will
increase in the future and may drag down 1990's corporate
profits. Given the FASB requirements, this should not be a
surprise to analysts.
   Roger P. Ingenthron
   Principal
   William M. Mercer Inc.
   St. Louis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Melville Corp. Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   T.IMS MES
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   RYE, N.Y. -- Specialty retailer Melville Corp. said it
completed the acquisition of Peoples Drug Stores Inc., a unit
of Montreal-based Imasco Ltd., for $325 million cash.
   Peoples Drug Stores, which operates 490 stores in the
mid-Atlantic region, reported sales of $1.02 billion last
year. Melville operates 6,925 stores across the country,
including Marshalls, CVS, Chess King and Kay-Bee Toy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Maxwell Communications Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS U.MXC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Maxwell AD/SAT Inc. said it became a wholly
owned subsidiary of Maxwell Communication Corp. and named
Richard G. Atkins as president, effective today.
   Maxwell previously owned a controlling interest in AD/SAT.
Further details of the acquisition weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said that AD/SAT will become part of the
Maxwell Multi-Media Publishing Division.
   Maxwell AD/SAT Inc. operates a satellite network to
transmit advertising to 125 daily newspapers in 33 states,
representing more than half the daily and 65% of the Sunday
circulation in this country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Tokyo Stocks Fall 2.14% as Buying Interest Cools;
   London Shares Erase Early Losses and End Mixed
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tokyo stock prices retreated broadly in thin dealings
Monday with many investors on the sidelines because of a fall
in bond prices and continuing uncertainty about the Mideast
situation, traders said.
   In London, stocks closed mixed after erasing early losses
on the back of a good start on Wall Street and a late buying
spurt in London.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 issues was down 531.86 points,
or 2.14%, at 24365.60.
   At the end of the morning session Tuesday in Tokyo, the
Nikkei index fell 932.53 to 23433.07.
   First-section volume Monday was estimated at 300 million
shares, down from 546 million shares on Friday. Decliners
outnumbered gainers 822 to 144, and 125 issues were
unchanged.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed in the
first section fell 35.49 points, or 1.87%, to 1860.19.
   The second section index was down 42.67 points, or 1.19%,
to 3544.15. Volume in the section was estimated at five
million shares, down from 6.6 million shares Friday.
   "Investors' buying interest was completely cooled off,"
said Yoshihiro Ito, general manager of stock trading at
Okasan Securities.
   As bond prices fell through the morning session and failed
to recover during the rest of the day, buying interest in the
stock market dried up, Mr. Ito said. He said investors fear
stock prices may drop below the year's previous closing low
of 23737.63 posted Aug. 23.
   "There is no perception among participants that {domestic}
interest rates have peaked out. That means there is no
perception that stock prices have bottomed out," Mr. Ito
said.
   Such fears were reflected by the sharp falls of stock
index futures Monday as institutions sold futures for short
hedging, traders said.
   The index of the December futures contracts "remained
below the cash index. That shows there are strong
expectations that stock prices will decline," said Shigeru
Akiba, head of equity at UBS Phillips &amp; Drew International.
   Hiroyuki Murai, general manager of stock trading at Nikko
Securities, said stock prices were pressured down mainly
because of a small amount of selling by special money
accounts that will close their books Thursday for midyear
accounting. Because it takes four trading days to process
transactions, Monday was the last trading day for these
accounts, the official said, predicting less volatile trading
for the rest of the week.
   Mr. Akiba also sees the stock market in a lull this week,
with the Nikkei index hovering from 24000 to 25000 points.
   Mr. Akiba said what he fears most is dumping by individual
investors or a heavy sell-off by investment trust funds as
the result of orders by investors to close their trust fund
accounts. But judging from Monday's trading, "neither may
happen after all," he said.
   Strong advances for stocks aren't expected, however.
   Mr. Ito of Okasan Securities noted that the majority of
institutional investors probably will take every opportunity
to sell whenever stock prices rise to profitable levels.
Expectations of such strong selling pressure discourages
individual investors from buying, he said.
   Many sectors were sold Monday, including large-capital
shares such as those of steel makers, shipbuilding companies
and electric-power companies, as well as such small-capital
shares as high-priced, high-technology concerns.
   Higher interest rates prompted further selling of interest
rate sensitive large-capital shares. NKK was down 20 yen to
455 yen (15 cents to $3.32), while Tokyo Electric Power fell
120 yen to 3180 yen.
   Among high-tech shares, Kyocera fell 150 yen to 6850 yen,
Sony declined 140 yen to 6860 yen, and TDK was down 200 yen
at 5400 yen.
   Construction companies and car makers also ended lower,
with Kajima dropping 20 yen to 1360 yen and Toyota Motor down
10 yen to 1900 yen.
   In London, traders said that U.K. company interim results
and economic figures all due this week are contributing
factors to a nervous market in which volume levels remain at
record lows.
   "Money does want to come into the market but investors are
just bidding at lower levels," one trader said. At the
current low prices, traders spotted only selective buying
across the board, although it wasn't sufficient to raise
volumes to even moderate levels.
   A good start on Wall Street late in London trading session
generated buying activity there. "With such a nervous market
anything can move it," one trader said.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-Share Index edged
up 0.5 point to 2094.3. The Financial Times 30-Share Index
closed down 3.5 points at 1606.1. Volume was 286.6 million
shares, well below Friday's 418 million shares.
   Among several companies reporting interim results, auction
house Christie's International posted a 17% rise in pretax
profit, but warned that the prospects for the second half
were unlikely to be as favorable. The shares ended a penny
lower at 257 pence ($4.87).
   Hawker Siddeley, which recorded a 44% drop in pretax
profit on the back of a poor long-term outlook, had a 44
pence slide to 429 pence.
   Industrial services and marketing group Inchcape lost 8
pence to 221 pence after posting a rise in pretax profit of
5.2% for the period.
   Dalgety, a food and agribusiness concern, was unchanged at
356 pence after reporting a 7% rise in pretax profit.
   Elsewhere, international employment services concern
Manpower, which reported only a marginal improvement in
pretax profit for the half year, closed down 1/2 penny at 58
pence.
   Retailing concern Storehouse, which sold two major units,
ended 2 pence higher at 130 pence.
   Shares closed lower in Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Brussels,
Amsterdam, Stockholm, Milan and Madrid. South African gold
stocks closed marginally higher.
   Stocks closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul
and Manila, and higher in Taipei and Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                 % This
                                 Sep 14  Sep 13    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ........................  292.4   294.5  - 10.0
   Britain .....................  616.7   626.0  - 14.5
   Canada ......................  362.0   363.6  - 16.3
   Japan ....................... 1055.2  1065.8  - 36.3
   France ......................  451.5   459.2  - 20.4
   Germany .....................  250.6   253.9  - 12.2
   Hong Kong ................... 2228.7  2254.7  +  6.3
   Switzerland .................  183.7   186.4  - 16.8
   Australia ...................  304.3   308.2  -  8.1
   World index .................  466.8   467.8  - 17.7
                                                                                                       

                  Weekly Percentage Leaders
                                                                                                       

   Last week's best and worst performing stocks   among those
issues that make up 80% of the world's   stock market
capitalization (in local currency)
                                                                                                       

   ISSUE (COUNTRY)                          CLOSE    %CHG
                                                                                                       

                        WINNING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   KKeisei Electric Railway (Japan) ...... 1580.0   + 36.2
   Japan Steel Works (Japan) .............  695.0   + 35.0
   Nippon Zeon (Japan) ...................  762.0   + 24.1
   Toyobo (Japan) ........................  663.0   + 22.8
   Yamato Transport (Japan) .............. 1240.0   + 22.8
   Tokyo Rope Manufacturing (Japan) ...... 1150.0   + 22.3
   Marubeni (Japan) ......................  675.0   + 20.5
   Kobe Steel (Japan) ....................  541.0   + 20.2
   Fuji Spinning (Japan) .................  625.0   + 19.0
   Japan Synthetic Rubber (Japan) ........  850.0   + 18.7
                                                                                                       

                        LOSING ISSUES
                                                                                                       

   Prime Motor Inns (U.S.) ...............    1.25  - 63.0
   Citroen Hispania (Spain) ..............  560.0   - 24.3
   Adelaide Steamship (Australia) ........    3.05  - 19.7
   Emperor Mines (Australia) .............    1.0   - 18.7
   Hornos Ibericos Alba (Spain) .......... 2400.0   - 18.6
   Mapfre (Corporacion) (Spain) .......... 5400.0   - 18.6
   Asturiana de Zinc (Spain) ............. 4690.0   - 17.3
   Laing (John) Ord (Britain) ............    2.1   - 17.0
   Interchase Corp. (Australia) ..........    0.1   - 16.7
   Browning - Ferris Ind. (U.S.) .........   31.125 - 15.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morgan Stanley Capital Intl. Perspective
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Technological, Social Changes May Spur
   Courts to Widen Definition of Parenthood
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<LP>
   Who is a baby's mother: the woman who provides the ovum or
the woman who provides the womb?
   That's the question a Santa Ana, Calif., court is being
asked to decide in a lawsuit filed last month by a surrogate
mother. It is one of a growing number of cases that experts
say could redefine the legal meaning of parenthood.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Anna Johnson, 29 years old, is eight months pregnant with
an implanted embryo produced with sperm and eggs supplied by
Mark and Crispina Calvert. She has sued the Calverts, seeking
custody of the baby she is carrying for them. Her case raises
novel legal questions because Ms. Johnson has no genetic
connection to the unborn child.
   "In the Bible, when two women were claiming to be the
mother of the same child, King Solomon offered to divide the
child in half and give part to each. Now the courts are being
forced to consider the notion that a child can have more than
two parents," says Lori Andrews, a lawyer specializing in
reproductive law at the American Bar Foundation in Chicago.
   This quiet legal revolution has been spurred by
fundamental social and medical changes. The increase in
divorce and the number of stepfamilies has meant that many
adults perform all the functions of a parent without legal or
biological ties to a child. Rapidly evolving medical
technologies, such as the in vitro fertilization used in the
Johnson case and artificial insemination, have also raised
concerns about the legal definition of family.
   In recent years, courts around the country have created
doctrines that give stepparents and others with no genetic
connection to a child expanded legal rights. Many of these
courts are ruling that the best interests of the child may
outweigh the natural parent's constitutional rights to make
decisions about the child's upbringing.
   Some family lawyers worry that the changes will result in
too many people calling themselves parents. These lawyers
contend that expanding the legal definition of parenthood
will increase litigation over custody, visitation and other
rights.
   But other legal experts say that looking at a biological
relationship is no longer sufficient to determine who is a
parent. They say the courts must accept the reality of "how
widespread the phenomenon of complex parental relationships
is," says Nancy D. Polikoff, an associate professor at
American University Law School.
   Ms. Johnson's battle typifies the social challenges
confronting the courts. She has no genetic connection to her
unborn child, but California law says the woman who gives
birth is the mother.
   "There is no law that says anything about the parental
rights of parties that donate an embryo that was formulated
in a petri dish," says Richard Gilbert, a lawyer for Ms.
Johnson from the Santa Ana law firm Gilbert &amp; Marlowe. "Anna
is the mother of the child. She has bonded to the baby in her
womb."
   Robert Walmsley, a lawyer for the Calverts with the Santa
Ana law firm Van Deusen, Youmans &amp; Walmsley, says that
biologically the child is the Calverts'. "The court must
acknowledge and protect the biological link. There isn't
anything else at this point," he says.
   Custody suits filed by lesbian couples who reared children
together and separated are pending in appeals courts in New
York, New Mexico and California. The women are relying on
protections that used to be reserved for traditional
families.
   Michele G., a 43-year-old graduate student, wants to be
recognized as a parent of two children she reared with her
ex-lover, the biological mother. The couple split up in 1985
after 15 years together. (Court papers don't use the women's
full names.)
   As part of a verbal agreement, Michele G. retained custody
of the older child, a girl. Her former lover, Nancy S., who
conceived the children through artificial insemination, kept
custody of the younger child, a boy.
   But in 1988, Nancy S. sued for custody of both children. A
lower court in Alameda County denied Michele G. standing as a
parent and terminated her rights to visit the children. Her
case is pending before an appeals court in San Francisco.
   She contends that she acted in every way as a parent and
was listed on the children's birth certificates as their
father. "The children were born because of a joint decision,"
says Amy Oppenheimer, an Oakland, Calif., lawyer representing
Michele G. "It's not fair to the children for the court to
now say that only one of them is their mother."
   But Carol Amyx, a lawyer for Nancy S., says Michele G.'s
reasoning could be used to open the door for too many people
to become parents. "Children will potentially be placed in
the midst of multiparty custody litigation on a much more
frequent basis," says Ms. Amyx of Berkeley.
   Some courts have been willing to create legal doctrines
when they have believed continuing a significant relationship
is in a child's best interests. During divorce proceedings,
Harold J. Atkinson learned that he wasn't the biological
father of a child born during his marriage. A lower court
awarded custody of the child to his ex-wife, Terri, and
denied visitation rights to Mr. Atkinson.
   But a Michigan appeals court in Detroit in 1987 overturned
that decision, ruling that Mr. Atkinson could be considered
an "equitable parent" because he and the child acknowledged
each other as father and son and Mr. Atkinson was willing to
accept the rights and financial responsibilities of being a
parent.
   But Paul W. Harty, a Birmingham lawyer representing Mrs.
Atkinson, says it was poor law to allow a husband who isn't
the biological father to acquire rights after living with a
child for the first two years of his life. "I'm afraid that
this case will permit a vindictive husband to create problems
not only for his former wife but her child," Mr. Harty says.
   In other cases, courts have refused to grant a plaintiff
parental rights but nonetheless articulated new rules that
appear to expand the legal definition of parenthood. Last
year, the appellate division of a New Jersey state court in
Hackensack ruled that third parties who can prove they "stand
in the shoes of a parent to the child" will be treated like
natural parents by the courts. And in 1988, a New Jersey
state court in Trenton found that visitation and other
parental privileges can be extended to stepparents who can
show a significant bond with the child.
   Courts have also begun to re-examine legislation adopted
to deal with new medical technologies. More than 30 states
have enacted artificial insemination laws in which sperm
donors, with the exception of the husband, have no parental
rights.
   These laws, enacted under the assumption that the woman
wouldn't know the sperm donor, failed to take into account a
situation like Kevin McIntyre's, says his lawyer, Ronald A.
Fontana of Portland, Ore. Mr. McIntyre, a teacher, donated
sperm to a friend of 12 years, Linden Crouch. Mr. McIntyre
claims that Ms. Crouch reneged on her promise that he could
help raise the child, born in 1986.
   Last year, an Oregon appeals court in Salem ruled that the
state's 1977 artificial insemination law violated Mr.
McIntyre's constitutional rights. G. Philip Arnold, a lawyer
with Drescher &amp; Arnold of Ashland who is representing Ms.
Crouch, said the court's ruling could be extended to
anonymous donors who change their minds and then obtain the
mother's identity.
   "In the past, the courts tended to look at how much time
the father spent with the child in trying to determine
parental rights. But this court is saying that a sperm donor
may have rights if he just attempts to establish a
relationship," says reproductive law specialist Ms. Andrews.
   The case was settled this month. Mr. McIntyre was
acknowledged to have legal rights as a father, including
regular visitation, says Mr. Fontana.
   Stepparents have benefited significantly from the latest
changes. Traditionally denied parental rights, more courts
are awarding them custody. Six states have enacted statutes
that grant visitation rights to stepparents if the marriage
dissolves or the natural parent dies.
   In addition, the American Bar Association's family law
section is expected this January to consider a model act that
could be adopted by state legislatures. The proposed bill
would establish a legal relationship between stepparents and
stepchildren in the areas of child support, custody,
discipline and visitation.
   "The time has come to recognize the right of stepparents
to come into court and determine the best interests of the
child," says Joel Tenenbaum, chairman of the committee that
drafted the proposed act and a lawyer with the Wilmington,
Del., law firm Woloshin, Tenenbaum &amp; Natalie.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Crude Reason for Hike
   In Airlines' Fares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 16 "Tracking Travel" article stated, "Airlines
have been doing a lot of howling recently about rising fuel
costs. But a look at those costs suggests they may not be
quite so bad." Rising jet-fuel costs are very bad for the
U.S. airline industry and I believe a few facts should
demonstrate that point clearly.
   Airline jet-fuel costs are essentially a fixed percentage
of per-barrel crude-oil prices. That percentage for the past
several years has held at 3.5%. Thus, before the recent
Middle Eastern crisis, crude oil at $18 a barrel brought
about 63 cents a gallon for jet fuel. If the current fuel
crisis places crude-oil prices at, say, $25 a barrel, U.S.
airlines will pay about 88 cents a gallon for fuel, a rise of
25 cents a gallon. These increases occur immediately; there
are no long-term price contracts anymore, not even 30-day
contracts. Every one-cent rise in jet fuel increases airline
expenses by $160 million annually. A rise of 25 cents raises
the jet-fuel costs $4 billion annually.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I consider that quite bad, so bad that even as the
airlines raise their fares about 5.3%, which is not enough,
to try and recover these increased fuel costs, their
profitability outlook diminishes. It moves from an earlier
$500 million operating profit for 1990 to a $1 billion
operating loss.
   George W. James
   Chairman
   Airline Economics Inc.
   Washington
   ---
   You state that travel-agent commissions account for 13% of
every travel dollar, basing this on a Runzheimer
International analysis of a New York-Los Angeles sample trip.
   The 13% is highly overstated. On domestic tickets,
airlines pay 9.26% commissions based on consumer cost (they
pay 10% of the base fare, which is less than consumer cost
because of an 8% tax). Car-rental companies pay only 5% on
most rentals, and even less on corporate rates. The standard
commission paid by U.S. hotels is 10%. In addition, it is
frequently difficult if not impossible to collect commissions
from hotel and car-rental companies.
   I know of no way to average 9.26, 5 and 10 and get 13. Did
the Runzheimer analysts learn the old "new math"?
   Hedy Knoth
   Travel Consultant
   Destinations Inc.
   Wilmington, Del.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   CHA GDW FNM FRE EUROP A.ICI
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                          CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Champion International Corp. -- $150 million of 9.65%
notes due Oct. 1, 1995, priced at par. The noncallable notes
were priced at a spread of 114 basis points above the
Treasury's five-year note. Rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and triple-B by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman Sachs
&amp; Co.
   World Savings &amp; Loan Association -- $100 million of 10.25%
subordinated notes due Oct. 1, 1997, priced at par to yield
10.25%. The noncallable notes were priced at 150 basis points
above the Treasury's seven-year note. Rated single-A2 by
Moody's and single-A-minus by S&amp;P, the issue will be sold
through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
World Savings &amp; Loan is a unit of Golden West Financial Corp.
                                                                                                       

                          MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   New York State Urban Development Corp. -- $228.1 million
of correctional capital facilities revenue bonds, Series 1,
due Jan. 1, 1992-2003, 2016 and 2020, tentatively priced by a
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.50% in 1992 to
8.00% in 2016. Current interest serial bonds are priced to
yield from 6.50% in 1992 to 7.50% in 2003. There are $118.2
million of 7.75% term bonds priced at 97.29 to yield 8.00% in
2016 and $66 million of 7.50% term bonds priced at 97.67 to
yield 7.70% in 2020. Ratings of single-A/triple-B-plus are
expected.
   Rhode Island Housing and Mortgage Financial Corp. --
$125.8 million of home ownership opportunity bonds, Series
3-A due Oct. 1, 2010 and 2016, and Series 3-B due April 1 and
Oct. 1, 1992-2000, 2019 and 2022, priced by a Goldman, Sachs
&amp; Co. group to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 8.05% in 2022.
Series 3-A consists of $43.8 million of bonds. There are
$20.9 million of 7.80% term bonds priced at par due in 2010
and $22.8 million of 7.85% term bonds priced at par due in
2016. Series 3-B consists of $82 million of bonds. Current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.40%
in 1992 to 7.25% in 2000. There are $40 million of tender
option bonds due in 2019 that are not formally reoffered and
$34.8 million of 8.05% term bonds priced at par due in 2022.
Interest on the Series 3-B bonds will be treated as a
preference item in calculating the federal alternative
minimum tax that may be imposed on certain investors.
Interest on the Series 3-A bonds will not be subject to the
tax. Ratings of single-A-1/ double-A-plus are expected.
                                                                                                       

                          MORTGAGES
                                                                                                       

   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $300.2 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 11 classes by Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-127, is backed by
Fannie Mae 10% securities with a weighted average coupon rate
of 10.625% and weighted average remaining term to maturity of
29.58 years.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $300 million of Remic
mortgage securities offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets. The offering, Series FHLMC Gold 1007, is
backed by Freddie Mac 10 1/2% gold participation certificates
with a weighted average coupon rate of 11.25% and weighted
average remaining term to maturity of 28.5 years. Price and
yield data weren't immediately available.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   ICI (Australian) Finance Ltd (U.K. parent) -- 60 million
Australian dollars of 14 1/4% Eurobonds due Oct. 22, 1993,
issue price 101 1/2, via Hambros Bank Ltd. Guarantor ICI
(Australia) Ltd. Fees 1 1/2.
   Czechoslovakian Trade Bank (Czechoslovakia) -- 350 million
marks of 10% bonds due Oct. 5, 1995, priced at 101 to yield
9.73%, via Deutby Statnibank Ceskoslovenska, the state
central bank. Fees 2.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Suit Accusing Icahn of Extortion
   In Viacom Buy-Back Is Dismissed
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   VIA PRI PCMC MDEST CANDA ALD TIC EUROP FREST LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
INSURANCE (INS)
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge threw out a shareholder lawsuit accusing
Carl Icahn of extortion and racketeering in connection with
his 1986 agreement to sell back his stake in Viacom
International Inc. for a premium above market price.
   Judge Robert Patterson Jr. ruled that if Mr. Icahn
pressured Viacom into accepting the agreement in a so-called
greenmail arrangement, it was through hard bargaining rather
than illegal conduct. Under the agreement, Viacom paid Mr.
Icahn $230 million in return for his 16.95% stake and a
promise that he wouldn't buy any stock in the company for at
least 11 years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuit in federal court in New York was initiated by
shareholders of Viacom International, which has since
restructured. The company currently is a subsidiary of Viacom
Inc., a holding company formed after a 1987 leveraged
buy-out.
   "The law didn't entitle Viacom to a right to pursue its
business interests free of the problems and fears caused by
the threat of a takeover," said Judge Patterson in his
opinion. "Public corporations are subject to such threats on
a regular basis."
   Viacom had sought damages of $60.5 million, which was the
value of the premium the company paid for Mr. Icahn's stock
above the market price, according to the lawsuit. The lawsuit
alleged that the broadcasting and entertainment company was
illegally coerced into agreeing to the buy-back. The
agreement was reached May 21, 1986, six days after Mr. Icahn
disclosed his stake.
   Dennis Block, an attorney for Mr. Icahn, said: "We are
very pleased. We thought the case had no merit and was
frivolous from the beginning." Although the lawsuit was begun
by shareholders, Viacom agreed to allow it to go forward
after the company's buy-out, Mr. Block said.
   A spokeswoman for Viacom said the company doesn't comment
on litigation.
   Judge Patterson said the agreement would have been
extortion only if Viacom had received nothing of value in
return for making the buy-back. In this case, the judge said,
what it got in return was Mr. Icahn's pledge not to buy
Viacom stock for 11 years, as well as the return of his 3.5
million shares. In disclosing his 16.95% stake, Mr. Icahn had
stated that he would be interested in acquiring the company.
   "Any intentional exploitation of fear by defendants was
only part of `hard-bargaining' in a deal which resulted in
plaintiff receiving a benefit to which it wasn't otherwise
entitled by law," the judge said in the opinion. He added
that Mr. Icahn and his companies "didn't obtain property from
(Viacom) to which they had no lawful claim."
   Mr. Block said Judge Patterson's decision appears to be
the first on whether a buy-back agreement could be used as
the basis for lawsuit under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations law. The Viacom lawsuit claimed that
the agreement, which the suit called "a form of extortion
known as greenmail," constituted one the illegal acts needed
for establishing a pattern of racketeering under that law.
   Judge Patterson said previous cases have already
established that greenmail isn't "inherently unlawful."
   ---
   LAVENTHOL &amp; HORWATH is sued by its former public relations
specialist.
   Sid Cato, who said he was hired to help counteract adverse
publicity about the Philadelphia accounting firm, is now
generating some negative publicity of his own for Laventhol.
   Mr. Cato filed suit against the firm in state court in
Chicago late last week, alleging that the firm broke an
agreement he claims would have paid him more than $415,000
for his services. Mr. Cato is the editor and publisher of a
monthly publication called Sid Cato's Newsletter of Annual
Reports, which analyzes the annual reports that publicly held
companies send to their shareholders.
   According to the complaint, Mr. Cato was approached by the
firm last spring about providing public relations advice and
joined the Chicago office as communications vice president
June 11. Laventhol is one of the nation's largest accounting
firms with 425 partners in 51 offices.
   Mr. Cato said his mission was to help Laventhol recover
from a spate of bad publicity about the firm's recent
troubles, including employee defections and a lawsuit by
irate investors concerning Laventhol's work for a Houston
oil-drilling tax shelter called Terra Drill &amp; Heavy Oil. (The
suit was settled for $13.5 million.)
   Mr. Cato's suit alleges that after Mr. Cato's first day on
the job, Sheldon Epstein, head of the Chicago office, signed
a one-year written agreement with him. But a month later,
according to the suit, Mr. Epstein told him that Laventhol
partners in the Philadelphia office wouldn't approve a more
formal agreement drafted by Mr. Cato's lawyers.
   By then, Mr. Cato said, he had provided
communications-strategy sessions to Mr. Epstein, held
meetings with partners and created a video aimed at improving
employee morale.
   In dispute were contract terms involving compensation, a
pension plan and even Mr. Cato's title: Laventhol wanted to
name him communications director instead of vice president
for communications. Mr. Cato's lawyers alerted Laventhol that
the company had breached the agreement and Mr. Cato could no
longer continue working for Laventhol.
   Mr. Cato didn't return calls seeking comment. In a
prepared statement, a spokesman for Laventhol said Mr. Cato's
complaint is groundless. The spokesman said that Mr. Cato
should be compensated for his month or so of work, even
though he did so without a firm agreement on his pay and
refused remuneration several times. "Our position is that
there is no contractual arrangement and that Mr. Cato left on
his own accord," the spokesman said.
   The spokesman added: "We are optimistic that we will
prevail in this case -- despite Mr. Cato's attempts to
influence it through publicity."
   ---
   EMPLOYEE DRUG TESTS that use hair analysis survive court
challenge.
   In Minden, Nev., State Judge David Gamble upheld an
employee drug testing program at Harrah's Lake Tahoe casino
that includes both hair analysis and urinalysis, the more
common method of screening for illegal drugs. Hair analysis
is a relatively new process in the drug-testing field. The
Harrah's case is believed to be one of the first to question
its legality.
   "It just hasn't come up in the courts very much at all,"
said Victor Schachter, an attorney with Schachter, Kristoff,
Ross, Sprague &amp; Curiale in San Francisco.
   A group of Harrah's employees had sought an injunction
against the mandatory drug-testing policy, contending that it
represented an illegal invasion of their privacy. They also
argued that the hair-analysis tests were inaccurate and
unreliable. Harrah's is a unit of Promus Cos. of Memphis,
Tenn.
   Hair roots absorb drug residue from the bloodstream. The
residue remains embedded in the hair until it is cut and
discarded. Hair testing involves clipping some strands of
hair, dissolving them, then using a technique known as
radio-immunoassay to check for drugs. Psychemedics Corp., a
Santa Monica, Calif., testing laboratory, provides the hair
analysis for Harrah's and had joined the case in defense of
the policy.
   Under Harrah's program, employees have the option of being
screened for drugs through urinalysis or hair analysis. If
they test positive, the results must be confirmed by a widely
accepted chemical test known as gas chromatographic/mass
spectrometry. An employee can be fired if the positive
results are confirmed.
   Judge Gamble declared the company's overall approach to be
reasonable. However, he noted that hair analysis alone "has
not, at this stage, developed sufficiently to form a basis
for termination of current employees."
   ---
   IMELDA MARCOS'S co-defendant, Rodolfo Arambulo, was fined
$20,000 for his role in the alleged racketeering scheme
involving the former first lady of the Philippines. In March,
Mr. Arambulo pleaded guilty to one count of conspiring to
commit mail fraud. He later testified against Mrs. Marcos,
who was acquitted. Judge John Keenan of federal court in
Manhattan ordered the fine but said he wouldn't impose a
prison sentence on Mr. Arambulo, a Filipino who is seeking
political asylum in the U.S. The former California Overseas
Bank officer was accused of helping conceal money that
allegedly was stolen from the Philippines and transferred to
the U.S. The Los Angeles bank also pleaded guilty to wire
fraud in the case.
   ---
   THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT withdrew its application to extend
a court order blocking publication of "By Way of Deception:
The Making and Unmaking of a Mossad Officer" in Canada. The
book was written by Victor Ostrovsky, who claims he spent two
years as an agent in the Israeli intelligence service, the
Mossad. An Ontario court had barred publication pending a
hearing yesterday. Instead of pursuing the injunction, a
Canadian lawyer for the Israeli government said his client
would seek damages against Mr. Ostrovsky, co-author Claire
Hoy, and Stoddart Publishing Co. of Canada, the book's
Canadian publisher. Last week, a New York appellate court
overturned a publication ban in the U.S. against the book's
New York publishing house, St. Martin's Press.
   ---
   ALLIED-SIGNAL Corp. and Travelers Indemnity Co. settled
their dispute over who will pay for the cost of cleaning up
pollution at more than 250 sites owned by Allied. "This is
the first settlement of environmental liabilities of this
magnitude. Many thought cases of this size could not be
settled," said David Ichel of the New York law firm Simpson
Thacher &amp; Bartlett, a lawyer for the Travelers Corp. unit. A
spokesman for Allied said the terms of the settlement are
confidential. But as part of the agreement, the Morristown,
N.J., aerospace and automotive-products maker will withdraw
its appeal of a decision last June in which a federal judge
ruled there was no coverage under Traveler's policies for the
cleanup of two sites in Maryland. Allied also agreed to
dismiss Travelers from its New Jersey suit against 175 of its
other insurance carriers seeking coverage for damage caused
by pollution.
   ---
   POLAND CLEARED Altheimer &amp; Gray, a 200-lawyer Chicago
firm, to open the first foreign law office in Poland. Polish
attorney Gabriel Wujeck, former director of Poland's Legal
Department of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations,
will head the new office, which is scheduled to open in
Warsaw in November. Altheimer &amp; Gray has been active in
Poland for more than 15 years and expects its client base to
include U.S. and other non-Polish companies involved in
manufacturing, real estate investment, telecommunications,
construction and hotels.
   ---
   Wayne E. Green contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Union to Focus
   On Lines in 4 States,
   End Acquisition Binge
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FTU
</CO>
<IN>
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- First Union Corp., after a hefty banking and
savings and loan acquisition binge in the late 1980s, intends
to concentrate on increasing market share rather than further
expansion through acquisition.
   Edward E. Crutchfield Jr., chairman of the Charlotte,
N.C., banking company, noted that because of the
acquisitions, First Union's earnings have been sluggish the
past three years. "Now we'll try to make them pay off."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Crutchfield said he doesn't disagree with analysts'
consensus estimates of per-share earnings of about $2.80 in
1990. "Unless the wheels come off in the fourth quarter we
will reach that."
   In 1989, First Union earned $256.2 million, or $2.40 a
share. In the first half of 1990, profit rose 2% to 149
million, or $1.39 a share, compared with the year-earlier
$146 million, or $1.37 a share.
   Since 1985, when the U.S. Supreme Court allowed regional
interstate banking, the company has made 22 acquisitions,
including Florida National Bank for $850 million in January.
It now has about $38 billion in assets, compared with $7
billion in 1985.
   Mr. Crutchfield said the company's five-year goal will be
to double the earnings of 1989 through consolidation and cost
cutting. Also, it would attempt to increase market share in
regions where it already does business rather than through
expansion into other regions.
   Mr. Crutchfield said the goal would be to increase market
share in the southeast region to 16%. The company says it
currently has about an 8.2% share of the market in four
states -- North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida
-- where it has most of its offices. "I don't see going out
to other states," Crutchfield said. "I'd rather have the 16%
market share in the four regions."
   Much of the growth is based on company's projection that
the region will experience a heavy influx in population, and
indications that the area's GNP growth will be double the
nation's GNP growth of about 2%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Bad Press Plagues Plan to Put Pierogi on Every Plate
   ---
   Mrs. T's Maker Scrambles to Head Off
   Damage From Health-Risk Article
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   There's a lot of bad news in the paper these days. But no
story ever shocked Tim Twardzik as much as the one that said
his product can kill you.
   Mr. Twardzik's family owns the country's largest maker of
pierogi, potato-and-cheese-filled pasta shells with East
European origins. In the small coal-mining town of
Shenandoah, Pa., the Twardziks annually chalk up sales of
over $13 million by producing 200 million pierogi.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The 38-year-old business ran smoothly until two weeks ago.
That was when an Associated Press report claimed that pierogi
clog the arteries. Newspapers around the country -- including
several in Pennsylvania, the Twardziks' biggest market --
published the AP article. Cable News Network also picked it
up.
   The story couldn't have come at a worse time: In trying to
broaden the appeal of pierogi, the Twardziks have been
promoting them as a health food.
   For generations, pierogi lovers have sauteed the product
in butter and topped them with sour cream. Yet pierogi are
low in fat and high in the carbohydrates that athletes need,
the Twardziks' company, Ateeco Inc., says.
   Mr. Twardzik says he won't know for a few weeks, when
retailers place new orders, what effect all this will have on
sales. So far, the effect has been limited. Ateeco says some
pierogi-eating athletes called asking about the news reports.
Some grocery store managers told the company they are
wondering if sales will drop and a company broker in North
Carolina called to find out how he should handle any
inquiries from customers. Also, the company knows of one
customer who decided to shun the product. Through increased
store advertising and special promotions, the company is now
scrambling to head off any damage to the image of pierogi.
   These days, even a single news story challenging the
nutritional value of a company's sole product is enough to
make a business owner jittery. The impression created by the
publicity "is 360 degrees from what we were doing," says Mr.
Twardzik, vice president of the company. "People believe what
they read. If this catches on, it could really be damaging."
   The Twardziks and pierogi go back a long way. Mr.
Twardzik's grandmother, the daughter of Polish immigrants,
used to make pierogi and pass them around at picnics. Her
son, Ted, the company's chairman, liked them so much that he
decided at age 25 to mass produce them. They sell today in
the frozen-food section under the name Mrs. T's.
   When Tim Twardzik joined the family business in 1981 --
after earning a marketing degree at the University of Notre
Dame -- he was determined to expand Mrs. T's customer base,
largely Pennsylvanians of East European heritage. But it
wasn't until last year that the company's plan to put pierogi
on every dinner plate began to take shape.
   The breakthrough came with an unexpected call from Frank
Fedel, a nutritionist and member of a triathalon team
sponsored by Detroit's Henry Ford Hospital. Mr. Fedel said
Mrs. T's was a staple of the training diet of his team, which
competes in races that combine swimming, cycling and running.
Mr. Fedel said pierogi were a welcome alternative to pasta,
an endurance athlete's standard fare. For $500, Mr. Fedel
said, the team would wear the company's logo on its jerseys.
   The Twardziks started spending half of their $500,000
annual ad budget promoting the new idea. Mrs. T's became a
sponsor of the Bud Light U.S. Triathalon Series, where it
serves up all the pierogi that contestants can eat. For a
spokeswoman, the family signed up Paula Newby-Fraser, a
three-time winner in the women's category of Hawaii's
grueling Iron Man triathalon.
   Then, early this month, Tim Twardzik got a call from an
employee conveying disturbing news: "They told me," Mr.
Twardzik says, "that someone on TV was saying pierogies are
bad for you."
   Cable News Network had picked up an Associated Press
report about the Pittsburgh Community Health Challenge, an
attempt by the state and 100 local companies "to get people
in the Iron City to stop eating like steelworkers." In the
article's third paragraph were these fateful words:
"Organizers hope to turn people away from an artery-clogging
legacy of pierogies" -- which weren't mentioned by the
organizers -- and other "high-fat ethnic dishes."
   The Twardziks say less than 12% of the 60 calories in each
of Mrs. T's potato-and-cheese pierogi comes from fat. The
American Heart Association recommends restricting fat to 30%
of total calories.
   Charles Hanley, the AP's deputy managing editor in New
York, says he stands by the wire service's story. "Our story
really doesn't warrant any correction or clarification," he
says, "because pierogies are invariably prepared and eaten in
a way that makes them artery clogging."
   For Tim Twardzik, any hopes that the bad publicity would
pass without notice were dashed a few days later at a
restaurant trade show in Orlando, Fla. During dinner, Mr.
Twardzik struck up a conversation with a couple at a
neighboring table. When the conversation turned to pierogi,
Mr. Twardzik recalls, the woman replied: "Oh, I can't eat
those anymore. I read that they're bad for you."
   Facing a potential loss of customers, the Twardziks have
stepped up in-store advertising with placards proclaiming
that pierogi are good for you. They have inserted in Mrs. T's
boxes low-calorie recipes, such as pierogi with stir-fried
vegetables or "Mexican-style" pierogi topped with salsa and
yogurt.
   The nation's No. 1 producer of pierogi also is continuing
to strengthen its ties to endurance athletes in an effort to
reach weekend warriors as well. It recently was named the
Official Pierogi of the Chicago Marathon. Says Tim Twardzik
of the distinction: "There weren't a lot of people fighting
it out for that one."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Express Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   AMERICAN EXPRESS Co. (New York) -- William J. Blomquist
was named head of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region
and also was named executive vice president at American
Express Bank Ltd., a subsidiary of the travel, financial and
information services company. Mr. Blomquist, 46 years old,
succeeds James P. Flaherty, 43, who will head marketing and
development at the bank. Mr. Blomquist had been senior vice
president and head of the bank's Swiss subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fuel Economy Kills
   ----
   By Doug Bandow
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Crises seem to bring out the worst in people, especially
the "public interest" lobbies that always have a new proposal
to expand government. Environmental groups, which should be
on the defensive in the Persian Gulf crisis, having blocked
exploration of energy-rich lands on the outercontinental
shelf and in Alaska, are now supporting a bill introduced by
Sen. Richard Bryan (D., Nev.) that raises the corporate
average fuel economy (CAFE) standard to 40 miles per gallon
by the year 2000. This measure would "have over 10 times the
oil-savings potential of any new domestic oil fields," argues
Christopher Flavin, a Worldwatch Institute vice-president.
The Bryan bill has already passed the Senate Commerce
committee.
   CAFE requires auto manufacturers to achieve a specified
average mileage, currently 27.5 mpg, for their entire fleets.
In effect, auto manufacturers must balance production of "gas
guzzlers" with smaller, more energy-efficient vehicles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So Mr. Flavin's argument sounds appealing -- until one
realizes that it means forcing manufacturers to make cars
that consumers don't want. Escalating gas prices during the
1970s encouraged Americans to buy smaller, more
fuel-efficient autos, but when gas prices fell in the 1980s,
many consumers shifted back to larger vehicles. After all,
energy is not an absolute value, but one that must be
balanced against comfort, convenience and safety.
   Yet, through CAFE, the government continued to tell car
makers to produce more small autos. Manufacturers avoided the
law's enormous fines only by using up credits "banked" when
CAFE was lower, cutting the production of big cars and
pricing small cars under cost. The result was to increase
large auto prices by as much as $1200, cut car sales and
profits and eliminate thousands of auto-worker jobs. (The
regulations also disproportionately hurt domestic firms,
which concentrated on the big car market.) All told, the
Federal Trade Commission figures that CAFE has cost the
economy about $4 for every gallon of gasoline saved.
   And CAFE almost certainly doesn't save as much gas as
predicted. Drivers, like all other human beings, respond to
incentives. Increasing the price of large cars encourages
consumers to hold onto older, less efficient autos longer;
subsidizing small cars will not only encourage people to
choose a smaller over a larger vehicle, but also to buy
another car for, say, a teenager, resulting in more driving.
Indeed, pushing people into more efficient cars is going to
make them more likely to drive more miles since they can
travel more cheaply.
   In the end, though, the most important reason to reject a
CAFE increase is that raising the level would kill thousands
of people. Car accidents are a daily event and the larger
vehicle usually wins: a person is four times as likely to
survive a two car collision in a 4,000 pound car than in a
2,000 pound car. Pulling people out of big cars and putting
them into small ones is going to increase the number of
traffic fatalities sharply.
   The exact size of the CAFE death toll remains a matter of
dispute. Early estimates ranged between 500 and 1,400 lives
annually. In 1988 Robert Crandall of the Brookings
Institution and John Graham of Harvard released a
comprehensive study that found that CAFE had reduced the
average auto weight by 500 pounds, thereby upping traffic
fatalities by between 14% and 27%. That translates into an
extra 2,200 to 3,900 deaths and 11,000 to 19,500 other
injuries every year. "If you consider safety factors, CAFE is
a very costly social policy," says Sam Kazman of the
Competitive Enterprise Institute.
   How do environmentalists respond to the human carnage from
their policies? First, they refuse to acknowledge the
problem. Second, they say that the added auto deaths just
prove the need for more federal regulations, such as
government required airbags.
   CAFE never made sense, but at least when Congress first
passed the legislation in 1975 no one knew how expensive it
would be or how many lives it would risk. Today we know. CAFE
should be eliminated, not strengthened.
   ---
   Mr. Bandow, a fellow at the Cato Institute, is the author
of "The Politics of Plunder: Misgovernment in Washington,"
newly published by Transaction.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alltel Corp. Gas Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
GAS UTILITIES (GAS)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. -- Alltel Corp. said it has put its gas
operations up for sale as part of its strategy to focus on
its main business of telephone communications and data
processing. Stephens Inc. has been retained to assist in the
sale.
   Alltel obtained the gas operations, which serve more than
67,900 customers in California, Oregon and Nevada, as part of
its 1988 acquisition of CP National Corp. of San Francisco.
The gas operations have annual operating revenue of $40
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   G-7 to Discuss
   Oil Price Rise,
   Interest Rates
   ---
   Saturday Meeting's Agenda
   To Include Dollar's Fall;
   U.S. Looks for Growth
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN CANDA EUROP MDEST LATAM FREST FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The finance ministers and central bank
governors of the Group of Seven industrialized countries are
set to meet here Saturday to discuss the impact of higher oil
prices, recent interest rate rises, and the decline in the
U.S. dollar.
   "We're very concerned there should be a continuation of
growth," David Mulford, Treasury undersecretary for
international affairs, told reporters in a briefing
yesterday. The U.S. isn't facing a recession, Mr. Mulford
said, but he added that recent oil price rises would damp
growth in the G-7 countries: the U.S., Japan, West Germany,
France, Britain, Italy and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He said the decline in the dollar has been "orderly" and
indicated it wasn't a matter of concern to the Treasury. The
decline should help narrow the U.S.'s trade deficit, he said.
   The Treasury official also mentioned that the G-7 would
discuss the need to contain inflation but declined to rank
that priority against the need to maintain growth.
   The G-7 meeting occurs just prior to the annual meetings
of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which
are set to begin a week from today. Mr. Mulford indicated
that the G-7 and the IMF and World Bank meetings also are
expected to focus on increasing the resources that are
available to developing countries hard hit by oil price
rises.
   That might be done by increasing the World Bank's
adjustment lending, the Treasury official said, and by
stepping up the use of the IMF's so-called compensatory and
contingency financing facilities, as well as enlarging member
countries' access to IMF funds. The compensatory and
contingency financing facilities help IMF member countries
cope with external shocks to their balances of payments.
   Oil prices are now much more volatile than in the past
because of the greater sophistication of the oil markets and
the development of oil futures and other instruments, Mr.
Mulford said. He cautioned against paying too much attention
to the daily price of oil.
   The Treasury undersecretary said he expects that the
meetings over the coming 10 days will give strong support for
the leadership role the U.S. has assumed in confronting the
crisis set off by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait.
   That could entail further forgiveness of Egypt's foreign
military debt, Mr. Mulford said, urging other countries to
follow the U.S. lead and forgive or cut back Egypt's
obligations for military hardware. President Bush recently
proposed to Congress that the U.S. should forgive the about
$7 billion of military debt owed by Egypt, which has been
hard hit by the crisis in the Persian Gulf.
   The G-7 and the IMF and World Bank meetings are expected
to spend time focusing on the difficulties of Egypt, Turkey,
Jordan and other nations particularly hurt by the Gulf
crisis, through reduced trade or lower remittances from
workers abroad.
   Brazil and its coming discussions with creditors also are
expected to be a topic at the IMF and World Bank annual
meetings, said Mr. Mulford, who indicated that the South
American country would have to make an effort to address its
billions of dollars of interest arrears before it secures an
IMF program. Brazil, which hasn't paid interest on its
commercial bank debt in more than a year, says it will begin
formal negotiations with its commercial bank creditors next
month.
   The Soviet Union will attend this year's annual meetings
as an observer, and Mr. Mulford said the U.S. is "looking
forward to them being special guests." He expects the Soviet
economy will be a topic of discussion but indicated that the
issue of economic assistance to that country would probably
have to wait until the completion in December of a study
being carried out by the IMF, the World Bank, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westcoast Energy Inc. Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   T.W WE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- Westcoast Energy Inc. said
it sold its head office building and adjacent land here for
about 53 million Canadian dollars (US$45.5 million).
   A spokesman for Westcoast, whose interests include
pipelines and oil and gas production, said the sale to a
group of investors will generate a gain during the current
quarter. He didn't disclose the amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Westcoast said it will remain at its current quarters
under a 10-year lease with the new owners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   IBM, Microsoft
   Develop Pacts
   On PC Software
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM MSFT
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   International Business Machines Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
announced a series of agreements that is likely to reduce
their differences over the direction that personal-computer
software should take.
   IBM said it will license Microsoft's Windows system
software, which gives IBM-compatible PCs a friendlier look
and makes it easier to move from one application program to
another. IBM had been resisting Windows and urging customers
to instead use the OS/2 operating system, a much more
sophisticated piece of software that IBM and Microsoft
developed together. While IBM said it hasn't decided yet
whether it will market the Windows software, it presumably
will, given that Microsoft's latest version of Windows has
been a runaway best seller while OS/2 has been a bust over
its 3 1/2-year life.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In turn, as expected, Microsoft plans to add to its
product line a version of OS/2 that IBM has been developing
on its own. One of the big complaints about OS/2 has been
that it requires too much memory, which can be expensive. In
response, IBM has developed a version that cuts the memory
requirement in half, to two megabytes. Apparently worried
that such a version could cut into Windows sales, Microsoft
executives had indicated they were leaning against selling
it.
   Also as expected, IBM and Microsoft said they will realign
responsibility for development of OS/2. IBM will take primary
responsibility for the next two main versions of OS/2-one for
machines using the Intel Corp. 80286 microprocessor and one
for machines using the more-powerful 80386 and 80486
processors. Microsoft, Redmond, Wash., will take primary
responsibility for the next version that will be designed for
use on microprocessors other than those in the main Intel
line. The companies said the aim is to make development more
efficient than it is currently.
   IBM, Armonk, N.Y., is still exploring relationships with
many other software companies, and its interests and
Microsoft's diverge enough that they may well run into
further problems. But Jim Cannavino, who runs IBM's PC
business, said in an interview yesterday that "you're going
to find a pretty good working relationship between the two
companies."
   Separately, IBM is announcing today a series of products
that will help users of its AS/400 minicomputers do so-called
computer-integrated manufacturing. The products fill in a few
of the holes in the broad announcement IBM made a year ago on
ways to tie together all parts of a company's design and
manufacturing and to let managers at corporate headquarters
monitor those processes more closely.
   Some of the CIM Series/400 products let IBM's AS/400s
share data with IBM's RS6000 workstations. Others augment
those capabilities for users of design software -- letting
workstation users update their designs automatically by
grabbing information from the companywide data base stored on
the AS/400, or letting AS/400 users check on, say, the
materials being used in a design. The third type of product
uses the AS/400 to manage the design process, helping all the
engineers in a group stay up to date on the latest design
changes and communicating those changes to people involved in
production.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
IBM shares closed at $105.125, up 75 cents. Microsoft shares
rose $1 to close at $60.75 in national over-the-counter
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Chevron Unit, Daicel Sign Pact
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CHV
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd., a major Japanese
maker of acetic acid, said it signed a technology agreement
with Chevron Research &amp; Technology Co., a subsidiary of
Chevron Corp.
   Under the agreement, Daicel Chemical officials said,
Chevron Research of San Francisco, will provide their company
with technological know-how for the production of
general-purpose polystyrene resin, high-impact polystyrene
resin and other resins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Those resins are used in manufacturing office automation
equipment, consumer electric products, television cabinets
and other goods to make them more durable, or more fire or
impact-resistant.
   On the basis of the accord, Daicel Chemical will build by
the autumn of 1992 a plant capable of producing 50,000 tons
of resins a year, according to company officials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   British Aerospace Is Sued
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A27
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BA EUROP U.RVR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The U.K. Department of Trade and Industry said
it sued British Aerospace PLC and Rover Group PLC to recover
#44.4 million ($84 million) in subsidies made illegally to
the two companies at the time of British Aerospace's takeover
of the troubled motor car group in 1988.
   The action to recover the money was forced on the agency
by the ruling of the European Commission earlier this year
that said secret financial concessions made to British
Aerospace amounted to illegal state aid.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   British Aerospace had until Aug. 17 to repay the money.
Since it hasn't yet done so, the government said it was
obliged to carry out the EC's directive by trying to recover
the funds through the courts.
   Because of the ongoing court proceedings, British
Aerospace wouldn't comment on the writs, beyond saying the
company must appeal the EC decision "to protect our
shareholders." It isn't known when the Court of Justice will
render its decision.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Computer Sciences Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CSC
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Computer Sciences Corp. said the
Army awarded it a contract to provide scientific
support-services to the Texcom Experimentation Center located
at Fort Hunter-Liggett, Calif., and Fort Ord, Calif.
   The contract will cover a one-year base period and four
one-year renewable options with a total estimated value of
$65 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Computer Sciences said it will provide a broad range of
services that include the planning, execution, data
collection, data analysis and reporting of experiments. These
are designed to help the Army evaluate the effectiveness of
various mixes of manpower and military equipment in combat.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aflatoxin Detected
   In North Carolina
   Corn, Texas Milk
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   North Carolina became the third southern state to detect
aflatoxin in its corn crop and, separately, Texas officials
reported discovering the potent carcinogen in raw milk.
   The reports signal that contamination by aflatoxin in the
South might be widespread this year. Last week, Georgia
officials said they blocked sales by an Atlanta milk
processor after detecting aflatoxin in its milk.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Corn millers and milk processors are strengthening
screening procedures in the wake of the outbreak. So far,
there aren't any reports of aflatoxin in finished goods at
the retail level.
   Crop experts were anticipating an aflatoxin outbreak in
the South this year because severe hot and dry conditions
damaged parts of the corn crop. Aflatoxin is a carcinogen in
laboratory rats and is excreted by a soil fungus under
droughtlike conditions in corn and peanuts, among other
crops.
   Joel Padmore, North Carolina's state chemist, said the
extent of the aflatoxin outbreak there isn't clear. Livestock
farmers have sent about 100 samples of suspicious-looking
corn to state laboratories for testing, and about half have
contained more than 20 parts of aflatoxin per billion. While
most scientists consider that level unsafe for human
consumption, such levels can be consumed by mature hogs and
cattle without tainting their meat.
   Alerted by reports of widespread aflatoxin in Texas corn,
food safety officials there surveyed 44 container trucks of
raw milk in Fort Worth before processing. Aflatoxin was
detected in 19 of the trucks, each of which contained milk
that was produced on many farms in north-central Texas.
   James Fraley of the Texas Department of Health's milk and
dairy products division said that inspectors are screening
the farms that supplied the milk. Because aflatoxin is so
potent, the state can block sales by a dairy farm if its milk
contains more than 0.5 parts of aflatoxin per billion.
   In previous cases of milk contamination, the source of
aflatoxin was often traced back to tainted corn that
unknowingly had been fed to dairy cows. Most dairy farmers
won't feed their cows corn that contains more than 20 parts
of aflatoxin per billion.
   Texas dairy farmers face a difficult time finding safe
corn to feed their animals. Roughly half of the 56 samples of
corn recently surveyed by the state's chemist office
contained more than 20 parts of aflatoxin per billion; and
one sample was at least 55 times the safe level. The corn was
intended for livestock feed.
   Texas officials have also discovered significant levels of
aflatoxin in a handful of 31 sorghum samples.
   Because of the shortage of aflatoxin-free crops, corn
harvested last year in the Midwest is being shipped into
Texas, a state official said.
   Aflatoxin isn't expected to be much of a problem this year
in the Midwest, which produces most of the nation's corn. The
weather through much of the growing season was cool and
abnormally wet.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Mercantile Seat Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A seat on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange was
sold for $434,000, down $32,000 from the previous sale.
   Seats currently are quoted at $380,000, bid, and $435,000,
asked. The record price for a full membership on the exchange
is $550,000, set March 9, 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Apple Bancorp
   To Scrap Poison Pill
   If Stahl Buys Shares
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Apple Bancorp Inc. said it will cancel its
poison-pill anti-takeover measure if real estate investor
Stanley Stahl buys all shares tendered to him and holds a
majority of the stock before the annual meeting.
   The bank holding company has been fighting Mr. Stahl's
$38-a-share tender offer, but yesterday said its board is now
neutral on the takeover offer. The bank also postponed its
annual meeting to Oct. 10 from Oct. 1 to give Mr. Stahl more
time. Mr. Stahl's offer expires Oct. 1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Mr. Stahl declined to comment.
   Apple Bancorp said that its financial adviser, Donaldson,
Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp., expressed no opinion on
whether the offer is fair or unfair to shareholders. And
given "adverse market conditions for the sale of healthy
thrift institutions," Apple said it has been unable to line
up an alternative transaction.
   Mr. Stahl currently is soliciting proxies from
shareholders in an effort to take control of Apple's board.
The bank said that if Mr. Stahl buys all shares tendered to
him before the meeting, it also will withdraw its board
nominees. Earlier this month, Mr. Stahl said more than two
million shares had been tendered, enough to provide him a 76%
stake in Apple when combined with shares he already owned.
   But Apple directors are "concerned that if Mr. Stahl
succeeds in taking control of the company in the proxy
contest, he will either terminate his tender offer without
purchasing any shares" or cut the $38 offer price, said
Jerome R. McDougal, chairman and chief executive officer.
   Poison pills such as the one Apple's board adopted last
November allow shareholders to buy, under certain
circumstances, more shares at half price. The plan was
designed to make a hostile takeover prohibitively expensive.
   Apple Bancorp's shares rose 37.5 cents to $33.125 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. OF NEW YORK -- Richard C. Scott
was named to the new post of president of the real estate
investment management unit of this insurance, pension and
investment company. Mr. Scott, 52 years old, was previously
vice president and part owner of Aldrich, Eastman &amp; Waltch, a
real estate advisory firm in Boston.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business World:
   Against the Grain but on Timber's Cutting Edge
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<CO>
   TJCO
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREST PRODUCTS, PRODUCERS OF WOOD AND LUMBER (FOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- On the margin, logging cutbacks in the
Northwest are shifting timber harvests eastward, into the
forested mountains from here through the Rockies. You might
think a wood-products executive whose office looks out toward
this supply lode would be delighted.
   Not Walter Minnick. The president/CEO of TJ International
(formerly Trus Joist) thinks those yields are uneconomic. He
says some timber sales in the region are subsidized 10 to 1,
even 20 to 1, by taxpayers. The U.S. Forest Service builds
roads for loggers and other users.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Minnick is not cut from the timber-industry mold. An
economics graduate of studious Whitman College near his
boyhood home in eastern Washington, he holds law and business
degrees from Harvard. And he is a member of the Wilderness
Society and the Idaho Conservation League, both of which he
credits with an economic approach to environmentalism.
   Greens still lose most battles in this part of the
country. Resource industries hold sway, and with costs borne
nationwide, the politics favor logging even in this rough,
dry terrain. "The community enjoys jobs and prosperity," Mr.
Minnick explains. "It's no different from any other
subsidized local industry." Forest Service land accounts for
about half the intermountain West's timber, and Montana and
Idaho make up 20% of the total national-forest harvest.
   In general, U.S. forestry companies rely on public lands
for the bulk of their timber supply. Add to that the
sentiment in logging towns and you get a consensus for
cutting, at least under Republican, pro-business
administrations.
   But that's changing and his industry had better be ready
to make more out of less, Mr. Minnick says. He told
securities analysts in June that the Forest Service is "about
to be greened." A caucus within the agency, he elaborates, is
emerging to favor "non-consumptive uses." A Forest Service
biologist's report calling for halving the logging on public
lands in the Northwest to spare the spotted owl's "old
growth" habitat is the basis for wrangling within the Bush
administration currently. A Bush half step risks overruling
by the courts; last week, for instance, a U.S. circuit court
planted a legal sapling by blocking a cut that threatened no
species in particular but rather a "biological corridor"
between two wilderness areas.
   Politically, too, the ground may shift against the
industry in the intermountain West just as it has along the
Pacific Coast. Boise, for example, is attracting white-collar
growth with its cleanliness, low crime and taxes, and access
to recreation.
   Mr. Minnick has been nudging the process along. This
summer he sought to impress on a Republican congressional
hopeful just how subsidized the region's timber sales are.
"Hopefully, this information will be useful to you and other
free-enterprise, fiscal conservatives as you shape your
campaigns," he closed a letter.
   If Mr. Minnick doesn't go along with the "commodity
ideology" toward natural resources that he says was
representative of the Reagan years -- timber yields in
national forests reached a historical peak in 1987 -- neither
does he support curbing exports of raw logs, a subissue of
the spotted-owl/old-growth forest fight. This cause is
spearheaded by Democratic Rep. Peter DeFazio and GOP Sen.
Robert Packwood, both of Oregon, who are aligned with the
greens and with U.S. millers pressed by foreign competition.
   Here again, Mr. Minnick cites foresters' myopia. A
log-export ban, with the Bush administration's assent, has
now spread from harvests on federal land to most state
forests as well. His industry generally backed the new law,
he says -- "that's why it passed." Domestic companies
(including TJ International) both gain and lose by the
restriction, and see it heading off a similar ban being
applied to private lands, but Mr. Minnick thinks the whole
gambit is an inappropriate cover for failure to keep pace
with Japan at maximizing use of scarce resources in advanced
mills.
   By toying with trade restrictions, Mr. Minnick said to the
analysts, the industry risks becoming "a fat boy sitting on a
fence just waiting to be knocked flat," like autos and steel.
   In an interview, the avowed free trader argues, "Every
time you do something protectionist, you strengthen the
protectionists on the other side." He observes that the U.S.
often does that: It bans foreign-flag intracoastal shipping,
curbs dozens of import categories and, analogous to the
timber issue, restricts the export of Alaskan oil.
   Yet TJ International was part of an industry petition to
have Japan cited as a violator of the "Super 301" trade law
for its barriers to American wood products. Mr. Minnick
squares this by saying that effective trade liberalization
should include a bit of bluster to get others to lower their
walls.
   The Super 301 petition resulted in the U.S. negotiating a
reduction in Japan's tariffs on laminated veneer lumber (TJ's
mainstay, which the boss calls the "highest-tech wood product
on the market") to 3.9% from 20%. No sanctions were imposed.
Mr. Minnick says the trade law has been "used rather deftly
by an administration that is basically pro-free trade."
   As a manufacturer of composite products, TJ International
is better positioned than many to prosper in a world of
scarcer materials. So, Mr. Minnick has an interest in his
supply pronouncements. But he says old-growth logs are
important to TJ, too -- they provide critical strength to the
wood-frame home construction that, along with customized wood
windows, is its business. It may have to "reconfigure"
output, even as it scrambles along with the rest of the U.S.
industry to shift operations to the timberlands of the
Southeast.
   Mr. Minnick, 48 this week, sees the downturn in Northwest
logging as inevitable. Rapid cutting of private lands in the
1950s and '60s moved on to public lands in the '70s and '80s.
(In California, private harvests are still the rage as three
ballot measures to limit logging approach in November.) Mr.
Minnick says a dawning deficiency of West Coast timber is
unlikely to be made up until the "second-growth" plantings on
the private lands are ready in nearly 20 years. In the
Rockies belt, the cut is about what it was in 1970, but with
improved transport options its value as a replacement source
for timber grows.
   Mr. Minnick doesn't want the stuff below cost, courtesy of
Uncle Sam. It isn't easy being big-minded in his business
right now: Though TJ International, above $350 million in
annual sales, aspires to make the Fortune 500, its income has
been off the past two years and the housing slump only gets
worse. But the CEO is undaunted. Of the whole industry, he
says, "The less government is involved, the stronger we will
be long term."
   Does he really mean that? No breaks at the sales end,
either? Other than housing vouchers for the poor, yes, he
says. And no concocted lending institutions, like the
thrifts. TJ's bread and butter is the upscale new home, a
market whose foundation is the tax-deductible mortgage. What
about that? It's a subsidy, he concedes, and as part of an
overall addressing of federal largess, he'll put it on the
table, as they say in D.C. Few guys in the building business
will go as far with a level.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Howard Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS HWRD
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOWARD SAVINGS BANK (Newark, N.J.) -- Thomas E. Albright
was named executive vice president and chief financial
officer, succeeding Joseph G. Wojak, who resigned the post.
Mr. Albright, 39 years old, was previously director of
financial systems integration at First Fidelity Bancorp., a
bank holding company based in Newark.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Splendid Little War
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   "As we move from the Cold War to the trade war, there is.
. . ," -- Senator Ernest Hollings, (D., S.C.) Sept. 9, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   This space has often warned about trade war, but now we
learn that Senator Hollings has already declared one. He's
even planned his own protectionist Sarajevo, the "Textile,
Apparel and Footwar Trade Act of 1990." If war results, at
least we'll know where to find the assassins.
   They'll sit in the U.S. Congress. The Senate has already
passed (68-32) the textile bill, and the House will take its
turn today. Members no doubt figure it's a cheap vote that
won't matter because President Bush is certain to veto. But
coming when it does, amid the Iraq crisis and at endgame in
the Uruguay Round of global-trade talks, the textile bill is
a shot heard 'round the world. The last trade war, which the
U.S. did much to start with the Smoot-Hawley Tariff, was
called the Great Depression.
   Yet today's protectionists are going all-out to override a
veto. The Cotton Lobby, for one, is gripped with war fever.
"Second phase of telephone blitz campaign is aimed at
generating calls to 80 congressional districts considered
crucial to House passage of bill and possible veto override,"
reports the lobby's newsletter. In addition, Reps. Marilyn
Lloyd of Tennessee and Newt Gingrich of Georgia have
generously "appeared for satellite media tour to generate
additional support throughout country." And "ads began
running in USA Today and other newspapers."
   The industry can afford all this because it's already the
most coddled in the U.S. Cotton growers benefit from a quota
that limits raw-cotton imports to one day's consumption each
year. This virtual ban means U.S. companies pay more for
cotton than the rest of the world. It's also the reason many
big clothing makers oppose this bill; they can't get the
cotton they need at competitive prices.
   Worse, textile and apparel makers are already protected by
a cartel known as the Multifiber Arrangement. Under the MFA,
the U.S. has negotiated more than 1,000 quotas with 38
countries. About 75% of all textile and apparel imports are
already covered by quotas, and the average tariff is nearly
20% (compared with 4% on all manufactured goods). A nice
monopoly, if you can get it.
   But the industry wants more. The bill would force the U.S.
to tear up those 38 treaties and impose a global quota of 1%
growth a year. This will save a few textile jobs for a while,
but at a cost of some $70,000 a job a year. The payers will
be consumers who cough up more for shirts, towels, blue
jeans, socks. According to economist William Cline, the total
cost would run to more than $500 billion through the year
2000.
   All of this for an industry that isn't even suffering.
Textile employment actually rose from 1985 to 1989, while
fiber consumption by the industry jumped to an all-time
record last year. Exports rose by 27% and capacity use was
close to 90%. Unemployment in the states that would benefit
the most from the bill -- the Carolinas, other parts of the
South -- is actually lower than the national average.
Liberals could be denouncing this transfer of wealth from
poor to the rich, but their loyalty to unions counts for more
than equity.
   The timing of this bill also suggests malice toward the
global economic system; a trade war would make everyone
poorer, as it did in the 1930s. Also, the textile bill is in
particular a stick in the eye of many countries President
Bush has adeptly persuaded to join an alliance against Iraq.
Turks and Egyptians can fight next to Americans in the
Mideast, but they can't sell their shoes in Chicago.
   In a recent letter to House Speaker Foley, Secretary of
State Baker wrote, "This legislation would compound the
problems being faced by a number of countries which have
stood with us in the Gulf crisis despite the economic losses
they are incurring." The fact that his trade war might help
us lose a real war doesn't seem to bother Senator Hollings.
   The world is more economically entwined than ever, but
Congress and the textile lobby seem to think this is the
mercantilist 17th century. The textile bill is a warning shot
to the Bush White House not to return from the Uruguay Round
of trade talks with more liberal rules for textiles. Laying
aside the effects on the world economy or the Middle Eastern
hostilities, a collapse at Uruguay will harm efficient U.S.
exporters -- farmers, high-tech companies, Boeing workers.
The Honorable Members don't seem to care; every war has its
casualties.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL, a Phoenix of Deals, Has Traders in Ashes
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL LABOR WY SB
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Takeover stock traders call it "The Deal from
Hell." Or sometimes, "The Roach Motel: They check in, but
they don't check out." Or even "UAL: United Arbitrage
Liquidation."
   And that's just a sample of the gallows humor.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The on-again, off-again buy-out of United Airlines parent
UAL Corp. has broken more careers and cost takeover stock
traders more money than any deal in modern Wall Street
history. Losses among traders, known as arbitragers, could
easily exceed $1 billion.
   And the deal refuses to die.
   First a $300-a-share deal for UAL collapsed on Oct. 13,
1989, taking the entire Dow Jones Industrial Average down 190
points in an ensuing panic. Now a $201-a-share bid has
failed. And this week, the UAL pilots are working on an even
lower bid of $175 to $180 a share.
   UAL stock, which peaked at $296, has plunged 30% to 50% in
a matter of days on three separate occasions, falling as low
as $89.50. It closed yesterday at $97.375, down $1.875, in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Will it ever end?
   "This stock is like being in a love-hate relationship.
When I buy it, I can't sleep for a week. And when I sell it,
I feel great," one trader said. "Given the scarcity of other
transactions, you're compelled to watch it, even if you don't
want to, because the upside is so compelling."
   UAL-inflicted losses have contributed to the downfall of
several prominent arbitragers, including William Kaye of
PaineWebber Inc., Brian McVeigh of Blackstone Group, Alan
Curtis of Dillon Read &amp; Co. and David Nolan of Spear, Leeds &amp;
Kellogg. While other factors influenced each situation, all
left jobs as their firm's head of arbitrage after losing
money on UAL.
   Some traders accept their losses with a certain macho
swagger.
   "Everybody in the business goes through a tough period;
we're in a tough period, but there will be good times to
follow," says Guy Wyser-Pratt, longtime head of arbitrage of
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., which is rumored to have
been holding more than 100,000 UAL shares during some of the
stock's nosedives.
   Mr. Wyser-Pratt confirms that Prudential-Bache owns UAL
shares -- "because we believe in the transaction" -- but he
won't say how many.
   Prudential-Bache aerospace analyst Paul Nisbet agrees that
this is a deal that is going to happen. On Sept. 5, he told
clients a deal for UAL "will be consummated by October" if
there's no shooting in the Middle East. Although few other
analysts agree so wholeheartedly, Mr. Nisbet's comments
contributed to an $8 surge in UAL stock the next day.
   Mr. Wyser-Pratt says that, although he has spoken with Mr.
Nisbet and their two departments do communicate, he didn't
make any effort to influence Mr. Nisbet's views. Mr. Nisbet
recalls Mr. Wyser-Pratt saying this past spring that he
believes a deal will happen. But he said Mr. Wyser-Pratt's
views didn't influence his own.
   The most conspicuous losses in UAL have been suffered by
Coniston Partners, which this past spring threatened to oust
UAL directors in a proxy fight unless they agreed to the
$201-a-share, union-led buyout offer. The New York investment
firm acquired 2.5 million shares, or 11.8% of UAL stock, for
an average disclosed price of $161 a share, after the earlier
UAL deal collapsed.
   In January, when UAL stock fell to $121, leaving Coniston
with paper losses of $100 million, traders were passing
around a California phone number as the new "Coniston hot
line." (The UAL pilots have had a news hot line for union
members throughout the takeover siege.) But callers who
dialed the arbs' number heard only a tape recording of grown
men screaming in agony.
   Few stock market players have admitted to UAL losses on
the scale of Hedged Securities Associates Inc. of Englewood,
Colo. In late August, its founder made a videotaped
confession to investors that he had lost more than $100
million of their money in risky stock options trading
involving UAL. All he had left, he informed investors, was $2
million.
   One of the largest investors in Hedged Securities was
Weyerhaeuser Co. The Tacoma, Wash., paper company entrusted
$22 million in pension money with the firm for what
Weyerhaeuser believed would be a "low-risk hedging strategy."
Saying the matter is "in litigation," Weyerhaeuser wouldn't
comment on why it put pension money, which is supposed to be
invested for the long term, into short-term instruments such
as options.
   Some firms have watched helplessly as the value of their
UAL shares gyrated widely, unable to buy or sell for legal
reasons. Salomon Brothers Inc., one of the advisers to the
United pilots union, held 309,100 UAL shares as of Sept. 21,
1989, when a pilot-management group formally made the
$300-a-share offer.
   Salomon, which acquired the shares before becoming the
union's adviser, may not have been free to sell before the
shares took their first free fall Oct. 13. That's because
Salomon, as an adviser, could have been in a position to
acquire insider information about the deal. Salomon won't say
whether it still owns the stock.
   Every time UAL's stock price has cratered, rumors have
spread that certain arbitrage firms were going out of
business. Kellner, DiLeo &amp; Co. partner George Kellner became
so exasperated with the rumors about his firm last October
that he declared publicly on the Dow Jones News Service that
his firm remained open for business, despite losses in UAL
stock.
   Mr. Kellner says he finds it amusing that so many
arbitragers "claim they never owned the stock." But he says
he finds it "hard to laugh" at any of the UAL jokes.
   Many arbitragers have, in fact, retreated from UAL stock.
At March 31, 1989, institutions owned 81% of UAL shares. By
the end of September, when the stock was near its peak, the
institutional ownership had fallen to 46%, and about a dozen
arbitragers had disclosed holdings of roughly 250,000 shares
apiece. Now many of the arbitragers have reduced their
holdings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Foreign Insight:
   U.S. Muzzles Talk of Long Gulf Presence
   That Stirred Fears Among Arab Allies
   ----
   By Barbara Rosewicz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   CAIRO, Egypt -- Recent U.S. talk of stationing troops
permanently in the Persian Gulf is backfiring in the Arab
world.
   Even in a country as supportive of the U.S. role as Egypt,
the suggestion of long-term foreign military involvement in
the Gulf is viewed as ominous and plays into the hands of
political forces already suspicious that the U.S. is only
after oil or control of the strategic region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It wasn't a bright idea on the part of the Americans to
raise it at this time," says Akmed Kamal Abul-Magd, an
Egyptian lawyer and academic. "It's very alarming. It's most
destructive and most divisive."
   Secretary of State James Baker broached the concept of a
long-term U.S. presence as an element of a regional security
structure, partly to pacify critics at home who were pressing
officials to come up with long-range plans after the hasty
buildup of a U.S.-led Western and Arab military force in
Saudi Arabia. But instead of reassuring Arabs, it sounded
alarm bells in certain quarters in countries near the
conflict. Now, to recover from its tactical blunder, U.S.
officials are promising to remove the troops as soon as they
aren't needed any longer.
   But the mixed signals have stirred sentiments in Arab
society that Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak is trying to
subdue. To forge an Arab military coalition to confront Iraq
after its Aug. 2 invasion and occupation of Kuwait, Mr.
Mubarak had to maneuver around a split among Arab nations
over the use of foreign troops to defend Saudi Arabia. Inside
Egypt, while there is near-unanimous condemnation of the
invasion of Kuwait, the public is divided over the deployment
of foreign troops on Saudi soil. Even the Islamic movement is
split over the presence of Western "infidels" in the land of
Moslem's holiest shrines.
   The balance of support still tips strongly in favor of Mr.
Mubarak's pivotal decision to deploy Egyptian soldiers as
part of an Arab force to defend Saudi Arabia against possible
Iraqi attack. But Mideast experts say a permanent security
force raises more troubling issues.
   "Arabs wouldn't welcome a long-term presence," said an
Egyptian official privy to foreign-policy decision-making,
"because the Arab mind turns in a conspiratorial way."
Unlikely as it may seem to Americans, many Arabs would tend
to think the U.S. somehow contrived to create the Kuwaiti
controversy to win a toehold in the oil-rich region, he said.
   Any security arrangement, the official said, "has to
emanate from the important powers in the region," namely
Egypt and Saudi Arabia, even if it ultimately relies on
international military help. The sentiment suggests that U.S.
officials will have to play down talk of security
arrangements for the Gulf at least until the immediate crisis
-- the occupation of Kuwait -- is over.
   Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, publicly blasting Mr.
Baker's plan, last week called for a "holy war" against the
U.S. presence in the region. Mr. Mubarak hasn't made an issue
of long-term security arrangements, but his government is
subtly trying to calm resentment stirred by the presence of
foreign forces.
   For example, government-controlled Egyptian television
reran a show in which a popular TV-personality cleric, Sheik
Mohammed Metwalli Sharawi, talked about how even the prophet
Mohammed, father of the Moslem faith, relied on non-believers
for arms and for guidance through the desert. And when
Western news reports recently seemed fixated on the
U.S.-Soviet summit in Helsinki, Finland, Cairo radio led its
newscasts with a statement by President Bush calling the
deployment of U.S. troops in the Gulf "temporary."
   President Bush himself appeared to go out of his way
yesterday to defuse Arab concern about the U.S.'s long-term
intentions. In speaking to reporters about U.S. forces in
Saudi Arabia, Mr. Bush said: "I want those soldiers out as
soon as possible. I want them all out -- all out, period."
But the president then added: "And yet, I can't say when that
will be."
   In a further sign of its struggle to present a united
front, the Egyptian government last week barred several
journalists and opposition party members who object to the
presence of foreign troops in Saudi Arabia from traveling to
Jordan for a conference with Arabs sympathetic to Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein.
   Arabs' deep-seated disdain for foreign military
involvement in the region is rooted in sour memories of
foreign domination by the Turks, French and British and fears
that foreign occupiers will pursue their own special
interests, such as ensuring the flow of Middle Eastern oil to
the outside world.
   "It also touches on something very deep in the heart of
Moslems," says Ibrahim Shoukry, an opposition leader whose
party is allied with the religious Moslem Brotherhood
movement and who was one of those barred from going to
Jordan. "Jews {in the U.S. armed forces} will be defending
the Islamic holy land."
   At least among moderate Arab intellectuals, discussions
are beginning not just on the need for regional security
arrangements but also on new long-term economic, political
and social arrangements. "If the Arabs don't come up with
some solutions, others will come up with something for them,"
warns a leading political analyst, Ali Dessouki of Cairo
University. "Arabs have to get their acts together."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Teacher's Losing Battle With `the Blob'
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<LP>
   Reading Barbara D. Phillips's perceptive description of
the public-education bureaucracy ("Off to the Education
Front," editorial page, Aug. 17) made me want to write from
the front about my most recent encounter with "the Blob."
Perhaps my experience may serve as a cautionary tale for
members of Teach for America.
   I have taught English in New York City and Omaha public
schools for the past 13 years. Recently I won a National
Endowment for the Humanities Teacher-Scholar Award. The
Teacher-Scholar Program is governed by the conviction that
students benefit most when teachers have a mastery of the
subjects they teach and are, like other professionals,
actively engaged in their fields. One teacher from each of
the 50 states is selected on the basis of exceptional
teaching and scholarship. A stipend of $27,500 accompanies
the award to replace the teacher's salary or supplement
sabbatical pay and allow him to devote a year to full-time
research in his field.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the end of the year the teacher returns to the
classroom, intellectually revitalized and eager to pass along
what he has learned to both students and colleagues. The
example of his scholarship is a model to his students; his
own fascination with what he teaches is contagious. The
program is thus one of the few now offering hope of real
educational reform from within the system itself. Enter "the
Blob."
   When I told the administrators of my school district that
I won the award, they said that in order to accept it I would
have to take a year's leave of absence without pay. This
meant facing a significant cut in salary and paying my own
medical-insurance premiums -- something that has now put our
family of five on or just above the national poverty level.
The local teachers' union echoed the district's position:
There is nothing that can be done; the contract has no
provision for teachers winning national teaching awards. Are
they afraid that too many other teachers will win and
bankrupt the system?
   I suppose someone outside public education or a young
teacher just starting out might think that an educator
nationally recognized for excellence in teaching and
scholarship would, perhaps now more than ever, be a welcome
asset to the public schools. "The Blob" obviously thinks
otherwise. Let the members of Teach for America be
forewarned.
   Edward A. Rauchut
   Omaha, Neb.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Will the Earth Move
   On Dec. 3? Midwest
   Rattled by Prediction
   ---
   A Scientist Expects a Quake;
   Some Map Plans to Flee,
   And Entrepreneurs Profit
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   MEMPHIS, Tenn. -- Friday nights used to be slow at The
Fault Line, a nightclub here on busy Poplar Avenue. But after
word spread that a major earthquake was forecast for Dec. 3
in the Midwest, The Fault Line began throwing earthquake
parties.
   On Friday nights now, hundreds of patrons pour into the
club to swig "Earthquake shooters" and sign up to win Dec. 3
Earthquake Escape Packages to the Bahamas or Hot Springs,
Ark.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But even as Memphians whoop it up, the prediction that the
Big One may come in December is triggering tremors up and
down the Mississippi Valley. Shaken, thousands of people are
crowding into earthquake survival classes. In Arnold, Mo.,
3,000 people showed up for one course.
   In Missouri and Arkansas, some schools and businesses have
announced plans to close in early December. Entrepreneurs are
hawking quake insurance, survival kits and gas-line safety
gadgets.
   Some people are planning to flee. "You can't run from
everything," says Tammy McCormick, a nurse in Blytheville,
Ark., who will take her two youngsters and spend several days
with relatives in North Carolina. "But it seems stupid to
stay on a fault line with a prediction like this."
   Everybody talks about the San Andreas fault in California.
But the Midwest actually has had three of the most powerful
earthquakes on this continent. In 1811 and 1812, along a
120-mile zig-zag formation called the New Madrid fault, a
series of quakes ravaged the Midwest. Researchers estimate
those earthquakes ranked stronger than 8 on the Richter
Scale, which hadn't been invented yet. They were more than 10
times greater than the 7.1 quake that rocked California's Bay
Area last October.
   Church bells rang as far away as Boston. Chimneys crumbled
in Cincinnati. And as tons of soil and rock bed pitched and
rolled in a seismic frenzy, new waterfalls spiked up, causing
part of the mighty Mississippi River to flow backward for
several hours.
   The New Madrid (pronounced MAD-rid) fault still has 150
small, mostly unfelt, earthquakes a year. In the next 10
years, experts warn, the area has a 33% chance of a quake
measuring 7.1. That could produce billions of dollars in
damage and thousands of casualties. "We're overdue for one in
the 6s and low 7s," says David Stewart, an earthquake expert
at Southeast Missouri State University.
   Over the years, a few pinpoint-on-the map towns have tried
to capitalize on the little-known fault. New Madrid, Mo., the
fault's namesake, draws tourists to a museum with exhibits on
the 19th century devastation. And Paragould, Ark., has held
earthquake festivals with events like the "Miss Faultless"
beauty contest.
   But as Monday, Dec. 3, approaches, the whole matter is
becoming more serious. That's because the predictor has
gained credibility in some important circles for his work on
the climate.
   Iben Browning, a 72-year-old scientist, predicted
October's Bay Area quake a week before it happened, say
people who heard him speak to the Equipment Manufacturers
Institute. And he predicted "geological danger" on Sept. 19,
1985, along a band of latitude that included Mexico City --
where a massive quake struck on that day.
   Mr. Browning, who has a Ph.D. in physiology, genetics and
bacteriology, writes a climate newsletter out of New Mexico.
He has clients, such as PaineWebber Inc., who have long paid
for his wisdom on how the weather will affect their
agricultural investments.
   Since 1971, Mr. Browning says, he has picked the correct
dates of four large earthquakes, two volcanoes -- and one day
with both a volcano and an earthquake.
   He bases his forecasts on tidal forces caused by the
positions of the sun and the moon -- an old theory, critics
say, that doesn't wash. On Dec. 3, those forces are expected
to be at a 27-year high. Mr. Browning says that will exert
pressure that could trigger faults already ripe to fail.
   The New Madrid area has a 50-50 chance of producing at
least a 7 quake on Dec. 3, give or take a day or two on
either side, Mr. Browning says. At that time, a similar quake
has a lesser chance of occurring on California's San Andreas
or Hayward faults, according to Mr. Browning, and an 8.2
quake in Tokyo has a greater chance.
   Skepticism abounds. "No responsible scientist can predict
an exact day for an earthquake," says Brian Mitchell, a quake
expert at St. Louis University, echoing the majority opinion.
   But Mr. Browning shouldn't be written off so quickly, says
Southeast Missouri State's Mr. Stewart, who recently spent
four days with Mr. Browning. "He has a methodology that can
determine, plus or minus a window of a day or two, an
enhanced probability of a volcano or an earthquake in certain
latitudes," says Mr. Stewart. "No one else has been able to
replicate it, but that doesn't mean it's wrong."
   Mr. Browning says it's not easy being on record with
predictions that few other scientists will support. "I feel
like a lonely little petunia in a cabbage patch," he says.
But asked if he enjoys being right, he says, "It's the only
damn thing that matters. If one is a business consultant,
they don't pay you for being wrong."
   Plenty of other business people are cashing in on his
prediction. Insurance salespeople are peddling earthquake
coverage to homeowners and businesses. Salespeople from a
Memphis company pop up at survival seminars with a device
(for $259 and up) that turns off gas lines when a quake hits.
And entrepreneurs are marketing two kinds of earthquake
T-shirts in Memphis. One says, "I'm staying," the other, "I'm
leaving."
   All of this has changed life in places like Blytheville,
Ark. (pop: 24,314), tucked amid vast flat farmland, right at
the corner of the Arkansas, Tennessee and Missouri borders.
   So many people plan to skip town on Dec. 3 that the
Flexible Technologies tubing plant already plans to shut down
for two days, at a cost of thousands of dollars. Says Jimmy
Connell, plant superintendent, "It's going to be a ghost town
around here."
   Robert Edwards, a Blytheville fireman who teaches seminars
in earthquake survival, has become a hot property. For five
years, most of his classes were lightly attended. Now his
phone-answering machine says he is almost completely booked
through October.
   For one recent class, he was in Osceola, Ark. It is 9 a.m.
on a rainy Saturday, and 325 Osceolans, gripping legal pads
and spiral notebooks, fill the high school auditorium for an
all-day session on earthquake preparedness. With his booming
voice, Mr. Edwards lays out a grim scenario: "One hundred and
fifty thousand dead in Memphis instantly -- instantly. And
all the federal emergency help is going to go there and St.
Louis. You have to be prepared to take complete care of
yourself for 24 hours to two weeks. You may be five to six
months without power."
   After the seminar, two elderly sisters, both widows, split
on what to do. Fearing their home will be looted, Bess Mann,
86 years old, wants to ride it out. But her sister, Hallie
Peterson, 83, wants to stay with their nephew in Mississippi.
Scared that the big Memphis-Arkansas bridge that spans the
Mississippi River will collapse in a quake, she's charting an
alternate route two hours out of her way.
   School districts in Earle and Wilson, Ark., have announced
closings around Dec. 3. Some schools practice earthquake
drills, while others sponsor cake sales to buy survival kits
for classrooms, with items like blankets, flashlights and
radios.
   Michael Prince, a child psychologist in Jonesboro, says he
knows of 10 to 15 children, age four to nine, so unnerved
that they've reverted to bed-wetting or extreme anxiety about
being separated from their parents.
   Trying to calm the fear, the National Earthquake
Prediction Evaluation Council, a panel of academic and
government seismic experts, will review the Browning claim at
a meeting in a few weeks. In 11 years of studying prediction
methods, the panel has found no bona fide approach. The group
usually ignores claims that aren't scientifically documented
(like the one by the California man who said his goldfish
helped him predict quakes).
   "But this one," says Randall Updike, the executive
secretary, "has created such chaos in the mid-continent
region that we felt we had to give our advice."
   Mr. Browning says he is tentatively booked to give a talk
in Minneapolis on Dec. 3 and he doesn't plan to go there via
St. Louis. But he adds: "I highly recommend against panic.
That will kill more people than earthquakes."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   East Germany's Cost of Living
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- The cost of living in East
Germany rose by 7.5% in July from June, but was down 5.5%
from July 1989, a German research institute said.
   The Leipziger Instituts fuer Marktforschung also said the
average monthly income of a family of four in East Germany
fell more than 5% in July, from a year earlier, due to the
restructuring of East Germany's social welfare and income-tax
regimes following the July 1 monetary and economic union with
West Germany.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Leipziger Instituts, which specializes in tracking
economic trends in East Germany, produces data considered
fairly reliable.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nike Earnings
   Rose 31% to High
   in First Quarter
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   NIKE
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sprinting ahead of both competitors and its own earnings
estimates, Nike Inc. reported record net income of $99.7
million, or $2.62 a share, for the first quarter, ended Aug.
31. That was a 31% rise from the like period last year, when
the Beaverton, Ore., company earned $75.9 million, or $2.01 a
share.
   Even more significantly, the athletic footwear and apparel
company's world-wide orders for the next five months are up
42% from a year ago, exceeding the $1 billion mark for the
first time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the three-month period rose 38% to a record
$833.6 million, up from $602.6 million in the prior year.
   Nonetheless, the company's stock slipped $3, to close at
$72 in national over-the-counter trading as investors who are
primed for nothing short of bravura performances from the
Beaverton, Ore., company apparently remained nonplussed by
the strong showing.
   "I think the stock drop was unwarranted," said Gary
Jacobson, an analyst with Kidder Peabody, who follows the
company and is recommending a "strong hold" on the stock.
"Investors have come to expect positive surprises from Nike.
And while this is very good, it's not a surprise." Mr.
Jacobson noted that investors punished Nike like this once
before, in the third quarter last year, in the face of a
shining earnings report.
   The company's stock did rise about 10% last week, in
anticipation of the earnings announcement and some analysts
speculated that those investors sold yesterday, taking the
opportunity to make a quick profit. "It's a funny market
right now," Heidi Steinberg, an analyst who covers Nike for
Salomon Brothers, said, "and I think the expectations have
been so high that the fact that the earnings came in the
analysts' range is suddenly not enough."
   The company made its most substantial gains
internationally, where Nike launched an aggressive European
advertising campaign last year and bought out several of its
distributors to exert more control, analysts said. The
result: In this latest quarter, international sales increased
89% from the year before.
   Nike has profited from the increasing popularity of the
"athletic look" in Europe and from the travails of Adidas,
its leading competitor there, Ms. Steinberg said. With Adidas
floundering after losing its founder last year, she says,
Nike has been able to shoot ahead of the pack. And the
company is in a much better position to spend aggressively on
advertising than its European rivals.
   Domestically, the company is logging strong gains, too,
with sales of its athletic footwear up 31% in the quarter.
Domestic apparel sales increased 21% and non-athletic
footwear climbed 20%.
   "They look pretty damn good, especially at a time when the
whole retailing climate is sluggish," said Fred Anschel, an
analyst who follows the company for Dean Witter Reynolds.
"There's been very little markdown pressure for them."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Zulus' Flawed Champion
   ----
   By Maureen Sullivan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   As their supporters kill each other in South Africa's
black townships, Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi and Nelson
Mandela fight a daily war of words. Mr. Buthelezi, who claims
that his Inkatha organization represents the nation's 7
million Zulus, resisted every request from the Pretoria
government to negotiate so long as Nelson Mandela was
imprisoned. Never modest, Mr. Buthelezi now says, "I have
probably done more than any other single black leader to
create circumstances in which you {Mr. Mandela} could
eventually be released." Nevertheless, this history is not
helping him with Mr. Mandela. On at least 50 occasions, Mr.
Buthelezi has called on Mr. Mandela to meet with him, but the
visit has never come about.
   Mr. Mandela's African National Congress appears to have
instigated the current round of violence, in which nearly 800
people have been killed in and around Johannesburg over the
past two months. The violence began on July 22, when ANC
supporters gathered outside a stadium where Zulu hostel
dwellers were holding a legal Inkatha rally, and threw stones
and petrol bombs at them. After the rally, police escorted
seven busloads of Zulus back to their hostel, where they were
ambushed: At least 19 people died that day. Ever since, both
sides have justified their atrocities as "self-defense."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the tension between the ANC and Mr. Buthelezi
originates in the chief's strenuous opposition to
international sanctions against South Africa. Mr. Buthelezi
said in 1988, "What {the people} want is economic,
educational and social upliftment, not poverty, ignorance and
disease. They want jobs, not hunger." When Mobil Oil pulled
out of South Africa last year, he said: "Every act of
withdrawal is seen by us as a vote in favor of revolution."
   But Mr. Buthelezi is no stooge for apartheid. As chief
minister of the homeland "state" of KwaZulu, he refused to
accept "independence," and he is credited with thwarting
Pretoria's plan to turn the 10 homelands into foreign
countries and thus deprive blacks of their South African
citizenship. And he has steadfastly called for one-person,
one-vote Western democracy.
   What bothers the ANC, most of whose leaders belong to the
Xhosa tribe, is that Mr. Buthelezi wants South Africa to be
not just ruled by the black majority, but to enjoy a free
enterprise economy with lots of checks and balances on
government. During his meeting with President Bush earlier
this year, Mr. Buthelezi criticized the ANC's insistence on a
"one-off, big-bang approach" to negotiations with a
"winner-take-all" victory. He frankly addresses white fears:
"We are not anti-white. We are just anti-apartheid."
   "Run-of-the-mill white South Africans, by and large,
prefer Buthelezi, compared with the radical elements in the
ANC and the South African Communist Party," says Helen
Suzman, a leading anti-apartheid activist who retired last
year after 36 years in parliament. "I'm considered the
classical liberal," says Zach de Beer, leader of the
Democratic Party, "but he's never made a policy statement I
didn't agree with."
   "He is far more realistic than the ANC," Mrs. Suzman says.
"He has a far better understanding of the urgent necessity
for economic growth and overseas investment here from running
an impoverished black area." The ANC flirts with
nationalization, but Mr. Buthelezi has resoundingly rejected
it. "I do not talk the language of nationalization because it
is fatal talk." But he is a politician with a constituency to
please, a poor, black, rural constituency. He says that
ownership of non-residential land is a "privilege for those
who can use it productively." He gives nods to a "mixed
economy," "constructive redistribution of wealth" and "a
whole range of support systems," although specifics have not
been forthcoming.
   Perhaps it is this vagueness that causes even Mr.
Buthelezi's ardent admirers to have reservations about the
man. His personality is part of the problem: "He's the most
prickly, hypersensitive man I've ever known," Mr. de Beer
says. When he visited exiled ANC leaders in Zambia, Mr. de
Beer asked them whether they opposed Mr. Buthelezi because he
led KwaZulu and was therefore a "bantustan puppet"? No, they
replied, what bothered them was Mr. Buthelezi's insistence on
reminding everyone of his royal blood. (He traces his
ancestry to Shaka, founder of the Zulu nation.) "They told
me, `he wants to be treated like a god, and we won't do it.'"
   It's well known in the South African press that any story
about Mr. Buthelezi that even hints at criticism comes in for
at least a blistering attack, if not a lawsuit. A few days
after David Webster, a white leftist activist, was gunned
down in front of his home last year, Mr. Buthelezi wrote to
one publication to attack Mr. Webster for calling Inkatha a
"Contra-type organization." Mr. Buthelezi did, at least,
apologize for his timing.
   "I'd say there is a bottomless contempt for Buthelezi in
newsrooms, but it's never reflected in publications," says
Stephen Robinson, a London Daily Telegraph correspondent who
wrote what he thought was a positive piece on Mr. Buthelezi
that appeared in Frontline magazine. But Mr. Buthelezi sued
for defamation. "South African newspapers always cave in on
Buthelezi." So Denis Beckett, the editor and publisher of
Frontline, decided to fight Mr. Buthelezi in court. Mr.
Beckett and Frontline lost. "And he didn't have the bloody
grace to relinquish the 12,000 rand $4,700 fine," Mr.
Beckett says.
   Like other journalists, Mr. Beckett fears that Mr.
Buthelezi is schizophrenic in his belief in non-totalitarian
ideals. "One minute he can be quite genuine about wanting
multi-party democracy and the next minute, if someone stands
up in the KwaZulu legislature and says they oppose Inkatha,
he says, `Stick it, man.'"
   Above all, Mr. Buthelezi hates to be marginalized or
ignored. "Inkatha is now a force to be dealt with that cannot
be wished away," he says. "We have a role to play which we
will play, come hell or high water." That statement is the
core of his supporters' defense of Mr. Buthelezi.
   "We're not saying he's a libertarian," says Russell
Crystal, executive director of the South African branch of
the International Freedom Foundation, a free-market think
tank based in Washington. But, Mr. Crystal adds, "a
socio-economic reorganization is a must, and I believe he
will allow the market to do it."
   Since February 2, when President F.W. de Klerk unbanned
all political organizations, Mr. Buthelezi has had to compete
in the open market for supporters. That task is getting
harder as his rural Zulu people have been moving into the
urban centers and joining the big trade unions, which are
mostly ANC-aligned. He has been urged to modernize, to drop
his royalist and tribal trappings, in an effort to appeal to
younger Zulus and to whites. The formation of the new Inkatha
Freedom Party is seen as a move to that direction.
   So an old joke has begun re-circulating in South Africa:
The definition of an optimist is a white man learning Zulu; a
pessimist is a white man learning Xhosa.
   ---
   Ms. Sullivan covers politics for the Johannesburg-based
Financial Mail. John Koppisch, Financial Mail business
editor, contributed to this story.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moscow Prepares for Its Own Boston Tea Party
   ----
   By David Asman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Everyone in Moscow is in a hurry. No one ever
slows down to let you pass in front of him. The reason is
that you will probably both be competing for the same spot in
the next line. Which line doesn't matter, because Muscovites
stand in a growing line first, and ask what it is for later.
   Variations on this scenario are certainly familiar in any
Third World nation. While it is true that the Soviet Union is
in many ways as poor as or poorer than most Third World
countries, Moscow doesn't look Third World. Many of the
city's buildings are quite beautiful. People on the street
look generally healthy, well-coiffed and educated. Yet
because their education -- and perestroika -- allows them
access to information about the world market, their
resentment is all the greater. They now talk of themselves as
"Fourth Worlders" -- First Worlders forced into a Third World
environment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until recently, what the public wanted never mattered much
in the police state that was the Soviet Union. These days,
though, citizens are playing an important role in deciding
which direction the country takes. The question is how long
this moment of choice will last. Ominous signs are collecting
that the old power blocs may be about to engage in desperate
acts to maintain their privileges.
   Some of the drama of the current struggle was played out
recently on the stage of a conference in Moscow, "Transition
to Freedom." The conference, sponsored by the free-market
Cato Institute, took place during a week that the parliaments
of Russia and the Soviet Union were deciding on critical
economic reforms. U.S. free-market scholars such as James
Buchanan, Paul Craig Roberts and George Gilder faced off
against Soviets representing virtually the entire spectrum of
economic programs debated by the Soviet leadership. Talk
ranged from the most conservative -- read, socialist --
approach advocated by advisers to Soviet Prime Minister
Nikolai Ryzhkov to more-free-market policies recommended by
economists Alexei Yavlinsky and Stanislav Shatalin. The
conservatives were on the defensive.
   Early on, Cato President Ed Crane reminded the large
audience that "the government that governs least governs
best." When he said this in English, the jaded free
marketeers from the West simply nodded in approval. But when
the Russian translator finished, hundreds of Russians clapped
and cheered wildly. Only a handful of die-hard Communists sat
glum-faced, arms folded.
   As the conference continued, it became clear that some of
the speakers were going beyond academics. Radical economists
from Russia and other republics used the podium to call for
action against the Ryzhkov conservatives.
   Alexei Yemelyanov, professor of economics and member of
Russia's Supreme Soviet, took the first swipe at Mr.
Gorbachev: "{Mr. Gorbachev} refuses to talk about property
rights. Instead, he and other Kremlin leaders are obsessed
with creating more laws. Yesterday, they created 33 new ones.
Gorbachev wants to shield the power centers with paper."
   The diminutive Russian economist Larisa Piyasheva
delivered a speech filled with fire. "There has been not one
step toward a real free market," she said. "Gorbachev says he
favors the co-ops, but he continues to support legislation
that works against them {like 80% tax rates the moment they
become profitable}. There is no independent wholesale market
for retailers. And since the ruble is not convertible,
retailers cannot buy on the world market. This favors the
underground mafia that has connections with state
bureaucrats. The strategy of the government program is to
destroy the private economy -- it leads to a new total
slavery based on the power of the mafia."
   But even Ms. Piyasheva's condemnations could not match the
midday finale. Moscow Mayor -- and Boris Yeltsin protege --
Gavriil Popov was due to deliver a simple speech. Instead he
stepped to the dais fresh with news that Prime Minister
Ryzhkov had just double-crossed the free-market reformers by
denouncing a free-market plan in the Soviet Parliament (in
the news here as the Shatalin plan), rather than presenting
it equally for consideration along with a "conservative"
plan.
   After first charging that the Communist apparatchiks were
attempting to "privatize" by turning state property over to
themselves, Mr. Popov announced: "There have been dramatic
changes today. The old forces are threatening the new
program. We may have to ask the people to go into the streets
{if this doesn't change}. We have just entered the most
dramatic period in our process." (Indeed, on Sunday, Mr.
Popov's supporters did take to the streets by the thousands.)
   Mr. Popov was followed by Leningrad Mayor Anatoly Sobchak,
who recently established a free-trade zone for his city. He
criticized Mr. Ryzhkov, saying the prime minister hadn't even
read the {Shatalin} report he publicly condemned. While Mr.
Sobchak didn't threaten demonstrations, he left little doubt
that he simply would not accept Mr. Ryzhkov's authority.
   This time the "people" -- as the radicals would call them
-- won. The day after the mayors' protest, Mr. Gorbachev
announced that he favored the "Shatalin" plan adopted by the
Russian Parliament. But the Soviet Parliament has yet to
approve it.
   However they vary in their commitment to market changes,
radicals in the Russian and other republics are united in
trying to clean out the old party apparatus. Vladimir Isakov,
who was acting chairman of the chamber of republics on the
day I interviewed him (Mr. Yeltsin was sick), put it bluntly:
"One of the main features of a democracy is that central
leadership is forced to give up power to lower, broader
levels of government. And there are few examples in history
when a power elite gives up that power peacefully. But the
government of Mr. Ryzhkov will be one of the exceptions that
make the rule."
   Criticizing Mr. Ryzhkov these days does not carry with it
great risks. Still, the political chutzpah of the radicals in
condemning Soviet leadership surely causes great alarm among
the entire apparat. In fact, what is being attempted is
nothing less than a revolution against taxation without
representation. Mr. Gorbachev, the Supreme Soviet and all the
ministries -- including the army and the KGB -- are coming to
be seen as Britain before the revolution. Mr. Yeltsin and the
Russian republic play the role of the patriots who started
the tea party.
   The economic plan just accepted by the Russian Supreme
Soviet (and tabled by the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R.) is
not merely significant for its moves toward market changes.
It is also the beginning of a move toward economic
independence from the Supreme Soviet by Russia. And if Russia
-- by far the largest and wealthiest (if one can use that
term) republic -- will not pay tribute to the Soviet Union,
who will?
   Since Mr. Yeltsin and his political allies -- including
the mayors of Moscow and Leningrad -- bear no allegiance to
the Communist Party, they are unlikely to pay tribute
willingly to a branch of government whose primary purpose has
been maintaining the predominance of the party. Indeed,
privately, they have said as much. But that leaves open the
question of who will pay the salaries of the army and the
KGB, both of which are still very visible and functioning
institutions. How will these institutions react to
uncertainty? One senses apprehension about this question both
in the corridors of power and in the streets.
   I walk with a Russian friend through Moscow's back streets
looking for a place to eat. We see a very young man in a KGB
uniform. My friend says the government is recruiting many
young KGB men now. He fears this may be the beginning of a
buildup for a KGB takeover of the country. "Something is
going to happen within a year," he says. "Can't you feel it
-- in the stores, in the lines, on the streets? Every power
sector is getting prepared for a showdown."
   The feelings of my friend take on frightening proportions
when supported by an official working closely with the group
of anti-Communist reformers. He says troops are concentrating
around Moscow.
   Perhaps this Yeltsin supporter is just posturing for
sympathy. But it's not difficult to see where some Yeltsin
supporters want to move now: They must convince the army and
the KGB that Mr. Gorbachev is the leader of a shell
government and that if they come over to the republic's side,
they will be better off. In fact, in an interview with
journalists Gennady Musaelyan and Mikhail Poltoranin, Mr.
Yeltsin criticizes the Defense Ministry now under Mr.
Gorbachev's control, saying: "The Defense Ministry has turned
a blind eye to the plight of its servicemen. And let's be
quite frank about this. These are people who do not owe the
state anything. In fact, it's the state that owes them."
   If you were, say, a captain in the KGB, whom would you
follow?
   ---
   Mr. Asman is a Journal editorial writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Companies Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- United Companies Financial Corp. said it had
signed a definitive agreement with Foster Mortgage Corp. to
acquire substantially all of its assets.
   United Companies, based in Baton Rouge, La., is a
financial services holding company. Foster is a unit of
Benjamin Franklin Federal Savings Association, a
Houston-based thrift that is under the conservatorship of the
Resolution Trust Corp. The RTC has already approved the
transaction, United Companies said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foster currently services about $8 billion in mortgage
loans. United Companies said the acquisition closing date is
projected for Nov. 1, with the purchase price being based
primarily on the portfolio balances as of Oct. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Loopholes Cause
   Credit-Report Abuse
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   I read with great interest your informative Aug. 14
page-one article on repairing bad credit ratings. Recently,
the credit records of a person with a name similar to mine
were merged into my credit files. As a result, I was harassed
by a collection agency, denied credit and failed a background
investigation by my new employer. It took me a year to have
my credit-bureau records corrected.
   The credit-reporting abuses that the article described and
that I experienced are the result of major loopholes in the
Fair Credit Reporting Act. Reps. Schumer, Rinaldo and Lehman
have introduced separate bills to strengthen the act. Until
this happens, creditors, credit bureaus and collection
agencies will be able to continue to traffic in false
consumer-credit information with impunity.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John J. Casson
   Brooklyn, N.Y.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Barden in Pact
   To Be Acquired;
   Stock Price Soars
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   BARD G.KFS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED INDUSTRIAL (IDD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Barden Corp., said it signed a definitive agreement to be
acquired for $131 million by FAG Bearings Corp., the U.S.
subsidiary of FAG Kugelfischer Georg Schaefer KGaA, a West
German manufacturer of bearings and industrial systems.
   News of the transaction, based on an offer of $66.50 a
share, sent Barden shares soaring. They closed at $63, up
$30.50, in national over-the-counter trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Barden, headquartered in Danbury, Conn., is the last
independent U.S. manufacturer of precision ball bearings,
with about 20% of the domestic market.
   Under the agreement, FAG Finance Corp., a unit of FAG
Bearings, will begin a tender offer for Barden's nearly two
million shares no later than Friday. FAG Finance doesn't own
any Barden shares at present. Barden said it expects the
offer to be completed next month, subject to U.S. regulatory
review.
   Barden President Stanley Noss, in a joint statement with
FAG Bearings, said Barden had entertained "informal
overtures" from interested parties over the years, but none
had resulted in serious discussions.
   "We were looking for a partner with strong resources and
technical capabilities so we could address the market
efficiently. Foreign vs. domestic doesn't mean anything" in
terms of who would acquire the company, Mr. Noss said. Barden
said it and FAG Bearings, based in Stamford, Conn., would
continue to operate separately and that all of Barden's
employees would be retained.
   Walter Schwarz, president of FAG Bearings, cited an
"excellent strategic fit" of the two companies. FAG produces
heavy-duty bearings, a range of standardized ball bearings,
and aircraft and instrument bearings. Mr. Schwarz said FAG
plans to move its instrument-bearing operations from
Stratford, Ontario, to Barden's Danbury facility, as well as
introduce new lines there.
   In 1989, Barden had sales of $98.2 million and earnings of
$2.9 million. FAG Kugelfischer had 1989 revenue of $2.8
billion.
   In the past five years, Barden's three major domestic
competitors -- MPB Corp., Fafnir Bearings and New Hampshire
Ball Bearings Inc. -- have all been acquired. MBP was bought
by Timken Co. last May, Fafnir Bearings is now a division of
Ingersoll-Rand Co. and New Hampshire Ball Bearings is a unit
of Minebea Co. of Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A27
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP F.CNC FORGN FREST LATAM AFRIC JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRENCH BANK UNDER ATTACK
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   France's largest bank, Credit Agricole, could be the
latest victim of the squabbling between farmers and the
French government.
   The Socialist government has been stung by the farmers'
demands for more money to face up to a second consecutive
year of drought as well as falling beef and mutton prices.
Last week, Finance Minister Pierre Beregovoy warned Credit
Agricole to do more for the farmers or run the risk of losing
up to 20 billion francs ($3.8 billion) in notaries' deposits.
   The argument is more political than financial. When the
Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole was privatized in 1987 by
the previous right-wing administration, it was allowed to
keep the right to pay a nominal 1% interest on deposits by
rural notaries, who handle all property transactions and
wills in France.
   A Credit Agricole official defended the bank by noting
recent measures taken to cut the debt burden for the
worst-hit farmers that will cost about 200 million francs.
                                                                                                       

   THE RIGHTS OF MIGRANT WORKERS
                                                                                                       

   The international community should protect the human
rights of millions of migrant workers, even illegal migrants,
and their families, a draft United Nations report recommends.
The report, quoted by a Japanese news service, cites a lack
of sufficient recognition of migrant workers' rights and
urges "appropriate international protection" for the workers;
included in that protection would be access to social
security and medical services in each host country.
                                                                                                       

   ASIA'S DEPENDENCE ON OIL

   Iraq's invasion of Kuwait underscores the need of Asian
nations to diversify their energy needs away from oil, Datuk
Sulaiman Haji Daud, Malaysia's minister in charge of oil,
said. Addressing the Asia-Pacific Petroleum Conference in
Singapore, Mr. Sulaiman noted that Iraq and Kuwait account
for over 10% of Japan's oil imports. While "only a protracted
crisis can cause serious concern with respect to oil
availability," he said, the situation underscores the need to
move away from overdependence on oil.
                                                                                                       

   BICYCLES FOR CUBA
                                                                                                       

   Cuba has bought 200,000 bicycles and is negotiating the
purchase of half a million more to help the country face its
severe energy crisis, the official newspaper Granma quoted
President Fidel Castro as saying. Granma reported that
President Castro said the government was also studying the
possibility of building three bicycle factories in Cuba. Mr.
Castro did not say where the imported bicycles would come
from, but diplomats said they understood they would be from
China.
                                                                                                       

   BARTER AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   South Korea and Taiwan agreed to continue barter trade of
Korean apples and pears in exchange for bananas from Taiwan.
The barter trade in fruits will continue even after South
Korea opens its banana market to foreign companies beginning
next year, said officials at South Korea's Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestries and Fisheries. Under the agreement,
South Korea will ship 5,500 tons of apples and 2,800 tons of
pears to Taiwan next year in return for 26,000 tons of
bananas, the same as this year.
                                                                                                       

   U.N. ENVIRONMENTAL FUND
                                                                                                       

   Three United Nations agencies proposed a $1 billion
environmental fund for developing nations in Latin America,
Africa and Asia. Agencies involved are the World Bank, the
U.N. Development Program and the U.N. Environmental Program.
The three said they agreed to create a Global Environmental
Facility to ensure "that their development programs are
undertaken in a manner which protects the global
environment."
                                                                                                       

   POLAND'S PRIESTS
                                                                                                       

   While the Roman Catholic Church generally faces a chronic
shortage of priests, the number in Poland rose from 20,234 in
1980 to 24,678 in 1989, according to the Polish Episcopate
Office.
   That works out to one priest for 1,280 church members,
compared with 1,650 members per priest in the U.S. Other
countries with net increases in recent years: Burundi,
Rwanda, Zaire and India.
   Church officials give many reasons young men are attracted
to the priesthood in Poland. One is a desire to follow the
path of the Polish pope, John Paul II. Then there is the fact
that the priesthood offers prestige, secure housing and a
chance to travel.
   Some Catholic leaders fear growing Western influence will
deter young men from the priesthood. "More and more of
today's youth is intellectually weak," said an official of a
religious order, who blamed, among other things, "thoughtless
television shows" and "bad videos."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Nicaragua has deployed machine-gun-toting police to
enforce a government ban on hunting of sea-turtle eggs at
Pacific coast beaches. Eggs from the turtles, which are among
the world's endangered species, are a delicacy considered by
some to be an aphrodisiac. . . . A survey of 11,402 Japanese
companies showed that those anticipating a business pickup
between October and next March outnumbered those foreseeing a
decline, the Japanese Finance Ministry said. But ministry
officials pointed out that the impact of the Middle East
crisis may not have been fully reflected in the survey, which
was conducted in mid-August.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Capital Holding Buy-Back Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPH
</CO>
<IN>
LIFE INSURANCE (INL)
INSURANCE (INS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Capital Holding Corp. said it may
acquire as many as 1,450,000 common shares under a buy-back
program as well as 550,000 shares through its employee
pension fund.
   The life insurance company said it believes its stock is
undervalued. At the end of 1989, Capital Holding had 46.1
million shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Attacking Abortion
   In a Positive Way
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<LP>
   Kudos to Mary Cunningham Agee and her Nurturing Network
("Business World" by Tim W. Ferguson, Sept. 4). It's
inspiring to know that, amid all the negative rhetoric
surrounding the abortion issue, there are those who are
attacking the tragedy of abortion in a positive way.
   Her work also helps dramatize the fact that many abortions
might be included in the unfortunate "convenience" category,
not the poverty or teen-mother category.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Also deserving of praise are those companies throwing
support behind such endeavors. Our society is on an
irreversible course that has more and more women in the work
force. The challenge is to seek ways to resolve the conflict
between career and family.
   Maybe when women come to learn more about what Mrs. Agee
calls the "ultimate violence" that victimizes them, those
companies that have made the effort to accommodate the family
needs of their women employees will reap their rewards on the
bottom line.
   Joseph G. Maty
   St. Louis
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nintendo Tries to Zap Game Rentals by Video Stores
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTD
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Nintendo Co. is trying to stomp a new enemy that's
sprouting up faster than the dread Micro-Goombas in Super
Mario Brothers 3: video stores that rent Nintendo games.
   With game prices in the range of $40 to $50, rental has
become an increasingly popular way for Nintendo addicts to
get a quick fix. Game rentals make up an estimated 5% to 15%
of the revenue of the nation's roughly 25,000 video stores,
up from virtually nothing three years ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nintendo, based in Kyoto, Japan, and the companies that
make games for the Nintendo system are lobbying Congress for
a law to ban game rental, which the House Judiciary Committee
is scheduled to vote on today. They argue that the rental
boom is cutting into Nintendo game sales, which they project
will total 70 million units this year.
   Both sides can claim legal precedent thanks to the
patchwork of federal regulations covering rental of published
works. For instance, videos can be rented whereas records
cannot. Congress seems likely to pass a bill that would ban
the rental of personal-computer software. Game makers point
out that some titles are available both for PCs and Nintendo
machines, and say it makes no sense to ban rental of one
format and not the other.
   The video-store industry argues that movie rentals haven't
damaged the movie business, despite Hollywood's anguished
predictions that they would. Even though video stores
typically don't pay royalties on rentals, the movie industry
makes huge revenue from sales to the stores.
   In fact, some video-store owners say they ultimately help
Nintendo and the game-makers, who also don't earn royalties
from rentals. "I sell games mainly through rentals -- people
come in here, try a game, like it, and buy it," says Franklin
Sellars, owner of Videotape Home Systems Inc., a Pasadena,
Texas, store.
   Nintendo and its allies deride this argument. They say
kids are renting games over and over again, not just once to
try them out. "Consumers can obtain complete use and
enjoyment of many video games through rental without
purchasing them, creating lost sales to the copyright owner,"
said Bruce Davis, chairman of gamemaker Mediagenic, in
testimony to Congress this summer.
   The video-store lobby argues that the rationale for
anti-rental laws should be to prevent copying. It is easy for
consumers to copy records and PC software, but there is no
simple way to duplicate a Nintendo game (although Nintendo
has been circulating advertisements for a game-copying device
marketed overseas by a Taiwanese concern, Baelih Co.).
   The fight over game rentals has emerged as the most
contentious part of the broader bill to ban PC software
rental. That's still a tiny business, but the software
industry wants to be sure it doesn't explode the way video
rental has.
   In the early stages of the bill, the video-store industry
swiftly pushed through a clause exempting video games from
the ban. Nintendo fought back, but the exemption survived in
the version that passed the full Senate in May and a House
subcommittee last week.
   This summer, Rep. Joe Barton (R., Texas) proposed a
compromise bill, backed by Nintendo, that would permit rental
one year after a video game's release. The Nintendo camp
compared this arrangement to a movie hitting the video stores
after it has had a chance to play in theaters.
   Video-store owners were able to shoot down that version of
the bill. The first year of release "is precisely when a
video game is most popular," testified Thomas Carton, general
counsel of the giant Blockbuster Entertainment Corp.
video-store chain. "A one-year ban on rentals is not really a
`compromise'; it would gut the video game rental industry."
   The tradition of American law favors the video-store
owners in this fight. In general, the "first sale doctrine"
holds that the buyer of a piece of property can dispose of it
however he likes, through sale, rental or almost any other
means.
   The record industry, however, successfully persuaded
Congress six years ago to overrule this doctrine and ban
record rentals.
   The PC software industry appears to have a consensus in
Congress that it deserves the same special treatment -- with
or without a clause banning video-game rentals. Nevertheless,
even apart from the Nintendo debate, the industry has run
into tremendous problems defining what it means by
"software."
   The bill that passed the Senate and originally went before
the House made an exception for video games, but proposed to
ban rental of any other computer program, including any tape,
disk, or other medium embodying such a program.
   This summer, some legislators and executives grew alarmed
that the bill's language appeared to cover the millions of
microchips in consumer and industrial products that have
programs embedded in them. For instance, Hertz Corp., the
car-rental giant, protested that the bill might cover the
microchips in automobiles.
   The measure was rewritten last week to exclude software
"embodied in a machine or product and which cannot be copied
during the ordinary operation or use of that machine or
product."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PaineWebber Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS PWJ
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   PAINEWEBBER GROUP Inc. (New York) -- James W. Ziglar was
named a managing director in the municipal investment banking
division at PaineWebber Inc., a subsidiary of this investment
and securities firm. Mr. Ziglar, 44 years old, was previously
a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Prior to
that, Mr. Ziglar was assistant secretary of the Interior
Department for water and science during the Reagan
administration.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   CITY OF PHILADELPHIA -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. lowered
its rating on Philadelphia's general obligation bonds from
triple-B-minus to triple-C, the lowest rating for bonds not
yet behind in payments. S&amp;P also lowered ratings on the bonds
of related city authorities and water, sewer, and airport
revenue bonds. Last week, the city dropped its plan to float
$375 million in short-term notes after Swiss Bank Corp.
withdrew a guarantee on part of the issue and investors
demanded higher interest rates. Without the note sale,
Philadelphia will run out of cash in November or December,
officials have said. In lowering its rating, S&amp;P said, "It is
now evident that without access to the market, the city will
not only be short of cash to meet routine day-to-day
operations but that its ability to completely meet debt
service . . . in the current year may be adversely affected."
S&amp;P said the city hasn't yet implemented last week's promise
to set aside enough money in escrowed accounts to guarantee
bond payments for the current fiscal year, which ends next
June 30. Moody's Investors Service Inc. lowered its rating on
Philadelphia's bonds last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bond Unit Extends Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   A.BON
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   PERTH, Western Australia -- Bond Brewing Holdings Ltd.
said its subsidiary, Dimola Pty., has extended its offer to
purchase as much as 90% of Bond's principal amount
outstanding of 12 5/8% extendable subordinated debentures to
midnight EDT Friday.
   The depositary has advised Bond and Dimola that, as of
noon EDT last Friday, about 8.5% of the outstanding principal
amount of debentures had been tendered to the depositary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Classified Financial Corp. Merger
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CLSS
</CO>
<IN>
PROPERTY &amp; CASUALTY INSURANCE (INP)
INSURANCE (INS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN FRANCISCO -- Classified Financial Corp. said
shareholders approved a previously announced plan to merge
the company into its majority-owned subsidiary, Rathbone,
King &amp; Seeley Inc.
   The company said that under the merger, which it expects
to complete by Sept. 30, Classified Financial shareholders
will receive pro rata shares of Classified's net cash and
common stock of Rathbone held by Classified. The merger will
not, however, affect Rathbone's stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rathbone operates property casualty insurance and related
businesses through its subsidiaries, American Star Insurance
Co. and Rathbone, King &amp; Seeley Insurance Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CommerceBancorp Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CBNB
</CO>
<IN>
WESTERN U.S. BANKS (BAW)
BANKS (BNK)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. -- CommerceBancorp, a bank holding
company, said its board authorized spending as much as $1
million to repurchase the company's stock.
   CommerceBancorp said that at current prices $1 million
would buy about 97,561 shares, or about 4.6% of the company's
common shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Tots Freed of Balance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   The forced-busing war isn't over in Seattle. The school
board voted 4 to 3 this month to relax integration mandates
so as to permit students to attend where they and their
parents wished. But the local NAACP chapter threatened to sue
and, more important, the U.S. Education Department said it
might have to cut off funding for "magnet" schools in the
district because they could be out of racial balance.
Morever, the state warned construction money could be lost.
So the board, with what a member called an "economic gun to
its head," postponed the new plan for a year. But it did
manage to end busing of kindergartners. Result: The Seattle
schools, after two decades of steady enrollment decline,
gained 2,500 students this fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keating Slated
   To Face Counts
   Of Fraud Today
   ---
   American Continental Corp.
   Ex-Chief Is Said Indicted
   By a Jury in California
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen and Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   AMC
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   Charles H. Keating Jr., the man the federal government has
said is responsible for the biggest thrift collapse ever, is
scheduled to be arraigned today on criminal fraud charges in
state court in Los Angeles.
   A California state grand jury last week voted to indict
Mr. Keating, according to individuals who are familiar with
the government's investigation of Mr. Keating. The
indictment, which was sealed, marks the first time that
criminal charges have been filed against Mr. Keating, the
former chairman of American Continental Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Keating resigned from his post at American Continental
late last month, after a federal judge dismissed Mr.
Keating's challenge to the government takeover of Lincoln
Savings &amp; Loan Association, American Continental's main
operating unit. The government seized Lincoln in April 1989,
shortly after American Continental filed for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
   The charges filed against Mr. Keating are said to include
allegations that he defrauded 23,000 investors through the
sale of $200 million in unsecured debentures. The debentures
were mostly sold through Lincoln branch offices in Los
Angeles and Orange counties. Many purchasers of the bonds
were retired investors, some of whom claim that Lincoln
branch officers falsely told them the debentures were
federally guaranteed and were as safe as insured certificates
of deposit.
   The indictment also is understood to include charges that
Mr. Keating violated California state banking laws. American
Continental is based in Phoenix, Ariz. Lincoln is based in
the Orange County, Calif., city of Irvine.
   Los Angeles County District Attorney Ira Reiner was named
last December to head a special statewide "prosecutors' task
force" looking into the collapse of Lincoln Savings. In
February, Mr. Reiner asked for a special grand jury to be
empanelled in Los Angeles County to assist in investigating
the Lincoln case.
   Sandi Gibbons, a spokeswoman for Mr. Reiner, yesterday
declined to say whether Mr. Keating had been indicted or was
about to be arraigned. She did read a statement, however,
saying that "the district attorney's office has concluded its
presentation of evidence to the grand jury." She added that
Mr. Reiner wouldn't "comment until such time a court lifts
the seal of confidentiality."
   Stephen C. Neal, a Chicago attorney who is representing
Mr. Keating, declined to comment on the indictment.
   Mr. Keating, who claims he is broke, already faces a
multitude of civil suits. The federal Resolution Trust Corp.,
responsible for the thrift bailout, has filed a $1.1 billion
civil racketeering suit against Mr. Keating. And the federal
Office of Thrift Supervision has filed administrative charges
against Mr. Keating and others, seeking $40.9 million.
   The state of California also filed civil charges of
investment fraud against Mr. Keating earlier this year
seeking restitution for bondholders. The state has come in
for criticism, too, however. Bondholders at one point filed a
claim saying that the state Department of Corporations "knew
or should have known. . . . that the subordinated debentures
constituted an extreme risk to the investing public."
   Mr. Keating's position has been that the bondholders
wouldn't have lost anything if the government hadn't seized
Lincoln and forced American Continental into bankruptcy
court. The outspoken Mr. Keating also has claimed that the
government has conducted what amounts to a vendetta against
him because of his criticism of the thrift regulatory system
after American Continental bought Lincoln in 1984.
   Meanwhile, a federal grand jury in Los Angeles is
continuing its investigation of Mr. Keating and others,
according to individuals with knowledge of that
investigation. These individuals say that federal prosecutors
may soon bring additional charges against Mr. Keating that
are similar to those being brought by the state of
California. Defense lawyers say that it is likely that Mr.
Keating will be tried first on federal charges.
   Federal prosecutors may be waiting for the sentencing of
Michael R. Milken, the former junk bond chief of Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc., scheduled for next week. Mr. Keating
was once a top Drexel client and a close associate of Mr.
Milken's. Mr. Milken has agreed to cooperate with the
government after he is sentenced.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Agree to Agree to Agree
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A30
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The last time we checked reports out of the summit enclave
at Andrews Air Force Base, the word was that the participants
felt they could, or should, or would strike a deal on the
"tax questions" by midnight. We ourselves didn't stay up last
night to see if a puff of white smoke went up from this
convocation of political shamans.
   In any event, much of the drama has gone out of the event,
at least to judge by one piece of "news analysis" we read
over the weekend. It reported that there were a few other
outstanding items, but, "If the tax questions could be
resolved, most participants agree, the other aspects would
fall into place."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As for the other items that would fall into place in time
to avoid an October 1 budget sequester, the New York Times
analyst had a list: "The negotiators have not agreed on how
to make what both sides agree are necessary cuts in Medicare,
the medical insurance program for the elderly. They have not
decided which other domestic programs should be cut. And they
are far from concurring on the kinds of procedures that
should be written into the agreement to make sure it is
enforced."
   So whatever budget news the world wakes up to this
morning, the spending side of the negotiations is but a
sideshow to the main issue of how to raise taxes by $25
billion over five years. But we've always been fascinated by
sideshows, so before the mobs descend on the new taxes, we
don't think it would hurt if anyone old enough to attend an
R-rated movie slipped inside this tent to consider the
fleshpots of public spending that will remain open after this
secret session closes down.
   Federal spending is penciled in at about
$1,300,000,000,000 this fiscal year for the United States,
which somehow works out to a tad more congressionally
appropriated disbursals than the American people have been
able to support in tax payments out of their earned incomes.
Thus, obviously, the need for a "summit" to erect a tax
increase on an economy growing at 1%, give or take a few
unsold houses.
   Sounds to us a lot like a normal congressional agreement.
   Does anyone seriously believe that two months away from a
congressional election, this powwow is going to make real,
lasting, enforceable cuts in the federal bedrock? Of course
not. Or that this group of professional agreers will produce
real change in the way they concoct federal budgets? That
cause is left to the President, last seen calling for such
change into the dead air of the House chamber.
   Which leaves -- raising taxes. Here too, the negotiators
operate by rules unrelated to reality. A capital-gains tax
cut counts as a revenue loser, though it will gain revenues
at least initially, according to nearly everyone, if not
permanently, according to those of us who were right the last
time this particular issue came around. Yet the proposed
Business Roundtable Memorial Surtax, on net taxable incomes
above $500,000, counts as a revenue gainer -- though the
Roundtable members who lobbied for lower deficits have plenty
of lawyers and accountants to keep their incomes at $499,999.
This means the measure would lose much of the government's
current 28% of income beyond $500,000. And maybe the idea of
actually "buying" luxury goods is passe anyway, what with
innovations in leasing and the like.
   Ah, but we're already getting caught up in the spirit of
what will happen in the world outside Andrews, or Danny
Rostenkowski's committee room. The more responsible people
will be focusing on the Budget Summit, whose purpose is not
to accomplish anything discernible in the real world. The
purpose is to agree. Or more ideally, to agree to agree to
agree.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cimflex Teknowledge Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CMTK
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Cimflex Teknowledge Corp. said it has
completed the conversion of its diagnostics business into a
new high-technology company called Applied Diagnostics Inc.
   Applied Diagnostics is involved with troubleshooting
electronic circuit assemblies and certain types of
manufacturing equipment. Those products were developed by
Cimflex over the last three years through a research and
development financing agreement with PaineWebber R &amp; D
Partners L.P. The initial shareholders of Applied Diagnostics
are PaineWebber and Cimflex. Cimflex provides software and
integrated systems for factory management, automation and
control.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Savings Bank
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ASB
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- American Savings Bank said it recovered $15.6
million of a $25 million nonperforming construction loan on a
building in New York.
   The recovery settlement resulted from the recent sale of
the 46-story commercial and residential building under a
bankruptcy court auction. The bank was a major partner in a
$65 million construction loan with a consortium of banks that
was made in 1984. The loan became nonperforming in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   American Savings said the recovery amount was after
expenses related to liens, attorneys' fees, taxes and other
bankruptcy court fees. As a result, it will take an
additional loss of approximately $1.8 million on the loan,
which will be included in the third quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Air Force Chief Is Fired After Disclosing
   Classified Data, Using `Poor Judgment'
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Bob Davis
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration fired the Air Force
chief of staff for talking openly about plans for big bombing
raids on Iraq's capital that would specifically aim at
killing Saddam Hussein if war erupts in the Persian Gulf.
   Defense Secretary Dick Cheney announced the firing of Gen.
Michael Dugan, chiding him for using "poor judgment" and
disclosing classified information in remarks he made to a few
reporters who traveled with him on a visit to Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Cheney curtly said that the general won't get another job
but "will be retired."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Gen. Dugan's comments, published in the Washington Post
and the Los Angeles Times on Sunday, have produced the
biggest embarrassment to the administration since the start
of the Gulf crisis on Aug. 2. While his blunt remarks could
help convince Saddam Hussein of American resolve, they also
raise questions about whether the administration intends to
abide by an American prohibition on assassination of foreign
leaders. And Gen. Dugan's disclosure that some American B-52
bombers are being equipped with Israeli-built missiles could
cause political problems in the Arab world.
   Meanwhile, President Bush gave a mixed review of the
effectiveness of international economic sanctions on Iraq,
which are the cornerstone of his strategy for forcing Iraq to
withdraw from Kuwait. Mr. Bush said that the sanctions are
working "to some degree." In remarks at the White House to
out-of-town reporters, the president added: "I can't tell you
definitively how effective they are at this minute."
   Mr. Bush said the sanctions are choking off virtually all
Iraqi oil income, but he also said that ensuring that no
goods enter Iraq is "hard to do in terms of overflights and
some countries that seem to be more willing than others to
avoid the sanctions." However, he said he believes that Iran
is complying with the trade embargo.
   Mr. Bush's remarks are significant because his analysis of
the effectiveness of economic sanctions will be an important
factor when he determines whether to move from economic
pressure to military force in order to push Iraq out of
Kuwait.
   But the president also may have been speaking in an effort
to influence deliberations by the permanent members of the
United Nations Security Council, where new steps to tighten
the sanctions are being considered. According to a U.S.
official, three options are being discussed: extending the
embargo to include air shipments to Iraq; applying sanctions
against nations that are violating the United Nations-imposed
embargo of Iraq, and approving a resolution calling on U.N.
members to reduce Baghdad's diplomatic presence in their
nations.
   "There's no set mix of these items," the official said.
"It could be one or all." President Bush explicitly endorsed
the idea of an embargo on some Iraqi air traffic, saying that
French President Francois Mitterrand has advanced such a
proposal and that "I would be prepared to work with anybody
to tie that additional knot in the sanctions."
   Mr. Bush also said he "absolutely" regrets his
administration's moves to prevent Congress from passing
legislation to impose economic sanctions on Iraq in the weeks
before it invaded Kuwait. He said there was "some reason" to
think at the time that improving relations with Iraq would
moderate its behavior, but added that "if everybody had the
benefit of total hindsight, why, you'd go back and say, `This
doesn't make much sense.'"
   Also yesterday, the State Department said that after the
weekend arrival of two chartered aircraft carrying 409
Americans and their non-American family members, there now
are about 1,280 American citizens in Kuwait and 170 in Iraq.
   State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said that
another flight carrying American citizens and their families
from Kuwait and Iraq is scheduled to leave Kuwait tomorrow
and arrive at the Raleigh-Durham, N.C., airport on Thursday.
He added that "we're looking into another possible flight
after this."
   Mr. Boucher also said the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad reported
this past weekend that two American men and two other
Westerners were picked up Friday in Kuwait by Iraqi troops.
He said this brings to about 82 the number of American
citizens who have been rounded up by the Iraqi government.
   The firing of Gen. Dugan illustrates the fine line the
Bush administration is walking in trying to show Iraq that it
is seriously considering military conflict without giving
away too many military plans in the process.
   "As a matter of policy, we never talk about the selection
of specific targets for potential air strikes," Mr. Cheney
said at a news conference in which he explained Gen. Dugan's
firing. In addition, Mr. Cheney said, "we never talk about
targeting specific individuals who are officials of other
governments." Trying to kill foreign officials during an
attack could be considered attempted assassination, which
would violate an executive order President Bush and his
predecessors have issued barring political killings.
   In his comments to reporters, Gen. Dugan said that U.S.
military planners have concluded that massive bombing,
including attacks of Baghdad, would be the most effective
option for forcing Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait if fighting
erupts. Moreover, the general said that in addition to usual
targets such as Iraqi air defenses and military industries,
he had asked planners to find targets important to Iraqi
culture and society.
   Mr. Cheney didn't attack the veracity of Gen. Dugan's
remarks, but objected to Gen. Dugan's making the threats so
baldly in for-the-record interviews. "Given the extreme
delicacy of the current situation, it's incumbent upon senior
officials to be discreet in their public statements," Mr.
Cheney said.
   Though Gen. Dugan's statements were similar to those made
privately by some other officials, they went beyond what
officials have said even on a not-for-attribution basis.
   Gen. Dugan's remarks could both help and harm U.S.
interests in different ways. To get Saddam Hussein to
withdraw from Kuwait, military strategists say, the U.S. must
convince the Iraqi leader that it is ready to destroy what he
values most. But by suggesting an American willingness to
consider widespread destruction of Iraq's most important
city, the comments also seem to undercut Mr. Bush's argument
in recent weeks that he doesn't want to harm the Iraqi people
but only their unelected leader.
   Mr. Cheney said he would replace Gen. Dugan, who had only
taken over as chief of staff three months ago, with Gen.
Merrill McPeak, who is currently commander-in-chief of
Pacific air forces.
   In his remarks to reporters, Mr. Bush also reiterated his
administration's belief that there isn't any reason to draw
down oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve because of the
cutoff of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil shipments.
   "I think that when you have a real shortage of a product
or you see an external event that is going to guarantee that
there be a shortage, then would be the time when you most
certainly should use" the strategic reserve, Mr. Bush said.
"It is my judgment that there isn't such a shortage at this
time." He said that price increases in petroleum products
result from speculation that wouldn't be damped by a symbolic
draw-down of some reserve oil.
   Mr. Bush also said that the current crisis won't prompt
him to reconsider decisions he made this year postponing
offshore oil exploration in large areas near the West Coast
and tracts off the East Coast. But he made a renewed pitch
for tax incentives to encourage domestic oil exploration
elsewhere, particularly in small wells that are economically
marginal.
   Mr. Bush again praised cooperation from other nations in
the confrontation with Iraq, and there were further signs of
cooperation in both the Middle East and Europe. The Saudi
Arabian government appears ready to provide Egypt and Syria
economic assistance totaling nearly $3 billion a year in
return for their military support against Iraq, Saudi
officials said.
   Details of the long-term arrangement haven't been
announced, but the officials said the aid would be in
addition to more than $10 billion the Saudis previously
agreed to provide to help defray the costs of deploying U.S.
forces in the region. Saudi Arabia also is prepared to pay
the full cost of airlifting another 10,000 or so Syrian
forces, which are expected to join about 3,000 Syrians
previously sent to help Saudi Arabia.
   At the same time, European Community foreign ministers
announced a mass expulsion of Iraqi military personnel and
set limits on the movements of Iraqi diplomats who remain. In
addition, the Western European Union, which links nine EC
countries in a joint defense pact, is expected to announce
further joint military measures today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Taxing Proposition:
   How the Budget Talks
   May Curb Deductions
   Of Well-Off Taxpayers
   ---
   Write-Offs for Mortgages,
   Charity Could Be Limited
   In Effort to Trim Deficit
   ---
   The Goulds Might Be Pinched
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Attention all yuppies and yachtsmen,
homeowners and double homeowners, high-paid Hawaiians and
well-off North Dakotans: The deficit cutters in the White
House and Congress are eyeing your tax deductions.
   They are looking at the deduction for contributions to
charity so prized by universities, at the deduction for state
and local income-tax payments so dear to residents of many
states, even at the precious deduction for mortgage-interest
expense that saves homeowners nearly $50 billion in federal
taxes every year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Right now, more than $100 billion a year worth of tax
breaks, most of which go to subsidize the life styles of
upper-income Americans, are on the table at the bipartisan
budget talks under way at the officers' club at Andrews Air
Force Base outside Washington. No one is talking about wiping
out deductions altogether, but there is plenty of talk in
Congress to limit them, particularly for well-off taxpayers.
   The latest assault on deductions is being led by President
Bush and his fellow Republicans, who are looking for a way to
cajole Democrats into accepting a cut in the capital-gains
tax without increasing the tax rate on upper-income
taxpayers. Over the weekend, White House negotiators
suggested limiting tax deductions for the approximately
600,000 taxpayers with incomes of more than $200,000 a year.
   Whether the Democrats will go along is unclear. But the
proposal at least plays to their desire to make the affluent
pay. Indeed, some Democrats have even suggested trimming
deductions for all families earning more than $100,000 a year
and single people earning more than $50,000.
   "I'll do anything to go after the pocketbooks of those who
have been enjoying themselves for the last decade," House
Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski, Democrat
of Illinois, said before the latest round of budget talks
began two weeks ago.
   For affluent Americans, deductions are among the last
remaining respites from the tax man. George Bush, for
instance, shaved $26,370 off his federal income-tax bill last
year with various deductions -- and he doesn't even have a
mortgage. According to a copy of their 1989 tax return
released by the White House, the Bushes reported income of
$483,030. They claimed deductions exceeding $94,000 --
including $19,500 for real-estate taxes, $37,900 in gifts to
charity and $28,900 for legal and financial advice.
   If deductions come under widespread attack,
less-well-to-do Americans would feel the bite as well. "I
wouldn't be destitute, but it would certainly crimp things,"
says Robert Gould Jr., 39, a consultant with KPMG Peat
Marwick, the accounting firm. He and his wife, a 38-year old
art consultant, bought a Colonial house in Westport, Conn.,
two years ago. Mortgage payments consume a quarter of their
combined income. In particular, Mr. Gould fears he won't be
able to save the money he will need to send his two children
to private universities.
   "The ones who would be affected by this are people in our
age group, people who are in the formative stage of building
their wealth," Mr. Gould says. His fix to the nation's fiscal
crisis: "Cut spending. Period."
   Curtailing deductions just might solve a political problem
that has vexed the budget negotiators since they began work
in May: If capital-gains tax rates are cut -- a move that
would largely benefit the wealthy who have assets to sell --
then what taxes on upper-income Americans could be raised?
Republicans, still singing from the hymn book of Reagan-era
supply-siders, insist they won't raise marginal income tax
rates, now at 28% for the highest-income Americans. "I am not
going to vote to raise marginal tax rates because {that
would} stifle incentives," says Republican negotiator Sen.
Phil Gramm of Texas.
   Democrats, meanwhile, have rediscovered the soak-the-rich
ballads of their past, and insist that any tax package must
hit the rich harder than the working class. House Democratic
Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri sounded the war cry last
week. "We must ask wealthy Americans to pay their fair
share," he said.
   For Democrats, the debate has marked a return to an old
struggle to use the tax code to redistribute income. During
the Reagan years, many Democrats largely abandoned that
campaign. But now they seem to be embracing it anew. In part,
this reflects the ascendency of the son of a janitor, George
Mitchell, to the post of majority leader of the Senate and
the son of a milkman, Richard Gephardt, to the same post in
the House. It also reflects a growing sense among many
Democrats that the glorification of wealth that marked the
1980s has given way in the 1990s to public anger about greed
and inequality.
   Still, Lloyd Bentsen, chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee, said earlier this summer that "the odds are
against" a broad cut in deductions. Lobbyists for real-estate
agents, home builders, charities and state and local
governments have already mobilized, and hurriedly called a
joint meeting yesterday to devise a strategy to fight efforts
to limit deductions.
   They worry about how a curb on deductions would affect
people like Travers Nelson. Mr. Nelson, director of design
and development for PersonaCare Inc., a developer of nursing
homes in Baltimore, says if he and his wife can't deduct
mortgage payments on their new townhouse, they may have to
take a second look at their charitable contributions. "We
won't be able to give as much," he says.
   This isn't the first time tax deductions have been under
siege. In the 1970s, President Jimmy Carter campaigned
against the "three-martini lunch" -- the deduction for
business meals and entertainment -- but to no avail. The 1986
Tax Reform Act was more successful in eliminating some
smaller deductions -- such as the write-off for consumer
interest payments and for state sales taxes -- and limiting
others, including the three-martini lunch.
   Other attacks on deductions were repelled during debate
over the 1986 bill. A Reagan administration proposal to
eliminate the mortgage-interest deduction for second homes
failed when lobbyists convinced lawmakers that second homes
weren't just for rich folks but were also used by the "middle
class" -- to say nothing of members of Congress, many of whom
own homes in their districts and in the Washington area.
   Throughout the various battles, the biggest deductions
have remained intact. The deduction for interest payments on
home mortgages tops the list. Its estimated cost to the
Treasury is $47 billion a year. Congress did prove in 1987
that it could at least nick that sacred cow: It passed a law
that prevents any couple from deducting interest payments on
mortgages that exceed $1 million.
   A group called the Alliance for America's Homeowners,
formed to protect the mortgage-interest deduction in the
mid-1980s, is already stirring from hibernation and preparing
to fight again. One new argument: With the housing industry
already in a deepening slump, this is the wrong time to cut
back housing write-offs.
   The deduction for state and local income taxes is the
runner-up in size, draining about $22 billion a year from
federal coffers. That's one the White House specifically
proposed cutting back on.
   But any narrowing in the deduction for state and local
taxes would affect individual states very differently, since
the higher a state's tax rate, the more a resident in that
state stands to lose. Moreover, in seven states there isn't
any state income tax at all. A new report by the
Congressional Research Service says that an earlier
administration proposal to cap the deduction for state and
local taxes at $10,000 would have had the following,
divergent effect: In Illinois and New Jersey, you wouldn't
hit the $10,000 cap until you reached $333,400 and $302,900
in income respectively. But in North Dakota and Hawaii, where
state income tax rates are higher, you reach the cap at
$84,300 and $88,625.
   Deductions for charitable contributions are next in line.
They cost the Treasury $17 billion a year and they, too, are
backed by a vigorous lobby. "The adrenaline is flowing," says
Robert Smucker, a vice president of Independent Sector, an
umbrella organization for 700 charities.
   More deductions may be on the chopping block as well.
Homeowners could get a double whack if the deduction for
property tax payments is also narrowed. That costs the
Treasury $12 billion a year. And then there is the deduction
for medical expenses. That one is already limited to
taxpayers whose medical bills exceed 7.5% of their income, a
hurdle met by relatively few taxpayers. It benefits
middle-income taxpayers more than those in the highest
brackets and costs the Treasury $3 billion a year.
   Singling out any one of these big deductions is
politically risky; indeed, members of Congress are loath to
appear anti-housing or anti-charity. Hence plans, like the
new Republican proposal and one previously crafted by
Democratic Rep. Don Pease of Ohio, to trim deductions
across-the-board for upper-income taxpayers.
   An alternative scheme, which has been considered in the
past, is to turn all deductions into tax credits. That would
have the effect of ensuring that $1 worth of deductions is
worth no more to a taxpayer in the 28% tax bracket than it is
to a lower-income taxpayer in the 15% bracket.
   Currently, for instance, $10,000 in mortgage interest
deductions saves $1,500 in taxes for someone in the 15%
bracket, but $2,800 for someone in the 28% bracket and $3,300
for someone in the 33% bracket. If all tax deductions were
converted into a 15% tax credit, the $10,000 in interest
expenses would reduce a taxpayer's bill by $1,500 no matter
which bracket he is in. Applied just to mortgage interest,
that change would raise more than $50 billion over five
years, the Congressional Budget Office says.
   All of the proposals are still far from law, of course.
But lobbyists opposed to paring deductions already are
predicting the most dire consequences. A letter several wrote
to negotiators yesterday chillingly predicted that limiting
deductions today ultimately could doom them altogether.
   "Restricting itemized deductions in this manner sets a
precedent," the letter said, making "all of these deductions
prime targets for future revenue needs."
   ---
         The Biggest Individual Income Tax Deductions
                                                                                                       

   Fiscal 1991 estimates of forgone federal revenue, in
billions
                                                                                                       


   State and local income, personal property taxes ..   21.9
   Charitable contributions .........................   16.2
   Property tax on owner-occupied homes .............   12.4
   Medical expenses .................................    3.0
                                                                                                       

   Source: Treasury Department
                                                                                                       

   Deductions: Who Takes Them?
                                                                                                       

                    PERCENTAGE TAKING DEDUCTION FOR:
                                                                                                       

                    ANY REAL   MEDICAL STATE &amp; CHARITABLE
 Income        CATEGORY ESTATE COSTS   LOCAL   CONTRIBUTIONS
                        TAXES          INCOME
                                       TAX
                                                                                                       

 0-$50,000         24%   18%    7%      18%        19%
 $50,000-100,000   67    65     7       60         67
 $100,000-200,000  90    85     4       79         89
 $200,000 and up   93    83     2       76         90
                                                                                                       

 Sources: Joint Tax Committee; U.S. Congress
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE NORTH DAKOTA tax commissioner says that a resident of
that state would have to earn $241,650 before owing $10,000
in state income taxes. The threshold was given incorrectly in
a Congressional Research Service report that was cited in
Tuesday's edition.
   (WSJ Sept. 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education Department
   Calls a Halt to Funds
   For Georgia District
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Department of Education stopped
disbursement of all federal education funds to the DeKalb
County School District, Georgia's largest, after finding
violations of a law that bars discrimination against
handicapped persons.
   The order will halt more than $7 million in annual federal
aid to the 72,000 students in the suburban Atlanta school
system. The department found that DeKalb County illegally
refused to allow federal inspectors to investigate
allegations of discrimination against handicapped students.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   County officials contend that the department's Office of
Civil Rights doesn't have the authority it claims to enforce
the Education for the Handicapped Act.
   Funding-termination actions are "rarer than hen's teeth,"
said Richard Komer, deputy assistant secretary of education
for civil rights. The last such order was in 1982, and this
is the first time the department has stopped funding over
alleged discrimination against handicapped students, he said.
   DeKalb County, which has been fighting since 1984 to
challenge the department's attempt to use an
anti-discrimination statute to police the Education for the
Handicapped Act, has asked a federal district court to enjoin
the government from terminating funding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manville Dispute With EPA
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   DENVER -- Manville Corp. said it settled a dispute with
the Environmental Protection Agency over its Waukegan, Ill.,
facility, agreeing to pay $165,000 in penalties.
   The EPA alleged that Manville violated a consent decree
that stipulated how the company would clean up asbestos
wastes at the facility by improperly grading the site,
causing asbestos emissions. Manville maintained that the
grading was done according to the consent decree plan, and no
violations had taken place.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said it settled the matter with the EPA "to
resolve the case quickly." In the settlement, the government
stipulated that it never alleged that the violations were
intentional. The $7 million cleanup was completed in May.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Eases Slightly on Lower Volume;
   Barden Jumps 30 1/2 on Buy-Out News
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks eased slightly as news
of buy-outs and corporate earnings enlivened an otherwise
dull day.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index eased 0.31 to 374.11, 0.1%
loss, as volume fell to 94 million shares from 103.5 million
Friday. Declining shares kept their lead over advancing
stocks, 1,022 to 776, while 2,453 shares remained unchanged.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Buy-out news ignited Barden, which almost doubled in value
after FAG Bearings Corp. of Stamford, Conn., said it will pay
$66.25 a share for the Danbury, Conn., bearing maker. Barden
shares soared 30 1/2 to 63 on 18,700 shares, more than 11
times average volume of only 1,600 shares.
   High-flying Nike stumbled 3 to 72. The Beaverton, Ore.,
athletic footwear maker reported earnings for the first
quarter ended Aug. 31 rose to $2.62 a share from $2.01 a year
earlier, at the high end of Wall Street's expectations.
Analysts suggested investors who bought stock last week in
anticipation of a strong report took profits yesterday.
   However, slow growth continued to haunt other companies as
Oracle Systems, for instance, traded heavily amid concern
about its future.
   Generally, investors remained wary of OTC stocks as they
waited for economic news and developments in the Persian
Gulf. "Overall, it's just wait-and-see," said Hedi Reynolds,
managing director of OTC trading at Morgan Keegan &amp; Co. in
Memphis, Tenn. Institutions continued to buy stocks
selectively, while small investors remained inactive, she
said. "Retail {business} is very, very slow, which is what
we're hearing from everybody," she said.
   Technology shares closed mixed. Microsoft rose 1 to 60 3/4
after International Business Machines Co. extended three
licensing pacts with the Redmond, Wash., software maker.
However, Oracle, the day's most active stock, slid 5/8 to 6
7/8. The company has begun a round of layoffs to cope with
slower growth.
   Microsoft was buoyed by the news that IBM extended its
licensing pacts for the company's DOS, Windows and OS/2
software. It was the first time that IBM sealed a broad-scale
licensing arrangement for Microsoft's highly successful
Windows 3.0 software, Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund
said. But he said IBM hasn't been forthcoming about details
of the Windows arrangement, making it too soon to gauge the
financial impact.
   After the two companies' long-running arguments over the
marketing of OS/2, the extension of that licensing agreement
is positive, Mr. Sherlund added. "It's an acknowledgement
these guys have to live together," he said.
   Oracle skidded near its 52-week low as analysts spoke of
continuing troubles at the Redwood City, Calif., software
maker. Dean Witter Reynolds analyst Timothy R. McCollum said
he thinks three high-level executives already have left the
company, in addition to a number of lower-level employees,
according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report. Oracle's
stock has plummeted from 15 just a month ago and is trading
at one-fourth its 52-week high of 28 3/8.
   Other technology shares were mixed.
   Intel rose 1/4 to 32 7/8; Conner Peripherals added 1/8 to
20 3/4; and Sun Microsystems gained 1/8 to 28 1/2. However,
Apple Computer fell 1/4 to 33 3/4 and 3Com fell 1 to 6 7/8.
   Barden's planned acquisition prompted investors to buy
other machinery stocks:
   Applied Materials rose 3/4 to 25; and Kaydon gained 1 3/8
to 35.
   Kaydon also got a boost from Shearson Lehman Brothers
analyst Susan Hirsch, who repeated her "buy" opinion on the
Muskegon, Mich., maker of bearings and other machinery
components.
   Justin Industries climbed 3/4 to 14 1/4 after a dissident
shareholder group said it offered to pay $18 a share for all
outstanding shares of the Fort Worth, Texas, company. The
group has an 11.4% stake in the company.
   Speculation of an acquisition fueled a 1 1/8-point jump in
VeloBind to 8 5/8. The Fremont, Calif., maker of book and
document binding equipment confirmed it's in buyout
discussions with an undisclosed company.
   American Greetings gained 1/8 to 28 1/2 after the
Cleveland greeting card company reported that net income for
the second quarter ended Aug. 31 rose to 20 cents a share
from 16 cents a year earlier.
   Clean Harbors slid 1 3/8 to 5 1/8 after Massachussetts
health officials opposed construction of a hazardous-waste
incinerator planned by the Quincy, Mass., company. Among
other environmental stocks, Western Waste Industries eased
1/2 to 18 3/4 and Mid-American Waste, which doesn't handle
hazardous wastes, fell 1/4 to 25 3/4.
   Mail Boxes Etc. tumbled 1 1/4 to 21 1/4 after the
Pennsylvania attorney general sued the San Diego franchiser
of mail services for allegedly misleading the public by
marketing mailboxes that customers are allowed to identify as
"suites" or "apartments."
   Geriatric &amp; Medical Centers lost 1 to 1 1/4. Late Friday,
the Philadelphia concern said that Pennsylvania is seeking
Medicaid audit adjustments and business-use and occupancy-tax
assessments that could result in a total $12.1 million
charge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pirelli Proposes
   Tire Merger
   To Continental
   ---
   Overture to German Firm
   Is Aimed at Challenging
   Industry's Three Leaders
   ----
   By Guy Collins and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   I.PIR G.CGU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN, Italy -- Tire and cable group Pirelli S.p.A.
proposed to Continental AG of West Germany that they merge
their tire businesses to challenge the dominance of the three
giants in the world market.
   Under the Pirelli proposal, which would be the latest in a
series of combinations among major tire makers, the Italian
company would take a controlling interest in the merged
company. Pirelli-Continental would have annual tire sales of
about 10 trillion lire ($8.6 billion) and a 16% share of the
world market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In Hannover, West Germany, Continental said it needed time
to study the Pirelli proposal, which it received Saturday.
   Analysts said Continental's management, which has erected
elaborate anti-takeover defenses and has become locked in
battle with its own minority shareholders over voting rights,
could resist Pirelli's move or make a counterproposal.
Hostile takeovers are all but unknown in West Germany, where
close links and cross-shareholdings between companies and
large banks have been used to repel unwelcome raiders.
   Moreover, the West German company can fall back on a 5%
limitation on shareholders' voting rights adopted in 1984 if
Pirelli, which says it already has 5% of the stock, opts to
push ahead with more open-market purchases of Continental's
widely distributed shares.
   A Pirelli spokesman said its proposal has the support of a
group of holders owning a majority stake in Continental. But
he gave no financial details of how the merger might be
accomplished.
   Continental's current 8.7 million shares outstanding give
the West German group an indicated market value of 2.3
billion marks ($1.46 billion). At the end of 1989,
Continental said it had 47,000 shareholders and that no
single stake then exceeded 1.5%.
   Continental and Pirelli are respectively the world's
fourth and fifth largest tire manufacturers. But with about
8% of the world market each, they trail well behind the
leaders, Groupe Michelin of France, Goodyear Tire &amp; Rubber
Co., Akron, Ohio, and Bridgestone Corp. of Japan, which have
market shares ranging from 16% to 23%. Michelin owns
Akron-based Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co., and Bridgestone owns
Chicago-based Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co., leaving Goodyear
the only major U.S. tire maker that is still independent.
   Continental is the parent company of General Tire &amp; Rubber
Co., Akron, among its other holdings.
   Pirelli spun off its tire-making activities into a Dutch
holding company, Pirelli Tyre Holding N.V., last year, and
the group has been seeking to boost market share through
foreign acquisitions or alliances.
   Pirelli expressed interest in acquiring Firestone in 1988
but was beaten out by Bridgestone. In the same year, it
bought Armstrong Tire Co.
   In making its Continental proposal, Pirelli has in its
favor the growing disaffection among Continental shareholders
about the company's anti-takeover defenses. During a stormy
annual meeting in June, a shareholder motion to abolish the
5% voting limitation fell just short of the three-quarters
vote required to amend the corporate bylaws.
   Active buying of Continental shares in recent weeks has
supported the stock price. But a senior figure involved in
the merger proposal denied that Pirelli or its advisers had
been connected with any arbitrage activity. "This is an
industrial transaction, and we have had absolutely nothing to
do with speculative investors," said Michael Treichl,
managing director of mergers and acquisitions at Merrill
Lynch, which is acting as financial adviser to Pirelli and
owns some Continental stock.
   News of the proposal initially caused confusion as to who
wanted to acquire whom. Continental's stock plummeted 7.1% on
the Frankfurt stock exchange, closing at 265 marks a share,
partly because Pirelli's initial announcement made it sound
as if Continental was to purchase the Italian company. In
Milan, Pirelli's announcement failed to support its share
price amid a general stock decline. Pirelli fell 26 lire to
close at 1,785 lire a share.
   The merger proposal comes amid an industry downturn and a
price war. Groupe Michelin sharply cut prices on tires
shipped to auto makers in an effort to gain share. That
caused Continental and Goodyear to follow suit, injuring
their profits. Just this month, Goodyear announced plans for
layoffs in Europe, and Continental reported a 39% drop in
pretax profit for the first half. Pirelli Tyre, too, has
warned of lower first-half earnings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Bank of Tokyo Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.BOT
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BANK OF TOKYO Ltd. (Tokyo) -- Koretsugu Kodama was named
resident managing director for the Americas and chairman of
Bank of Tokyo Trust Co., a New York subsidiary of the
international bank. Mr. Kodama, 55 years old, succeeds Kenji
Yoshizawa, 58, who is returning to Tokyo headquarters as
deputy president. Mr. Kodama had been managing director in
charge of corporate banking in Tokyo.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   McDermott International Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MDR
</CO>
<IN>
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   MCDERMOTT INTERNATIONAL Inc. (New Orleans) -- John P.
Eckert was elected a director of this energy services
concern, expanding the board to 15 members. The 56-year-old
Mr. Eckert was named president and chief operating officer of
McDermott in August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A31
</SO>
<LP>
   Corporate-Front Quiet
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   ("Our bosses aren't very responsive, most workers
believe." -- WSJ news item)
                                                                                                       

   This is a true statement,
   And here's how I know why:
   I asked my boss about it
   And he would not reply.
   -- Arnold J. Zarett.
   ---
   Second Choice
                                                                                                       

   When a thing must be done
   I do it myself;
   I don't put a problem
   Up on a shelf.
   I dig in at once
   And go right to it --
   If I cannot find
   Someone else to do it.
   -- Joshua Adams.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse Affiliate Charges Award
   Of Japan Airport Job Was `Preposterous'
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A20
</SO>
<CO>
   G.AEG WX JAPAN J.NGE J.SUT UTX
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The president of AEG Westinghouse Transportation
Systems Inc. said he will urge the U.S. Congress to retaliate
for Kansai International Airport Co.'s "preposterous
decision" to award a ground-transportation contract to a
Japanese company.
   AEG Westinghouse, based in Pittsburgh, is a joint venture
of Westinghouse Electric Corp., which has a 20% stake, and
AEG AG of West Germany, which has 80%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following a meeting at Kansai International headquarters
in Osaka, AEG Westinghouse President John R. Tucker said the
airport's effort to explain why it awarded the contract on
July 10 to the Japanese company only confirmed U.S.
suspicions of "irregularities" in the procurement process.
   Mr. Tucker said presentations at the meeting indicated
that important elements of the so-called people-mover system
proposed by Niigata Engineering Co. differ from the systems
Niigata has previously built. That, along with the fact that
Niigata has never installed an airport system, flies in the
face of previous assurances by Kansai International's
president that the airport would place a high priority on
proven equipment and proven reliability, Mr. Tucker charged.
   A spokesman for the airport and a Niigata executive
dismissed Mr. Tucker's allegations. They insisted that
Niigata won because its bid was competitive -- though not the
lowest of the 13 submitted -- and its proposed system well
suited to the airport's needs.
   People movers, also known as automated guideway transit
systems, are electric-powered, trainlike systems used to
shuttle passengers among airport terminals, between
mass-transit systems, and the like. Westinghouse has
installed 14 of the 18 airport systems in the world,
beginning with the Tampa, Fla., airport in 1970, according to
Mr. Tucker.
   Kansai International spokesman Nobuyuki Higuchi said
Niigata's bid was "in the same price range" as those of seven
other bidders, while AEG Westinghouse's was among the
highest. AEG Westinghouse and its three Japanese partners bid
just under eight billion yen (about $58 million), while
Niigata and its partner, Osaka-based Sumitomo Corp., bid
about five billion yen. A United Technologies Corp.
subsidiary that has won a people-mover contract for the next
phase of Tokyo's Narita International airport also was among
the unsuccessful bidders.
   Shinichi Ohno, head of Niigata's transportation-systems
business division, acknowledged that the number of car doors
and certain other features of the Kansai International system
differ from those Niigata has built to shuttle rail commuters
in Osaka and Yokohama. But he said the basic elements of the
Kansai International system closely resemble those in the
fully automated system the company has had in Osaka for 10
years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Tax Preparer
   Is Sentenced to Prison
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
                                                                                                       

</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- A federal judge here sentenced a former tax
preparer to two years in prison for failing to report more
than $230,000 of his income.
   Judge Suzanne B. Conlon also sentenced 34-year-old Kenneth
H. Stenzel to five years on probation and ordered him not to
work in any fiduciary capacity during that time. Mr. Stenzel
had pleaded guilty to the tax charges as part of a plea
agreement with federal prosecutors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Stenzel, who operated a tax-preparation service known
as Kenneth G. Stenzel &amp; Associates in Addison, Ill., failed
to file income-tax returns reporting the income from his
business for 1983 through 1985.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Goldman May End
   Explosive Growth
   Of Partnerships
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The era of explosive growth in the number of
Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. partners may soon be over.
   A Goldman partnership is one of Wall Street's most
prestigious positions, and the ranks of Goldman's partners
have nearly doubled in the past six years, to 128. But nearly
10% of Goldman's partners have chosen early retirement during
the past few weeks. And that could pave the way for Goldman
to name younger partners without further swelling the firm's
ranks, some specialists say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The economics of the {securities} business are not what
they were," and Goldman doesn't "really want to dilute its
partnership income base that much," says Roy C. Smith, a
Goldman limited partner and professor of finance at New York
University Graduate School of Finance. Meanwhile, Goldman has
many qualified candidates for partnership this year, Mr.
Smith says, and it "has a great commitment to bringing its
people along."
   Officials at Goldman Sachs, the last of Wall Street's big
private investment banks, declined to comment until the
partnership selection process is completed early next month.
   New Goldman partnerships are granted every two years;
partners, in addition to receiving salaries and bonuses,
share in the ownership of Goldman and its profits.
   This year the competition inside Goldman is particularly
intense. That is because Goldman can't easily continue to
swell its partnership ranks; it had just 73 partners six
years ago. But the firm must appoint enough new partners to
avoid discouraging employees who aspire to a partnership in
what is likely to be a near-record year for the investment
bank.
   But nearly a dozen recent partnership retirements are
helping thin Goldman's ranks. The retirements, disclosed in
Investment Dealers' Digest, a trade publication, include
several high-profile partners, in addition to the previously
announced departure of John L. Weinberg, who retires as
senior partner and chairman Nov. 30.
   They include: Michael Armellino, director of research;
Eugene Atkinson, former head of Goldman's Tokyo office;
Robert Downey, head of municipal finance; Donald Gant, a
partner in the investment-banking department; Joel
Kirschbaum, partner in the capital markets group; Todd
Morgan, a partner in charge of New York individual and
institutional sales; John Oros and Peter Sachs, partners in
the mergers and acquisitions area and Dennis Suskind, head of
the metals desk at Goldman's J. Aron &amp; Co. unit. Senior
Goldman officials say at least two other partners will likely
step down in the next few weeks.
   There is no set quota for the number of new partners,
Goldman officials say. Current partners submit letters of
recommendation for potential candidates, and Goldman's
management committee winnows down the list, before giving the
final nod.
   Although the number of new partnerships is far from
certain, one thing is clear: Goldman is likely to increase
its number of women partners. The firm has only one, and it
has faced scrutiny of its treatment and promotion of women
employees following a highly publicized sexual harrassment
allegation against a former top Goldman partner.
   In a recent interview, Robert E. Rubin, Goldman's newly
named co-chairman, said that the firm "has a large number of
very attractive candidates" for partners, including women.
Mr. Rubin declined to comment yesterday.
   The big increase in the number of Goldman partners in
recent years means that the position doesn't hold quite as
much stature as it once did, some analysts say.
   "It's not as prestigious as it was 10 or 15 years ago,
when they didn't have more than 60 partners," says Perrin
Long, senior securities analyst at Lipper Analytical
Securities Corp. "But it remains one of the most coveted
positions within the securities business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Monday's Markets:
   Oil Price Jump
   Again Hurts
   Dollar, Bonds
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Soaring oil prices prolonged the dollar's
slide and depressed bonds again, but blue-chip stocks managed
to wiggle a little higher.
   The October crude-oil futures contract jumped $1.87 to
$33.63 a barrel, the highest close since these futures
started trading in 1983. The dollar plunged in late New York
trading to 1.5480 marks from 1.5710, and eased to 136.55 yen
from 136.95 Friday. Traders said yen were being sold to buy
marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average edged up 3.22 points in
quiet trading to 2567.33. However, declining issues
outnumbered advancers, 768 to 681, on the New York Stock
Exchange. Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices eased, also in
very light activity, in response to oil's advance.
   Traders bought currencies of countries that export oil and
have high interest rates. "The investment currencies are back
in vogue," said Robert White, manager of corporate
foreign-exchange trading at First Interstate Bank in Los
Angeles, referring to the British pound and the Canadian and
Australian dollars. Interest rates are higher in all three
countries, which also are oil exporters.
   Mr. White said he was surprised that the dollar drew no
strength from news-service headlines early in the day that
the U.S. State Department viewed Iraq's conduct in Kuwait as
ominous. "The currency market is determined to take the
(U.S.) dollar down," he said.
   Sal Gilbertie, oil futures trader at Merrill Lynch, said
oil rose because the likelihood of Mideast war seemed to be
reinforced by the Iraqi embassy violations and subsequent
saber rattling. In the oil futures market, "traders are
chanting, `$39 (a barrel) before $29,'" he said.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose. Big Board volume was 110.6 million
shares.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell 3/8 of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000
of face amount. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond rose to 9.06%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United Parcel Service
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   X.UPS
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREENWICH, Conn. -- United Parcel Service of America Inc.
said it established a subsidiary, UPS Properties Inc.,
responsible for developing, selling or leasing of UPS-owned
industrial real estate.
   Through its subsidiary, the world's largest
package-delivery company owns 76 parcels of industrial land
in 23 states.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texscan Unit Gets Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP TXCN
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   EL PASO, Texas -- Texscan Corp. said its Op-Tech division
was awarded two contracts, totaling $2.3 million, to supply
fiber optic systems to the United Kingdom Department of
Transport. The Op-Tech division had revenue of $4 million in
the fiscal year ended April 30, Texscan said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Magnetek Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS MAG
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   MAGNETEK Inc. (Los Angeles) -- Frank Perna Jr.,
52-year-old president, was elected to the additional position
of chief executive officer, a newly created post of this
electrical equipment maker. Andrew G. Galef, 57, continues as
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publishing:
   Harvard Business Review Gets Sportier
   ----
   By Jolie Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Harvard Business Review has always wanted to be the
one academic journal on the manager's desk. Now it wants to
see more of those managers curl up with the review and read
it.
   The bimonthly publication, the nation's
largest-circulation academic business review, is becoming
"more magaziney," its editors say. Known by its bland "table
of contents" covers, the magazine is sporting a new look in
its issue now in the mail.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Breaking tradition, it has an illustration on its cover, a
colorful, two-page table of contents, and even a quiz
assessing executive overconfidence that just might be
described as "self-help."
   Gingerly, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, editor since December, is
pushing to make the 68-year-old publication more attractive
to a managerial generation that has neither the time nor
inclination to wade through a more ponderous journal.
   The review's subscription pool, which has remained at
about 205,000 for several years, is already 94% managerial
and professional. But she wants the prestigious but stodgy
review to be more of a conversation piece with those managers
-- and with decision makers in Washington.
   Already, she says, "fewer and fewer are being sold just
for coffee table display." But as an academic and a
consultant, Ms. Kanter knows how hard it is for management
wisdom to penetrate into practice. She wants the magazine to
be "used. We want to arouse, provoke."
   The review won't discuss profits or advertising, but
Martin S. Walker, president of Periodical Studies Service,
New York-based magazine consultants, says that a more popular
format would help raise circulation and attract media buyers
"who are not necessarily readers." The review's advertisers
currently range from Alfa Romeo cars to German banks.
   The push to make the review more reader-friendly began in
the mid-1980s under Theodore Levitt. But when he left the
journal in December, he said that he had worked at making it
"more accessible . . . without being alluring. It can never
be alluring without losing its authority."
   But Ms. Kanter apparently thinks the review can have both
allure and authority. While stressing this is simply an
evolution from Mr. Levitt's approach, she adds that her team
was concerned that "readers may not see . . . the richer,
livelier array" Mr. Levitt helped to create.
   In one Levitt issue, a note told readers, "if HBR had the
kind of cover you see on other business publications, this
issue would feature an illustration. . . ."
   Now, though HBR still doesn't look like Fortune or Forbes,
the first thing that readers will notice on the cover of the
current issue is a small drawing of Uncle Sam characters
passing money. Even the typeface on the traditional white
cover is printed more boldly in red, white and blue. Ms.
Kanter's team had considered an all-art cover, but she says
focus groups with subscribers indicated they liked the cover
listings. That design, she says, helps HBR to "stand out"
from other magazines.
   Inside, a full table of contents -- new to the review --
features illustrations and pictorial icons that highlight
articles. Ms. Kanter notes that today's managers in corporate
meetings are treated to graphic overheads to make a point.
HBR has to grab the attention of people overloaded with
information, she says.
   And the review also is launching a number of regular
monthly features in an attempt to vary the "classic" format
of academic essays, Ms. Kanter says. Emblematic is First
Person, an account from the management trenches that
necessarily uses the voice of the manager, not the professor.
Although Prof. Kanter would never use the phrase "how-to,"
the idea, she says, is to make management theories "live" for
the working manager.
   Another department, In Question, replaces "For the
Manager's Bookshelf." An essay discusses a given topic by
looking not only at books, but at any other media that tackle
the issue, from videos to conferences. "We know readers are
getting {information} from other sources than print," says
Ms. Kanter. This month's In Question focuses on the role of
big shareholders.
   The Gray Area, a lighter-side section now several years
old, this time includes the "Overconfidence Quiz," which
warns managers that "overconfidence is fairly easy to spot,
except in yourself." The irreverent tone also shows in the
title of one feature, "A Visit From Dr. `No,'" the review's
own nickname for Shintaro Ishihara, the Japanese politician
and critic whose book, "A Japan That Can Say No," heavily
criticizes the U.S. and lobbies for more aggressive Japanese
trade and foreign policy.
   The lead piece in the issue is "Political Advantage:
Japan's Campaign for America," a distillation of a
forthcoming book by Pat Choate, a well-known critic of Japan
and former policy chief for TRW Inc. In the article, Mr.
Choate argues Japan's powerful lobby is distorting U.S.
policy.
   At the behest of Mr. Choate, says managing editor Nan
Stone, the issue is being mailed to every member of Congress.
The review also printed extra copies of the issue,
instructing staff members that if someone calls for a copy of
the piece, they should be sent an entire issue.
   Mr. Choate's piece already scored a prominent mention for
HBR in the Washington Post, where New Republic columnist
Michael Kinsley energetically panned the article earlier this
month.
   "We want to be agenda-setting," says Ms. Kanter. Mr.
Walker, the consultant, says HBR already has influence beyond
its circulation size. It's seen as competing with magazines
such as Foreign Affairs, Atlantic and the New Republic for
the attention of business and government leaders. The Review
also created a mainstream splash last year with the article
that launched the "Mommy Track" debate.
   Ms. Kanter is used to walking the line between scholarly
work and a more popular approach. Her books, such as "When
Giants Learn to Dance," are read well beyond academia, and
she puts up with what she calls "pot shots" from academics
who challenge her seriousness.
   But she says she's comfortable straddling that fence.
"What some of my friends in academia call `popularization,'"
she says, "I call technology transfer."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   NCR Expected
   To Announce
   Line's Redesign
   ---
   Product Changes to Reflect
   Sweeping Commitment
   To Intel Corp.'s Chips
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NCR INTC MOT
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NCR Corp. is expected today to announce a sweeping
redesign of its product line based on Intel Corp.'s
microprocessors and standard software.
   NCR is the first major computer maker to make an
across-the-board commitment to Intel's chips, which are far
less costly than the custom processors used in midsized and
large computers by International Business Machines Corp.,
Digital Equipment Corp. and other companies.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   NCR historically has had a strong presence in retail and
banking niches but has been weak in the general-purpose
computer market. The new line is aimed at this broader
market, and eventually will span laptop to mainframe-class
systems, executives say. Charles E. Exley, chairman and chief
executive officer, calls the announcement "the most
significant product introduction in NCR's 106-year history."
   The move also means more bad news for Motorola Inc.'s
struggling chip business. Motorola, which also supplies Apple
Computer Inc., has been making processors for NCR's Tower
computer line since 1983.
   Computer consultants generally applauded NCR's strategy.
Portia Isaacson, of BIS CAP International, a Nynex Corp.
market-research unit, went so far as to call it "the most
significant computer announcement since the IBM PC" because
it shows even old-line companies are moving to standardize on
Intel. She believes the PC chip and successors will own the
industry by the end of the decade.
   But Tom Willmott, a consultant with Boston-based Aberdeen
Group, questioned how soon sophisticated software would be
available that will allow NCR to mount an effective challenge
to IBM and Digital's mid-range and large systems. While he
said pricing and performance of the line was "impressive," he
added, "price and design aren't the issue with big customers
-- software is what sells computers."
   NCR is expected to outline future products from small
terminals that can recognize handwriting to large mainframes
using hundreds of Intel chips operating in parallel -- the
fruit of a joint venture announced earlier this year with
Teradata Corp., Los Angeles. Among the products ready now are
network servers that compete with IBM's AS/400 minicomputer,
Digital's MicroVAX and Compaq Computer Corp.'s SystemPro. A
multiprocessor system, using two to four PC chips working in
tandem, will be shipped by the 1991 second quarter, NCR said.
   Analysts say one of the biggest challenges NCR will face
is selling through relatively weak distribution channels.
Direct sales are expensive, and NCR's only big retail outlet
is Businessland Inc.
   Indeed, the first market for the new System 3000 line is
likely to be NCR's current customers, which have been loyal
buyers of retail and banking terminals but usually turn to
others for large systems. Thomas A. Mays, senior vice
president, says the 3000 line "will greatly expand the
markets we address and spur new revenue growth."
   That should cheer investors. NCR's revenue hit a plateau
at $6 billion in 1988 and hasn't moved much since then. Its
shares closed yesterday at $58, down $1.50, in consolidated
New York Stock Exchange trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   No Strings: Summer With the Drum and Bugle Corps
   ----
   By Roxane Orgill
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A28
</SO>
<LP>
   Buffalo, N.Y. -- The 70 young men and women dressed in
shorts and sneakers, all tan as caramel, look like kids on
vacation, except that they're holding bugles and standing in
a semicircle on a school field. "Ten-hut," comes the command.
They stand ramrod straight and raise the bugles to their
chests. "Dress-center-dress." They move ever so slightly to
make a perfect arc in the grass.
   It's not the Army, but it's close. It's drum and bugle
corps, a passion that consumes tens of thousands of Americans
but is little known to anyone outside the world of marching
bands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But drum corps is not a marching band, as corps members
are quick to point out. A drum corps marches in a football
stadium, but not at halftime. Drum corps put on their own
shows, and perform only on silver bugles and assorted
percussion instruments. The music is more likely to be by
Duke Ellington or Camille Saint-Saens than John Philip Sousa,
and is specially scored in 11 1/2-minute arrangements.
Instead of a baton twirler, there's a whole team called a
color guard that spins huge colored flags and does grand
jetes across the AstroTurf. Drum corps has its roots in
marching band, but is more difficult, more demanding, and
infinitely more spectacular to watch.
   A T-shirt sold at the World Championships at Rich Stadium
here this summer took up the issue. "Why drum corps is better
than marching band," the shirt announced, and listed the
reasons, including "SPANDEX]" Spandex is used in the
tight-fitting uniforms of the color guard, usually young
women. Drum corps, in other words, is sexy and wild and fun.
   Or is it?
   Over on the playing field under the hot sun, the
rehearsing buglers of Star of Indiana, from Bloomington, play
no tunes. They blow silently in set rhythms, then play a
single "G" for a while, and eventually, work up to a
four-note scale -- over the course of 50 minutes. On the
track, 30 nubile women in bikini tops and short shorts twirl
purple-and-yellow banners as if they were no heavier than
dime-store pinwheels. Their male instructor chews them out.
"Laurie] Too parallel]" "Tara] You're slicing down to the
right]"
   It's one day before the world championships, and 20
bare-chested male drummers are repeating a single drill over
and over. They send out drumbeats like rifle shots and
scamper across the grass like Olympic crabs, forward,
backward and sideways.
   "If we don't play something right, we go over and over it
until it's right. Even if it's one note," says Shari
Spradling, a mellophone player. "They tell us to picture
something as perfect and then try to achieve it."
   Achieving perfection isn't easy. The top corps practice 10
hours a day, six and seven days a week all summer, on one 11
1/2-minute piece.
   Corps members, ages 14 to 21, pay $200 to $1,000 to spend
most of their summer vacation on the road, traveling to shows
sponsored by the competition, sleeping in buses and on gym
floors (girls on one side, boys on the other, couples head to
head along the invisible but definite dividing line). Star of
Indiana, like most of the top corps, has its own buses, a
semitrailer outfitted as a kitchen, and another semi to haul
equipment. Dining is alfresco around the school parking lot.
"I get homesick for normal life sometimes, like not to sit on
a street curb," admits the otherwise enthusiastic Ms.
Spradling, age 21.
   Drum corps, says Star of Indiana executive director Bob
Lendman, "is a combination army, circus and gypsy caravan."
It's also habit-forming; most of the teachers, drill
designers and support staff, both professional and volunteer,
have been spending their summers in drum corps since they
were teenagers.
   "It's a ridiculous activity," says Glen Crosby, percussion
instructor for the Santa Clara (Calif.) Vanguard. "Even a
professional sports team doesn't work this hard. Once you get
everything right -- the music and the drills -- you still
have the attitudes of the music you have to get across --
while people are running around the field."
   The tenor drummers, for instance, each carry five drums on
a harness and must learn to play perfectly in sync with the
others in their section while blocking out all other sounds,
because of the distortion caused by distance. Because
everybody's always on the move, the drummers have to watch
the conductor's beat and decide whether to come in on time,
early or late, depending on how far they are from the
conductor at a given moment. Meanwhile, they're moving at
tempos of as much as 200 beats per minute and trying to
convey the charged emotions of a gypsy girl, a guileless
toreador and a lovesick soldier. Santa Clara Vanguard's
musical selection was Bizet's "Carmen," which earned the
troupe sixth prize this year (in 1989 it came in first with
Andrew Lloyd Webber's "Phantom of the Opera").
   The corps are judged on execution of the music and drills
as well as the quality of the show, musically and visually.
Three of the nine judges move around the field to get a
close-up view; the rest are up in the press box, where, as
every corps knows, the sound from 60-plus buglers aiming
point-blank and blowing with gale force tends to quicken a
listener's heartbeat and send a few shivers on a hot August
night.
   This wall of sound is particularly impressive when the
marchers break from the amoebalike shapes, the ellipses,
figure eights, wedges and squares that they've been drawing
on the field, and form a single horizontal line called a
company front. As the front moves forward, the crowd
invariably cheers. It's a thrilling, momentary union of sight
and sound.
   The company front is one of the few remaining military
traditions in an activity that began when World War I
veterans formed drum and bugle corps to perform in parades
and keep patriotism alive. The VFW, American Legion posts and
Catholic churches were the first sponsors, but by the '60s,
corps had become so active and expensive that, with patriotic
and church fervor on the wane, the sponsors pulled out. Many
corps disbanded, but hundreds kept themselves afloat with
all-out community fund drives. With the formation of Drum
Corps International, a nonprofit service organization, in
1971, the activity became more sophisticated and
standardized, but not necessarily more stable. While Santa
Clara Vanguard generates more than $1 million through its own
bingo hall, and Star of Indiana enjoys the sponsorship of
Cook Group Cos., the other corps still scramble to make the
minimum $200,000 to $300,000 necessary to put one of these
shows on the road.
   There are 450 or so corps in North America, of which 185
compete. Each corps tends to develop a personality. The
Velvet Knights from Anaheim are irreverent and very
California: They like to abandon the drill and run like
maniacs around the field, and twirl lawn chairs instead of
flags. The Cadets of Bergen County (N.J.), who took first
place this year with an all-Bernstein program, are known for
their superior marching abilities. The second-place Cavaliers
of Rosemont, Ill., are all-male and crisply regimental. The
Blue Coats from Canton, Ohio, always play jazz; the Phantom
Regiment from Rockford and Loves Park, Ill., prefers
classical music.
   This year Phantom put together a show of assorted
Saint-Saens, proving that there is truly nothing like the
sound of 96 musicians on soprano, mellophone, baritone,
euphonium and contrabass bugles, tenor and bass drums,
cymbals, timpani, xylophones, marimbas, bells and various
other percussion instruments delivering the Organ Symphony --
accompanied by shouts of "Kick it]" and "Dawg]"
   ---
   Ms. Orgill is the music critic of the Record in Bergen
County, N.J.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   Magazines Find Noble Causes Let
   Them Help Others, Themselves
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS MDP CL WNEWS AXP F.CLU FCB PEP OMC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
CONSUMER AND HOUSEHOLD PRODUCTS (HPR)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Magazine publishers are finding that noble causes may be
the best new way to help themselves as they help others.
   On the charity ball circuit, there's a new catchword:
"cause marketing." In a difficult advertising environment,
with many traditional forms of promotion exhausted,
publishers are adopting causes ranging from AIDS to
homelessness and breast cancer as their favorite charities.
And they are turning well-publicized fund-raising events into
opportunities to grab the attention of highly valued readers
and advertisers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conde Nast Publications Inc.'s Vanity Fair raised quick
cash for Phoenix House's drug rehab center. News Corp.'s
Mirabella is giving a portion of its advertising revenue to
four different charities. Meredith Corp.'s Metropolitan Home
will hold its second major shindig next spring to fight AIDS.
And Hearst Corp.'s Town &amp; Country is raising money for
cosmetic makeovers for cancer patients.
   Magazine publishers concede their motivations are mixed.
They insist their first priority is the cause, and in the
do-good environment of the 1990s, the causes often do reflect
the personal convictions and concerns of editors and
publishers. In the case of many fashion magazines, for
example, AIDS has proven a devastating scourge, taking the
lives of several well-known designers.
   For example, a major beneficiary of such publishers is the
Design Industries Foundation for AIDS. George Slowick, the
foundation's chairman, acknowledges that magazines are using
funds they might otherwise spend on different forms of
promotion, but that's OK with him. "Let's face it, we are
taking money out of marketing budgets," says Mr. Slowick, who
is also publisher of the book publishing trade magazine
Publishers Weekly. "We have to create win-win situations.
Magazines need something in return. The best situations are
when we both come out well: Magazines get publicity, and we
get dollars."
   No one denies that the good works could well translate
into good business down the road -- and publishers don't
hesitate to get their own advertisers involved. Mirabella
told advertisers that for every ad page in its anniversary
issue, $1,000 would go to one of four charities, including
the AIDS foundation and a literacy group. Mirabella raised
$82,000 and plans to do it again each year. "It's very
unattractive not to give back, and we want to be attractive,"
says Julie Lewit-Nirenberg, publisher of Mirabella. "There is
a promotional value, no question. But promotion should be an
extra benefit, not the prime mover."
   In November, Vogue will join with the Council of Fashion
Designers of America to put on "Seventh on Sale," with the
aim of raising $1 million for the New York City AIDS Fund.
Vogue will underwrite all the costs of the three-day event in
New York, including a celebrity dinner in Manhattan thrown by
Vogue editor Anna Wintour. Many of the famous designers who
depend on the magazine's coverage will donate their creations
for sale.
   Ms. Wintour says she offered help to design council
president Carolyne Roehm, the fashion designer, out of
personal concern over the ravages of AIDS in the fashion
industry. Vogue is not offering an advertiser tie-in and has
no plans to run photos of the star-studded bash. But the
magazine is strongly promoting the event -- and the cause --
to its readers. In the September issue, Vogue had a
three-page spread on "Seventh on Sale," including information
on how to buy tickets or make a tax-deductible contribution.
The magazine also plans a series of articles on the AIDS
crisis.
   "Fund-raising is something we shouldn't be known for,"
said Ms. Wintour, who is involved in several charities. "But
the reason is the time. AIDS is not going away, and there are
so many places the money can be channeled."
   Vanity Fair raised almost $500,000 for Phoenix House last
March with a party in Los Angeles, and later ran four color
pages on it in its June issue. The drug rehabilitation
program is a favorite cause of Vanity Fair editor Tina Brown,
who also ran a story critical of former First Lady Nancy
Reagan for pulling her support from a Phoenix House project.
   Other publishers are finding ways to subtly pressure
advertisers to donate to both their causes and their
magazines. Town &amp; Country notified advertisers it would
donate 55% of beauty ad revenue from a special section in the
magazine's October issue to "Look Good . . . Feel Better," a
group that helps female cancer patients.
   The wave of magazine good will can be traced back to the
fall of 1988, when Metropolitan Home magazine threw a benefit
at Manhattan's 27th Street Armory for the design industry
AIDS foundation that netted $800,000. Advertisers got
directly involved when Met Home later produced a special
"showhouse," giving 5% of the issue's net ad revenue, or
about $100,000, to the foundation. The magazine sold
sponsorships of the showhouse to several key advertisers,
including General Electric, Kohler and Lenox China.
   Maybe the most elaborate, though unsexy, charity promotion
involves Meredith's Better Homes &amp; Gardens and Sara Lee
Corp.'s Hanes hosiery and underwear. Buyers of Hanes and
Hanes Her Way products can send their $15 rebate directly to
the three-year-old Better Homes Foundation, which funnels
money to homeless families in 50 communities in 26 states.
Hanes is guaranteeing a minimum of $200,000. International
Business Machines Corp. and McDonald's Corp. have also given
to the magazine's foundation.
   "You can question people's motivation, but our impulse is
that we have a communication power," says David Jordan,
Better Homes' editor-in-chief. "It's people with families
helping people without homes. We want it to go on forever."
   ---
   Change at Colgate
                                                                                                       

   Clay Timon, vice president of worldwide advertising at
Colgate-Palmolive Co., has left the New York-based company
because of differences with top management over the company's
advertising strategy, according to company insiders.
   Since Mr. Timon, 46 years old, arrived at Colgate in 1985,
he has been responsible for building the company's
relationship with its two world-wide advertising agencies,
Young &amp; Rubicam and FCB/Leber Katz Partners. "There was a
specific job to be done, and the sense around here is that it
was done," Mr. Timon said.
   But Mr. Timon's inclination to use image-oriented
advertising for the company's personal care and household
products clashed with the product-oriented approach favored
by William Shanahan, Colgate's senior executive vice
president and chief operating officer, company insiders said.
   Mr. Timon's position will be eliminated, with
responsibility for the company's advertising likely to be
left to several managers around the world. The company has
also reassigned Ariel Allen, vice president of creative
services at Colgate U.S., although her new position has not
been announced. The moves were first reported yesterday in
advertising trade publications.
   Sources close to the account also said that they believed
Mr. Timon's departure could signal an era of increased
competition between Colgate's two world-wide agencies, and
that the company may begin entertaining pitches from other
agencies for special projects.
   A Colgate spokeman called that scenario "just plain
wrong." The spokesman added, "Advertising will be managed at
a very senior level because of the importance we place on
creative excellence and maintaining excellent partnerships
with our two global agencies."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AGREEMENT: American Express Co. and France's Club
Mediterranee S.A. are close to signing a marketing agreement
likely to include joint promotions designed to sell Club Med
vacations through American Express travel offices world-wide.
Analysts said the move was a logical one for Club Med, which
has been trying to expand its distribution in Asia and
attract conventions to its vacation villages during the
off-season. The promotions are also likely to offer
vacationers incentives to pay for their Club Med stay with an
Amex card. Neither company would comment on the specifics of
the agreement, which is expected to be announced within days.
                                                                                                       

   TACO BELL: Greater Los Angeles Taco Bell Advertising
Association awarded its $10 million account to Foote, Cone &amp;
Belding, San Francisco. The account had previously been
handled by Tracy-Locke, Los Angeles, a unit of Omnicom Group.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Bruce Lee Albert was named chief operating
officer at Lord Einstein O'Neill &amp; Partners, New York . . .
Medicus Intercon, a New York-based unit of D'Arcy Masius
Benton &amp; Bowles, named John Hegquist executive vice president
and creative director.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bankers Are Worried by the Prospect
   Of More Defaults on Credit-Card Debt
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   T SBK MNC
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Problem loans come in all sizes for America's bankers.
Their latest worry is that hard economic times will lead to
increased defaults on credit-card debt.
   Bankers attending the American Bankers Association's Bank
Card Conference this week in New York said that higher
default rates already are showing up in New England. And even
though the card business is enormously profitable, they are
bracing for increasing defaults to slice into those margins
in coming months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Figures released yesterday by the American Bankers
Association show that bad consumer credit-card debt already
is on the rise. U.S. banks last year charged off $400 million
more of credit-card debt than in 1988, the ABA said. That
brought the total write-off to $3.7 billion, or 3% of the
total $121.6 billion outstanding credit card debt.
   In 1988, a year of more vigorous economic growth, credit
card charge-offs totaled $3.3 billion, or 2.8% of the total.
   Bankers are expecting it to get worse. "In a deteriorating
economy we can expect to see a 10% to 15% increase in
charge-offs," says James Bailey, group executive of U.S.
credit-card operations at Citicorp, the nation's largest
issuer of credit cards.
   At the same time, though, the bankers are in a fighting
mood because of American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s push
into their business.
   "Banks are caught in a squeeze play," says Spencer Nilson,
editor of a credit-card newsletter, "They're trapped between
deteriorating economic conditions and horrible competitive
pressures from AT&amp;T."
   The program for the three-day conference highlights the
conflict. Following one of the opening sessions yesterday,
entitled "Our Changing Competition," were others such as
"Bankruptcy Risk Control" and "Cardholder Fraud Risk
Control."
   To minimize the increased risks, bankers say they are
turning down more applicants for new credit cards, granting
smaller credit lines to those they accept, and keeping a
closer watch on consumer spending habits.
   "We're looking at our credit policy more carefully in New
England, no question," says George Fesus, executive vice
president of State Street Bank &amp; Trust Co. in Boston.
   Yet at the same time competitive pressures are leading
many other banks to charge ahead with aggressive efforts to
get their plastic into more wallets. Signet Bank is just one
credit-card issuer that is offering college students with no
credit history a charge card with a $2,000 credit limit. MNC
Financial Corp. tells analysts it plans to double to $13
billion the outstanding consumer charges on MNC-issued credit
cards in the next three years.
   Bankers are competing fiercely because of AT&amp;T's new, no
fee credit cards, an estimated five million of which are
expected to be in consumers' hands by year-end. AT&amp;T began
its promotions in the spring.
   Other analysts, however, contend that while charge-offs
might rise in coming months, credit card portfolios will
remain among the most profitable products bankers can offer.
   "I think banks are intellectually ready to see charge-offs
go up," says James McCormick, president of First Manhattan
Consulting Group. "But the business is so massively
profitable that they can afford to sit back and make 35%
returns on equity for a few years instead of 40%." Most banks
are happy to earn a 15% return on equity in their overall
business.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Colonial Realty Liquidation
   Is Sought by Group of Banks
   ---
   Move in Bankruptcy Court
   Involves Firm That Sold
   $1 Billion in Partnerships
   ----
   By Gary Putka and Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ADV NEB PBCT BKB BANQ
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Six banks are seeking an involuntary bankruptcy-court
liquidation of Colonial Realty Co., a closely held marketer
of more than $1 billion in real estate partnerships.
   Bankers said that Colonial, of West Hartford, Conn., is
being squeezed by the slumping real estate market and its
inability to obtain tenants on some of the properties owned
by the partnerships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company's financial distress raises the prospect of
investment losses to the many individual investors in its
partnerships. It also poses risks to other creditors,
including banks that financed the partnerships and lent money
to Colonial and the individual partners.
   Fuhrman Nettles, an analyst who follows limited
partnerships for Robert A. Stanger &amp; Co., in Shrewsbury,
N.J., said Stanger's hot line has been flooded by calls from
worried Colonial investors. Yesterday, Advest Group Inc. said
it had taken over management, with Colonial's consent, of two
troubled partnerships that Colonial marketed through Advest
in 1988 and 1989. The partnerships together had a value of
$17.5 million when they were issued.
   The six banks, including a unit of Bank of New England
Corp. and People's Bank of Bridgeport, Friday filed
involuntary bankruptcy petitions against Colonial, under
Chapter Seven of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The banks, which
acted in federal bankruptcy court in Hartford, also served
bankruptcy petitions against Jon Googel and Ben Sisti, two
founders and partners of Colonial, and against Frank Schuch,
another partner.
   Colonial, in a written statement, called the action a
"precipitous move" that "reflects the insecurity of some
lenders" during the real estate downturn. "While disappointed
in the way in which the banks have responded to Colonial's
attempt to restructure its financing, Colonial is optimistic
that a strategic plan will be developed that will result in
the viable continuity" of Colonial.
   Colonial's troubles follow several spectacular falls of
other real estate syndicators -- including VMS Realty
Partners, Integrated Resources Inc. and Southmark Corp. With
partnerships sold in units of between $25,000 and $250,000,
bankers estimated, Colonial has several thousand investors.
   Until recently, Colonial has been regarded as one of the
most successful partnership marketers. Its offerings included
pledges to the individual limited partners that Colonial, as
general partner, would guarantee minimum rates of return and
protect them against properties' operating losses.
   "They did a lot of cold-calling, a lot of hard sell," said
Larry Kay, an analyst at Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. "They were a
very aggressive outfit."
   Colonial partnerships' holdings include a number of office
buildings and apartment houses, concentrated mainly in
Connecticut but spread over 18 states. Among their properties
are One Financial Plaza and Constitution Plaza, in Hartford,
and the JFK Plaza Hotel, at New York's John F. Kennedy
International Airport. Colonial also holds, through a
non-syndicated partnership, a substantial stake in the
Hartford Whalers National Hockey League team.
   Signs of trouble began to emerge in July, bankers said,
when Colonial sent letters to many of its limited partners
informing them that distributions would no longer be made
quarterly, but annually. More recently, the banks and
Colonial entered debt renegotiations. After little headway
was made in these talks, some Connecticut banks moved to
attach the assets of Colonial and some of its partners,
several bankers said. The identity of those banks couldn't be
learned immediately.
   But the precipitating event, the bankers said, was a move
last week by Mr. Sisti and his family to purchase houses
totaling about $5 million in Florida. Because he is a partner
in Colonial, Mr. Sisti can be held personally liable for
Colonial debts. Florida law protects personal residences
against seizure in bankruptcy-law actions.
   Mr. Sisti, through his attorney, declined to comment on
the banks' assertion about Florida purchases.
   "We felt there was a danger of assets being dissipated,"
said Richard Lublin, an attorney for Mechanics Savings Bank,
Hartford, one of the filing banks. "We hope we can work this
out, and we don't want to . . . hurt the real estate
community. Our action freezes any major move and gives us an
opportunity to see what's going on."
   Mr. Lublin said Colonial was behind in payments on $1.2
million owed to Mechanics Savings. The total in debts claimed
by the banks was $42 million, with the biggest portion, $25.6
million, owed to the Bank of New England unit. The other
banks included a Bank of Boston Corp. unit in Connecticut;
Connecticut Savings Bank, New Haven; and a unit of Burritt
Interfinancial Bancorp., New Britain, Conn.
   Mr. Lublin said that Colonial's bank obligations were
substantially greater than the $42 million, but that other
banks that participated in the loan talks elected not to move
against the company now.
   Bank of New England stock closed yesterday at $1.75 a
share, unchanged, in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Redemption Notices
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP HP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following is a listing of securities called for
partial or complete redemption during the week ended Sept.
14, 1990. The notices are taken from advertisements appearing
in editions of The Wall Street Journal, and are not meant to
be definitive. Inquiries regarding specific issues should be
directed to the paying agent or, if none is listed, the
issuer.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPALS
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   BEAVER COUNTY, PA., INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will
call for redemption $50,000 principal amount of 8 3/8% series
B pollution control revenue bonds, Pennsylvania Power Co.
project, dated Nov. 1, 1974, on Nov. 1, 1990. Ameritrust Co.
Natl Association is trustee
   FINLAND will redeem $3,260,000 principal amount of 8 3/8%
external loan bonds dated Oct. 15, 1977, due Oct. 15, 1992,
on Oct. 15, 1990. Bankers Trust Co. is paying agent.
   MISSOURI HOUSING DEVELOPMENT COMMISION will on Oct. 15,
1990 call $1,200,000 principal amount of series April 15,
1982 qualified mortgage purchase notes due April 15,
1991-1997 and 2002, and $300,000 principal amount of series
April 15, 1980 mortgage purchase bonds due Oct. 15, 1991-1997
and 2011. Mercantile Bank of St. Louis is trustee.
   NIAGARA FRONTIER TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY will call
$85,000 principal amount of 1983 series A general obligation
bonds, Tonawanda turn-out project, on Nov. 1, 1990. Bank of
New York is trustee.
   OHIO AIR QUALITY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY will on Oct. 15,
1990 call for redemption its 10% and 10 1/8 1980 series B
pollution control revenue bonds, Ohio Edison Co. project, due
Aug. 1, 2000 and 2010 respectively. Ameritrust Co. Natl
Association is trustee
   PENNSYLVANIA will redeem on Oct. 15, 1990 $32,490,000
principal amount of its 1980 second series S and fifth series
D general obligation bonds due April 15, 1991-2000.
Philadelphia Natl Bank is paying agent.
   PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK &amp; NEW JERSEY will call $494,000
principal amount of its 3 1/4% twentieth series consolidated
bonds, due April 1, 1993, on Oct. 1, 1990. Mellon Securities
Transfer Services is paying agent.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK will on Oct. 15, 1990 redeem
$20,000,000 principal amount for 12 5/8% mandatory sinking
fund notes and $20,000,000 principal amount for 12 5/8%
optional sinking fund notes, dated Oct. 15, 1984, due Oct.
15, 1999. Chase Manhattan Bank is paying agent.
   HELMERICH &amp; PAYNE FINANCE, N.V. will call $34,044,000 of 7
1/2% subordinated debentures due 1995 on Oct. 12, 1990.
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. is trustee.
   KEYS HOSPITAL FOUNDATION, INC. will call for redemption
$2,530,000 of series 1980 first mortgage hospital revenue
bonds, Mariners Hospital project, on Oct. 15, 1990. Due dates
are June 1, 1991, 1992, 1999 and 2010. Barnett Banks Trust
Co., N.A. is trustee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Rating:
   Sears's Debt
   Is Downgraded
   By Rating Firm
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   S
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Moody's Investors Service Inc., saying a continuing
decline in consumer spending will "inhibit" Sears, Roebuck &amp;
Co.'s efforts to boost results at its merchandising group,
lowered its rating on about $6.9 billion in debt issued by
the Chicago concern.
   The rating company said it took the action because it
thinks "improvement within the intensely competitive
merchandising sector has not been nor will be achieved as
quickly as originally anticipated." Moody's also cited the
"increased use of leverage in Sears's businesses."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Moody's put Sears ratings under review last month.
   Yesterday, the New York company said "the continued
decline in consumer confidence in the economy and therefore,
in consumer spending, will inhibit Sears's merchandising
group's efforts to reverse the decline in its market share
and to increase profitability."
   The "slower-than-anticipated rollout of Sears's power
format strategies" -- under which the retail and financial
services giant has been adding brand-name products to its
lineup of house brands -- and the "challenge" of boosting
sales through the company's everyday-low-pricing policy are
"expected to continue to hamper gains in sales productivity."
   Moody's also said that Sears's "slow and incomplete
implementation of cost-cutting steps" has made "meaningful"
improvements in earnings and cash flow difficult to achieve,
and projected Sears will have continued difficulty in
narrowing its cost position in comparison to competitors.
   However, Moody's said, Sears has demonstrated that its
merchandising efforts can give it "merchandise selection and
presentation comparable to specialty stores." Should the
company complete the reformatting of a majority of its
stores, trim costs and streamline distribution, Sears "should
be able to capitalize on its national franchise and
significantly improve earnings performance," Moody's said.
   A Sears spokesman, citing company policy, declined to
comment on the move.
   Lowered to single-A-2 from single-A-1 were Moody's ratings
on senior debt of the parent, as well as its Sears Roebuck
Acceptance Corp., Sears Overseas Finance N.V. and Discover
Credit Corp. units.
   In addition, Moody's reduced to single-A-3 from single-A-2
ratings on long-term deposits at Sears's Greenwood Trust Co.
and Sears Savings Bank units.
   Also yesterday, Moody's downgraded its "insurance
financial strength rating" on Sears's Allstate Insurance Co.
and Allstate Life Insurance Co. to double-A-1 from triple-A.
While the insurance operation "enjoys a leadership position
in personal lines, strong capitalization and excellent asset
quality," Moody's said, its ratings were cut because of the
"increased risks to Allstate policyholders that could result
from credit deterioration at Sears."
   Moody's also placed under review the triple-A insurance
financial strength rating at Allstate's PMI Mortgage
Insurance subsidiary, because of the downgrade at PMI's
Allstate parent. The review will focus on the quality and
scope of additional contractual support from a third party,
which PMI officials have said they are seeking, Moody's said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Mills Inc.
   Profit Grew 13%
   In the 1st Quarter
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GIS
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MINNEAPOLIS -- General Mills Inc. reported record fiscal
first-quarter earnings and said it anticipates tripling
annual sales to $19.2 billion in the current decade, with
much of that gain coming overseas.
   In the quarter ended Aug. 26, General Mills earnings rose
13% to $129.5 million, or $1.58 a share, compared with $114.9
million, or $1.39 a share, a year earlier. The latest figures
include gains from discontinued operations equal to seven
cents a share, compared with gains of nine cents a share a
year earlier. Sales for the latest quarter rose 16% to $1.74
billion, compared with $1.5 billion previously.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We expect 1991 to be another year of record sales,
earnings and earnings per share," Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer H. Brewster Atwater Jr. told shareholders
at the annual meeting here.
   For the fiscal year ended last May 27, the packaged foods
and restaurant company reported sales of $6.4 billion and
earnings of $373.7 million.
   In projecting growth by the year 2000, Mr. Atwater said
the Olive Garden Italian restaurant chain alone is expected
to achieve sales "well over $2 billion, with growing
profitability." Currently, Olive Garden has about 10% of the
$4.5 billion Italian restaurant market, or about $450 million
in annual sales.
   The company gave no sales projection for its largest
restaurant chain, Red Lobster, but Mr. Atwater said the
seafood operation, along with Olive Garden, foresees "major
expansion opportunities" beyond North America. Red Lobster
already operates more than 40 units in Japan.
   As reported, General Mills anticipates $1 billion in
European sales of cereals by the century's end from its
recent joint venture with Nestle S.A., called Cereal Partners
Worldwide. Eventually, that venture is expected to enter
other international markets where General Mills now has no
presence.
   In the quarter just ended the company said its Big G
cereals division achieved a record 28% dollar sales share of
the U.S. ready-to-eat cereal market, narrowing Kellogg Co.'s
lead, which is estimated at about 38%. "We believe per-capita
{cereal} consumption will continue to increase steadily" to
35% of all breakfasts within 10 years, compared with about
30% today, Mr. Atwater said.
   Directors declared a 2-for-1 stock split yesterday, to be
distributed Nov. 7 to holders of record Oct. 10. General
Mills said future dividend payments will be consistent with
its approximate 50% earnings payout policy.
   Holders approved a plan whereby General Mills management
could receive stock options instead of salary merit
increases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Medicine:
   Kodak to Unveil Photo Compact Disks
   That Show Images on Television Screen
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   EK PHG
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastman Kodak Co. plans to unveil today an electronic
photography system that transfers film images onto compact
disks and displays those images on television screens.
   The system, expected to be commercially available in 1992,
is Kodak's boldest foray into so-called hybrid imaging, which
combines traditional silver halide photography with
electronic technology. The Rochester, N.Y., photo and
information-systems giant hopes these new products will pump
up conventional picture-taking activity at a time of stagnant
sales in film and paper, where Kodak makes most of its money.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Kodak says its photo CDs will be capable of holding up to
100 images. Photofinishers will be able to transfer 35-mm
negatives to these disks, at a cost to the consumer of about
$20 for 24 images. Kodak says the equipment needed to
transfer the negatives to disk will cost photofinishers about
$100,000 and will include a Kodak film scanner, which
converts each frame into digital information; a Sun
Microsystems Inc. computer workstation, which corrects for
color and density, and a disk writer that records the
information on a CD.
   To view the disks, consumers will need a photo-CD player,
jointly developed by Kodak and N.V. Philips of the
Netherlands. The player, which also will be able to play
standard audio CDs, will cost less than $500, Kodak says.
   Using a remote control unit, viewers will be able to zoom
and crop photos on their television screens. By digitizing
the negative in the photo-finishing process, the image can
also be corrected for exposure problems. Kodak says the
digitized images also can be used with personal computers,
and the company foresees wide commercial applications for the
disks in such areas as desktop publishing.
   But some industry observers question whether people really
want to look at photos on their television screen. They say
that the steady decline in sales of film for slides indicates
that many consumers prefer photos that they can physically
handle.
   Kodak, however, says its research indicates otherwise.
"People definitely want to watch pictures on TV," maintains
Stephen S. Stepnes, a manager in Kodak's consumer-imaging
division.
   Kodak isn't the first photo company to discover television
display. Five years ago Fuji Photo Film Co. introduced a
photosystems unit in which negatives are transferred onto
floppy disks and, using a special TV-photo player, displayed
on a television. The unit isn't available in the U.S.
   Consumers also can look at pictures on television screens
with video-still electronic cameras, but their high costs
have limited their popularity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Souter, Concluding Senate Testimony,
   Fights Off Attempts to Pin Him Down
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A32
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Supreme Court nominee David Souter,
concluding his testimony before the Senate Judiciary
Committee, parried continued efforts by senators to pin down
his views on the right to abortion and other issues.
   After 18 hours of testimony, it appeared that Judge Souter
is practically certain to be confirmed. The hearings are
scheduled to continue today, with witnesses testifying for
and against Judge Souter, who celebrated his 51st birthday
yesterday. But even as Senate aides were distributing lists
of scheduled witnesses yesterday afternoon, some liberal
groups, such as People for the American Way, were deciding
they wouldn't oppose the nomination.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the toughest questioning yesterday came from
conservative Republicans who seemed concerned that some of
Judge Souter's statements last week invited too broad a role
for the Supreme Court.
   Sen. Charles Grassley (R., Iowa) said he was "a little
troubled" by Judge Souter's suggestion that the courts must
sometimes fill the "vacuum" created by the failure of
Congress or the president to take action.
   But Judge Souter said he was referring to courts
exercising their existing authority, not expanding their
jurisdiction to fill vacuums. He said that in 1954, the
Supreme Court ordered school desegregation after Congress and
the states declined to do it. But he said the court acted
under its authority to implement the 14th Amendment guarantee
of "equal protection of the laws," not under some usurped
power.
   He repeatedly declined senators' invitations to criticize
a Supreme Court ruling last spring upholding the authority of
federal judges to order local officials to raise taxes to
fund school desegregation plans. He suggested that perhaps
the Supreme Court shouldn't have heard the case, which
involved school desegregation in Kansas City, Mo., but he
wouldn't find fault with the 5-4 ruling.
   Judge Souter said he doesn't agree with the view of
retired Justice William Brennan, whom he was nominated to
succeed, that the death penalty in all circumstances is
unconstitutional. He said the authors of the Bill of Rights
envisioned the existence of capital punishment.
   Reiterating his pledge to approach the right to abortion
with an open mind, he generally refused to discuss the 1973
Roe vs. Wade decision that recognized the right to abortion,
as well as varied questions about how to define legally when
human life begins. In the only specific response he gave on
the abortion issue, he said that if the 1973 decision were
overruled by the Supreme Court, state legislatures would pass
a variety of different abortion laws.
   In other aspects of his testimony, the former New
Hampshire Supreme Court justice, who is currently a federal
appeals court judge, said that based on his five years as a
state trial judge, he has "enormous respect" for the jury
system in criminal cases and civil damages cases.
   Although he didn't elaborate, his answer might mean that
he is skeptical of arguments that juries are approving
excessively large punitive-damage awards. The
constitutionality of punitive-damage awards is an issue to be
decided by the Supreme Court in its term that begins Oct. 1.
It is unclear, however, whether Judge Souter will be
confirmed by the Senate in time to vote in the case, which
will be argued Oct. 3.
   Judge Souter said he doesn't "set myself up as an expert
in antitrust matters." But he said he doesn't believe
antitrust enforcement should be eliminated for vertical
price-fixing cases in which manufacturers dictate retail
prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   CSX Corp. said the Virginia Retirement System proposed an
exchange of a portion of CSX's RF&amp;P Corp. dividend
obligations for the stock of an RF&amp;P subsidiary that holds
the RF&amp;P railroad. The Virginia Retirement System also
proposed that it purchase CSX's remaining RF&amp;P dividend
obligations and its RF&amp;P voting shares at $35 a share. In
yesterday's edition, terms of the transaction were misstated.
   (See: "Business Brief -- CSX Corp.: Purchase of Rail
Operations of RF&amp;P Corp. Is Closer" -- WSJ Sept. 17, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   PRIME MOTOR INNS Inc. said bank lenders were considering
extending the maturity date of existing loans and allowing
the company to retain a part of proceeds from asset sales.
Yesterday's edition incorrectly said lenders had agreed to
the extension and to the sharing of proceeds.
   (See: "Prime Motors Inns, Rebuffed by Lenders, Says It May
Seek Chapter 11 Protection" -- WSJ Sept. 17, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Key Interest Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Annualized interest rates on certain investments as
reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average
basis:
                                                                                                       

                                             Week Ended:
                                        Sep. 14,    Sep. 7,
                                          1990        1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

   Commrcl paper (Dealer, 90 day)-a ..... 7.88        7.85
   Certfs of Deposit (Resale, 90 day) ... 7.97        7.94
   Federal funds (Overnight)-b .......... 8.12        8.25
   Eurodollars (90 day)-b ............... 7.99        7.93
   Treasury bills (one year)-c .......... 7.75        7.74
   Treasury notes (three year)-c ........ 8.24        8.24
   Treasury notes (five year)-c ......... 8.47        8.48
   Treasury notes (ten year)-c .......... 8.84        8.85
   Treasury bonds (30 year)-c ........... 8.97        8.97
                                                                                                       

   a-Discounted rate. b-Week ended Wednesday, September 12,
1990 and Wednesday September 5, 1990. c-Yields, adjusted for
constant maturity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Ford Canada Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F LABOR FC T.FMC
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The Canadian subsidiary of Ford Motor Co. said
it plans to make a new contract offer today that it hopes
will settle a three-day-old strike by almost 13,000 unionized
auto workers.
   Donald McKenzie, chief negotiator for Ford Canada, said
the two sides were "still a fair distance apart." He added,
however, that "now is the time to pick up the pace of
negotiations."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The strike has closed nine Ford plants in Canada and has
threatened to curtail some of the company's key U.S.
operations that depend on parts manufactured north of the
border.
   Emerging from a brief meeting with union leaders, Mr.
McKenzie said the company was still drafting its new offer,
which will cover a range of economic issues, including wages
and cost-of-living allowances. Ford Canada officials wouldn't
elaborate on the specifics of the proposal.
   Robert White, president of the Canadian Auto Workers
union, took a wait-and-see attitude to the company's
willingness to inject new momentum into the contract talks.
Mr. White warned, however, that the union was still prepared
to walk away from the bargaining table if there wasn't any
progress made toward reaching a contract settlement by the
end of the week.
   But Ford's Mr. McKenzie indicated that the company
expected movement from the union as well. "If there isn't
progress over the next couple of days, then obviously we've
got a major problem."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Monday, September 17, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8 1/16% high, 7 15/16% low, 8% near closing
bid, 8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.975% 30 to 44 days; 7.90% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 119 days; 7.70% 120 to 149
days; 7.65% 150 to 179 days; 7.50% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.05%
30 days; 7.97% 60 days; 7.90% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.60% one month; 7.63% two
months; 7.66% three months; 7.63% six months; 7.85% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.05% one month; 8.05% three months;
8.05% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.95% 30 days; 7.84% 60 days; 7.73%
90 days; 7.71% 120 days; 7.65% 150 days; 7.60% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% one month; 8
1/8% - 8% two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 1/8% - 8%
four months; 8 1/8% - 8% five months; 8 1/8% - 8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/8% one month;
8 1/8% three months; 8 1/8% six months; 8 1/4% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 13.75%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.38%; Switzerland 9.50%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, September 17, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39%, 13 weeks; 7.30%, 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.10%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.07%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.40%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.57%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Former Amex Systems
   Chief Pleads Guilty
   To Bribery Charges
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ALEXANDRIA, Va. -- The former chief executive officer of a
Los Angeles defense contractor pleaded guilty to bribing Navy
officials for their assistance in obtaining military
contracts, federal prosecutors said.
   Manuel Caldera, former chairman, chief executive and
principal stockholder of Amex Systems Inc., waived indictment
and pleaded guilty in federal court here to paying thousands
of dollars to two Navy engineers for their help in obtaining
and maintaining contracts to build transit receivers for Navy
ships, according to U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson. The guilty
plea arose out of the government's continuing investigation
of defense procurement fraud, known as Operation Illwind.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Caldera made the illegal payments in connection with
six Navy contracts awarded to his company between 1978 and
1984, according to his plea agreement. The contracts had a
value of roughly $40 million, with potential follow-on value
of an additional $100 million between 1984 and 1988, Mr.
Hudson said in a statement. Mr. Caldera sold Amex Systems to
Allied-Signal Inc. of Morristown, N.J., in November 1984 for
$45 million, the prosecutor said.
   Mr. Caldera, 59 years old, couldn't be reached for
comment. He faces a maximum sentence of seven years in
prison.
   A spokesman for Allied-Signal said the company sold Amex
Systems to Science Applications International of San Diego in
1988.
   A senior official at Science Applications said Amex
Systems was merged into its operations shortly after the
purchase. The official said Mr. Caldera "was not part of the
operation when we acquired it."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Hot Ensemble:
   In Fashion, the Talent
   And His Money Man
   Make Promising Team
   ---
   But Backer Sasaki Wonders
   If Designer Henderson
   Is Too Big for His Britches
   ---
   Pressure to Hold Down Prices
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BIOGRAPHY (BIO)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Gordon Henderson, the hottest new designer on
Fashion Avenue, bickers with his backer.
   "One hundred thousand dollars just isn't enough," pouts
Mr. Henderson, who wants to hire yet another $2,000-an-hour
model and thinks he needs a more lavish stage set for his
October showing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But he will have to settle for a modest auditorium stage
at the Parsons School of Design and 15 young women to parade
his new creations.
   "Gordon, I'm not prepared to be flexible on this," says
Ricky Sasaki, the money man. "We're not in show business.
We're in the business of selling clothes."
   Mr. Sasaki's line of argument is a bit hard to sustain. If
fashion isn't show biz, then what is? In recent years, the
high end of the rag trade has come very much to resemble the
old Hollywood studio system, in which moguls controlled the
destiny and creative output of contract players.
   Like MGM in the '40s, fashion houses try to create stars
who will have powerful box-office appeal. (And Mr. Henderson
is a budding star.)
   But in couture, as in Hollywood, backers don't always
realize what they are in for when they start feeding royal
jelly to a talented newcomer. Soon enough, the star becomes
temperamental and starts making demands.
   Some U.S. designers, including Calvin Klein and Bill
Blass, have managed themselves and control their own
companies. But in this brutal business, a lot of designers
today (Marc Jacobs, Mary Ann Restivo and Bill Robinson) end
up as employees. They need the capital, organization and
security a backer can give them. In the current business
climate, the big retail chains aren't taking the chances they
once did on unproven designers without big backing who don't
deliver on time and don't move the merchandise.
   But in these new symbiotic relationships between money and
young talent, sparks fly when objectives clash. Mr. Henderson
dreams of creating couture that will make him a legend. Mr.
Sasaki dreams of making money. The result: tensions that can
dog the relationship.
   Mr. Henderson is a handsome, 33-year-old Californian, who
was named Best New Talent of 1989 by the Council of Fashion
Designers of America for his moderately priced women's
sportswear. A 1984 graduate of Parsons, Mr. Henderson worked
as one of Calvin Klein's many assistants, sketching and
running errands. Then he free-lanced for a number of small
clothing companies until Mr. Sasaki came along.
   The 39-year-old Mr. Sasaki, who was born in Tokyo, talks
fast and thinks big. He made his fortune by forming, with a
partner, World Hong Kong, a trading company that controls a
number of Far East factories that manufacture clothes for
popular women's labels like Anne Klein and Harve Benard.
World Hong Kong, a privately held company that claims to have
annual sales of about $250 million, also operates a dozen
designer boutiques in Hong Kong, Singapore and Tokyo. (Mr.
Sasaki is something of a clotheshorse himself, and he adores
shoes. He isn't in Imelda's league, but he does have 800
pairs.) Until Mr. Sasaki met up with Mr. Henderson, he had
never tried his hand at star-making.
   The two men were introduced to each other by a member of
Mr. Sasaki's staff at Barocco, a downtown Manhattan
restaurant, in 1988. Mr. Sasaki then saw Mr. Henderson's work
and quickly signed him up. He appreciated the young
designer's knack for creating affordable casual fashion with
a twist. Doodads, buttons, pleats and embroidery are little
touches that distinguish his style. Mr. Sasaki knew that
selling designer clothes at moderate prices promised a bigger
and surer payoff than high fashion does.
   Mr. Henderson's inexperience had its advantages, Mr.
Sasaki says now. "We could work with him and mold him."
   Mr. Sasaki has invested some $4 million to launch Mr.
Henderson's star. And, in the space of two years, the young
designer, who dresses in faded jeans and T-shirts, has become
a fashion business sensation, a regular at New York
nightclubs and a celebrity model in print ads for the Gap
retail chain (including ads in the September Esquire and
October's Vanity Fair).
   Mr. Sasaki has visions of the Gordon Henderson label going
beyond women's clothes to a range of goods from cosmetics to
bed sheets. But when he considers his rocky relationship with
Mr. Henderson, he knows he has a long way to go.
   "I told Gordon that we now have to get our sales to catch
up with our publicity," Mr. Sasaki says. "But he is all ego.
He just wants to spend more money and doesn't think about the
bill. He has a big head."
   Under the five-year contract between Mr. Henderson and Mr.
Sasaki, which has recently been extended to 10, Mr. Henderson
is responsible for designing the fashion collections that
bear his name, as well as choosing fabrics within a set price
range. Mr. Henderson draws a salary -- this year between
$250,000 and $300,000 -- based on the company's annual sales,
according to Mr. Sasaki. He says the the Gordon Henderson
division of World Hong Kong had 1989 sales of about $7
million, not enough to turn a dollar, but he expects the line
to be profitable in 1991.
   Mr. Sasaki's end of the bargain includes manufacturing and
marketing Mr. Henderson's designs. With World Hong Kong's
world-wide connections, the company can get lower prices on
fabric, it has factories to execute production runs large and
small. World Hong Kong also pays all the expenses to maintain
Mr. Henderson's office and staff on West 40th Street in
Manhattan, on the same floor where the very famous Liz
Claiborne got her start.
   Mr. Henderson feels lucky to have hooked up with Mr.
Sasaki: "With Ricky, I usually get everything I want."
   But Mr. Sasaki doesn't feel he is getting enough from his
rising star. Mr. Henderson is spoiled and hard to manage, and
that makes it harder for the company to deal with the
relentless pressure it is under to turn out a collection
season after season. In the beginning, Mr. Sasaki may have
given Mr. Henderson too free a hand. Still, Mr. Sasaki has no
regrets.
   Despite World Hong Kong's know-how, for example, early
shipments of Mr. Henderson's wares were late. Also, Mr.
Sasaki was indulging Mr. Henderson's ideas about how clothes
should fit. The result was that his oversized sweaters looked
dreadful on everyone except the very tall and very thin.
Stores such as New York's Charivari and the Saks Fifth Avenue
chain sent back some clothes.
   "That first year was very expensive," recalls Dexter Levy,
Mr. Sasaki's financial watchdog, "but we knew we'd have to
give it a little time." Michael Winter, the former president
of the Gordon Henderson division of World Hong Kong, left
after a year because, he says, "Gordon got so he wouldn't
listen to anybody."
   Meanwhile, on the runway, Mr. Henderson's collections were
getting rave reviews. (Women's Wear Daily: "another terrific
collection." The New York Times: "intelligent affordable
sportswear." Time: "boldness and brights to burn.") So Mr.
Sasaki yielded to many of his star's demands.
   But Mr. Henderson spent $500,000 -- twice what Mr. Sasaki
authorized -- to redecorate the company's showroom
headquarters, where store buyers visit to preview the
collections. Mr. Henderson designed everything, down to the
coiled doorknobs. He also ordered weathered New Jersey
barnwood for the floors, which turned out to be unsteady and
to generate dust, which gets the duds dirty.
   Mr. Henderson says mishaps, particularly cost overruns,
are byproducts of sudden celebrity and the exigencies of
working for a big company. "At Parsons, they don't teach you
this," he says. "I never had to design with a price structure
in mind. We learned about developing creativity skills."
   Today, under Peter Clements, the current president, Mr.
Henderson is doing a better job of meeting deadlines and
hewing to a budget. But Mr. Henderson still complains that
Mr. Sasaki tries to cut back on the wrong things. For
example, Mr. Sasaki didn't want to maintain a workroom to
make sample garments in New York when they could be made more
cheaply in Hong Kong. Only after witnessing the delays caused
by sending sample garments back and forth did Mr. Sasaki
relent.
   "With them, it's always money vs. creativity," Mr.
Henderson says of Mr. Sasaki and his financial sidekick, Mr.
Levy. "They always want to set a formula. . . . They want
things to work on a timetable, for me to pick the colors
first or the fabric before I know what I'm going to design.
It's hard for a creative person to work that way."
   It's a full-time job keeping Mr. Henderson in check, a
responsibility Mr. Sasaki shares with Mr. Clements. Splitting
his time between Hong Kong and Tokyo, Mr. Sasaki drops into
the New York office about four times a year, otherwise
communicating with Mr. Henderson through faxed messages and
phone calls. When in town, Mr. Sasaki and his wife don't see
Mr. Henderson socially.
   Mr. Sasaki learned the backer business from his first
employer and mentor, Japanese millionaire Tomio Taki. Mr.
Taki, one of the first businessmen to see that there was
money to be made in backing a Seventh Avenue designer, bought
the Anne Klein fashion house in 1973. He then spun off one of
Anne Klein's designers, Donna Karan, whose label became one
of the industry's biggest hits, with current annual sales of
$145 million.
   While Mr. Sasaki grumbles that Mr. Henderson is in a hurry
to become famous, Mr. Sasaki is just as eager for that to
happen. Aware that this season's star can sputter out, Mr.
Sasaki wants to exploit Mr. Henderson's current popularity.
   Mr. Sasaki is taking cues from his former boss Mr. Taki,
who fast-forwarded Ms. Karan's business, introducing a
lower-priced DKNY collection last year, which has been a
major success in the stores.
   At Mr. Sasaki's behest, Mr. Henderson is introducing this
fall a lower-priced collection called "But, Gordon." The
collection includes casual tops, pants and jackets, as well
as skirts retailing at an average price of $79 -- bargain
basement for a "designer" collection.
   Mr. Sasaki sees dollar signs in the new line. "I told
Gordon that we can use his prestige as a designer to allow
many people to wear the clothes," he says. Retailers, hungry
for relatively inexpensive apparel with a designer image,
agree.
   "We see positive happenings with `But, Gordon,'" says Mara
Urshel, a senior vice president at Saks. "There's a lot to
choose from, and the prices are right." Adds Laura Hall, a
merchandise manager at I. Magnin, "`But, Gordon' is priced
perfectly, about as much as our customers want to pay for
casual clothes."
   For Mr. Henderson, the heavy advance orders are at the
expense of his higher-priced collection, stuff that sells for
between $100 and $400. He feels the bargain line undermines
his creativity. The company's production staff, led by Ingrid
Green, dictates the number of colors and geegaws he can use.
She vetoes certain pockets, buttons or top-stitching that
might add $1 or $2 to the cost of garments. With such
constraints, "it is a challenge for me to make the collection
look exciting, fresh and modern," Mr. Henderson frets.
   It is critically important to keep costs down. Retailers,
who can no longer afford to stock designers who don't sell,
have cut back on their collections. Even high-toned Bergdorf
Goodman takes a harder line. "There isn't a designer in the
store who doesn't have to perform," says Andrew Basile, a
Bergdorf fashion director.
   Many retailers look favorably on Mr. Henderson not only
because his clothes focus on young working women but because
he has the backing of a strong apparel organization.
"Obviously, if a small designer is owned by a big company,
there's a better chance of merchandise being produced and
being shipped on time," says Joan Kaner, a senior vice
president of Neiman Marcus.
   Arriving at the Seventh Avenue showroom around 11 a.m.,
after working out with his personal trainer, Mr. Henderson
rushes to a meeting with Mr. Clements, Mr. Levy and Mr.
Sasaki, who happens to be in town.
   Brushing by his assistants, who are scurrying around in
miniskirted Gordon Henderson outfits, the designer drops by
his desk, where he keeps a note written by an exasperated Mr.
Sasaki. It says: "Gordon, I want you to calm down and
concentrate on designing."
   After Mr. Sasaki calls the meeting to order, he zeroes in
on the October fashion show, which is Mr. Henderson's only
advertising and publicity tool. "This show," Mr. Sasaki says,
standing up, "is very important to us. I don't mind if the
press criticizes the designs, but this time I want them to
see the clothes from head to toe."
   Last time -- the April show -- was something of a
disaster. An overflow crowd spilled onto the runway, where
the models looked uncomfortable, swaddled as they were in
layers of sweaters, jackets, scarves and vests. Mr. Henderson
says he was inspired by collegiate clothes of the 1950s. But
Women's Wear Daily, an industry power that has been ever so
kind to Mr. Henderson, hated the show and gave it a "D."
   This was the first negative review Mr. Henderson ever got.
"I really felt hurt," he recalls. "I poured my heart into
that collection."
   Mr. Sasaki was less devastated. In fact, he thought the
review was a blessing in that it might bring Mr. Henderson
back to Earth. But Mr. Sasaki underestimated the fallout: 36
buyers canceled appointments to see samples in the showroom.
"We can't afford to let that happen again," he says.
   The spring Gordon Henderson line will be shown off late
next month in a bigger but austere space at the Parsons
School. Mr. Sasaki vetoes the fancier backdrop Mr. Henderson
wants. "When we start making money, we can do more with the
show," he says. "But this time, we just want them to see the
clothes."
   The next day Mr. Sasaki and Mr. Henderson go to a long
lunch. "We talked about establishing a better rapport," Mr.
Henderson recalls afterward. "Ricky is very concerned that
everything be fine with me."
   But tension continues to come between the creator and the
backer. His name is on the label, and Mr. Henderson sometimes
acts like he owns the company. Earlier this year, Mr. Sasaki
was annoyed to discover that Mr. Henderson had signed a
licensing contract with Vogue Patterns to market some of his
designs to home sewers -- something Mr. Henderson has no
right to do. (Mr. Sasaki, indulgent as he sometimes is, let
him go ahead with the deal anyway.)
   "He has to learn how important teamwork is," says Mr.
Sasaki. "I'm patient, but I'm not putting my whole life into
this."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pan Am to Postpone
   $53 Million Payment
   To Its Pension Plans
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR PN
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pan Am Corp. said it will defer $53 million in
pension-plan payments until November.
   The loss-plagued company, which has had to postpone
pension payments several times in recent years, said it
reached a deferral agreement with the Internal Revenue
Service and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., a government
agency that insures pension plans.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pact covers payments that Pan Am was supposed to make
on Saturday to the principal pension plan at its Pan American
World Airways unit.
   Pan Am said that on Nov. 1 it will pay $30 million of the
$53 million it owes. If it gets money before then from its
previously announced plan to sell assets, the company said it
agreed to make its payments earlier. Pan Am said it will pay
the remainder of $23 million on Feb. 28, 1991.
   The airline holding company said it will use shares of its
Pan Am Shuttle Inc. unit as collateral for the pension money
it owes.
   Industry observers said the company negotiated the
deferrals because it faces a cash crunch. Pan Am had
cash-on-hand of $100.1 million at June 30, down from $203.9
million at Dec. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Still Seeks Capital-Gains Tax Cut
   As Negotiators Haggle Over Trade-Off
   ----
   By David Wessel and Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A32
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush renewed his call for lower
capital-gains tax rates as budget negotiators continued to
haggle over the price Democrats will demand for agreeing to
such a tax cut.
   Last night, people close to the negotiations said that the
Democrats and Republicans had reached an impasse over the
capital-gains questions -- a development, they said, that
threatened to make further deliberations fruitless. The best
chance for a quick compromise, the sources indicated, was the
kind of change in bargaining position that only President
Bush and the Democratic leaders of the House and Senate could
authorize.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Indicating that he isn't letting the divisive subject die
as negotiations drag on, Mr. Bush yesterday called for a
deficit-reduction package "that is oriented toward growth . .
. one which contains incentives like the capital-gains tax
cut, which I am absolutely convinced will create jobs."
   Meanwhile, as the closed-door budget talks at Andrews Air
Force Base continued, Democrats modified their plan to pair
the cut in capital-gains tax rates with an increase in taxes
on the upper-income Americans who would most benefit from
such a tax cut.
   The Democrats dropped a proposal to raise the marginal
income-tax rate for the richest Americans to 35% from the
current 28%, and substituted a broader version of an
income-tax surcharge they proposed earlier, people close to
the talks said.
   Although details of the new proposal weren't immediately
available, individuals familiar with the negotiations
indicated it would impose a 21% surcharge that would kick in
somewhere below $250,000. That would be the equivalent of a
33.8% tax rate. Democrats previously proposed a 20% surcharge
on incomes above $500,000.
   Republicans were no more receptive to the surcharge idea
than they were to a simple increase in the top tax rate.
"Generally speaking, a surtax is an increase in rates," said
House Republican Leader Robert Michel of Illinois. "That's
not one of our favorite things to do."
   On Sunday, Republicans responded to the Democrats' first
formal offer to accept lower capital-gains tax rates with a
plan to limit all tax deductions for taxpayers making more
than $200,000 a year. Democrats haven't agreed to that
approach.
   The proposal would shave a couple's total deductions by 1%
for every $2,000 in additional income above $200,000 up to
$250,000, people familiar with the proposal say. That is, a
couple with $224,000 in income could take only 88% of their
total deductions. Deductions would be further limited for
couples with incomes above $475,000.
   At last night's meeting, Democrats were prepared to
propose a new approach under which they would drop their
demands for a variety of new spending initiatives if
Republicans would abandon their pursuit of a capital-gains
tax cut. A person close to the talks said Democrats expected
Republicans to be no more receptive to that proposal than
they have been to the others.
   Democrats' opening offer Sept. 7 to cut $500 billion over
five years represented net savings. They proposed $622.5
billion in total deficit reduction, but included $106.4
billion for new spending proposals covering education,
science, transportation, environmental cleanup and other
social programs important to Democrats.
   House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) yesterday once
again raised the possibility that despite Mr. Bush's
statements a deficit-reduction compromise might exclude both
the capital-gains tax cut and any offsetting tax increases
aimed at upper-income taxpayers.
   Republicans have proposed setting the maximum
capital-gains tax rate at 15%; Democrats have countered with
a 23.1% rate, aides say. Currently, capital gains are taxed
at a maximum rate of 33%.
   As talks dragged through an 11th day, lawmakers began
discussing the need for stopgap legislation to keep
government programs funded after the Oct. 1 start of fiscal
1991. Congress has been proceeding with regular
appropriations bills, but final action awaits the budget
summit's outcome. Even if agreement is reached soon, it
couldn't be put into effect in time to avoid at least a
short-term emergency spending bill, a Democratic leadership
aide said.
   Rep. Michel and Rep. Silvio Conte of Massachusetts, the
top Republican on the House Appropriations Committee, also
suggested that Democratic leaders would move to delay the
imposition of across-the-board budget cuts, which by law
would take effect after Oct. 1 if the projected 1991 deficit
hadn't been reduced before then. But the Democratic aide said
any such proposal would be hard to pass, since lawmakers
would fear such action would relieve the pressure on the
administration and congressional leaders to reach a budget
accord.
   President Bush, speaking at the White House to out-of-town
reporters, also said that Congress must "enact real spending
cuts, not these smoke-and-mirror cuts that simply don't cut
spending as advertised."
   The president asserted that there isn't a national
recession under way, and added: "But I do think that a budget
agreement is the best antidote to further economic slowdown,
because I think it'll result in lower interest rates and a
renewed sense of confidence in investment in America, both of
which are necessary to guarantee a more robust growth."
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology Brief -- Xicor Inc.:
   Company Cuts Work Hours
   Of Employees Up to 25%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XICO
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xicor Inc. said it is temporarily reducing work hours for
most employees by 10% to 25% until continuing sluggish orders
pick up.
   The Milpitas, Calif., semiconductor manufacturer, which
employs roughly 1,250 people, said the scaled-back hours
would continue until bookings improve "significantly." It
added that it eliminated 36 jobs as the result of
reorganizing certain operations and trimming nonessential
staff.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Xicor also said that "unless bookings for quick turn
deliveries increase significantly in the near future, we will
not be able to attain profitability in 1990."
   The company had a net loss of $4.8 million, or 26 cents a
share, on revenue of $20.4 million, for the second quarter
ended June 17. It said it expects to report increased revenue
and a narrowing of losses for the third quarter ended Sept.
9.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Identifies
   About $200 Million
   Of Possible Cost Cuts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Citicorp has identified some $200 million of
possible cost cuts in its global finance operation, with at
least another $50 million likely beyond that, someone close
to the business said.
   The potential expense cuts are part of Citicorp's plan to
streamline the operation, which provides commercial and
investment banking services in the U.S., Canada, Europe,
Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The bank holding company hasn't mandated any specific
number of people to be cut or amounts to be saved by the 53
managers who run the businesses within Global Finance, the
person close to the business said.
   When the plan to cut expenses was disclosed, talk among
the staff in the operation was that 1,000 jobs would be lost.
The bank has no target, the source said, but a recent
published report that some 3,000, or 20%, of the staffers in
the operations would likely be pared is "excessive."
   The $200 million of identified cuts, which will take at
least 12 months to execute, might come through restructurings
and divestitures of businesses, the person added.
   In July, Michael A. Callen, Citicorp's head of global
finance for developed countries, said that costs and revenue
in the operation had become imbalanced. But he said that
"there won't be any slashing and burning like we've seen
elsewhere" in the company. At the time, Citicorp said it
eliminated two layers of managers in global finance.
   A number of major banks have announced significant staff
cuts this year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Long-Term Bond Prices Decline on Oil's Rise,
   Short-Term Securities Steady on Fed Rate Hopes
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   GDW RJR CHA FNM FRE JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The bond market limped along in another torpid
trading day, with prices of long-term bonds falling in
response to higher oil prices, and short-term securities
holding steady on hopes the Federal Reserve will eventually
ease interest rates.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended more than 3/8
point lower yesterday, a decline of $3.75 for a bond with a
$1,000 face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, rose to 9.06%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   James Capra, a senior vice president at Lehman Government
Securities Inc., said trading activity has come to a virtual
standstill, because investors are "too afraid to do
anything." He said the fear stems from uncertainties about
how economic and political issues will be resolved.
   "I think the market is torn between the concern about a
Middle East war, a weaker dollar, and oil prices that keep
trading higher every day," vs. the potentially positive
aspects of a budget-reduction compromise and the possibility
that the Federal Reserve might reduce short-term interest
rates.
   Meanwhile, World Savings &amp; Loan Association, a subsidiary
of Golden West Financial Corp., sold $100 million of
seven-year subordinated notes yesterday at a price to yield
10.25%.
   The World Savings note sale was considered important,
because it showed that investors aren't avoiding the
securities of all financial institutions, but instead are
dividing the industry into two groups, composed of those
institutions perceived to be in good shape and those
considered to be headed for trouble.
   Last week, some market participants were surprised when
Chase Manhattan Corp. was forced to offer yields in excess of
13% to reset the rate on $200 million of two-year
auction-rate subordinated notes. The yield was 4.92
percentage points above the yield on two-year Treasury notes,
which was considered a high spread. The spread on the World
Savings notes was 1.5 percentage points above the yield on
the Treasury's seven-year notes.
   James Quigley, debt syndicate director at Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets, said the narrower yield spread for World
Savings is an indication that investors perceive the Oakland,
Calif.-based savings and loan to be a relatively good credit
risk.
   "It's false to say that all financial institution spreads
have widened out in the past few months," Mr. Quigley said.
"Investors do differentiate between the money-center banks
and credits like World S&amp;L," which has assets consisting
primarily of single-family home mortgages and government
securities. In contrast, the big New York money-center banks
and many large regional banks have been plagued by troubled
commercial real estate loans and loans to lesser-developed
countries.
   Ann Robinson, a banking analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin &amp;
Jenrette Securities Corp., said debt offerings made on the
bank or thrift level, like the World S&amp;L issue, are more
appealing than those made by holding companies such as Chase
Manhattan.
   Investors fear that if a bank or thrift becomes insolvent
and must be taken over by the government, the regulators will
"seize banks and save the bank but not the banking holding
company," Ms. Robinson said.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury prices ended mixed yesterday. The Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond was quoted at a price of 96 23/32 to
yield 9.06%, compared with 97 4/32 to yield 9.02% on Friday.
   Prices of two-year notes were unchanged. The two-year
notes were quoted at a price of 100 5/32 to yield 8.02%.
   Meanwhile, rates on three-month and six-month Treasury
bills were lower yesterday at the Treasury's weekly bill
auction, compared with last week's auction.
   The average discount rate set on new three-month bills at
yesterday's auction was 7.39%, and the average discount rate
on new six-month bills was 7.3%. The rates were down from
last week's auction, when they were 7.41% and 7.34%,
respectively.
   Here are details of yesterday's auction:
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
                                                                                                       

                                13-Week        26-Week
                                                                                                       


 Accepted bids ...........  $9,292,975,000   $9,232,805,000
 Accepted at low price ...             50%              16%
 Accepted noncompet'ly ...  $1,442,610,000   $1,031,535,000
 Average price (Rate) ....  98.132 (7.39%)   96.309 (7.30%)
 High price (Rate) .......  98.137 (7.37%)   96.315 (7.29%)
 Low price (Rate) ........  98.132 (7.39%)   96.304 (7.31%)
 Coupon equivalent .......           7.64%            7.69%
                                                                                                       

   Both issues are dated Sept. 20. The 13-week bills mature
Dec. 20, and the 26-week bills mature March 21, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate and Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds ended weaker again, the result of a lackluster
stock market and declines in the government bond market.
   Many junk bonds declined about 1/2 point, underperforming
investment-grade corporate bonds, which fell between 1/4 and
3/8 point.
   Among high-yield bonds that bucked the market trend and
advanced were pay-in-kind bonds of RJR Nabisco Inc. RJR's
17.375% convertible pay-in-kind debentures rose 7/8 point to
finish at 112 on the New York Stock Exchange. The other
widely held RJR issue, the 17% exchangeable pay-in-kind
debentures maturing in 2007, ended 1/2 point higher at 87
3/4.
   Some market participants said investors bid up the bonds
on the expectation that the company's exchange offer for the
convertible debentures will be declared effective by the
Securities and Exchange Commission soon.
   Other dealers said the bonds were buoyed by Friday's news
that RJR, a food and tobacco giant, will export cigarettes to
the U.S.S.R. to help alleviate that country's cigarette
shortage.
   In addition to the World S&amp;L issue, Champion International
Corp. offered $150 million of five-year notes Monday that
were priced to yield 9.65%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Feeling the effects of rising oil prices, municipal bonds
were 1/4 to 3/8 lower, with some bonds posting declines of as
much as 1/2 point.
   "There's not really enough trading to get a feel for it,"
a municipal trader said of the market. Participants
anticipate that secondary activity will be slow as investors
focus on new deals this week.
   In limited new-issue dealings, a Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
group preliminarily priced an issue of $228 million of New
York State Urban Development Corp. correctional capital
facilities revenue bonds to yield from 6.50% in 1992 to 8% in
2016. Ratings of single-A/triple-B-plus are expected.
   A Goldman Sachs group also repriced $126 million of Rhode
Island Housing and Mortgage Finance Corp. home ownership
opportunity bonds to lower yields by five to 10 basis points.
A basis point is equal to 1/100th of one percentage point.
The bonds are priced to yield from 6.4% in 1992 to 8.05% in
2022. Interest on part of the issue is subject to the federal
alternative minimum tax. Ratings of single-A-1/double-A-plus
are expected.
   Among actively traded bonds, the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority's 7.2% issue, due 2018, was 3/8 point lower, at 97
1/4 to 97 3/4, to yield 7.39.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities prices, taking their cue from the U.S.
Treasury market, eroded.
   Helping weigh on the mortgage securities market was
selling of securities outstanding by the Resolution Trust
Corp. But losses were capped by the continued collateral
collection by underwriters putting real estate mortgage
investment conduit, or remic, deals together. A remic is a
type of security authorized by the 1986 tax law. Underwritten
by Wall Street firms, remics provide a method of dividing up
the income flows from many mortgages into new securities with
various interest rates and maturities to attract banks,
insurers and other big investors to the home-mortgage market.
   The RTC unloaded "$180 million Ginnie {Mae} 8 1/2s and
$100 million {Freddie Mac} PC 9s," a trader said,
characterizing the volume of sales as "a small amount" of the
Government National Mortgage Association and Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. issues. PCs are participation
certificates. He said the securities "traded right on the
market and were well bid for. They're deal-related
securities."
   The RTC selling is expected to continue in the next
session, with roughly $100 million more of seasoned Ginnie
Maes and as much as $200 million of various Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac coupons, according to another participant. Fannie
Mae is the Federal National Mortgage Association.
   Most market players consider the supply manageable.
   Aside from the RTC activity, secondary dealings were
subdued.
   Ginnie Mae 9 1/2% issues for October delivery were down
1/4 at 99 10/32, Freddie Mac 9 1/2% Gold PCs were off 5/32 at
98 27/ 32, and Fannie Mae 9 1/2% issues were off 5/32 at 98
21/32.
   Conventional mortgage securities have been outperforming
Ginnie Maes, because underwriters have been seeking the
Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae securities for remics.
   Pricings of two new remic offerings, one from Freddie Mac
and one from Fannie Mae, totaling $600 million were announced
yesterday. A $300 million Freddie Mac remic is being offered
in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in Freddie Mac
Gold 1007. The securities are collateralized with Freddie Mac
10 1/2% Gold PCs. A $300.2 million issue of Fannie Mae remics
is being offered in 11 classes by Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. The
issue, Series 1990-127, is backed by Fannie Mae 10%
securities.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Speculation that financial firms may be forced to mark
more securities to market value caused Japanese government
bonds to end weaker.
   The yield on the benchmark No. 119 10-year government bond
rose as high as 8.58%, the highest yield for a benchmark in
about a decade. When the market closed, the yield was quoted
at 8.57%. The price of the benchmark bond fell 0.63 point, to
81.17. (When calculated using the semiannual compound method,
the yield on the No. 119 ended at 7.75%, according to Salomon
Brothers Inc.)
   The mark-to-market talk began late Friday on reports that
the Finance Ministry was considering making accounting rules
stricter. The move might force firms to realize losses on
bonds and make holding such securities less attractive, a
dealer said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Crude Futures Soar Past $33 a Barrel to Record
   On War Jitters, Possible Supply Disruptions
   ----
   By Carolyn Phillips
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Propelled by a weekend of events pointing to the
likelihood of war in the Middle East and possible supply
disruptions, crude oil futures prices soared past the $33 a
barrel mark, setting record highs on the New York Mercantile
Exchange.
   "This market doesn't want to go down," said Nauman
Barakat, vice president, energy futures, at Merrill Lynch
Consumer Markets. "Even when there is bearish news, the
market seems to be almost immune to it," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the past few days have brought little in the way of
bearish news to test his theory, he concedes. On Sunday, the
United Nations Security Council unanimously condemned Iraq's
raids against French, Canadian, Dutch and Belgian embassy
compounds in Kuwait and several countries made moves to expel
Iraqi diplomats in retaliation. Talk of an air traffic
embargo has intensified. President Bush's appearance on Iraqi
television Sunday was met with strong anti-U.S. sentiment
that many analysts said left little room for a nonmilitary
resolution of the crisis spawned by Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of
Kuwait.
   When crude oil futures traders started factoring in the
weekend's events yesterday, they annihilated the high of
$32.35 for crude contracts in the seven-year history of the
New York Merc. The October crude contract settled $1.87 a
barrel higher at $33.63, erasing the previous high set in
August 1983.
   The weekend's bullish headlines were aided considerably by
word from President Bush yesterday that he wanted to increase
the size of the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve but had
no immediate plans to tap into it to ease a tightness of
crude supplies.
   Also on the supply side, traders attributed part of the
sharp gain to news that the Soviet port of Ventspils would
undergo two to four weeks of long-delayed maintenance
starting Saturday. Some 290,000 barrels of crude oil is
exported from there each day. It was unclear whether that
production will be totally curtailed or simply cut back
during the repairs.
   The New York Merc trading patterns were echoed in London
where the November contract for Brent, a widely traded
benchmark crude, jumped to $33.00 a barrel. In Europe as well
as in the U.S., trading was light. Analysts say sellers are
scarce in this market where so many indicators suggest prices
could go higher. "Any dips in the market bring out a lot of
buyers," Mr. Barakat said.
   The strength in crude carried over into gasoline and
heating oil. Gasoline, which has shown slower gains than
crude recently, added 1.31 cents to the October contract to
settle at 91.67 cents a gallon. The October contract for
heating oil, boosted in part by a huge storage tank fire in
Texas over the weekend, picked up 2.52 cents a gallon to
finish at 85.31 cents. Outer months of crude, gasoline and
heating oil contracts all closed higher, as well.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Futures prices of hogs and cattle
jumped amid signs that consumer demand for red meat continues
to be strong this month. In trading at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, the price of the live cattle contract for October
delivery set a life-of-contract high of 79.6 cents a pound
before settling slightly lower at the close. The prices of
contracts for pork bellies, which are used to make bacon,
soared by their maximum daily limit of two cents a pound.
According to Jerry Abbenhaus, an analyst at A.G. Edwards &amp;
Sons, St. Louis, supermarket chains are aggressively stocking
their red meat sections at a time when the weekly production
of red meat is running between 1% and 2% below the 1989 pace.
After the close of trading tomorrow the Agriculture
Department is slated to release its monthly seven-state
survey of cattle feedlots. Feedlots fatten cattle for
slaughter. Traders expect the department to report that the
number of young cattle placed on feedlots in August climbed
3.2% from a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices rose on continued Persian
Gulf tensions and weakness of the dollar. December delivery
gold gained $4.20 an ounce to $395.20, settling just under
the high of the day of $396. December silver advanced 1.6
cents an ounce to $4.8530. October platinum was up $2 an
ounce at $458.90. Gold continued to take its cue from the
strong crude oil market, which was reflecting the Mideast
crisis, but a lack of demand for bullion kept the advance
from being any stronger, an analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices rose. The December contract advanced
$24 a metric ton to $1,326. There is concern over the size of
the West African cocoa crops, an analyst said. The Ivory
Coast, which is in West Africa, is the world's leading cocoa
producer. Heavy rains have come at a time when temperatures
have cooled, making the trees vulnerable to black pod
disease, said Sandra Kaul, analyst for Shearson Lehman
Brothers. There is strong demand for West African cocoa,
especially that from the Ivory Coast, because it is of high
quality and it isn't as readily available as lesser-quality
types, Ms. Kaul said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exxon Is Developing
   Natural Gas Reserves
   Of Offshore Alabama
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   XON
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW ORLEANS -- Exxon Corp. disclosed it has started a $1
billion development of its deep natural gas reserves in
Mobile Bay, offshore Alabama that should lead to production
in late 1993.
   The company said its Exxon USA unit started construction
in March of a 300-million cubic feet per day onshore gas
treatment facility, and has awarded major contracts for other
key parts of the project. The development will include three
offshore production platforms, 36 miles of pipelines to
connect the platforms and the treatment plant, and the
drilling of six new wells. Six existing wells are also being
completed. The wells are being drilled to an average depth of
22,000 feet.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   When completed, the Exxon development will be the largest
of three offshore natural gas projects currently under way in
that area, according to John H. Steele, Exxon USA Eastern
Production Division manager. Mobil Corp. and Shell Oil Co.
also are developing reserves there, he said. Mr. Steele said
Exxon began acquiring leases in the area in 1981 and has so
far invested about $1 billion there. The estimated productive
life of the wells is 30 to 35 years.
   Production platforms in 15-to-45-foot deep Alabama waters
will be connected to the gas treatment facility in south
Mobile County where hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide will
be removed to prepare the gas for sale. Exxon said H.B.
Zachry Co. of San Antonio, Texas, was awarded the primary gas
treatment plant contract and Stearns-Roger Inc. of Denver,
Colo., was named engineering subcontractor. Value of the
contracts wasn't disclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Occidental's Stock Payout Offers Over 10%,
   Assuming Hammer Continues to Nail it Down
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   OXY
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- For years, the venerable Armand Hammer has
been jumping through hoops so that Occidental Petroleum could
pay hundreds of millions of dollars in dividends. Many people
are wondering if Dr. Hammer can keep it up.
   Most companies pay dividends out of profit. But during the
past nine years, the petrochemicals and energy company built
by 92-year-old Dr. Hammer has only once -- in 1984 -- earned
sufficient money from operations to cover dividend payments.
To raise cash for dividends, Oxy has had to sell assets and
issue new shares. Even if everything starts to go right for
Oxy, it isn't expected to earn its huge annual dividend of
$738 million at least until 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some analysts believe that Oxy, to keep up its dividend,
might have to sacrifice major assets or skimp on the capital
spending it needs to take advantage of higher oil prices. In
a recession, bears add, Dr. Hammer might even have to trim
the dividend that has been identified with his ironfisted
rule over the company.
   Recently, Oxy shares, which sold above 30 earlier this
year, have been trading near their two-year low, partly
because of dividend concerns. With Oxy at 23 1/8 yesterday,
up 1/8, its $2.50 a share annual dividend rate gave the stock
a 10.7% yield, more than double the yields on other big oil
companies' stocks.
   "As long as Dr. Hammer is active, he'll try his hardest to
keep the dividend," says Alan Gaines of Gaines Berland, a New
York brokerage firm. "But it's an imprudent dividend, and it
isn't carved in stone anymore." He adds: "If Oxy cut its
dividend in half, it would have a $15 stock."
   Ray Irani, Oxy's president and the expected successor to
Dr. Hammer, says: "I want to assure you that we will have no
problem paying our dividend."
   Oxy's capital spending this year will be about $1.3
billion, lower than some analysts expected. And Mr. Irani
says 1991 spending will fall to about $1 billion -- but only
because Oxy will complete rebuilding a damaged North Sea
production platform. "We aren't cutting back on exploration"
and don't plan to sell major assets or issue more stock to
pay dividends, Mr. Irani insists.
   Oxy may be betting on its North Sea interests to bail it
out of an almost decadelong cash shortage. When Oxy's North
Sea oil begins flowing in 1992, cash flow could rise by $350
million a year, says Salomon Brothers analyst Bernard Picchi.
   Right now, the Mideast turmoil is a mixed blessing for
Oxy. Though higher oil prices help its energy business, about
50% of Oxy's profit is generated by petrochemical operations
that are in the doldrums and could worsen in recession,
analysts say.
   Salomon's Mr. Picchi expects Oxy's petrochemical profit
this year to dive by almost 30%, to about $700 million;
that's still more than double estimated oil-and-gas profit.
And for 1991, Merrill Lynch recently trimmed its per-share
profit estimate for Oxy by five cents to $1.35, citing "above
average" exposure to an economic slowdown. Oxy also has big
interest bills on long-term debt totaling about $8 billion.
   Some people believe that when Mr. Irani succeeds Dr.
Hammer he'll review Oxy's dividend and perhaps sell the IBP
beef processor or coal or energy assets to cut debt. But Mr.
Irani says: "I'm totally in support of maintaining the
dividend." Questions on future asset sales are "speculative,"
he adds.
   An Oxy spokesman says Dr. Hammer keeps Oxy's big dividend
because "he has a genuine feeling of responsibility to retail
investors" who hold most of Oxy's shares.
   Dr. Hammer isn't a major Oxy holder. Still, with about 1.3
million Oxy shares he received about $3.3 million in
dividends last year, more than his 1989 salary of $2.3
million.
   Since the stock market crash of October 1987, many oil
stocks have doubled or better, but Oxy is barely above its
1987 low of 22 3/8. One reason: It diversified into cyclical
petrochemicals. And since 1984, Oxy has trebled its shares
outstanding, eroding existing holders' stake in the company.
   If the economy in fact doesn't tank and petrochemical
prices don't go any lower, Oxy could prosper and Dr. Hammer
could bask in glory.
   C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell analyst Frederick Leuffer
says if there's no recession and crude oil sells for $25 to
$28 a barrel next year, Oxy will plug the hole in its cash
flow {which he puts at $250 million in 1990} and stop
"depleting itself" to pay dividends.
   With Oxy stock above 25 early last month, Mr. Leuffer says
he told investors "to buy the heck out of it." So far, he has
been wrong but he maintains: "I think Oxy is good for 30 in
12 months."
   ---
   Occidental Petroleum
   (NYSE; Symbol: OXY)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Petrochemicals, energy
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1989:
   Sales: $20.07 billion
   Net income: $285 million*; $1.03 a share
                                                                                                       

   Second quarter, June 30, 1989:
   Per-share earnings: 30 cents vs. 29 cents**
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   698,466 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 294.3 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $29 million one-time gain.
   **Before extraordinary items, quarter's profit was 23
cents vs. 31 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   First City's Spanish Loan Is Under Fire
   ---
   Critics Charge That
   Abboud Misled Investors
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FBT BAC
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
BANKS (BNK)
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- For weeks, the banking community here has been
buzzing with rumors about a big new problem in First City
Bancorp of Texas' real estate loan portfolio.
   That's certainly nothing out of the ordinary for a
medium-sized Texas bank during these troubled times. Except
this real estate loan, totaling some $100 million, happens to
be in Spain. And, although it still is classified as a
performing loan, the credit has raised new questions about
whether First City, under the management of former Chicago
banker A. Robert Abboud, misled investors by characterizing
the bank as a pure play on the recovering Texas economy.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The problem you've got is that the investment community
was under the impression that Abboud was making Texas loans,"
says Frank Anderson, an analyst with Stephens Inc., a Little
Rock, Ark., investment banking firm. "This is not a market
where you want surprises."
   Surprises, unfortunately, have been plentiful at First
City in the last several months. First, a string of
high-profile out-of-state borrowers such as Federated
Department Stores Inc. and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. filed
for bankruptcy-law protection. First City started falling
short of the ambitious earnings projections Mr. Abboud made
in 1988, when he led a $1.5 billion, federally assisted
recapitalization. And last week, First City rocked Wall
Street with the news that it is considering seeking a
minority partner to raise money to redeem an expensive
preferred stock issue.
   The disclosure has already led to speculation that Mr.
Abboud wants to auction off the whole bank, which he firmly
denies. But the fact remains that a big squad of BankAmerica
Corp. officials has been combing through First City's books.
   Meanwhile, the rumors have crushed First City's stock
price. After closing at $19.125 per share on the Big Board
Tuesday, First City's price went into a free fall, winding up
at $14.50 at Friday's close.
   First City shares, which closed unchanged yesterday, are
trading at less than half their $39.50 high last fall, and at
a discount to the company's $36.78 per-share book value,
normally visited upon banks with serious loan-quality
problems.
   But according to First City's latest public financial
statements, non-performing assets totaled $199 million, or
only 2.5% of loans and foreclosed real estate as of June 30,
while the allowance for loan losses stood at $148 million.
Although the problem assets were double the year-earlier
figure of $100 million, or 1.33%, the numbers still don't
suggest a bank in deep trouble. "I stare in disbelief at the
Quotron," says Thomas McCandless, a banking analyst with
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co., who says he thinks the market "grossly"
overreacted to last week's news.
   Alex. Brown &amp; Sons' Sandra Flannigan, a long-time bear on
First City, was similarly perplexed about the company's
stock-price plummet. "I'm not getting any sense any new
catastrophe is on the horizon," she says.
   If there is a Trojan horse somewhere, say analysts, it is
in First City's Collecting Bank, the entity set up at the
time of the April 1988 recapitalization to liquidate bad
loans made by previous management. According to the terms of
the bailout, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. agreed to
pay fixed assistance of no more than $920 million to plug the
gap between the bad assets' book value and market value.
   On June 30, 1989, First City predicted Collecting Bank
would be able to liquidate all the assets and still have $115
million to $165 million left over. But collections have
slowed significantly in recent quarters, thanks in part to
the continued distress of the Southwestern real estate
market, and now First City estimates the cushion is just $25
million to $50 million.
   By contrast, later entrants to the Texas market such as
NCNB Corp., Charlotte, N.C., and Banc One Corp., Columbus,
Ohio, received much cushier deals in which regulators
essentially agreed to assume the risk that the value of bad
assets might decline.
   But First City's biggest problem right now is credibility.
Investors have lambasted Mr. Abboud's management team for
straying too far outside Texas in search of quick profits,
instead of concentrating on the improving market at home. The
Spanish credit, say critics, was a prime example. The loan
began, according to knowledgeable persons, as a plan to make
some quick fee income by helping the prominent Coca family of
Madrid out of a financial tangle left behind when the
patriarch, Ignacio Coca, committed suicide a few years ago.
   When lenders threatened to foreclose on some of the
family's extensive real estate holdings, including a luxury
hotel in Marbella, on the Mediterranean, First City agreed to
refinance the loans and supervise an orderly sell-off of the
property. By helping the Cocas, say knowledgeable persons,
First City hoped to win the family as customers of its trust
department.
   First City got Citicorp, which has a Spanish subsidiary,
to issue the loan and backstopped it with a letter of credit.
But when the family was slow to sell its property, First City
was called on to perform on the letter, sticking it with a
big real estate loan abroad.
   According to several people, First City already has found
a buyer for two Marbella hotel properties; these people say
the buyer has in recent days plunked down a $9 million,
nonrefundable deposit on the hotels and expects to close the
purchase soon. The total value of the collateral is at least
double the loan value, sources say.
   Still, Mr. Abboud is said to be rueful that the deal was
done in the first place and has been stung by criticism of
his constant globe-trotting. In the past two years, Mr.
Abboud has traveled tens of thousands of miles and visited
with numerous heads of state, including Iraq's Saddam
Hussein, in an effort to build First City into an
international banking force.
   Now, the one-time chairman of First Chicago Corp. is quick
to point out that 93% of First City's loans are in Texas, and
96% are in the U.S. He emphasizes that the bank's
international department is primarily in the business of
helping Texas customers finance foreign trade -- not the sort
of high risk, lesser-developed country credits that have
gotten so many U.S. banks in trouble overseas.
   "This is a Texas bank," he says flatly. And to symbolize
his intention to stick to home cooking, Mr. Abboud has told
investors he'll try to sell both of First City's corporate
jets.
   In an interview, Mr. Abboud also bravely argues that First
City doesn't have to redeem the $125 million preferred stock
issue that triggered his search for partners. Although the
stock is scheduled to start paying an extremely high dividend
of prime plus six percentage points next April, the dividend
could easily be paid out of projected earnings, he says. "The
beauty is, we don't have to do anything."
   But, given the market's skepticism of late, if First City
doesn't attract an investor after opening its books to
prospective partners, everybody will assume the worst.
   "I can guarantee what investors will say," says Mr.
Anderson, of Stephens. "They're going to say, `they looked at
your portfolio, didn't like what they saw, and walked away.'"
   ---
   Nicholas Bray in Madrid contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Plans for Soviet Market Economy
   Hit Potentially Big Political Snags
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A27
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- Radical plans to establish a market economy in
the Soviet Union starting Oct. 1 have run into potentially
serious political obstacles only days after they were
publicly endorsed by President Mikhail Gorbachev.
   The trouble stems from concern about the public's support
for a wrenching economic overhaul, and from continued
disagreements among Soviet economists and politicians over
the best approach to reform.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But leaders of the Russian republic, who are leading the
charge to a market system, say they will press ahead despite
the new central government obstacles, raising the prospect of
a political showdown between the biggest Soviet republic and
the central government.
   Mr. Gorbachev last week clearly sided with proposals
drafted by economist Stanislav Shatalin for a swift
decentralization and deregulation of the economy over a
period of 500 days, thus rejecting a more cautious reform
package worked out by Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov. But in
an apparent sop to conservative critics, Mr. Gorbachev
backpedaled yesterday and called for a national referendum on
private ownership of land -- something that could take months
to organize.
   "This problem is too important to be decided in offices or
forums, even such a high one as this," he told the national
parliament. Seemingly on the defensive, he also insisted that
the Shatalin proposals won't "lead to capitalism." Instead,
"socialism will be brought in line with the private interests
of people," he said.
   Less than an hour later, the Soviet government signaled
its intention to hinder the introduction of the Shatalin
proposals, which it believes will lead to the collapse of
Soviet central government and a drastic fall in living
standards.
   Deputy Premier Leonid Abalkin, an economist who drafted
Mr. Ryzhkov's government program, told parliament that an
emergency session of the Congress of People's Deputies may
have to be convened to approve the Shatalin plans. Such a
session of the highest legislative body in the Soviet Union
could take two weeks or more to convene, casting doubt over
the Oct. 1 deadline.
   Moreover, Mr. Abalkin said the government within the next
10 days will present parliament with a state economic plan
and budget for 1991 that corresponds to the Ryzhkov reform
proposals, rather than the ones by Mr. Shatalin.
   One key difference between the two sets of proposals is
that Mr. Abalkin and the government want to double and even
triple the government-set prices of most goods from Jan. 1,
1991, something Mr. Shatalin rejects. He instead seeks to
allow most prices to be set by supply and demand after an
initial period of stabilizing the economy through tight
fiscal and monetary measures.
   Mr. Gorbachev's call for a referendum on land ownership
and the government's hardball tactics both could delay the
implementation of the Shatalin program, even though they seem
unlikely to block it entirely. Nikolai Petrakov, the Soviet
leader's personal economic adviser, emphasized at a meeting
with American newspaper executives yesterday that Mr.
Gorbachev "is really one of the authors" of the Shatalin
500-day program and fully supports it.
   Nonetheless, sales of land and housing are an important
part of Mr. Shatalin's strategy, particularly in the early
stages, because they are supposed to mop up some of the
billions of rubles currently in circulation. Mr. Shatalin
says that retail prices can only be allowed to float once
this money is tied down, thereby minimizing the danger of
surging inflation.
   Private ownership of land remains a touchy ideological
subject here, which may explain Mr. Gorbachev's desire to
seek public backing for such a move. But organizing a
referendum could take months. For one thing, the national
parliament has yet to pass a law allowing referendums to be
held.
   Neither the referendum nor the government's objections
"are desirable for the program," complained Ivan Silayev,
prime minister of the Russian republic, which has approved
the Shatalin plan and says it will start implementing it Oct.
1.
   For the proposals to work most effectively, reformers want
all 15 Soviet republics and the national parliament to agree
on the same strategy in the next few days. But Mr. Silayev
hinted that the Russian republic would not shy away from
confrontation over the issue of timing.
   Mr. Petrakov, who helped devise the Shatalin proposals,
said the absence of private ownership of land wouldn't
entirely scuttle the strategy but might weaken its
effectiveness. He said in an interview that people would
still be able to lease land with the right to pass it on to
their children, pending the outcome of any possible
referendum.
   He was more upset about the Soviet government's attempts
to throw up fresh obstacles to the Shatalin plan. "I have to
say they are trying to put a burden on it," he complained.
Some analysts said the stalling tactics may be a last-ditch
attempt by the government to save itself. Several leading
politicians, including Russian President Boris Yeltsin, have
called for Mr. Ryzhkov's resignation -- a call echoed by
thousands of Muscovites at a protest rally Sunday.
   Mr. Gorbachev is reluctant to let Mr. Ryzhkov and his team
go, however, for fear of creating even more upheaval. Mr.
Gorbachev criticized the public calls for the government to
resign as "absolutely unacceptable." And he warned parliament
that such a move "would draw us into grim political battles
and enhance confrontation in society at a time when we most
badly need consolidation to carry out the market economy
program and draft a new federal treaty."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Boston Names
   Gantsoudes to Post
   As Welling Resigns
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
                                                                                                       

</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS Z.CSU TIC
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- In another high-level management change at
First Boston Corp., Curtis R. Welling was forced out as head
of the big securities firm's 450-person equity department.
   Mr. Welling, a 41-year-old managing director, was
succeeded by James G. Gantsoudes, 48, who had headed a
smaller equity group at Travelers Corp.'s Dillon, Read &amp; Co.
securities unit for the past 5 1/2 years. Mr. Gantsoudes is a
former associate of Archibald Cox Jr., First Boston's newly
installed president and chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As head of equity operations, Mr. Welling was in charge of
First Boston's sales, trading and research of North American
stocks. He got his job only 15 months ago, after his
predecessor, Luiz Mendez, who helped build First Boston's
equity department into a powerhouse in the 1980s, was forced
out in a power struggle.
   First Boston, a unit of CS First Boston Inc., has
continued to undergo wrenching management changes amid a
severe downturn in its profits. In January, CS First Boston
Chief Executive John Hennessy demoted William Mayer and
assumed his duties as head of the First Boston unit. This
month, Mr. Cox took over those duties from Mr. Hennessy, who
remains head of the CS First Boston parent.
   The Gantsoudes appointment is the first major personnel
move made by Mr. Cox in his new job.
   First Boston said that Mr. Welling resigned "to pursue
other interests." In an interview, Mr. Cox called Mr.
Gantsoudes "one of the best people you could get." He noted
Mr. Gantsoudes's experience at Dillon Read and before that as
head of stocks sales and trading at American Express Co.'s
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. and at Mr. Cox's former firm,
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. "He's done everything he's been put
in charge of very well," Mr. Cox said.
   Reached at his office late yesterday, Mr. Welling said he
resigned "on my own," even though he had no plans for a new
job. He declined to comment further.
   People close to First Boston said Mr. Welling was forced
out after it was determined he wasn't First Boston's choice
to lead the equity department in coming years. CS First
Boston officials privately have groused that the firm,
despite its strong presence in New York, London and Tokyo,
has done a poor job in coordinating its international stock
business. They say the firm hasn't made full use of its
farflung global operations. Mr. Cox declined to comment on
the issue.
   CS First Boston is 44.5%-owned by the parent company of
Swiss bank Credit Suisse.
   John Birkelund, chairman of Dillon Read, said Mr.
Gantsoudes left his firm on good terms. "He's a nice man and
we're sorry to lose him," Mr. Birkelund said. "He's going
over to First Boston to head a much larger equity unit. He's
worked with Cox before." He said Dillon Read will attempt "an
internal solution" to replacing Mr. Gantsoudes before seeking
outside candidates.
   Mr. Gantsoudes is a graduate of West Point and Harvard
Business School.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Exchanges Rush Out New Vehicles
   For Betting on Tokyo Stock Trends
   ----
   By Craig Torres and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Three major exchanges are rushing out new
vehicles that allow investors to bet on the direction of the
Japanese stock market.
   Next week, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago
Board of Trade and the American Stock Exchange will offer two
new futures contracts and three new options contracts based
on Japanese stock indexes. The Amex and the CBOT expect, but
are still waiting for, U.S. regulatory approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All three exchanges are trying to capitalize on the
successful launch earlier this year of warrants on the Nikkei
Index of 225 leading stocks on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Active trading in the warrants, which are traded on the Amex,
indicated to exchanges that large and small investors were
interested in speculative bets on the world's second-biggest
stock market, after the U.S. market.
   Most of the warrants were bets on a fall in the Tokyo
market, and the first of them came out just before Japanese
stocks plunged. From its record high of 38915.87 at the end
of last year, the Nikkei index has dropped 37%. Yesterday,
the index closed at 24365.60, a mere 2.6% above its low for
the year of 23737.63 on Aug. 23.
   The warrants irked Japanese officials, who eventually
asked the Amex to hold off on listing more warrants. That's
one reason why the Amex is moving on to new ways to bet on
Tokyo stocks, though there still is resistance from Tokyo
exchange officials.
   "In Tokyo, firms have been blaming index arbitrage for the
volatility in the stock markets," said one Japanese executive
familiar with the Tokyo exchange's thinking. The new Amex
options, he added, "would just add to that volatility."
   Still, Amex Chairman James R. Jones said: "We commented
{to Tokyo exchange officials} that if the four products go
forward in Chicago, we were going to go forward. They are
sensitive and would like none of them to go forward."
   Unable to get a license to the Nikkei Index, the Amex
developed its own "Japan Index" of 210 Japanese stocks. The
Amex boasts that it correlates better than 99% with the
Nikkei index.
   The Amex, pending approval from the Securities and
Exchange Commission, wants to start trading options on the
Japan Index next Tuesday. Each morning, the Amex will make
public the closing price of its index, based on the
performance of the Tokyo market earlier that day. The Amex
product is a dollar-denominated index that will trade in
values of about 1/100 of the Nikkei; with the Nikkei index at
25,000, the Amex index value would be $250. Options trading
on the index are so-called European style, meaning they can
be cashed in only on the expiration date.
   The Chicago Merc is offering futures contracts on the
Nikkei index, and options on the futures. The Merc is also
converting its index to a dollar denomination from yen, in
which the Nikkei index is normally calculated. The Merc has
secured approval from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, and plans to launch its products next Tuesday.
   The CBOT is offering futures on the Tokyo exchange's own
Topix index, which is based on the 1,229 companies listed on
the first section of the exchange, and options on Topix
futures. The CBOT plans to start trading the new products
next Thursday.
   Only the CBOT products will trade briefly with the Tokyo
market in a two-hour-and-fifteen-minute night session. Also,
the CBOT's product is denominated in yen. Currently, the CBOT
has a night session in U.S. Treasury bonds.
   An option generally gives its holder the right, but not
the obligation, to buy or sell securities, currencies or in
this case the value of an index at a specific price on or
before a certain date. Some options, such as the new Amex
issue, can be exercised only on their expiration date.
Warrants are similar, but are often less flexible than
options.
   Initially, some money managers and brokers are skeptical
about the Amex's Japan Index options. "I don't think European
investors, which are some of the most substantial holders of
Japanese stocks among non-Japanese, will be willing to trade
this new product," said an executive at Japan's Nomura
Securities Co. He said the Amex index hasn't any recognition
among investors, as do the Nikkei and Topix indexes.
   "People will be reluctant to invest," added the Nomura
executive. "There's got to be some sort of a super selling
point to be successful; I don't think the Japan Index has
that."
   The Amex declined to comment, but privately exchange
officials said the Japanese don't appreciate having their
indexes imitated.
   Barry M. Gillman, managing director at PCM International,
an international money management unit of Prudential
Insurance Co. of America in Newark, N.J., also said his firm
probably wouldn't be interested in buying the Amex options.
   PCM already uses over-the-counter options on the Nikkei
average that are sold by big U.S. investment banks to hedge
its Japanese stock holdings. Like the warrants, they are
American-style options, which allow the holder to exercise
the options prior to their expiration.
   "We like the flexibility to be able to exercise it at any
time," said Mr. Gillman. "And in terms of hedging against
market risk, this {the Amex options} doesn't seem to offer
any tremendous advantage."
   Many Chicago traders say the key to whether the Board of
Trade and Merc stock-index futures fly is the response of
Japanese traders.
   "I think they might be slow to enter when they're already
using their own local markets," says Joseph Cole, senior vice
president and research director for Indosuez Carr Futures
Inc. in Chicago. "You have to ask what the incentive is. I
don't necessarily see it." Futures and options on the Topix
and Nikkei indexes trade actively in Japan.
   At least one small investor was intrigued by the Amex
product. Jeffrey Grossman, a real estate consultant in
Framingham, Mass., says he made money in Nikkei warrants and
would consider playing the Japanese stock market through
options. "I would be very interested" in options on a
Japanese stock-market benchmark, he said.
   The outlook for the Tokyo stock market is anything but
clear. While some money managers believe -- even hope -- that
it is near bottoming out, others aren't sure.
   Mr. Gillman said, "We'd rather see the direction turn
upward before buying. If it went through 20000 on freefall,
there's no particular level at which we'd say this is a
bargain," he said.
   ---
   Jeffrey Taylor in Chicago contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Against Major Currencies
   On Fears of Poor U.S. Economic Data
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar lost ground against all major
currencies as dealers prepared for what many believe will be
bad news about the U.S. economy.
   In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.5480
marks, down from 1.5710 marks late Friday in New York. The
U.S. currency was also changing hands at 136.55 yen, down
from 136.95 yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sterling was quoted at $1.9410, up from $1.8930.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was quoted
at 137.18 yen, up from 137.00 yen at the close there Monday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.5492
marks, down from Monday's Tokyo close of 1.5577 marks.
   Because the dollar market is by far the world's most
liquid, the dollar is often used as an intermediary in
non-dollar transactions. For instance, a trader seeking to
sell yen and buy marks will often sell his yen for dollars
and then sell the dollars for marks. When this kind of cross
activity dominates the foreign-exchange market, the dollar
usually ends the day with gains as big as its losses.
   But yesterday, the dollar dropped despite active
cross-trading. "There is no compelling reason to buy the
dollar," explained Abigail Cook, a corporate foreign-exchange
dealer for Hongkong &amp; Shanghai Banking Corp.
   "The market is looking for bad news" for the U.S. economy,
said David Wilson, a New York vice president with
Girozentrale Vienna.
   Dollar bears received further encouragement in late New
York trading when U.S. Treasury Undersecretary David Mulford
gave his blessing to recent dollar declines by calling them
orderly and crediting them with helping to improve the U.S.
trade balance.
   "People are waiting for a lot of things to happen this
week before committing to more dollar bashing," said Joe
Sabbagh, chief currency and gold trader for European American
Capital Corp.
   Most important is the prospect of a federal deficit
reduction pact. While most market participants consider
deficit reduction a long-term benefit for the U.S. -- and, by
extension, the dollar -- they say it will hurt the dollar in
the short run. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
has promised lower interest rates following a credible budget
pact.
   With U.S. interest rates dependent on budget talks, U.S.
economic reports this week will be scrutinized for signs of
recession, rather than clues to Fed behavior. Yesterday's
report that business inventories rose by 0.7% in July, more
than the 0.4% rise expected, was dismissed because it covered
a period before the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the jump in
oil prices.
   The same argument will be made about today's release of
the July merchandise trade balance. The deficit is estimated
to have widened to $7.6 billion from $5.07 billion in June.
   The August consumer price index is considered more
relevant. The overall index is expected to have risen 0.8%
from July, but analysts will strip away the food and energy
segment to see if higher oil prices have worked their way
into the general economy.
   In the most closely watched non-dollar rate, the mark rose
to 88.211 yen from 87.174 yen late Friday. Market watchers
said the flow of funds from Europe to Japan -- reflecting
Japanese investors attempts to dress up their books before
the Japanese first half ends Sept. 30 -- has slackened. This
opened an opportunity yesterday for profit-taking on long, or
overbought, yen positions.
   Technical resistance at 88.45 yen stopped the mark's rise.
   Meanwhile, sterling, which is considered a petrocurrency
because of Britain's North Sea oil fields, was helped by
higher oil prices. The benchmark crude-oil futures contract
on the New York Mercantile Exchange added $1.87 to $33.63 a
barrel, a record high.
   Also lending support were comments by British Chancellor
of the Exchequer John Major indicating he wouldn't
necessarily cut interest rates before taking the pound into
the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.
   Meanwhile, as the market awaits the meeting of the Group
of Seven industrialized nations this weekend, the question of
official intervention to buy dollars is being discussed.
   Robert T. McGee, chief New York economist for Tokai Bank,
said: "Intervention may be necessary to buy some time until
foreign economies slow down and dollar investments can become
more attractive."
   The dollar ended European dealings mostly weaker, although
it rose modestly on profit-taking against the yen.
   The U.S. currency finished Asian trading mixed in trading
dominated by a technical recovery of European currencies
against the yen. The greenback was last quoted in Tokyo
Monday at 137.00 yen, above 136.52 yen late Friday.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current
delivery settled at $389.40 an ounce, up $4.30. Estimated
volume was a moderate 3.3 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Tuesday, gold was quoted at
$393.20 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara:
   Company Seeks Protection
   With a Chapter 11 Filing
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FSB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara said it filed for
protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in
an attempt to "ensure an orderly disposition of the company's
remaining assets."
   The company's main asset, Santa Barbara Savings &amp; Loan
Association, was seized in April by federal regulators.
Financial Corp. officials said they recently reached a
tentative agreement to dispose of the company's
check-processing operation, its one remaining operating
subsidiary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials said the company's "most significant" creditors
are the holders of $8.4 million in principal amount of
convertible subordinated debentures issued by Santa Barbara
Savings. The S&amp;L defaulted on the debentures after the
federal seizure, and the debenture trustee is now seeking
repayment directly from Financial Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GCI GTE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWS: GTE Corp.'s GTE Spacenet unit, a satellite system
operator, was awarded a two-year contract to provide news
gathering and distribution services for Gannett Co.'s Gannett
Broadcasting and Gannett News Service units. Terms weren't
disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- PS Group Inc.:
   Rights Plan Altered to Let
   Buffett Firms Boost Stakes
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PSG
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PS Group Inc.'s board amended the company's shareholder
rights plan to allow ownership of up to 22.5% of the
company's common stock by companies controlled by Warren E.
Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
   PS Group said the amendment was in response to a request
by Mr. Buffett that Berkshire Hathaway or its affiliates be
permitted to acquire more than 20% of PS Group stock. As of
May, three companies controlled by Mr. Buffett held about an
11% stake.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A Berkshire Hathaway official in Omaha, Neb., wouldn't say
how many PS Group shares the company or its affiliates
currently own.
   PS Group, an aircraft leasing and holding company based in
San Diego, said the board considers Mr. Buffett to be "a very
constructive long-term investor."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ford Motor Co.:
   ABB Flakt Unit Receives
   Contract for Firm's Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   S.FLK F FLR S.ABB
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   A division of ABB Flakt Inc. said Ford Motor Co. awarded
it a $200 million contract to complete a paint finishing
facility at Ford's Oakville, Ontario, assembly plant.
   The 641,000-square-foot facility will be located near the
assembly plant that builds the Ford Tempo and Mercury Topaz
models, said ABB Flakt Alpha, a division of ABB Flakt. The
building is expected to be completed by January 1992.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ABB Flakt, an Atlanta provider of paint finishing systems
for the automotive industry, said it will administer the
contract, in part, through a joint venture with Fluor Daniel
Inc., a Greenville, S.C., engineering, construction and
technical services subsidiary of Fluor Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Bank of Boston Corp.:
   Group Lifts Stake to 9.9%,
   May Seek a Further Boost
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   BKB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   A group including CBS Inc.'s chief executive officer,
Laurence A. Tisch, raised its stake in Bank of Boston Corp.
to 9.9% and may seek Federal Reserve Board clearance to boost
the holding to as much as 14.9%.
   The purchase is the third within the last year. In
December, the group took a 6.6% stake in the bank holding
company, and said at the time that it might boost or cut the
holding. In August it lifted the stake to 8.9%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the Tisch group said it now holds 7,255,220 Bank of Boston
shares. Its most recent transactions include 765,200 shares
bought Aug. 13 and Sept. 11 at $8 to $10 apiece. When the
group announced its initial purchase last December, the stock
was trading at about $18.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Bank of Boston shares rose 25 cents to $7.875.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hallwood Group Inc.:
   Conditions Met to Combine
   Equitec-Backed Partnerships
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HWG EFG
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hallwood Group Inc., Dallas, said the minimum
participation conditions have been met for the consolidation
of 11 real estate partnerships initially sponsored by Equitec
Financial Group Inc.
   The consolidation will take place under Hallwood Realty
Partners L.P., an affiliate of Hallwood Group, which engages
in merchant-banking services and specializes in corporate
rescue financing, and invests in real estate, oil and gas,
restaurants, retailing and textiles. Hallwood Realty Partners
has received consents representing about 82% of the aggregate
exchange values of the 11 Equitec partnerships.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a related development, Equitec and its affiliate,
Equitec Properties Co., filed a joint motion in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for Northern District of California last
Friday, seeking authorization to complete the consolidation.
A hearing on the motion was scheduled for Oct. 19; thus, the
deadline yesterday for consolidation was extended to Oct. 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodore Savings
   Former Executives
   Convicted of Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- A U.S. District Court jury convicted two former
executives of defunct Commodore Savings Association of bank
fraud charges in connection with a 1984 plan to divert $1
million of Commodore funds to an affiliate through a sham
real estate transaction.
   Former Commodore President Woodrow O. Brownlee and John W.
Harrell, former vice chairman and chief executive officer,
were each convicted of one count of misappropriation of funds
and one count of making false statements. Each count carries
a maximum sentence of five years in prison. Sentencing is
scheduled for Oct. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A 1989 trial on the same charges had ended in a mistrial.
   The executives were accused of arranging the illegal
transfer of $1 million of Commodore funds to National
Mortgage Corp. of America, a financially troubled company
owned by Commodore Chairman Robert H. Hopkins Jr. They also
were accused of causing Commodore to spend an additional $1
million to channel the funds to National Mortgage and of
lying to federal regulators about the transaction.
   Mr. Harrell's attorney, William T. Hill, Jr., said his
client hadn't decided whether to appeal. Mr. Brownlee's
attorney couldn't be reached for comment.
   In May 1989, Robert Hopkins, his brother, E. Morten
Hopkins and Mr. Harrell were convicted on federal charges in
connection with a scheme to hide Commodore's illegal
donations to federal political campaigns. Robert Hopkins was
sentenced to 15 years in prison in that case and the other
two men received six-month prison sentences.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Chyron Corp.:
   Video Graphic Firm Files
   For Chapter 11 Protection
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   CHY
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   Chyron Corp., Melville, N.Y., filed for protection from
creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code, as
it said it would last week.
   The maker of computer video graphic equipment, caught in a
dispute between its two major lenders, said it couldn't repay
$10 million in loans called by Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Co.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Chyron was hoping to restructure loans and obtain
additional financing, but Manufacturers Hanover and Chyron's
other major lender, European American Bank, couldn't come to
terms on sharing loan collateral. Manufacturers Hanover
recently sued European American, charging fraud and breach of
contract in the dispute. Chyron also was named in the suit,
but Manufacturers isn't seeking any relief from Chyron.
European American has $20 million in loans outstanding to
Chyron.
   "I feel like an innocent bystander shot in a subway," said
Alfred O.P. Leubert, Chyron's chairman. "It's a wrong that
should be righted."
   Chyron officials said the company, in its filing for
Chapter 11 protection in U.S. District Court in Brooklyn,
N.Y., listed assets of $57 million and liabilites of $41
million.
   Chyron, which employs 355, had a net loss of $1.9 million
on revenue of $44.1 million in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAW and GM
   Come to Terms
   On New Accord
   ---
   Auto Maker Agrees to Spend
   Up to $4 Billion More
   On Job, Income Security
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GM F C
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. will spend as much as $4
billion to sweeten a range of job and income security
programs under a new three-year contract reached with the
United Auto Workers union.
   The agreement, reached early yesterday after a 41-hour
weekend bargaining session, requires GM to boost the amount
of money it pays to employees who get laid off. UAW retirees
will get fatter pensions. Active workers will get 3% higher
base pay this year, and lump-sum payments in the next two
years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The pact places new restrictions on GM's ability to close
plants. But the agreement apparently doesn't require the auto
maker to find work for some 30,000 UAW-GM employees who lost
their jobs as the giant auto maker shrunk its U.S. operations
during the past three years. And the improved pension
benefits could encourage some of the roughly 20,000 workers
eligible to retire now to do so.
   "They're buying the right to downsize," said Scott Merlis,
an analyst with Morgan Stanley and Co.
   And while the estimated $4 billion cost of the job and
income security improvements looks high in absolute terms,
it's a relatively modest amount compared with GM's $126.9
billion in annual revenue. The auto giant spent more-about $5
billionjust for last year's retail car and truck sales
incentives in North America.
   Top UAW officials declined to disclose details of the pact
yesterday, but said they are pleased with the agreement.
   "I've been smiling broadly since about 3:30 this morning,"
UAW President Owen Bieber said yesterday. Members, he said,
"will be pleased with what they see" when the details are
presented at a meeting scheduled for this morning in Detroit.
The meeting is the first step in what could be a two-week
effort by the union's leadership to win ratification of the
contract by the rank and file.
   Company officials said they, too, were satisfied. "We
fashioned an agreement that will serve GM well, and will give
our employees more security," said Alfred S. Warren, GM's
vice president for labor relations. It isn't clear, however,
whether the pact will allow GM to make significant gains in
productivity to help its marginally profitable U.S. auto
operations better compete.
   According to sources in the UAW and the company, the
agreement includes these features:
   -- A 3% base wage increase for this year, and lump-sum
payments equal to 3% of employees' base wages in each of the
two following years. UAW members who are skilled tradesmen,
such as electricians and tool-and-die makers, will receive an
additional increase of 30 cents per hour.
   -- Increased supplemental unemployment benefits. Laid-off
GM workers with more than 10 years seniority could get up to
95% of their base pay for a maximum of three years instead of
the current two, local UAW officials said. Laid-off workers
with less than 10 years seniority could get 95% pay for a
full year, up from six months or less now.
   -- A boost in pension income to about $1,800 a month, up
12.5% from about $1,600 a month now. The pact also includes
an increase of about $630 in annual pension income for
current retirees.
   -- A limitation on the number of weeks that GM may
temporarily idle plants. How the limitation would work isn't
clear.
   -- A promise by GM to give the union a greater say in
decisions to move work out of GM plants to
non-UAW-represented operations.
   -- GM gets the union's blessing to seek three-shift
production, instead of the standard two shifts, at U.S.
factories. Three shift operations at GM plants in Europe have
helped to produce record profits, although it isn't clear
that GM could sell enough cars in the U.S. to warrant three
shifts at its American factories. GM also gets a new
absenteeism policy that company officials say will make it
easier to crack down on chronic work-skippers.
   The agreement may help GM improve its relationship with
the union, which has been strained over the past three years,
often over the issue of job security. The new leadership at
GM and the UAW may have helped.
   The contract was the first major test of new GM Chairman
Robert C. Stempel and so far, Mr. Stempel seems to have
emerged a winner. GM officials said they are encouraged by
the spirit of cooperation that grew during the talks. That
was symbolized by the union's decision not to call a strike
after the old contract expired Friday night. Instead, the
union extended its old pact on a day-to-day basis and
bargained around the clock to reach agreement at about 2 a.m.
Monday.
   Under Mr. Stempel, GM's negotiating team gave plant and
manufacturing group executives a greater role in the
bargaining process than in prior years. Mr. Stempel held an
important meeting with top UAW bargainers last week which
helped to move talks forward after they bogged down.
   These talks also were a test for Stephen P. Yokich, the
union's vice president of its GM department. Mr. Yokich,
whose reputation for striking companies had worried GM
officials, impressed GM executives with his "businesslike"
approach. Sources close to the talks say these negotiations
lacked the acrimony and emotional displays of prior talks.
   GM's stock closed at $37.125, down 37.5 cents, yesterday
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   UAW leaders are expected to approve the new accord after
today's meeting, but they will have to convince 310,000
active and laid-off UAW members to approve the contract.
   Because the negotiations dragged on until early Monday,
UAW leaders said they didn't have time to prepare documents
explaining the tentative agreement. Local leaders were told
to wait until this morning for full details of the pact. They
said yesterday that they were able to get only sketchy
outlines of the proposed contract.
   "It seems like it's okay," said Keith Campbell, president
of UAW Local 1999 in Oklahoma City, Okla. "I don't think it's
a bad agreement," he said. "I don't think it's a great
agreement."
   Following ratification, the union will press Ford Motor
Co. and Chrysler Corp. to accept nearly identical terms. Mr.
Bieber declined to say which company the union will target
next, but it's widely expected that it will be Ford.
   Chrysler officials have insisted they can't afford to
match an agreement tailored to GM and Ford, both of which
have extensive, and highly profitable, operations in Europe
and overseas. "Chrysler doesn't have Europe to subsidize this
contract," said Mr. Merlis, the Morgan Stanley analyst.
   "We have our own set of concerns," R. S. Miller Jr.,
Chrysler's vice chairman, said last Friday. "We hope the
union will be responsive to them. There is no pattern today.
Going into the future, that has to be recognized."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hollywood Park Operating Co.:
   Holder Seeks Resignation
   Of Chief Executive Everett
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   HTRFZ
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Randall D. Hubbard, who recently acquired a 9.9% stake in
Hollywood Park Operating Co., called for the retirement of
Marjorie L. Everett, the Inglewood, Calif. race track's
chairman and chief executive officer.
   In a letter to company directors dated Thursday and filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Mr. Hubbard
proposed that he succeed the 68-year-old Mrs. Everett "who
should resign before the next annual meeting." He also asked
to be added to the board along with four of his designees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It is my intention to devote substantial personal time
and effort toward the revitalization of Hollywood Park," said
Mr. Hubbard, who is also president of AFG Industries Inc. in
Fort Worth, Texas. "I believe that the interests of all the
shareholders require that fundamental changes be made in the
operation."
   Mrs. Everett couldn't be reached. A company spokesman said
he couldn't comment beyond noting that the company must hold
its annual meeting within the next four months.
   Mr. Hubbard said he wanted board representation last month
after he disclosed his holdings in Hollywood Park and in
Hollywood Park Realty Enterprises Inc., which owns the track.
Hollywood Park Operating manages the track. The companies'
stocks are paired for trading.
   In the letter, Mr. Hubbard said he hoped to avoid the need
for spending substantial amounts of time and money on both
sides in a proxy contest. He urged the directors to consider
his proposals at their next meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Motors Corp.:
   Components Unit to Spend
   Over $1 Billion in Europe
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP GM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Motors Corp.'s Automotive Components Group said it
plans to spend over $1 billion over the next five years on
expanding its industrial capacity and on research and
development in Europe.
   The manufacturing investment will involve the construction
of several new production facilities in Europe, ACG Europe
President Mark McCabe told a news conference. The funds will
also be used to modernize the division's 49 existing plants
in Europe, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. McCabe said he expects the European market for car
parts to grow to $100 billion by the year 2000 from around
$60 billion at present.
   He said the forecast is based on the assumption that
new-car sales in Western Europe will rise to 14.2 million
units by 1995 from 13.5 million at present. Demand from
Eastern Europe could add another 3.5 million cars to the 1995
figure, he noted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Greetings Corp.:
   Fiscal 2nd-Quarter Net Rose
   24% on 10% Revenue Gain
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AGREA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   In its fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 31, American
Greetings Corp. earned $6.2 million, or 20 cents a share, up
24% from the year-earlier $5 million, or 16 cents a share.
Revenue increased 10% to $311.8 million from $282.7 million.
   The company said its strong performance "is in line with
our expectations and reaffirms our projection of a record
year in revenue and earnings for fiscal 1991." In fiscal
1990, the company earned $72.2 million, or $2.25 a share, on
revenue of $1.31 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Cleveland-based greeting card maker earned 80 cents a
share for the six months ended Aug. 31, the highest
first-half net in its 84-year history.
   The company attributed the record earnings to cost control
measures and gains in core card lines, "anytime" cards and
accessories including gift bags and boxes.
   Net for the first half jumped 13% to $25.5 million, or 80
cents a share, from $22.5 million, or 70 cents a share.
Revenue for the first half increased 9% to $623 million from
$572.5 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Caesars World Inc.:
   Accord Met for Withdrawal
   Of Shareholder's Petition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CJN CAW
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Caesars World Inc. said an agreement has been reached for
the withdrawal of a petition by a shareholder of Caesars New
Jersey Inc. with the New Jersey Casino Control Commission in
connection with Caesars World's pending tender offer for
Caesars New Jersey shares.
   The holder had alleged, among other things, that the $22 a
share Caesars World is offering for the 2.2 million shares of
Caesars New Jersey it doesn't already own was inadequate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caesars World said the withdrawal is provided for in an
amendment to its previously announced agreement in principle
connected with the settlement of certain shareholder lawsuits
related to the tender offer. Caesars World holds about 86.6%
of Caesars New Jersey's 16.3 million outstanding shares.
   As a result of the petition withdrawal, a New Jersey
Casino Control Commission hearing on the issue, previously
scheduled for Wednesday, has been adjourned.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   CHENEY FIRED the Air Force chief of staff for discussing
plans to bomb Iraq.
   In announcing the firing, the defense secretary said Gen.
Michael Dugan used "poor judgment" and disclosed classified
data. The general's comments, in which he publicly talked
about plans for bombing raids on Baghdad that would aim to
kill Saddam Hussein if war erupts, have been a major
embarrassment for Washington. Separately, Bush gave a mixed
review on the effectiveness of economic curbs against Iraq.
In Brussels, EC foreign ministers announced an expulsion of
Iraq's military personnel and set limits on the movements of
other Iraqi diplomats.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Signaling Iraq's growing isolation, the Soviet Union,
Baghdad's longtime supporter, said it would re-establish
diplomatic ties with Saudi Arabia.
   ---
   GORBACHEV PROPOSED a referendum on private ownership of
land.
   Only days after the Soviet leader publicly endorsed
radical plans to establish a market economy starting Oct. 1,
he backpedaled and called for a national referendum on
decollectivization of agriculture -- something that could
take months to organize. Separately, other officials signaled
they would hinder introduction of the radical Shatalin plan
entailing swift economic deregulation, which they believe
will lead to the collapse of the central government and lower
living standards.
   The referendum would be the first to be held in the Soviet
Union. Gorbachev didn't indicate where he personally stood on
the land-ownership issue.
   ---
   Supreme Court nominee Souter concluded his testimony
before the Senate Judiciary Committee, parrying efforts by
senators to pin down his views on the right to abortion and
other issues. Today at the confirmation hearings, witnesses
are scheduled to testify for and against the New Hampshire
judge.
   ---
   A panel criticized a government plan for modernizing beef
cattle inspection as being "probably no better," and in some
instances worse, than current procedures at U.S.
slaughterhouses. The National Academy of Sciences group urged
the Agriculture Department to revamp its proposed system.
   ---
   The U.S. told Manila that it would negotiate a phased
withdrawal of American forces from the Philippines after
Aquino called for the orderly departure of U.S. troops.
Separately, police in Manila clashed yesterday with anti-U.S.
demonstrators, arresting at least 17, before the start today
of U.S.-Philippine talks on a new security agreement.
   ---
   NASA canceled the launch of space shuttle Columbia for the
fourth time since May, citing a buildup of hydrogen in the
engine compartment as an external fuel tank was being filled.
The agency delayed Columbia's astronomy mission until after a
flight of the shuttle Discovery in October.
   ---
   Anti-apartheid leader Mandela charged that a South African
crackdown on black factional fighting amounts to a "license
to kill" for security forces, and said African National
Congress leaders would meet today to discuss the measures.
Separately, police arrested Piet "Shoot" Rudolph, a white
extremist accused in several bombings.
   ---
   Federal prosecutors said they won't retry Marion Barry on
12 counts of cocaine possession and perjury on which a jury
failed to reach a verdict last month. Washington's mayor was
convicted last month in federal court on one count of
possessing cocaine, and was acquitted on another possession
count. His sentencing is set for Oct. 26.
   ---
   Cambodia's warring factions held the first session of a
new council that will try to stop 11 years of civil war.
Members argued over the role of Sihanouk, the former
Cambodian monarch who is titular head of a guerrilla
coalition. The council met at Cambodia's embassy in Thailand.
   ---
   Walesa announced he will run for president of Poland,
ending months of uncertainty during which the Solidarity
leader sparred with other union members and prompted a split
into factions supporting either him or Polish Premier
Mazowiecki. Walesa has criticized Mazowiecki for slowness in
moving toward full democracy.
   ---
   Lebanon's Hrawi threw more troops around Lebanon's
Christian enclave, tightening a noose around defiant Gen.
Aoun, who has refused to acknowledge the president's
authority. Military sources said hundreds of soldiers arrived
at the "Green Line" dividing Beirut to step up pressure on
Aoun, who commands 15,000 troops.
   ---
   About 25,000 shipping workers staged a strike in Romania's
Black Sea port of Constanta, bringing most of the nation's
sea shipping to a halt. The workers charged that bureaucrats
are blocking implementation of a government program promising
higher wages and better working conditions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- REIT Co. of California:
   Trust to Be Self-Managed
   When Its President Retires
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RCT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Real Estate Investment Trust Co. of California said it
will become self-managed after the retirement of its
president, William Walters Jr., at the end of the month.
   Mr. Walters, 65 years old, will remain a trustee. He also
owns William Walters Co., a real-estate concern that has
acted as the trust's management adviser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   John F. Carpenter, 43, will succeed Mr. Walters as
president of the trust. He was formerly senior vice president
of Grubb &amp; Ellis Co., a San Francisco-based commercial
real-estate services concern.
   "No material change is anticipated in the current
operating focus," said the trust, based in Los Angeles, which
owns and operates California shopping centers, apartment
complexes, industrial buildings and commercial projects. Most
of the adviser's 12 employees will become direct employees of
the trust and the others will help Mr. Walters manage his
personal investments.
   Investors increasingly prefer self-managed trusts because
of concerns about potential self-dealing between an outside
manager and its clients, said LeRoy E. Carlson, William
Walters Co. vice president and chief financial officer. After
Oct. 1, he will hold the same titles with the trust. "This is
being done now partly because of Mr. Walter's retirement,"
Mr. Carlson said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Emerson Radio Corp.:
   Company to Form Venture
   With Fidenas Investment
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EME
</CO>
<IN>
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Emerson Radio Corp., North Bergen, N.J., agreed to form a
joint venture to sell its products in Europe with Fidenas
Investment Ltd., a Zurich, Switzerland, investment firm and
holder of 12% of Emerson.
   Emerson said it will hold 80% of the venture, Emerson
Radio &amp; Technology International, and provide $3 million of
initial capital. Fidenas will hold 20% and contribute $2
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Emerson indefinitely postponed its annual meeting,
originally scheduled for Sept. 24, to revise the proxy
materials and allow shareholders to vote on the transaction.
   Under terms of the venture, Fidenas Investment would add
two members to Emerson Radio's board, bringing the board to a
total of eight directors.
   Emerson, which sells personal computers and consumer
electronics in what has been a competitive U.S. market, will
compete in Europe with such companies as N.V. Philips and
Thomson S.A.
   Fidenas Investment, incorporated in the Bahamas, is one of
a number of firms under the umbrella of Fidenas Group. The
group has interests in banking and management consulting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   GM AND THE UAW AGREED on a three-year contract. The terms
call for the automaker to spend as much as $4 billion to
sweeten a range of job and income security programs. The
agreement imposes restrictions on GM's ability to close
plants but apparently doesn't require the company to find
work for some 30,000 GM union members laid off during the
past three years.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A United Airlines union group seeking to buy United's
parent, UAL, plans to meet with banks this week about a new
offer of $175 to $180 a share, or $3.82 billion to $3.92
billion, said people familiar with the deal.
   ---
   The G-7 nations' finance ministers and central bankers
will meet in Washington Saturday to discuss higher oil
prices, recent interest rate rises, and the decline in the
dollar.
   ---
   Charles Keating is to be arraigned today on criminal fraud
charges in a California state court. The charges are said to
include allegations of fraudulent sales of debentures through
the now-collapsed Lincoln S&amp;L.
   ---
   Crude oil prices soared to records on the New York
Mercantile Exchange following events that pointed up the
likelihood of a war in the Middle East and possible supply
disrup tions. The October crude contract ended $1.87 a barrel
higher at $33.63.
   ---
   Budget negotiators continued to haggle over what price the
Democrats would demand for a cut in the capital-gains tax,
and Bush renewed his call for such a reduction.
   ---
   Colonial Realty is the target of efforts by six banks to
force the company into involuntary bankruptcy-court
liquidation. Colonial's financial distress raises the
possibility of losses to the many individual investors in its
real-estate partnerships.
   ---
   U.S. bankers are concerned that economic weakness will
lead to increased defaults on credit-card debt.
   ---
   Italy's Pirelli proposed to West Germany's Continental
that they merge their tire businesses to challenge France's
Michelin, America's Goodyear and Japan's Bridgestone.
   ---
   U.S. bank regulators would be allowed to raise deposit
insurance premiums to whatever levels they feel necessary
under a bill passed by the House. Separately, bank regulators
settled a dispute over capital levels.
   ---
   NCR is expected to unveil today a redesign of its product
line based on Intel's computer chips and software.
   ---
   Sears debt was downgraded by Moody's, which lowered
ratings on about $6.9 billion of the company's securities.
The ratings agency said a continuing drop in consumer spend
ing will hamper the company's efforts to boost merchandising
results.
   ---
   The Japanese stock market is the focus of new futures and
options offered by three major U.S. exchanges.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 110,600,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2567.33, up 3.22; transportation 887.94, off 1.48; utilities
199.89, up 0.69.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3329.12,
off 9.80.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 132.74, up 0.45; spot
index 129.35, up 0.28.
   Dollar: 136.55 yen, off 0.40; 1.5480 marks, off 0.023.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Minister Warns
   Economy May Shrink More
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson warned
that the Canadian economy could show a further contraction in
the current third quarter following a 0.4% decline in the
April-June period.
   Mr. Wilson also predicted that the government's fiscal
1991 budget deficit will be 1 billion to 1.5 billion Canadian
dollars (US$864 million to US$1.30 billion) higher than the
C$28.5 billion gap forecast in the government's Feb. 20
budget. Fiscal 1991 ends March 31, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The minister said in a speech that he now expects the
country's gross domestic product to show inflation adjusted
growth of about 1% this year, down from a budget forecast of
1.3%. Gross domestic product is the total value of a nation's
output of goods and services.
   Mr. Wilson said the government's anti-inflation policy was
working. In recent months, a moderation of economic activity
has been accompanied by a moderation in the growth of credit
demand, he said.
   He attributed the deterioration in the government's budget
deficit outlook to rising debt costs resulting from
higher-than-expected interest costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pandick Inc. to Reorganize
   Under Chapter 11 Filing
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK (AP) -- Pandick Inc., a printer of prospectuses,
proxy materials and other financial documents, filed for
bankruptcy-court reorganization, becoming another casualty of
a business slowdown on Wall Street.
   James Alexis, president, attributed the Chapter 11 filing
to the "steady deterioration" of the financial markets since
the October 1987 stock-market crash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code, a company
is protected from creditors while it continues to operate and
tries to reorganize.
   Mr. Alexis said in a statement that Pandick's business has
dropped more than 50% over the past two years. During that
time, the mergers and acquisition business has slowed
markedly and Wall Street firms have cut back sharply.
   The turmoil in the financial markets since Iraq's Aug. 2
invasion of Kuwait further curtailed the company's business
and worsened its problems, Mr. Alexis said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- King World Productions Inc.:
   Firm Withdraws Its Plan
   For $36 Million Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KWP
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Citing weakness in the stock market, King World
Productions Inc. withdrew its proposed $36 million public
offering for Merlin Program Capital Inc.
   New York-based King World, a syndicator of television
shows, filed the Merlin offering with the Securities and
Exchange Commission two months ago. Its plan was to set up
Merlin as a fund to expand production. Each investment unit
was to include one share in Merlin, priced at $16 a share,
plus a warrant to purchase a common share of King World in
several years at a price set now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, as the stock market has declined in recent weeks,
King World's stock has fallen about 15%, closing yesterday at
$21.50 a share. The warrants would have been priced at about
a 30% premium to the current stock price, said Jeffrey
Epstein, chief financial officer of King World. "We don't
want to dilute current shareholders by issuing equity at
these prices," he said.
   The withdrawal of the offering won't constrain King
World's ability to develop new television shows, said Mr.
Epstein.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Newmont Mining Corp.:
   Adviser Is Hired for Stake
   In Newmont Australia Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NEM A.POS A.NEW
</CO>
<IN>
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Newmont Mining Corp., Denver, said it retained Potter
Warburg &amp; Co., of Melbourne, Australia, to advise the company
concerning its 24% stake in Newmont Australia Ltd.
   Newmont Mining sold a 19.99% stake in Newmont Australia to
Poseidon Gold Ltd. last month for $137.7 million, or $1.04 a
share. Newmont said at the time it would either sell its
remaining shares -- the 24% stake -- under a Poseidon Gold
offer or on the open market. Poseidon is offering to exchange
one of its shares for every two shares of Newmont Australia
it doesn't already own.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Newmont said it will wait to sell its shares until Newmont
Australia has evaluated the Poseidon offer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Newsprint Workers
   Vote to Continue
   Canadian Strike
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TMC CANDA ABY T.A T.PFP CP T.CP TRB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Workers at eight newsprint mills in Eastern
Canada voted to remain on strike, prompting fears that the
shutdown of about 13% of North American newsprint capacity
will drag on for several weeks or more and send publishers
scrambling for supplies.
   "We'll have a minicrisis on our hands" if the mills are
still out at the end of next week, said James Fitzgerald,
senior vice president at Newsday, the Long Island, N.Y., and
New York City daily. Mr. Fitzgerald buys newsprint for all
Eastern newspapers of Los Angeles-based Times Mirror Co.;
they include Newsday, the Hartford Courant and Baltimore Sun.
He said that while most publishers have at least 30 days
worth of newsprint on hand, "it's amazing how quickly
supplies dwindle."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Workers walked out at seven Abitibi-Price Inc. mills a
week ago. Six of those mills produce newsprint. Workers went
on strike at two Canadian Pacific Forest Products Ltd.
newsprint mills last Thursday.
   Together, the closed Abitibi and CP Forest mills have
annual capacity of 2.1 million metric tons, or 13% of North
American newsprint capacity. Also, a strike at a Tribune Co.
unit's mill in Ontario that accounts for just under 2% of
North American capacity is now in its sixth week.
   Publishers in the Northeast U.S. and Eastern Canada would
be hardest hit by an extended strike. Most of the newsprint
usually produced by the closed mills is shipped to customers
in those regions.
   "We have an adequate supply {on hand}, and at this point
it doesn't look too bleak," said Robert Shadrick, director of
operations at Providence Journal Co., a newspaper publisher
based in Providence, R.I. "But you're always concerned when
30% of the newsprint supply {to the region} is taken out of
the market," he added.
   Indirectly the strike may have already cost publishers
tens of millions of dollars. Publishers and many analysts
believe that the threat of a strike at Canadian mills helped
newsprint producers push through a price increase in June.
After discounts, the benchmark Eastern price of newsprint
rose about $30 a metric ton to about $555 a metric ton.
Publishers of U.S. dailies consume over 700,000 metric tons
of newsprint a month.
   It wasn't clear late yesterday if or when talks between
the Canadian Paperworkers Union and the companies would
resume. An Abitibi-Price official said there is "nothing
scheduled." A CP Forest spokesman declined to comment.
   A union official said workers at the striking mills
strongly rejected the last offers from each company. He said
the exact voting results weren't available and declined
further comment. Workers at certain Abitibi and CP Forest
mills aren't on strike and are understood to have accepted
the offers.
   The separate talks between the union and each company
broke off last week, so that the union could hold a vote. The
Abitibi and CP Forest offers are modeled on a contract signed
by workers at Stone Container Corp. mills in Quebec in July.
That contract was supposed to set the pattern for the
remainder of the Eastern Canadian industry. But workers at
some other mills are balking at certain concessions to which
the Stone workers agreed in their contract.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Abbott Labs Names
   Hodgson President,
   Succeeding Schuler
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS ABT J.TKD
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   ABBOTT PARK, Ill. -- Abbott Laboratories, filling posts
vacant since strife erupted in its executive suite last year,
named Thomas R. Hodgson president and chief operating
officer, effective Oct. 1.
   Mr. Hodgson is currently executive vice president of
Abbott and president of Abbott International, a division.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Abbott, a medical products company, said Mr. Hodgson, 48
years old, will be responsible for Abbott's operating
divisions, as well as corporate engineering, corporate
hospital marketing and TAP Pharmaceuticals, Abbott's joint
venture with Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. of Japan.
   Mr. Hodgson succeeds Jack W. Schuler, who resigned in
August 1989 citing "differences in philosophy" with Robert A.
Schoellhorn, then-chairman and chief executive officer. Mr.
Schuler's resignation was considered a forced departure.
   Earlier this year, the Abbott board ousted Mr. Schoellhorn
from his executive positions. After a fight with the company,
Mr. Schoellhorn, who had remained an employee of Abbott,
retired.
   Mr. Hodgson becomes Abbott's fourth chief operating
officer in 10 years. James Vincent and G. Kirk Rabb resigned
in 1980 and 1985, respectively, also citing differences with
Mr. Schoellhorn.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Abbott closed at $40.375, up 12.5 cents.
   J. Duncan McIntyre was named to succeed Mr. Hodgson as
president of Abbott International. Mr. McIntyre, who is
currently a vice president and responsible for European
operations at Abbott International, is also being promoted to
senior vice president of the parent company.
   Also, Abbott promoted to senior vice president the
following vice presidents: Paul N. Clark, pharmaceutical
operations; John C. Kane, Ross Products; John G. Kringel,
hospital products; Thomas M. McNally, chemical and
agricultural products; and David A. Thompson, diagnostic
operations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- VeloBind Inc.:
   Firm Talking With Suitor
   Over Possible Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   VBND
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Following a flurry of trading of its stock Friday,
VeloBind Inc. disclosed yesterday that it is in negotiations
to be acquired by a company it declined to identify. No
agreement has been reached, according to VeloBind's
president, Carl J. Swenson.
   VeloBind, Fremont, Calif., makes and markets professional
office binding systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "They specifically asked not to be identified," Grant E.
Rollin, VeloBind's chief financial officer, said of its
suitor, adding that VeloBind has been "chatting for a while"
with the company on the possible accord to purchase all of
VeloBind's shares outstanding.
   On Friday, VeloBind's stock rose $1.125, to $7.50, on
409,000 shares traded in national over-the-counter trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   United, TWA, Northwest
   Join Rivals in Fare Boost
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A22
</SO>
<CO>
   UAL TWA NWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   United Airlines, Trans World Airlines and Northwest
Airlines said yesterday they are matching other airlines'
attempt to raise domestic fares 4.2% as of Oct. 1.
   The fare rise is almost certain to go into effect. The
three carriers were the last major airlines to match rivals'
plans to raise fares.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   United is a unit of UAL Corp., and Northwest is a
subsidiary of NWA Inc.
   The carriers said the fare rise will affect all of their
domestic fares. Through their lobbying group, the airlines
have presented a separate proposal before the U.S.
Transportation Department and foreign governments to raise
international fares 6% to 10% on Oct. 1 as well.
   If the 4.2% domestic fare rise goes into effect, it will
be the second widespread increase in about a month. Airlines
raised their domestic fares 5.3% on Aug. 31.
   The airlines are battling fuel costs that have risen as
much as 50% since Iraq invaded Kuwait in early August.
Because fuel expenses are the second-largest operating
expense for the carriers, airline executives say their
carriers have been particularly stung by the rise in oil
prices.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Electronic Library Favored
   For Tax-Exempt Market
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
proposal to create an electronic library for municipal bond
disclosure documents is winning support from those who have
an interest in the municipal bond market.
   Out of more than 90 public-comment letters received so far
by the Securities and Exchange Commission, most favor the
plan to create a Municipal Securities Information Library
System.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The comment period ends soon, and the SEC is expected to
consider the plan before year end, perhaps next month.
   "Access to information about securities and issuers has
been identified as a chronic problem for the market," said
Savannah, Ga., Finance Director Richard Evans, a proposal
supporter.
   The prospective library's costs "are more than offset by
the market efficiencies it will provide," said North Carolina
Treasurer Harlan Boyles.
   Another supporter, the Municipal Securities Committee of
the North American Securities Administrators Association,
said it would ultimately like to see the SEC and MSRB mandate
the filing of continuing updates by bond issuers.
   MSRB Chairman Thomas Sexton, managing director of First
Boston Corp., said: "The Board's primary purpose is similar
to the Commission's -- investor protection comes first." He
said "when investors do not have access to complete
information about municipal securities, the prices they pay
for these securities may not be the fair market value."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Itel Corp.:
   S&amp;P Lowers Debt Rating
   After Henley Group Accord
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   ITL
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. downgraded its ratings on more
than $1 billion of Itel Corp. debt, citing the increased
leverage that would result from Itel's agreement to buy back
up to 18.7 million common shares from Henley Group Inc.
   S&amp;P downgraded to single-B-minus from single-B its rating
on Itel's $925 million in senior subordinated debentures and
$82.5 million of preferred stock. It also lowered ratings on
$200 million of Itel's Signal Capital Holdings Corp. unit's
senior notes and on debt assumed by Itel Rail of Pullman
Leasing Co. equipment trust certificates and of Trailmobile
Finance Corp. sinking fund debentures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   S&amp;P said the pending share repurchase from Henley, which
is being financed through asset sales, will increase debt
leverage during an anticipated economic slowdown. Itel said
it had expected the downgradings.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM, MCI Form Firm
   To Aid Research Network
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM MCIC
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- International Business Machines Corp., MCI
Communications Corp. and a small software company said they
formed a company to manage a nationwide computer network for
researchers.
   The announcement, though limited, is an early step in a
broad effort to speed communication among researchers and to
tie many more of them into the network. Sometimes likening
the effort to the building of the interstate highway network
in the 1950s, supporters argue that the data network would
improve the quality of innovation in the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   IBM, MCI and the software company, Merit Inc., said their
not-for-profit company will manage the federally financed
National Science Foundation Network, an existing network
known as NSFNET. The new company, called Advanced Network &amp;
Service Inc., will also try to improve the services available
to users and expand the network to include more researchers
at universities, federal laboratories and corporations.
   The three parents said the network will provide for
communication at rates as high as 45 million bits of
information a second -- a thirtyfold increase over the
current capability. Down the road, a further fifteenfold
increase will be possible.
   Allan H. Weis, who is leaving IBM to run the new company,
said that companies that use the network will pay a fee,
marking "the first time that industry has stepped up with
green money and supported (the network effort) in a very
visible way."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   UAL's Unions
   Are Said to Map
   Reduced Offer
   ---
   Meetings With Banks Set
   On New Bid for Carrier,
   People Close to Deal Say
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Judith Valente
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR UAL BAB
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The unions at United Airlines plan to meet with banks this
week to discuss a new offer of $175 to $180 a share, or $3.82
billion to $3.92 billion, for United's parent UAL Corp.,
people familiar with the situation said.
   The new offer probably will include participation by a
foreign airline, officials close to the proposed deal said. A
logical possibility would be British Airways PLC, which was a
principal equity investor in a $300-a-share labor-management
bid that collapsed last October. British Air declined to
comment and leaders of the buy-out group declined to identify
the foreign carriers they say have expressed interest in
backing a new offer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The crisis in the Middle East scuttled labor's hopes of
completing the $201-a-share, $4.38 billion buy-out plan that
UAL's board accepted last April. With that agreement due to
expire Oct. 9, it's unclear how the UAL board will greet a
lower offer.
   Yesterday, in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, UAL common closed at $97.375, off $1.875 on volume
of 232,000 shares.
   The unions recently recruited First Chicago Corp. to join
Bankers Trust New York Corp., Manufacturers Hanover Corp.,
and Security Pacific Corp. as lead banks for a proposed bank
credit of about $2 billion.
   The unions invited about two dozen banks to this week's
meeting, where their financial advisers are expected to
outline plans for a new offer consisting of cash and
securities. One individual familiar with the agenda
cautioned, however, that plans for a new offer are "still
evolving and are subject to change."
   Other financing being discussed for the new offer includes
sale-leasebacks of aircraft, subordinated financing from
airline suppliers and equity from the United pilots'
retirement savings plan.
   One person familiar with the bank negotiations said
British Air has expressed an interest in backing a new
transaction, but that the British carrier apparently is
reluctant to have its name publicly associated with the
transaction while there is still a strong chance it might not
proceed.
   British Air executives, while apparently open to
participating in the buy-out, are said to favor waiting until
the other financing pieces are in place.
   Buy-out leaders also have been reluctant to discuss the
possibility of British Air's participlation. The debacle
following the collapse of last year's labor-management
buy-out drove a wedge between the London-based carrier's top
executives and placed a strain on relations between the
managements of the two airlines. British Air, which has a
marketing agreement with United, steered clear of any efforts
to revive the deal earlier this year.
   The planned new offer's nominal $175 to $180-a-share
pricetag might have to be discounted to allow for the fact
that some of the securities might not be worth their full
face value, according to an individual familiar with the
proposal.
   In addition, the enthusiasm of the banks toward the
proposed new plan is likely to be muted by continuing
uncertainty over how the price of oil might fluctuate against
a background of possible hostilities in the Persian Gulf.
Slight changes in aircraft fuel prices can have a huge impact
on an airline's long-term profit projections.
   Still, the possible participation of British Airways could
boost the unions' chances of securing financing. One of the
banks' major concerns about the lapsed $201-a-share offer in
April was its lack of an equity investment from an outside
participant. In that plan, the unions had sought to count
$1.5 billion in wage concessions over five years as equity.
   Sources close to the buy-out group said any outside
investors, including foreign carriers, wouldn't receive
common stock in the carrier, but may receive preferred shares
in return for their investment.
   The next meeting of UAL's board is scheduled for Sept. 27.
It isn't clear whether the new union proposal will be ready
by then. But one person familiar with the board said it is
difficult to predict the directors' response.
   The same individual added: "A year ago they {the
directors} agreed to sell for $300 a share. Just four months
ago it was $200. Now they're going to be asked to take
something like $150, half of what it was a year ago? You even
have to wonder whether the next offer will be real. This
company has great routes, and there are other opportunities
out there. I don't know how they would come out."
   If the new offer proceeds, it would mark the fifth time
United's pilots' union has launched a bid for the company.
The United chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association made
its first offer in April 1987. Last April, the pilots joined
forces with the unions representing United's machinists and
flight attendants in an effort to buy the carrier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   House Panel Plans Hearing
   On U.S. Debt Sale Rules
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A32
</SO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A House subcommittee is planning hearings on
whether the huge U.S. government securities market needs more
federal oversight of sales techniques.
   The 1986 Government Securities Act, which precludes
regulation of government securities sales practices, will
expire next year. That has some members on Capitol Hill
questioning the current sales environment, where $225 billion
of debt securities are traded daily, according to House
figures. "The evidence of current abuses in the government
securities market raises the issue of whether such an
exemption from sales practice regulation is still warranted,"
Reps. Edward Markey (D., Mass.) and Jim Cooper (D., Tenn.)
wrote to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Rep. Markey
is chairman of the House Telecommunications and Finance
Subcommittee of which Mr. Cooper is a member. A subcommittee
staffer said the hearings likely will be held next year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, the General Accounting Office called for
regulation of government securities market sales practices.
If sales practice rules "make sense for other securities
markets, then they also make sense for the government market
as well, because there are similar opportunities for abuse in
both types of markets," the GAO said.
   The Treasury Department, SEC and Federal Reserve Board are
due to submit a joint report to Congress shortly on the
government securities market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hawker Siddeley Group PLC:
   Pretax Profit Declined 29%;
   Unit's Cost Overruns Cited
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   U.HSI
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
HEAVY MACHINERY, FARM EQUIPMENT (MAC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hawker Siddeley Group PLC said pretax profit for the six
months ended June 30 slumped 29%, hit by a #27.5 million
($52.1 million) contracting loss at its Hawker Siddeley Power
Engineering unit.
   The British electrical and mechanical engineering concern
said pretax profit of #66.6 million, compared with #93.2
million a year ago, was below some market forecasts of #67
million to #70 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group warned in July that its first-half profits would
fall short of year-ago earnings due to cost overruns at the
power engineering unit. The overruns arose from a combination
of contract delays and unsatisfactory administrative controls
when the unit became overextended by rapid expansion in 1988,
Hawker Siddeley said.
   Profit after tax, less minority interests but before
extraordinary items, dropped 31% to #37.9 million from #55.2
million a year ago. Earnings per share fell to 19.1 pence
from 27.9 pence.
   Hawker Siddeley reported an extraordinary loss of #10.7
million for the period, which it paid to settle disputed U.K.
corporation tax for a period between 1980 and 1984. The
company didn't report any extraordinary items in the year-ago
period.
   Sales were up 14% to #1.12 billion from #981 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Myerson Quits Asian Office
   Of Wasserstein Perella
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS J.NOM
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Toby S. Myerson resigned as head of
Wasserstein Perella &amp; Co.'s Tokyo office, and will be
succeeded by a former executive of Nomura Securities Co.,
which owns 20% of Wasserstein Perella.
   The appointment of Shin Kijima, currently a managing
director at Wasserstein Perella, comes after more than a year
of rumors that the relationship is strained between the
merger boutique and Nomura. A spokesman for Wasserstein
Perella denied the rumors, but added: "Mr. Kijima, in his new
position, strengthens the ties between Wasserstein Perella
and Nomura."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though Wasserstein Perella has worked on a number of
medium-sized merger deals involving Japanese companies, it
hasn't participated in any Japan-U.S. transactions valued at
$1 billion or more, unlike several of its competitors.
   Mr. Myerson, who held the post at the merger boutique for
about 15 months, will return as a partner to the law firm of
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &amp; Garrison, where he was a
partner before he joined Wasserstein Perella in June 1989.
   "We are sad to see {Mr. Myerson} leave our Tokyo effort as
a result of his desire to return to New York, but he will
remain a valued friend and adviser," said Joseph R. Perella,
chairman of Wasserstein Perella.
   Mr. Kijima, 40, has worked for Wasserstein Perella in New
York for the past two years, and will move to Tokyo in his
new post. Previously, Mr. Kijima was president of Nomura Bank
(Switzerland) Ltd.
   Wasserstein Perella also named Yoshitaka Kitao, a managing
director of the firm, as head of its Japanese international
advisory business in London.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Skis Rossignol S.A.:
   Concern Seeks to Acquire
   U.S. Maker of Golf Clubs
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   F.ROS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Skis Rossignol S.A. said it signed a letter of intent to
acquire full control of Roger Cleveland Golf Co. of the U.S.
for an undisclosed amount.
   The French sporting goods group said the acquisition is
aimed at diversifying away from its heavy dependence on
winter ski equipment, for which sales have been hurt by poor
weather conditions in Europe over the past three seasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Roger Cleveland, based in Paramount, Calif., makes
Cleveland Classics brand golf clubs, used largely by
professionals.
   Rossignol, hurt by weak demand for ski equipment and the
relative strength of the franc against key foreign
currencies, had a consolidated loss of 9 million francs ($1.7
million) for the year ended March 31, 1990, on revenue of
1.47 billion francs. A loss of about 85 million francs has
been forecast for the current fiscal year on revenue of about
1.39 billion francs.
   No earnings data was available for the U.S. company.
   Senior officials at Rossignol had indicated recently that
they were close to reaching an agreement to expand into the
fast-growing U.S. golf market, but declined to elaborate at
the time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Standard Register Co.:
   Ohio Firm Projects Drop
   In Net for Quarter, Year
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SREG
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Standard Register Co., hurting from a weak general
economy, higher paper costs and tough competition in the
business-forms industry, said it expects lower third-quarter
and full-year earnings.
   The Dayton, Ohio, company also said it will begin a major
cost reduction program over the next six months, slashing
employment and closing several production facilities. The
company didn't elaborate. However, it said the program will
result in a one-time fourth-quarter charge. It didn't
disclose the amount.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last year, the company earned $40.4 million, or $1.35 a
share, on revenue of $708.9 million. In last year's third
quarter, the company earned $7.5 million, or 25 cents a
share, on revenue of $174.1 million. In last year's fourth
quarter, the company earned $14.8 million, or 49 cents a
share, on revenue of $187.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Justin Industries Inc.:
   Group Makes Another Offer
   For Firm, Lowering Price
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JSTN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Six months after its $18.50 a share, or $140.5 million,
offer for Justin Industries Inc. was rejected, a dissident
group holding 11.4% of Justin has made a second offer, this
one for $18 a share.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the dissident group, led by Perry H. Sutherland of Kansas
City, Mo., and Barry S. Rosenstein of New York, said that it
made the $18-a-share offer in a Sept. 14 letter to Justin's
board, requesting a response by tomorrow. If the offer is
rejected, the group said that it will consider other
strategies for acquiring the Fort Worth, Texas, company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group attributed the 50-cents-a-share reduction in its
offer to Justin's planned acquisition of Tony Lama Co. for
$18 million, or $9 a share, plus the assumption of about $34
million of debt. The group contended that the acquisition of
Tony Lama, which lost $1.8 million in 1989, would lower the
value of Justin. Although the dissidents are seeking to block
the acquisition in court, they said the $18-a-share offer
assumes the acquisition will go through.
   John Justin, Justin chairman and the holder of about 20%
of its shares, didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Geffen Ends Agreement
   With Rap Music Producer
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOLLYWOOD -- Geffen Records said it ended its agreement to
manufacture and distribute music produced by Def American
Recordings, escalating the controversy over violent and
sexually graphic lyrics in popular music.
   Geffen had already refused to release Def American's
latest record by The Geto Boys, a Houston-based rap group
whose lyrics go well beyond those of 2 Live Crew -- the group
that was arrested in Florida earlier this year. In one Geto
Boys song, a man murders a woman and copulates with the
corpse.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Geffen had already released records by other controversial
Def American acts like Andrew Dice Clay and the heavy metal
groups Slayer and Danzig, often removing the Geffen logo from
the packages but distributing them nonetheless.
   The Geto Boys simply accelerated a growing disenchantment
with Def American's lineup, the company said. "It's a
personal choice," said Chairman David Geffen. "I think anyone
has the right to make any record they want, but I don't have
to produce it. It's one thing to tell dirty jokes -- I'm not
offended by 2 Live Crew -- but murder and mutilation, I don't
want to be a part of it."
   Def American's contribution to Geffen's profits is less
than 1%, the company said. Time Warner's record division,
which already agreed to manufacture the Geto Boys album, is
expected to distribute the record and the whole Def American
line. Unresolved was what label within Time Warner's
sprawling music business would lend its name to Def American.
Geffen itself distributes its records through Time Warner,
though in 1991 it will become a unit of MCA Inc., which
acquired it for about $600 million last March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Kansas City Power &amp; Light Co.:
   Firm Extends Tender Offer
   For Kansas Gas &amp; Electric
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   KLT KGE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Kansas City Power &amp; Light Co. said it is extending its
$27-a-share, or $857 million, tender offer for Kansas Gas &amp;
Electric Co. to Oct. 19.
   Kansas City P&amp;L also said about 44% of Kansas G&amp;E's common
shares have been tendered to it. As of Aug. 20, about 43% of
Kansas G&amp;E's common shares had been tendered.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The offer, which previously had been extended, was to have
expired last Friday.
   Kansas City P&amp;L said more than 13.5 million shares of
Kansas G&amp;E, along with 40,595 shares of its 4.5% preferred,
32,577 shares of 4.32% preferred and 24,406 shares of 4.28%
preferred have been tendered.
   "Kansas Gas &amp; Electric stockholders continue to send a
clear and positive signal concerning our offer," said Kansas
City P&amp;L President Drue Jennings in a statement.
   Last week, Kansas City G&amp;E disclosed in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission that it was negotiating to
be acquired by a company other than Kansas City P&amp;L. It
refused to identify the company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Apple Joins Two Groups
   Debating Unix Software
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM AAPL T SUNW DEC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   CUPERTINO, Calif. -- Apple Computer Inc. said it wouldn't
take sides in the computer industry rivalry over development
of the Unix operating system.
   Apple said it decided to join both Unix International and
the Open Software Foundation, groups that have been sparring
for more than two years over trying to turn the Unix
software, originally developed by American Telephone &amp;
Telegraph Co., into a computer-industry standard.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The computer maker said the decision "bolsters Apple's
support of industry standards and ensures earliest access to
emerging Unix technologies."
   The Open Software Foundation, which includes International
Business Machines Corp. and Digital Equipment Corp., was
formed largely because of concern that AT&amp;T and Sun
Microsystems Inc., partners in Unix International, had too
much control over the Unix marketplace because they
controlled the development of the basic Unix software.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Silicon Valley Group Inc.:
   Firm Scraps Stock Offering,
   Sets Bank Credit Facility
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SVGI
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Silicon Valley Group Inc., citing adverse market
conditions, said it scrapped a proposed public offering of
its stock, and reached a new four-year, $50 million secured
credit facility with a group of banks.
   The semiconductor processing equipment maker had planned
on using part of the proceeds of the three million common
share offering, registered last month with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, to retire debt from a May 1990 agreement
to acquire control of the Optical Lithography operations of
Perkin-Elmer Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, Silicon
Valley Group stock closed at $6.375, about 39% less than its
August peak of $10.375.
   The San Jose, Calif., company added that it had already
borrowed $20 million under the new credit agreement, arranged
with a group led by San Francisco-based BankAmerica Corp.'s
main banking unit, to help pay off an interim loan from the
Perkin-Elmer acquisition.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Bertelsmann Unit, Maxwell
   Plan East German Venture
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A27
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS EUROP G.BRT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- Gruner &amp; Jahr AG, which is
74.9%-owned by West German media group Bertelsmann AG, signed
an agreement with British publisher Robert Maxwell to take
over East Germany's largest newspaper and magazine publishing
group.
   The accord to acquire Berliner Verlag still must be
approved by an East German government commission responsible
for sales of assets formerly owned by the East German
Communist Party, a Gruner &amp; Jahr spokesman said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the transaction, Gruner &amp; Jahr and Mr. Maxwell would
each pay 50% of the takeover's cost. The spokesman declined
to give an exact amount but said the price was between 250
million and 300 million marks ($159.1 million to $191
million).
   In other German publishing-related developments,
Munich-based Burda G.m.b.H. said it is considering launching
a newspaper in East Germany, which will merge with West
Germany into a single nation Oct. 3. Burda said the East
Berlin-based newspaper will be part of a joint venture
between Burda Holding and News International, a unit of the
News Corp. media group operated by Australian publisher
Rupert Murdoch.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TECHNOLOGY -- Telecommunications Report
   ----
   By John J. Keller
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   ERICY NT T.NTL MOT T NYN
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Cordless Phones Migrate
   From Pools to Offices
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   WIRELESS telephone and data systems are about to invade
the office.
   Several North American and European communications makers
are readying systems for the corporate market that will
eliminate costly wiring and allow workers to keep in touch
when they are wandering around an office building or a
factory floor.
   The Federal Communications Commission has asked
manufacturers to submit ideas for office wireless systems,
including compatibility standards. The agency also has
approved many applications from start-up companies for
radio-based voice and data-transmission systems. Most of
these units will encode each signal to prevent overlapping
voices and use "spread spectrum" equipment to scatter the
signals over numerous frequencies, increasing system
capacity.
   Sweden's LM Ericsson has begun selling a phone system in
Europe that uses radio-frequency transmission to link tiny
phones that can fit in shirt pockets. Engineers at Northern
Telecom of Canada are working on several radio-based systems
that can be attached to conventional phone systems to add
wireless service.
   American Telephone &amp; Telegraph, New York, created a stir
recently when it introduced a version of its Merlin
office-phone system with cordless handsets. Still, only a
handful of phones can work off a single AT&amp;T system, and the
base of each phone must be wired to the main switch. AT&amp;T
says its engineers are developing "hybrid" systems that will
appear in a couple of years that combine wired and radio
technology.
                                                                                                       

   CEOs Can Give Snoops
   An Earful of Static
                                                                                                       

   MOTOROLA is hoping to cash in on businesses' vulnerability
to high-tech crime with its secure telephone technology.
   The Schaumburg, Ill., company, which already sells phones
to the government that encrypt voice signals, has developed a
new unit to market the devices to businesses whose top
executives want to protect secret recipes or competitive
battle plans.
   Motorola's phone, called SECTEL, uses a microprocessor to
digitalize voice signals and turn them into a special code
that can only be decoded by a similar phone on the other end.
The chip also encodes data-communications signals when a
personal computer is plugged into the back of the phone. A
user pushes a special button on the phone that changes it
from a normal phone to a "secure" one. After that, an
eavesdropper would hear only static.
   Motorola has sold more than 85,000 secure phones to the
Pentagon and other government agencies, but the corporate
market for its $3,000-plus phone could prove tougher. Robert
Wade, product marketing manager for Motorola's Secure
Telecommunications Business unit, said test-marketing in San
Francisco and Dallas drew fewer than 30 inquiries from
potential customers last month.
                                                                                                       

   Freeway Dialers May Get
   A Lift From Chips Soon
                                                                                                       

   CELLULAR phone systems around the country are poised for a
much-needed capacity boost from digital technology in the
next couple of years. But will all the phones, old and new,
be able to talk to each other over the upgraded airwaves?
   AT&amp;T and San Diego-based Qualcomm are designing a set of
electronic chips that can be installed in cellular phone
systems to allow future digital phones, including
pocket-sized models, to communicate over networks that employ
two different kinds of digital-transmission technology.
   Dale Stone, department head of cellular system engineering
at AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories, says the chip set should allow
phones to switch automatically between "time-division
multiple access" networks and higher-capacity "code-division
multiple access" networks. Many industry experts believe that
CDMA equipment will be the basis for future systems that
accommodate tens of millions of pocket phones used by
pedestrians, while TDMA will be used to handle vehicle-based
cellular phones.
   The new chip set will get a big tryout in late 1991 when
AT&amp;T and Qualcomm install a network for pocket-phone calling
in Manhattan for Nynex's mobile communications unit.
                                                                                                       

   One Bin for Voice Mail,
   Electronic Mail and Faxes
                                                                                                       

   NOW that "Fax it to me" is firmly fixed in the corporate
lexicon, facsimile developers are seeking new uses for the
technology.
   A potentially huge market will be hybrid products that
bundle document-transmission technology with electronic-mail
and voice-mail systems, according to a report from Probe
Research Inc., a Cedar Knolls, N.J., firm that follows the
communications and computer markets.
   Probe expects 1991 to be the year when voice/fax products
begin to take off. By 1995, Probe predicts that 14% of all
voice-mail and voice-response systems, a $2 billion-plus
industry, will contain integrated fax equipment for storing
and retrieving "fax mail."
   One company, Brooktrout Technology, Wellesley, Mass.,
recently landed a patent for its method of blending the
technologies into a single system. It makes a voice/fax
system that the Weather Fax, Maynard, Mass., uses to turn
National Weather Service information into charts, which are
then faxed to a caller who punches in the command on a
pushbutton phone.
   SpectraFAX, Naples, Fla., makes similar voice/fax systems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- C. Itoh &amp; Co. Ltd.:
   Tokyo Firm Forms Venture
   With Westinghouse Credit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A26
</SO>
<CO>
   J.CIT WX
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   C. Itoh &amp; Co. Ltd., a major Japanese trading house, said
it will establish a finance joint venture in London with
Westinghouse Credit Corp. of the U.S. to engage in merchant
banking activities in Europe.
   The joint venture, European Capital Co. Ltd., will be
capitalized at #1 million ($1.9 million) and will formally
begin operations on Sept. 20. The joint venture will engage
in merchant banking activities such as project finance, trade
finance and merger and acquisition consulting.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   European Capital Co. Ltd. will be a member of The
Securities Association (TSA) of the U.K.
   Tokyo-based C. Itoh will hold a 25% share in the venture
while Westinghouse Credit, a unit of Westinghouse Electric
Corp. of Pittsburgh, will have a 20% share.
   Century Leasing System Co. Ltd., a C. Itoh group member,
will hold a 5% share of the joint venture, while the
remaining 50% will be divided among roughly five European
executives.
   A C. Itoh spokesman said the parent companies are planning
to lend a total of seven billion yen ($51.1 million) to the
joint venture for trade finance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Prosecutors Decide
   Against Retrying Barry
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Federal prosecutors said they won't retry
Mayor Marion Barry on 12 counts of cocaine possession and
perjury on which a jury failed to reach a verdict last month.
   Mr. Barry was convicted Aug. 10 in federal court here on
one count of possessing cocaine. He was acquitted on another
possession count. His sentencing is set for Oct. 26. The
mayor faces a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a
$100,000 fine.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Jay Stephens, the U.S. attorney here, said in a statement,
"While the defendant mistakenly has flaunted the jury's
failure to reach a unanimous decision as to his guilt on all
counts, when all the dust has settled, the essential truth
will remain that the chief executive of this city, charged
with the responsibility of leading the fight against illegal
drugs and violence, has himself been convicted of
contributing to the human devastation."
   Mr. Barry, whose lawyer conceded to the jury that the
mayor had occasionally used drugs, said he was relieved but
declined to elaborate. As a result of his being prosecuted,
Mr. Barry had announced that he wouldn't run for a fourth
term as mayor. But he remains an independent candidate for an
at-large seat on Washington's City Council.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- VeriFone Inc.:
   Concern Says Net Is Likely
   To Fall Short of Estimates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VFIC
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   VeriFone Inc. said that third-quarter earnings would
likely fall short of analysts' estimates, and that it has
implemented cost containment measures in anticipation of
slower revenue growth.
   "Revenue growth in the second half of 1990 hasn't met our
internal expectations," Hatim Tyabji, president and chief
executive officer, said in a prepared statement. He cited
shortages in petroleum and North American emerging businesses
operations, but said the company's financial market and
international operations are continuing to exceed
expectations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   VeriFone, a Redwood City, Calif., supplier of transaction
automation systems, became publicly held in March. Its stock
traded as high as $26 a share in July, but has been drifting
lower in recent weeks. In national over-the-counter trading,
VeriFone closed yesterday at $12.875 a share, off $2.
   According to Zacks Investment Research Inc., analysts
expected VeriFone to earn 25 cents to 27 cents a share for
the third quarter. In the year-earlier quarter, VeriFone
earned $2.6 million, or 13 cents a share, on revenue of $34.8
million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Signal Corp.:
   Concern's Agreement to Sell
   Ultratech Stepper Unit Ends
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR GSX WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   General Signal Corp., Stamford, Conn., said that an
agreement to sell its Ultratech Stepper unit to an employee
group has been canceled by mutual agreement of the parties.
   Instead, General Signal said that Arthur W. Zafiropoulo
has been named president of Ultratech. Mr. Zafiropoulo most
recently headed General Signal's international semiconductor
operations and was president of the company's Kayex unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   General Signal, a maker of process controls, electrical
equipment and semiconductors, had reached a agreement in July
to sell 300-employee Ultratech to New Enterprise Associates,
a San Francisco-based venture capital firm. A General Signal
spokesman said the agreement collapsed due to inability to
agree on the amount of financing from General Signal.
   Ultratech Stepper, which makes photolithography equipment
for semiconductors, accounted for about $40 million of
General Signal's sales of $1.92 billion in 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Foreign Medical
   Graduates Claim
   Licensing Bias
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Foreign-educated doctors are stepping up
challenges to U.S. licensing practices they say discriminate
against them.
   More than 130,000 doctors -- 21% of the U.S. total -- were
educated in foreign medical schools. Most of these are
foreign-born, though some 20,000 are Americans who took
medical degrees abroad, often because they couldn't get into
U.S. medical schools.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Foreign medical graduates come from all over the world,
but the largest numbers have migrated here from India and the
Philippines. They have moved into all fields of American
medicine, and according to an American Hospital Association
study, they play a particularly important role in caring for
indigent populations in such cities as New York, Detroit and
Chicago. About half of the foreign-educated physicians
practice in five states: New York, California, Florida,
Illinois and New Jersey.
   Despite the role of foreign graduates in U.S. medicine,
"discrimination against fully trained and qualified foreign
medical graduates in the areas of jobs, promotions, hospital
privileges, licensing, reciprocity and other facets of
medical practice" is common, says Navin Shah of the
International Association of American Physicians. "Under
false pretense of quality patient care, the authorities are
clandestinely eliminating the foreign medical graduates from
the practice of medicine" in order to protect jobs for
American-educated physicians, he charges.
   Munni Setty says she ran into difficulty when she sought a
license to practice in Colorado in 1988. After graduating
from medical school in India in 1982, she completed a
three-year residency in Chicago, won certification as a
specialist in internal medicine and received licenses to
practice in California and Illinois. For American medical
school graduates licensed to practice in one state, it's easy
to win licenses in other states, but Dr. Setty says she
encountered a lengthy delay in Colorado.
   Among other things, the Colorado State Board of Medical
Examiners asked her to supply resumes of her medical school
professors at the University of Bombay. "This was rather
impractical and almost impossible to obtain," she says. "I
think it was just purely discrimination."
   Thomas Beckett, administrator of the Colorado board, says:
"I emphatically deny it. Every board has a responsibility to
determine that applicants go to a decent medical school." He
notes that state licensing laws require boards to develop
ways to assess foreign medical schools. "Some states ask how
many books there are in the library," he says.
   Because many foreign graduates attended Third World
medical schools where standards of teaching, technology and
clinical practice differ significantly from those in U.S.
medical schools, state licensing officials say they must rely
on a series of tests and credential checks to determine if
foreign graduates are qualified to practice. But, under
pressure from foreign-educated doctors, U.S. officials in the
past few years have streamlined the process for foreign
graduates.
   One change allows foreign graduates to take the same
certification test that U.S. medical school graduates take,
rather than a different test for foreigners only. "We are
happy that the same exams are given," says Dr. Shah, an
India-educated urologist who practices in Maryland. "Until
now, they always labeled us as second-rate because we took a
different exam. We want the same paper." Other steps to make
testing more uniform are in the works.
   The International Association of American Physicians, an
umbrella group that includes the Islamic Medical Association,
the Association of Philippine Physicians in America and other
organizations of foreign medical graduates here, also is
pressing Congress to pass laws that would prohibit state
licensing boards from discriminating against doctors educated
abroad. Several anti-discrimination bills calling for federal
monitoring of state licensing practices have been introduced.
   The American Medical Association concedes that some
foreign graduates "have been subject to requirements
different from other physicians" and opposes such
discrimination. But the AMA, worried about growing federal
control over medicine, has testified against bills that would
give the federal government a stronger role in licensing.
Instead, the AMA is starting its own service for collecting
and verifying physicians' credentials as a way to help
foreign graduates deal with requests from state licensing
boards.
   Officials at the state boards deny that their rules are
designed to keep foreign doctors out. But "there are a few
extra hoops (foreign graduates) have to go through," says
Kathryn Hill, assistant executive vice president of the
Federation of State Medical Boards in Fort Worth, Texas.
   Before they can practice in the U.S., foreign medical
graduates must pass a rigorous series of tests. First they
must show proficiency in English and a command of basic
medicine. The tests aren't easy. Of the 13,000 to 15,000
foreign graduates who take the tests each year, about 60%
pass the English test and about 25% pass the basic medical
science test, according to the Educational Commission of
Foreign Medical Graduates, the Philadelphia organization that
administers the tests.
   After passing these tests, foreign graduates must complete
one to three years of training in a residency program in a
U.S. hospital and pass a nationwide exam before being
licensed to practice by various state medical boards. About
81% of the foreign graduates who took the test for the first
time in June passed.
   Despite progress in eliminating differences between the
tests that foreign and U.S. medical school graduates take,
discrimination still exists, contend foreign graduates, who
regard some requirements as unnecessary. "Medical school is
only part of what makes a complete doctor," says Neopito
Robles, an Arizona surgeon from the Philippines. "Part is
training, and part is experience."
   Part of that experience, too, is learning about the
American political system. Some members of Congress who have
introduced bills to help foreign doctors have made it clear
that they expect something in return. Rep. Stephen Solarz
(D., N.Y.), a sponsor of one of the bills, recently sent a
letter to doctors asking them to contribute to the Solarz
Congressional Club "to provide much needed help for my
re-election and to assist candidates who support us in our
efforts to help (foreign graduates)."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Seeks to Ensure
   That Banks Fulfill
   Proxy-Voting Duties
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
LABOR DEPARTMENT (LBR)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Labor Department launched an effort
designed to ensure that banks fulfill their proxy-voting
duties as trustees for pension plans.
   David Ball, assistant secretary for the Labor Department's
Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, said the
department's enforcement division has started a study into
how banks get proxy ballots to trustees and whether the
process gives the shareholders a chance to vote properly. He
said he expects the department inquiry to prompt banks to
review their own policies, thus acting as a self-policing
mechanism.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "For corporate democracy to work well, persons entitled to
vote need to be able to get relevant information in a timely
fashion and to receive their ballots in time to cast them,"
Mr. Ball said.
   The Labor Department conducted a similar review of
investment managers recently to ensure that they were
managing assets in the interests of plan beneficiaries.
   Mr. Ball said the department's regional offices will
contact major banks in their areas to determine whether the
banks are delivering proxies "in a timely fashion" to pension
plan fiduciaries. The department also will be asking about
the banks' procedures for determining whether the people
voting the shares are the appropriate plan fiduciaries, he
said.
   Mr. Ball also said the Labor Department is considering a
measure that would help beneficiaries determine whether
pension managers have a proxy-voting policy. Currently,
participants can find out about the specific plan's
investments but can't learn much about whether the plan has a
broader policy concerning proxy voting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Angling European-Style, Maggots and All
   ----
   By Michael Pearce
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A28
</SO>
<LP>
   Augusta, Kan. -- Two anglers, one a boy and the other an
adult, stood side-by-side beneath the towering willows that
encased the small Kansas lake. Both stared in front of them,
just beyond where their reflections reached out onto the
placid waters, at a small piece of painted balsa floating on
the surface. Suddenly the float bobbed twice and then
steadily disappeared from sight.
   The boy snapped his fishing pole gently and held on as the
hand-sized bluegill cut circular patterns as it splashed on
the surface. When the fight was over the fish was hauled to
hand; the hook's bait was checked and then carefully placed
in the same spot.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Within seconds the float was gone and the fight was on
again. So it went time after time after time. Most of the
fish were bluegill but the occasional larger channel catfish
kept the pair on their toes. Ten-year-old Matt Murphy smiled
at his success and thanked his mentor. It was an all-American
scene -- but with some obviously European twists.
   Even from across the lake you could see that their rod was
not a conventional spinning or baitcast model. In fact, there
was no reel, only a 19-foot graphite pole that's wrist-thick
at the base and gradually narrows to its toothpick-like tip.
   The float was a specially engineered piece of art that
rested on a spider-web-like line. The tiny pea-sized hook was
baited with a European favorite -- maggots.
   And if you listened carefully, your ears would pick up
another sign of the scene's transatlantic background. Mick
Thill, the man who offered Matt the advice, has a voice that
betrays his years in England. Though he's spent much of his
life in the Midwest, it's an accent that thickens as his
enthusiasm grows. A man of many missions, Thill often sounds
as if he's still on the banks of the Thames.
   One of his goals is to convince the American angling
public of the effectiveness of European tactics and
equipment. According to Thill, what works over there will
work even better in the U.S.
   "The fish in Europe are so spooky now," said Thill. "First
of all, they've had catch-and-release over there for 100
years so the fish are pretty wise. It's also such a huge
sport. Not only are there a lot of {recreational} fishermen,
it's also a big competitive sport. It's like softball over
here in that you'll have small teams taking on others all the
way up to city championships. In England kids grow up
daydreaming of someday fishing for their city in the national
championships." It's a dream that Thill has realized many
times over, including a world championship in 1983.
   Such competition has refined the tackle to its scientific
best. "The whole system is designed around total balance and
finesse," said Thill. "Quite often I'll be using a
pound-and-a-half test line and a tiny, tiny hook."
   In addition to the long, reel-less pole, Thill likes to
demonstrate the advantages of the long spinning rods -- up to
12-feet long or more -- that Europeans often fit with a large
spinning reel. "There's basically no fishing from a boat,"
said Thill, "so if the fish are 40 or 50 yards out you have
to be able to cast out to them."
   Thill, who lived in Chicago until he was 12 and now lives
in Urbana, Ill., where he manufactures many of the products
he promotes, also is quick to point out the advantages of the
sleek floats that he uses. "They're simply much more
sensitive than the big plastic floats you find in the
states," said Thill. "With a good float the fish won't feel
any resistance and the angler can even tell if the fish has
grabbed the bait and is swimming upward."
   And then there is the bait. Though humans hate them, Thill
can prove that fish simply love maggots. "They're a great
bait," said Thill. "They're small yet attract big as well as
small fish; they're tough, active and are really
inexpensive."
   After watching Thill throw handfuls of maggots into the
water you realize why he emphasizes the low cost. Baiting the
water, often calling chumming, is legal in most states and
according to Thill is an ideal way to attract and "turn on"
fish.
   During a morning's fishing at the lake that sits in Matt's
backyard, Thill demonstrated a variety of European tricks,
including using a specially made slingshot to send a wad of
maggots to where a float and hook were being cast 100 feet
from shore. He also showed spectators how to use a lead
"plumb" to test the depth of the water as well as how to
locate important fish-holding structures.
   Though he's converted a lot of adults to his style of
angling, Thill admits to setting his sights much younger.
"This is the perfect way for children to learn how to fish,"
said Thill. "It's quite easy and very, very productive, and
that's what's important to kids -- catching fish. All too
often a child will go fishing, not catch much of anything,
then get bored and move on to something else. I can take that
same kid, show him or her how to catch dozens of fish an hour
and they're hooked for life." True to his words, Thill had
Matt and his younger brother, Marshall, pulling in fish after
fish.
   The ever-enthusiastic Thill also would like to see youth
fishing raised to more than just a recreational sport. In
addition to being the founder of the American Fishing
Association, Thill is the coach of the American Junior
Fishing Team. Though constantly battling for funding, Thill
has had some impressive successes in the world championships.
Someday he hopes to bring the gold back to the country of his
birth.
   "If we had the money I think I could take an American kid
and make a world champion out of him," said Thill. "The kids
in America have such an opportunity to practice. A lot of
kids in Europe would simply die to have the fishing that
someone like Matt has right here."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Cineplex Odeon Plan
   To Sell 38 Theaters
   To Plitt Is Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CPX MCA
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Cineplex Odeon Corp. said the $31.8 million
sale of 38 of its U.S. movie theaters to Plitt Amusement Co.
of Los Angeles won't go ahead as planned.
   Cineplex disclosed last month that the transaction might
not be completed. Sources close to the proposed sale said it
foundered over the reluctance of banks to finance an
acquisition valued at more than six times cash flow. Analysts
said the Plitt sale had an indicated value of eight times
cash flow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction, announced in June, had been scheduled to
close July 31.
   Cineplex and Plitt said that "the matter was settled on
amicable terms," and that the two companies "have released
each other from any related obligations."
   The Plitt sale was one of several announced by Cineplex as
part of the movie theater chain's commitments to its bankers
to raise $200 million through asset sales. Those proceeds are
to be used to cut its long-term debt load, which stood at
$479.4 million at June 30, 1990.
   Allen Karp, president and chief executive officer of
Cineplex, said previously that the company doesn't propose to
dispose of assets at "fire-sale prices" to meet that target.
   "We've got the confidence of our bankers and our major
shareholders to the extent that we don't need to give things
away," said a spokeswoman for Cineplex.
   If Cineplex doesn't meet that target, its two major
shareholders, MCA Inc. and interests affiliated with Montreal
financier Charles Bronfman, have agreed to invest an
additional $100 million in Cineplex in the form of
subordinated financing.
   To date, Cineplex has raised about $142 million in gross
proceeds from asset sales.
   The company spokeswoman said the theaters, which are not
in areas that Cineplex has identified as core markets, will
remain on the company's list of assets to be sold.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Brent Walker Seeks
   Rebate on Purchase
   Of Two Betting Shops
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A27
</SO>
<CO>
   U.BWL U.GME
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Brent Walker Group PLC, a British leisure
concern, said it will ask Grand Metropolitan PLC to return
part of the #685 million ($1.3 billion) purchase price for
two betting shops.
   The claim stems from what Brent Walker says is
worse-than-expected profit performance by William Hill
Organization Ltd. and Mecca Bookmakers Ltd. Brent Walker
purchased the two companies, which are based in London, in
1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Brent Walker didn't say how much of a rebate it would
request from Grand Met, except to say it would be
"substantial."
   The purchase agreement between the two companies called
for an adjustment to the purchase price if the combined
pretax profit of William Hill and Mecca fell below #51
million. Brent Walker said the combined pretax profit of the
shops was "substantially below" that figure, according to
accounts drafted by its auditors.
   A source familiar with the betting operations said that
Brent Walker may ask for an adjustment of as much as #166
million. But Grand Met said a review of the accounts by its
auditors, KPMG Peat Marwick McLintock, and outside auditors,
Coopers &amp; Lybrand Deloitte, shows that there is no need for
an adjustment to the purchase price.
   Grand Met also rejected Brent Walker's claim that Brent
Walker isn't liable to make a final #50 million payment, due
Sept. 25. A Grand Met spokesman said the payment is a
separate issue from any adjustment of the purchase price.
   Sources familiar with the two sides said discussions to
resolve the dispute are being arranged. If the companies fail
to resolve the dispute between them, they will turn to an
independent auditor.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   S&amp;L Bailout Agency
   Cancels the Auction
   Of Thrift Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- Federal savings and loan bailout
officials said Monday they were canceling the much-promoted
international satellite auction of million-dollar properties
inherited from bankrupt savings and loans.
   L. William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution Trust
Corp., said the auction was canceled after the Auction Co. of
America, which the agency had hired, did not contribute to a
joint fund promoting the event.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The group we contracted with couldn't fulfill their end
of the deal," Mr. Seidman said in a telephone interview.
   Jim Gall, chairman of the Miami-based Auction Co. of
America, disputed Mr. Seidman and accused the bailout agency
of bungling the auction. He said the firm has spent nearly $2
million over four months to prepare for the event, about what
it was obligated to spend.
   The auction was to be held Nov. 15 in Dallas with
satellite hookups to bidders in nine other U.S. cities as
well as Tokyo and London.
   The RTC had hoped to sell 71 properties valued at $300
million. The auction was a centerpiece for what the agency
had billed as its "great fall inventory clearance sale" aimed
at drastically slimming its ballooning inventory of S&amp;L
assets.
   "We hope to start over. . . . It's going to slow us up a
little but, but I don't think it's a major blow," Mr. Seidman
said.
   Mr. Gall faulted the RTC for failing to set minimum prices
for the properties and for withdrawing three properties from
the auction list and selling them using other methods.
   Mr. Gall said potential buyers must have some assurance
the properties will remain on the auction list or they will
be unwilling to spend thousands of dollars on the
environmental, engineering and appraisal reports needed to
offer an intelligent bid.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   New York Post Union
   Votes to Accept Cuts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR TRB
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Newspaper Guild voted overwhelmingly to
accept New York Post owner Peter S. Kalikow's proposal of
wage-and-benefit cuts to keep the 189-year-old tabloid in
business.
   After a loud and emotional meeting that lasted for two
hours, Guild members, made up largely of editors, reporters
and advertising staff, voted 242-45 to approve concessions,
which call for a four-day workweek, a 20% cut in salary and
the elimination of dozens of jobs. Ten other newspaper unions
are expected to approve similar cuts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If the proposal had been rejected, Mr. Kalikow vowed to
shut down the paper with a final edition for today. Folding
the paper would have put 960 people out of work. Mr. Kalikow
has sought $27 million in cost cuts so the paper can break
even in 1990.
   Later this week, Mr. Kalikow and the unions are expected
to sign a new three-year contract. "Three years, for the Post
that's a long time," said Paul Tharp, a Post reporter after
emerging from the union hall in Manhattan.
   Though many union members said they were against cutting
their own pay and workweek, they were swayed by a last-minute
sweetener by Mr. Kalikow to boost severance pay for those who
agree to resign. At the Guild meeting, several members spoke
out saying they would approve the contract but they would
take the buyout. Mr. Kalikow has also promised the unions 20%
of the company's stock and a representative on the board.
   The settlement at the Post is expected to put pressure on
Tribune Co.'s Daily News, which is in the midst of stalled
and bitter negotiations with its unions. The Daily News,
however, is asking its unions for extensive changes in hiring
and operations, whereas Mr. Kalikow was looking only to cut
costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900918-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900918-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stocks End Mixed in Slow Trading;
   Oil-Price Rise Boosts Energy Issues
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/18/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices closed mixed in sluggish trading,
but ended the session on an upswing as another surge in the
price of oil rekindled buying interest in the energy sector.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 3.22 to 2567.33, but
gains in Exxon, Chevron and Texaco more than accounted for
the advance; the performance of the three oil stocks lifted
the average by nearly six points.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Broader market indexes also posted modest gains. Standard
&amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index went up 0.94 to 317.77, the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index rose 0.47 to 174.62 and the
Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 0.79 to 294.40.
   But declining issues led advancers on the Big Board by 768
to 681, and traders said the market remained plagued by
uncertainty regarding the Persian Gulf situation and the
deficit-reduction talks.
   "Nobody wants to make any commitments for fear that
they're going to be wrong tomorrow," said James C. Andrews,
first vice president in charge of institutional trading at
Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.
   Only 110,600,000 shares were traded, down from 133,390,000
shares Friday. Concerns about today's reports on the August
consumer price index and the July trade deficit also kept
investors out of the market, traders said.
   Both reports are expected to reflect the impact of higher
oil prices, even though the July trade data was collected
before Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
   The CPI is expected to show an increase of 0.8%, with
prices excluding food and energy up 0.4%, according to a
consensus of economists polled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report. The July trade deficit is expected to widen to $7.3
billion from $5.1 billion in June, with a rise in oil imports
accounting for the move.
   Although analysts have cited oil prices as a key influence
on the market recently, stocks declined only briefly in the
latest session as crude-oil futures surged to the highest
levels in New York trading since being introduced in 1983.
October futures ended the session at $33.63 a barrel, up
$1.87.
   Jon Groveman, president of Ladenburg, Thalmann &amp; Co., said
the previous surges in oil prices blunted the impact of the
latest advance on the market. "A lot of people who wanted to
react to that {rally} already have done so," Mr. Groveman
says.
   Scattered bargain-hunting by institutional investors
helped the market recover its initial losses, traders said.
Stocks then proceeded to spend most of the session drifting
within tight trading ranges; buying in the final hour pushed
prices to session highs.
   Chevron advanced 1 3/4 to 77 5/8, while Texaco rose 7/8 to
65 3/8 and Exxon gained 1/4 to 51 5/8. Among other oil
stocks, Mobil added 1 to 66 1/2, Amoco added 1 1/8 to 58 3/8,
Unocal rose 1 to 33 1/4 and Atlantic Richfield climbed 1 3/4
to 141 5/8. Within the oilfield-services sector, Halliburton
rallied 1 1/4 to 55 7/8, Schlumberger went up 1/4 to 66 1/2
and Parker Drilling jumped 3/4 to 8 3/4.
   Similarly, precious-metals stocks took their direction
from gold prices; October gold futures rose $4.20 an ounce,
to $390.60 in New York trading. Homestake Mining went up 5/8
to 20 1/2, Newmont Mining rose 7/8 to 43 7/8 and Placer Dome
added 1/4 to 17 3/8.
   Digital Equipment, which fell 9 7/8 last week as the
company cautioned against expecting any quick turnaround in
its fortunes, rebounded 1/4 to 56 5/8 in composite trading of
1.6 million shares. But Digital traded as low as 54 during
the session, and The Wall Street Journal reported in
yesterday's "Heard on the Street" column that few analysts
are willing to bet it has hit bottom.
   International Business Machines gained 3/4 to 105 1/8. IBM
and Microsoft are expected to realign some of their
responsibilities for the development of the OS/2 operating
system for personal computers, which has flopped so far, the
Journal reported.
   Unisys went down 1/4 to 7 7/8 in active trading, and other
key technology stocks also headed lower. Hewlett-Packard
dropped 3/8 to 32 3/4, Compaq Computer dipped 1/2 to 43 5/8,
Cray Research slipped 3/4 to 34 5/8 and Control Data lost 7/8
to 11 5/8.
   UAL slipped 1 5/8 to 97 3/8. A group of unions at its
United Airlines unit is likely to abandon its most recent
buy-out offer -- valued at $201 a share, or $4.38 billion --
and may submit another, lower bid, the Journal reported.
   McDonnell Douglas fell 1 7/8 to 50. Smith Barney, Harris
Upham downgraded its investment rating on the stock to
"avoid" from "hold."
   American Home Products gained 3/4 to 48. As expected, the
company reached an agreement to help MicroGeneSys in
developing VaxSyn HIV-1, an experimental AIDS vaccine. Of
three vaccines now under intense study, VaxSyn has undergone
the most advanced human tests.
   U.S. Surgical jumped 2 5/8 to 56 1/2. Salomon Brothers
upgraded its rating on the stock, which the firm expects to
outperform the market, and increased its earnings estimates
for 1990, 1991 and 1992 by 10 cents, 20 cents and 70 cents a
share -- to $1.65, $2.10 and $3, respectively.
   Capital Holding rose 1/4 to 35. The company said it plans
to repurchase up to two million common shares, including
about 550,000 shares to be bought through its employee
pension fund.
   Apple Bancorp, which dropped its opposition to a
$38-a-share takeover bid from New York real estate investor
Stanley Stahl, tacked on 3/8 to 33 1/8. The bank holding
company said it is now taking a neutral position on the
offer.
   Paired certificates of Hotel Investors Trust and Hotel
Investors Corp. gained 5/8 to 3 1/2. First West Capital is
offering $5 each for the securities in a takeover offer.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 0.26
to 321.71. Volume totaled 9,810,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
