<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spain's Biggest Bank Seeks to Revitalize
   Industrial Plan, Forge Alliances Abroad
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BBV
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, Spain's largest bank,
intends to revitalize its industrial strategy and forge
alliances with other big European banks as part of a plan for
the 1990s.
   "We're going to continue taking stakes in industry because
it's our tradition and we like it," said Emilio Ybarra, its
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   And, though "cross-frontier banking mergers aren't yet
possible in practice," he added, "changes in European
Community legislation may make them so. When that happens,
previously forged alliances may facilitate" such mergers.
   Six months after the denouement of a debilitating
leadership crisis, BBV is back on the offensive. In an
interview in his office at the bank's Madrid headquarters,
Mr. Ybarra, the 56-year-old banking veteran who emerged from
the crisis as BBV's new chairman, sketched his plans to
consolidate the bank in Spain and expand into neighboring
markets.
   For the moment, he said, BBV hasn't completed any alliance
with another European bank, but "we're working on it." Target
areas are West Germany, France and Britain, where the
strength of local banks makes it hard for BBV to compete at
the retail level.
   Such link-ups, Mr. Ybarra suggests, might involve the sale
of products in each other's markets and joint ventures in new
sectors and geographical areas. Further down the line, in a
context of European financial consolidation, they could serve
as a basis for even closer ties. A prior alliance, by testing
mutual compatibilities, can help to establish a basis for a
possible merger, he maintains.
   "The important thing {in any merger} is that it should be
a good merger, with good partners," he says.
   The scion of a wealthy northern Spanish industrial and
financial family, Mr. Ybarra took the helm of BBV in January
at a difficult moment. Forged out of the merger in 1988 of
rivals Banco de Bilbao and Banco de Vizcaya, BBV was still
reeling from a succession crisis sparked in December by the
death of one of its then two co-chairmen, former Vizcaya
Chairman Pedro Toledo.
   In a row over whether BBV should stay with a dual
chairmanship or let BBV's other co-chairman, ex-Bilbao
Chairman Jose Angel Sanchez Asiain, take over alone, factions
representing the bank's Bilbao and Vizcaya components fought
for control. The warring damaged the bank's efficiency and
its international image, forcing the Bank of Spain to step
in. Mr. Sanchez Asiain was obliged to resign, and Mr. Ybarra,
another ex-Bilbao executive, was appointed to succeed him.
   Until then, Mr. Ybarra, who through his family is one of
the bank's leading individual shareholders, had been
occupying an unobtrusive role as BBV's vice chairman. A law
graduate who began his career in mining, he joined Banco de
Bilbao in 1964, working his way up to the post of Bilbao's
managing director and vice chairman.
   But when Bilbao merged with Vizcaya, the top post at BBV
seemed barred to him because of the stronger claim of Mr.
Toledo, the former Vizcaya chairman. Until his death, Mr.
Toledo had widely been expected to take over as sole chairman
of BBV in 1992.
   When Mr. Toledo's death indirectly propelled Mr. Ybarra
into the chairmanship, many people inside and outside the
bank expected the appointment to be only an interim one.
Since then, however, this quiet-spoken patrician has
confounded such expectations. Aided by the tact of Mr.
Sanchez Asiain, who now heads BBV's new cultural foundation,
he has shown a talent for conciliation and leadership,
smoothing ruffled sensitivities and giving a new sense of
direction to the bank.
   "He's a practical man who has known how to put his
extensive banking experience to use," an ex-Vizcaya colleague
says. "He was called upon to play a role as pacifier, and he
has played it well."
   On the domestic front, his appointment coincided with a
damaging interest-rate war among Spanish banks, which at one
point appeared to threaten BBV with a serious loss of
deposits. Launching a counteroffensive, Mr. Ybarra this year
introduced high-yield accounts at BBV including a savings
account with a built-in lottery. Results were quickly
apparent. BBV's market share, after falling from 7.25% of
total Spanish bank and savings bank deposits in December to
7.12% in February, rose to 7.56% in May, the latest month for
which figures are available.
   In financial terms, Mr. Ybarra concedes, BBV will suffer
like other Spanish banks this year from the effects of a
reduction in financial margins and a Bank of Spain squeeze on
lending. On the other hand, however, the technical
integration of the bank's two halves is 80% complete, he
says. After a period of high costs and staff duplication, BBV
is beginning to see the economies of scale that the merger of
Bilbao and Vizcaya promised.
   Its work force has been reduced by more than 1% since the
start of this year to 29,500, and it's gradually closing
unneeded offices. Increases in costs so far this year have
been kept below the rate of inflation. In spite of the
deposit-rate war, the bank's financial margin has narrowed by
only 0.3 percentage point in the past 12 months,
substantially less than at other banks.
   On the industrial front, meanwhile, BBV is pressing ahead
with the reorganization of a range of industrial and service
interests under new holding companies. It has already set up
umbrella firms to run its interests in the foods sector and
wholesale distribution. Similar companies are in the pipeline
for retailing, new technologies and leisure services and
travel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   MECA's Shares
   Rise to a Premium
   After Initial Offer
   ----
   By Tania Bien-Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   MECA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   MECA Software Inc. turned out to be investor-friendly in
its initial public offering.
   The Westport, Conn., producer of software aimed at helping
individuals and small businesses manage their taxes and legal
affairs sold 1,750,000 shares Thursday at $10 apiece. The
offering immediately surged to a premium, trading as high as
$13.25 the first day on volume of 1,754,700 shares, closing
at $12.25.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   MECA closed Friday at $11.75 in over-the-counter trading
on volume of 427,600 shares, giving the company's 4.68
million shares an indicated market value of about $55
million.
   Most of the company's revenue comes from two software
packages, Andrew Tobias Managing Your Money, designed in part
by financial writer Andrew Tobias, and Andrew Tobias TaxCut,
with help from Mr. Tobias and tax attorney Daniel Caine. The
company also markets and is developing other products.
   The underwriters, Needham &amp; Co., Hambrecht &amp; Quist Inc.
and Piper, Jaffray &amp; Hopwood, had estimated in the
preliminary prospectus in early June that the offering would
be priced at $7.50 to $9.50 a share.
   In the offering, the company sold one million shares,
saying it will use the funds for marketing, product
development and working capital. In addition, two founders
and two other investors sold 750,000 shares, with an
additional 270,000 overallotment. Prior to the offering,
Hambro International Venture Funds and Palmer Organization
III L.P. each held a 32.6% interest; Daniel M. Schley,
president and chief executive officer, 27.2%; and Garner W.
Lester, executive vice president, 7.6%.
   If the holders sell all one million shares, Hambro's
interest would decline to 18.5%; Palmer, to 19.6%; Mr.
Schley, to 15%; and Mr. Lester, to 4.2%.
   The company's revenue has surged, from $6.4 million in
fiscal 1988 to $11 million in fiscal 1989 and $17.3 million
for the nine months ended March 31; the latter period
included $5.4 million in revenue from a joint marketing
arrangement with International Business Machines Corp., which
included copies of MECA software as part of the sale of
certain personal computers. Net income totaled $11,000 in
fiscal 1988, $468,000 in fiscal 1989, and $1.2 million in the
most recent nine months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Firm Extends Note Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   GACC
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CINCINNATI -- Great American Communications Co. said it
has extended the expiration date of its offer to purchase all
the 13 1/4% senior extended reset notes issued by its GACC
Holding unit to July 25. The original expiration date was
July 3.
   About $37 million principal amount of reset notes have
been tendered to date.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Phoenix Technologies
   Says 3rd-Period Loss
   Grew to $4.7 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   PTEC
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORWOOD, Mass. -- Phoenix Technologies Ltd. said its loss
widened in the third quarter ended March 31, partly because
of an increase in its bad-debt provision.
   The maker of computer software's net loss widened to $4.7
million, or 46 cents a share, from $998,000, or 10 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 41% to $9.3 million from
$15.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Phoenix president Ronald D. Fisher said that on an
operating basis, excluding the bad debt provisions and other
one-time charges, the company's loss "is generally in line
with our expectations." He added that the operating loss has
decreased in each of the last two quarters.
   Phoenix increased its bad-debt provision for the quarter
to $2.4 million from $1.3 million a year earlier. Rob Langer,
who took over as chief financial officer six weeks ago, said
that he "made the decision to get the bad debt behind us,"
and acknowledge that the company wasn't going to be paid
under some of the software contracts it had previously
booked. "We've gone to more conservative accounting," he
said.
   The accounting changes also helped cause the revenue
decline because Phoenix used to book all the revenue from a
year long contract as soon as the period began, whereas it
now books much of the revenue over the course of the
contract, Mr. Langer said.
   Mr. Fisher said that revenue has risen in each of the last
two quarters and said the backlog is growing.
   For the nine months, Phoenix reported a net loss of $14.2
million, or $1.42 a share, compared with net income of $4.2
million, or 37 cents a share. Revenue fell 46% to $25.8
million from $48.2 million. The bad-debt provision expanded
to $4.4 million from $1.4 million.
   Phoenix said that it remains financially sound without any
bank debt. It has $10.9 million in cash, up slightly from the
previous quarter, but down 31% from $15.9 million a year
earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   HEI Offer to Columbia Hospital
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   HEIC CHOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Columbia Hospital Corp. said
shareholders of HEI Corp. have tendered about 4.8 million
shares, or about 98% of HEI shares outstanding, in connection
with Columbia's $4.50-a-share, or $22 million, offer for HEI.
   Both companies own and operate hospitals. Columbia also
makes medical equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Hachette Extends
   Deadline on Bids
   For Woman's Day
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   F.HAC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Hachette S.A., the owner of Woman's Day
magazine, rejected as inadequate a number of bids for the
mass-circulation magazine and extended the deadline for
potential suitors.
   Hachette, based in Paris, put the magazine up for sale in
May, saying it must find cash to pay off debt from its
purchase of Diamandis Communications Inc., the U.S. publisher
of Woman's Day. In 1988, Hachette paid $712 million for
Diamandis.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Peter Diamandis, chairman of DCI, wouldn't comment on the
progress of the sale. Mr. Diamandis and Hachette's top
executives had set a deadline of Friday at midnight for
Woman's Day to be sold or taken off the market.
   A DCI executive said that after a number of bids were
rejected, Hachette was giving some of the suitors time to
prepare new bids. The executive said a new deadline has been
set for midnight Tuesday. Diamandis insiders said the French
have set a floor of about $175 million. "If the French don't
get their price, they will pull it from the market and work
on improving the magazine," the executive said.
   Bidders for the magazine have included British media baron
Robert Maxwell, Macfadden Holdings Inc., Reader's Digest
Association Inc., and Gruner + Jahr USA Publishing, according
to people close to the negotiations. A Reader's Digest
spokesman said the company declined to comment.
Representatives for the other companies couldn't be reached
for comment over the weekend.
   Daniel Filipacchi, chairman of Hachette Publications Inc.,
the U.S. publishing arm of Hachette S.A., is in New York
handling the sale of the magazine. Started in 1937, Woman's
Day is one of the largest selling magazines in the country,
with average newsstand sales of 4.6 million.
   Mr. Diamandis characterized bids for the magazine as
disappointing. There is speculation that should Woman's Day
not be sold, another DCI magazine, possibly the nostalgia
magazine Memories, would be put on the market in place of
Woman's Day. DCI also publishes the U.S. edition of Elle, Car
and Driver, and Popular Photographer.
   Mr. Diamandis has said the self-imposed deadlines were
necessary so the sale wouldn't drag on, hurting staff morale
as well as advertising sales.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Disney, EPA
   Settle Charges
   Of Dumping
   ---
   Entertainment Company
   `Accepts Responsibility,'
   Must Pay $550,000 Fine
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   DIS
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   BURBANK, Calif. -- Walt Disney Co. and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency reached a settlement over
allegations that hazardous paint thinner and other cleaning
solvents used at Disneyland for two years were dumped
illegally at sites in Utah and Wyoming.
   Under the settlement, Disney "accepts responsibility" for
the violations, but the EPA agrees these violations were
unintentional. Disney will pay a $550,000 fine and develop
both an environmental audit for Disneyland and a training
program which will include techniques for supervising
third-party contractors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's by leaps and bounds the largest penalty ever for
this region," said EPA enforcement attorney David Janik.
   Disney last week filed a lawsuit in state court in Orange
County, Calif., against Ken's Oil Co. of Garden Grove,
Calif., charging breach of contract and fraud and asking for
unspecified damages. It was Ken's that between May 1987 and
August 1989 hauled about 14,000 gallons of waste from
Disneyland to sites in Utah and Wyoming which, according to
the EPA, often were mislabeled and dumped at facilities
unauthorized to dispose of this kind of waste.
   Ken's co-owner, Juanita Schow, said she didn't know about
the lawsuit. "We're just the haulers," she said. "The
responsibility is theirs."
   Although the EPA has been investigating the alleged
violations for about one year, the affair was kept quiet and
the charges were filed at the same time as the settlement.
   "No company wants to splash this kind of thing in the
papers," said Kim Murphy, the former marine biologist and
Imagineering executive whom Disney appointed vice president
of environmental policy earlier this year in the wake of
other environmental controversies.
   "We're a very visible target," added a Disney spokesman.
"There's an old saying, `It's the nail whose head sticks up
that gets hit.' "
   In January, Walt Disney World in Florida was fined $10,000
after pleading guilty to a charge of violating the federal
Migratory Bird Treaty Act after 15 black vultures that had
been confined in a small shed on Discovery Island died.
   In April, Mr. Murphy said, the EPA fined Disney more than
$300,000 over the discharge of secondarily treated sewage
into wetlands. Mr. Murphy said the program was an experiment
to provide nutrients to the area and that permits were
obtained, but that the EPA closed the program down because
Disney was exceeding federal nutrient-level guidelines.
   In 1988, Disney settled a similar hazardous waste case
with the state of Florida over storage and labeling of
materials at Walt Disney World. Disney paid a $150,000 fine.
   In 1989, Disney paid a $2,500 fine to the EPA in Boston
for violations of the Toxic Substances Control Act in a case
involving the shipping of monorail cars with coolants
containing toxic polychlorinated biphenyls.
   In the case of the Disneyland waste material, "we relied
on {Ken's Oil} to give us instructions on how to do this kind
of thing," said Mr. Murphy. "They're the experts. The thing
we're guilty of, and it's not a good excuse, is naivete."
   Mr. Murphy said he has assembled a task force of Disney
managers to focus on environmental issues. He also said that
a training program has been in effect for a year and that a
$100,000 environmental audit of Walt Disney World has been
completed. He is interviewing consultants for a similar audit
of company facilities in California.
   Disneyland generates a lot of such hazardous waste. "We do
a lot of painting and cleaning," the spokesman said. "We're
well-known for it."
   The EPA said Disney had cooperated fully with the agency.
Mr. Janik said it still was assessing the extent of the
environmental damage caused by the dumping.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Former Grumman
   Chairman Linked
   To U.S. Inquiry
   ----
   By Charles W. Stevens and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GQ WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The name of John O'Brien, who resigned suddenly last week
as chairman of Grumman Corp., has arisen in a federal inquiry
into Pentagon contracting fraud, although he isn't believed
to be a target of the probe.
   Before his abrupt resignation, Mr. O'Brien became
embroiled in the federal criminal investigation of Pentagon
procurement fraud and corruption involving Long Island-based
companies, according to defense and law-enforcement
officials. The grand jury inquiry began in Uniondale, N.Y.,
more than a year ago, according to these officials, but in
the past few months investigators stepped up their interest
in Mr. O'Brien and his activities.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Prosecutors have questioned witnesses and collected
documents related to his involvement with the late James
Kane, a Long Island businessman who helped run a
now-disgraced political lobbying group representing area
defense firms.
   Other individuals associated with Mr. Kane funneled
thousands of dollars of illegal campaign contributions to
various lawmakers during the 1980s, according to
investigators and court documents filed by the government.
Messrs. O'Brien and Kane were friends, according to
law-enforcement officials, and prosecutors are trying to
determine whether Mr. O'Brien had a role in the operation of
the lobbying group, called Long Island Aerospace Political
Action Committee.
   Mr. Kane's name originally surfaced two years ago as part
of a broader Alexandria, Va., grand jury investigation of
Pentagon bribery and influence-peddling. A search warrant
issued at the time for one of Mr. Kane's companies asked for
material "pertaining to schemes" to "extort campaign
contributions" from certain defense contractors. Federal
agents also sought documents "relating to the ownership of
stock certificates" or other "things of value" that may have
been given to public officials by one of Mr. Kane's companies
or associates.
   Federal investigators, among other things, are now trying
to determine whether Mr. O'Brien, members of his family or
other current or former Grumman officials received loans or
other benefits from Mr. Kane or his firms, according to law
enforcement officials. A member of the law firm representing
Grumman declined to comment.
   In May, a former shipping manager at Grumman's aerospace
unit pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to defraud the
government by submitting to the Pentagon $300,000 of bogus
bills submitted by a subcontractor controlled by Mr. Kane.
The former Grumman manager is cooperating with prosecutors.
   Previously, Grumman has maintained that it isn't a target
of either grand jury investigation. Company spokesmen on
Friday declined to comment on the matter.
   Meanwhile, Grumman's new chairman said the Bethpage, N.Y.,
maker of jet fighters won't change course. Renso L. Caporali
said his first priority is "to try to convince everyone that
the change at Grumman is not so radical." Mr. Caporali, who
also succeeds Mr. O'Brien as chief executive officer and
president, said he plans "a continuation of the agenda that
my predecessor was pushing so hard" at Grumman.
   Topping that agenda is an effort to reduce Grumman's size
in line with decreasing defense spending. "The downward
pressure (in defense spending) is going to be on everyone (in
the industry) and the only way to deal with it is to get
yourself into fighting trim," Mr. Caporali said. Last month,
Grumman announced it would offer early-retirement incentives
to 6,000 employees, or 21% of its work force, to cut costs.
   Grumman's announcement of the management change said that
Mr. Caporali will serve in his new duties while the board
considers other candidates for the positions, both from
inside and outside the company. However, the new chairman
said "I hope to stay in the job permanently." Mr. Caporali,
the former vice chairman, technology, said the likely inside
candidates would be Grumman's other vice chairman, Robert G.
Freeze, and the heads of the major divisions.
   Mr. Caporali said he first learned he would be assuming
the company's leadership a week before the announcement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   To Be or Not to Be a Catholic
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   In response to Tom Bethell's June 20 editorial-page
article, "The Heresy of Cardinal O' Connor": The timidity of
Cardinal John O'Connor and other American Catholic Church
leaders is amazing to this Catholic. The Catholic leadership
in America is not leading; it is posturing. Church teaching
on abortion is unequivocal: Abortion is wrong and must be
opposed.
   It is not sufficient to proclaim you are a Catholic to be
one. This can be said of any creed. Your claim to Catholicism
must be confirmed by your acceptance of and practice of the
precepts of the Catholic Church. Rejection of the teachings
and precepts of the Catholic Church means you have left the
church. Therefore, your claim to Catholicism is false.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It is unfortunate that Cardinal O'Connor and other church
officials have not been more public and forceful in their
criticism of "Catholicism" as practiced by some public
figures. Their failure has allowed public officials to claim
"Catholicism" yet support abortion. Catholics in America
deserve better leadership.
   R.G. Lingenfelser
   Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.
   ---
   I am reminded of an old stratagem: If you can convince
your audience that two plus two equal five, you may proceed
with impunity to prove any number of equations based on that
premise. For instance: Membership in the Catholic Church is
not like membership in an exclusive golf club; (the rules of
admission are more egalitarian); Mario Cuomo's position
relative to the cardinal's is not that of Henry VIII's
relative to (St.) Thomas More's. The governor is not given to
throw his subjects in the Tower of London for the purpose of
putting their heads on the chopping block. Yes, there surely
is a "God's Law." The question is whether the cardinal is its
sole arbiter in the realm of the state of New York. You try
to prove that]
   William W. Apt
   Manhasset N.Y.
   ---
   Mr. Bethell complains about the role played by the press
and the politicians in the recent excommunication brouhaha.
It seems to me the Catholic Church is in more danger from
prelates like Cardinal O'Connor. After all, he's the one who
backed off as soon as the media started giving him a hard
time.
   What kind of church has it become to place so high a value
on avoiding martyrdom?
   Woody Woodruff
   New York
   ---
   If Cardinal O'Connor and the Catholic Church are opposed
to abortion, why are they also unequivocally opposed to birth
control?
   Why does Cardinal O'Connor shrink from publicly condemning
the truly grievous sinners in our society -- many of whom
reside in the cardinal's own back yard? (i.e. Mafia leaders,
drug dealers, dishonest public officials).
   It is easier, and probably a lot safer, to condemn Gov.
Cuomo. The cardinal should know that there are millions of
non-Catholic women like myself who applaud Gov. Cuomo's
defense of our legal right to a medically safe abortion.
   Karen M. Dickes
   Ellsworth, Maine
   ---
   Hooray for Mr. Bethell for presenting the Catholic
Church's side. I'm tired of hearing "I'm a Catholic but I
don't believe in: the stance against abortion, celibacy, the
sacrament of reconciliation (formerly known as confession);
the stance against artificial birth control; the teaching
that the pope is the highest authority in the church," etc.
   These are all precepts of the Catholic religion today, and
unless and until there are any changes made -- if one cannot
accept these precepts -- one should search for some other
religion by which to live. Of course the Catholic religion is
a difficult one by which to live in this age of total
permissiveness but there is no one living in the U.S. today
who is not free to worship in whatever religion that person
finds most comfortable.
   I feel our elected officials should keep their religious
opinions to themselves. I feel the same about paid performers
such as the so-called "superstars." Their opinions are just
that -- their opinions, but because of their high profiles,
their opinions are being touted constantly.
   Cardinal O'Connor has a duty as head of the Catholic
Church in New York to remind all Catholics (including Mario
Cuomo) about the precept concerning abortion and the
consequences of ignoring the Catholic teaching on this
subject. I sincerely hope Cardinal O'Connor sticks to his
guns on this matter and does not give in to media blackmail,
or he will be remiss in his duties.
   G.C. Urban
   Houston
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Four Investors Seek
   Controlling Interest
   In Polifly Financial
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   PFLY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Four investors here are seeking a controlling
interest in Polifly Financial Corp., the New Milford, N.J.,
holding company for Polifly Savings &amp; Loan Association.
   In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, the group,
which holds 9.99% of Polifly, said it proposed acquiring
control by buying new shares from the company. The proposal,
outlined in a May 29 letter to the company, is subject to
negotiation and discussions and may be modified or abandoned,
the filing said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group, which hasn't obtained the financing needed to
buy a controlling interest, also plans to ask Polifly for
representation on the board, the filing said.
   The investors are Haralambos S. Kostakopoulos, chairman of
Hsky Inc., a bank-advisory firm; Nicola Biase, a financial
consultant and U.S. representative of Findim Investments S.A.
of Massagno, Switzerland, which has financial and other
interests; Emmanuel M. Kontokosta, a general partner and
engineer at Kontokosta Associates; and Nikos Mouyiaris,
president of Mana Products Inc., a cosmetics manufacturer.
   Hsky and Kontokosta are in Manhattan; Mana is in Long
Island City, N.Y. Findim, which has an office in Manhattan,
is a subsidiary of Findim S.p.A., Milan.
   The investors acquired the shares of Polifly between June
27 and July 13 at $1.50 to $2.28 a share. Polifly shares
closed Friday at $2.19, up 19 cents, in national
over-the-counter trading.
   Polifly has had financial problems. This year it signed an
agreement with federal thrift regulators substantially
restricting its activities. The bank also is bringing in new
managers: Last month, it named Joseph S. Paparatto president
and chief executive officer, and this month, Frederick T.
Muller, who had been acting chief executive, resigned as
chairman.
   Mr. Paparatto, who assumed the chairmanship as well on
July 11, says the filing is under review but declined further
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   United Telecom's
   2nd Period Dive
   Spurs Six Lawsuits
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GTE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- It wasn't a very good week at United
Telecommunications Inc.
   The Westwood, Kan.-based firm and its chairman William T.
Esrey were hit with six class-action lawsuits resulting from
its poor second-quarter showing. And US Sprint Communications
Co., United Telecom's long-distance telephone subsidiary and
the source of many of its problems, said that three top
executives have left the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The lawsuits, filed separately last week in the U.S.
District Courts in Kansas City, Kan., and Kansas City, Mo.,
allege that Mr. Esrey and United Telecom misled investors
about the company's earnings prospects.
   A $42 million operating loss at US Sprint caused United
Telecom's net income to fall 55% in the quarter to $40.6
million, or 18 cents a share, on a 12% rise in revenue to
$2.07 billion. Included were non-recurring charges totaling
$72 million, to cover a 5% reduction in US Sprint's work
force and other expenses.
   The results stunned Wall Street analysts -- who had
already cut their second-quarter estimates for United Telecom
to around 50 cents -- and shareholders. In his complaint,
Raymond Campbell, a private investor, who owns 100 shares of
the company's stock, accused Mr. Esrey of making optimistic
statements about United Telecom's future profitability while
at the same time planning to take charges against the
company's second-quarter earnings because of problems at US
Sprint.
   Mr. Campbell's complaint noted that when United Telecom
posted a 42% rise in its first-quarter net income in April,
Mr. Esrey at that time said in a press release that "We
expect . . . revenue growth and cost control to generate
further improvements in operating margin." When the
second-quarter results were posted, the complaint said Mr.
Esrey told Dow Jones News Service that the charges had been
planned for some time. The other five lawsuits made similar
claims, according to a United Telecom spokesman.
   Mr. Esrey was unavailable to comment on the suits. The
spokesman said the company is "not in the habit of commenting
on matters that are in litigation."
   Meanwhile, David Gergacz, who led US Sprint's successful
effort to win 40% of the multibillion dollar FTS-2000 federal
telephone project, has left the company and been replaced by
Gary Forsee, who used to head American Telephone &amp; Telegraph
Co.'s 60% share of the project. Also gone are Clifford Hall,
who had been hired to fix US Sprint's problem-plagued billing
system, and Jerry W. Cosley, vice president of communications
for United Telecom and US Sprint. None of the three
executives was available for comment. United Telecom's
spokesman said their exits were unrelated to the
second-quarter problems and that they left to "pursue other
opportunities."
   Last week, Mr. Esrey told this newspaper that he regarded
United Telecom's second-quarter showing, which came after
several profitable quarters at US Sprint, as "a serious
setback." He pegged the decline to severe competition in the
consumer and small-business sector of the long-distance
market. He also said that more than 1,000 workers would be
cut from US Sprint's 20,000 member work force to deflate
ballooning costs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stratford American Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STRC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STRATFORD AMERICAN Corp. (Phoenix, Ariz.) -- Jon P. Held,
36 years old, a former senior audit manager for Price
Waterhouse, was named vice president and chief financial
officer of this real estate concern that also has interests
in oil and gas wells, succeeding Joseph F. Ladrigan, 46, who
remains president of the Stratford American Properties
subsidiary. Mr. Held also will assume the duties of David E.
Hall, who resigned as executive vice president and chief
operating officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Television:
   Smut Haters Level Sights at Broadcasters
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Here are the words you'll need to know for this article:
"Obscene" means "appealing to the prurient interest" and
"lacking any serious literary, artistic or scientific value."
"Indecent," a lesser standard, means "language or material .
. . patently offensive under contemporary community standards
. . . {describing} sexual or excretory activities or organs."
Finally, "awful," which is a technical term reviewers use
(see below). It doesn't count much in the current furor over
raunch in the arts.
   After the attacks on the National Endowment for the Arts
and 2 Live Crew, now it's television's turn. Recently, the
Federal Communications Commission proposed enforcing a total,
round-the-clock ban on any and all "indecent" TV broadcasts.
Maybe it's just me, but I get this creepy feeling that next
someone's going to start poking around in my sock drawer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The broadcast media -- television and radio -- are,
strangely enough, the only place in America where free speech
has never existed. It's that way by law. Because of its
"uniquely pervasive" nature, and because it's "accessible" to
kids, TV has been carefully regulated since before it was
born, by Section 1464 of the U.S. Criminal Code (Title 18),
barring both obscene and indecent emissions since 1927.
That's why no one exists from the waist down on television.
   While obscenity provisions have always been enforced, no
one worried too much about indecency until George Carlin lost
his famous "seven dirty words" case in the U.S. Supreme Court
in 1978.
   Even then, the rule was only enforced for programming
between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. The point was to protect kids. No
one cared too much about indecency in the evening hours, when
most children supposedly weren't watching. But just over a
week ago, the strict new 24-hour scrutiny of indecency was
proposed, effectively reducing everyone's television to a
juvenile level.
   FCC spokeswoman Sandy Wilson, special assistant to the
general council, states, "A lot of people think we've gone
too far; we think we're on solid ground. If you actually see
the shows we're talking about, it puts the whole question in
a different light."
   Only shows on radio have so far been subject to FCC
indecency fines. Ms. Wilson cites two: "One on how to play
the piano with one's penis, and one on how to masturbate your
dog." Your dog? I guess you wouldn't want kids to realize
that grown people actually get paid for sitting around and
thinking up anything so incredibly dumb.
   The creative community definitely is up in arms over the
FCC report. Julie Hoover, a spokeswoman for ABC, says, "We
are very concerned about the scope of the ruling. We believe
that a 24-hour ban is unconstitutional." Edward Zwick,
executive producer of "thirtysomething" (one of the shows
mentioned as a possible victim of the report, though not by
Ms. Wilson, who is a fan), terms it "a horrifying notion that
government would presume to legislate content." Surprisingly,
even Peggy Charren, president of Action for Children's
Television, opposes the FCC notion: "We want to increase
diversity on TV for children, not limit it. Remember,
obscenity is already illegal. The way the FCC has defined
indecency could do in `Bullwinkle.' It's amazing that just
when we're instructing people around the world about the
beauty of free speech, we're doing away with it in this
country."
   Ironically, even if the U.S. Appeals Court (DC circuit)
upholds the FCC's stand, which bench watchers consider a
50-50 proposition at best, industry insiders say it won't
have that much effect. First, it only covers broadcast, not
cable. Second, as Garth Ancier, president of Walt Disney TV
(formerly head of Fox TV) says, "The networks are still quite
conservative. They could go further and come nowhere near the
FCC limit on profanity. The real limits are set by the
advertisers, who are far more sensitive to language and
content issues. The advertisers want an environment so
non-threatening it verges on un-entertaining."
   Indeed, the networks seem so unconcerned about the FCC
statement that just three days after it came out, CBS
President Howard Stringer was telling reporters that he
intended to get away from their "bland," "dull" programming,
and spice he fall up with at least one show that's "slightly
crude" and "coarse."
   My thought on all of this is, if the FCC really wants to
get into the business of regulating morals, there is a whole
series of really useful things it could regulate. It could
start by outlawing any show that features Brent Mushberger or
Vanna White. Then too, it could do away with all the programs
that have titles like "America's Funniest . . ." or
"America's Cutest Pets." And how about professional
wrestling? What are those big guys in those skimpy tights
doing in that ring anyway?
   Mr. Zwick brightens perceptibly at the idea: "I like it]"
he says. "It's a modest proposal. How about we limit the
number of car crashes per hour?" How about violence
altogether? Mr. Ancier has to shake his head at the "cultural
imbalance" where films like "Total Recall" -- featuring arms
pulled out of sockets and blood flowing across the screen --
gets only a PG-13 rating. In film, as in TV, it's worse to
bare a breast than to blow it apart with a machine gun.
   Of course, my secret dream is an FCC decree barring stupid
shows. "A stupidity test?" Mr. Ancier chuckles. "There'd be
so many time slots open. I don't think the industry could
meet that challenge. What could they do without `Mr.
Belvedere?'"
   So to the FCC, now proposing to shield our kids from
indecent material even when they're asleep, I offer this
thought: The government is not a babysitter. The hourly wage
is just too high. Each parent can, in the privacy of his own
home, read the manual and learn how to unplug the TV set.
Because what's really indecent is how much TV -- how much
AWFUL TV -- kids are watching, complete with commercials for
Mutant Ninja Barbies. Arbitron today measures ratings of
children two to 11, and it measures them in the millions. Get
a life, kids]
   Frankly, with the average household now watching more than
seven hours of TV a day, it's obvious that, children and
adults alike, we're a nation of tuboholics. It's not healthy.
Clearly, we have no will power. I think we need some help,
and I know just the government agency for the job. Not the
FCC, the CIA. It's probably at it already, hooking up the
master on/off switch in Washington.
   In the meantime, a word of advice for the FCC: The problem
isn't from the waist down. It's from the neck up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Computer Task Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   TSK WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   COMPUTER TASK GROUP Inc. (Buffalo, N.Y.) -- Victor E.
Millar, chairman and chief executive officer of PSF
Management International Inc., was elected a director of this
computer consulting company, increasing board membership to
seven.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Swiss Wholesale Prices Drop
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   BERN -- Switzerland's wholesale price index declined 0.3%
in June from May but was up 1.1% from a year earlier, the
government statistics office said.
   In May, the index declined 0.1% from April and rose 1.0%
from a year earlier. In June of last year, the index declined
0.4% from the previous month and rose 4.6% from a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Private Drug Abuse Treatment Centers
   Try to Adjust to Life in the Slow Lane
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   HAL STSN CMP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Substance abuse treatment is no longer a
growth industry.
   After years of brisk expansion, private alcohol and drug
treatment centers are struggling to cope with falling
occupancy rates and pressures to lower their charges. "We
have programs operating at 50% to 60% of capacity and
closing," says Michael Ford, president of the National
Association of Addiction Treatment Providers. In contrast, he
says, during the "boom times" three or four years ago, "it
wasn't unusual for programs to be operating at 80% of
capacity."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Addiction problems aren't going away. Indeed, the
overcapacity in the private treatment industry, to which
employees with benefits often turn, contrasts sharply with
public treatment centers, used by those without benefits,
where shortages of space produce long waiting lists.
   But employers and insurance companies are clamping down on
the soaring cost of private treatment. The savings realized
by corporations may come at the expense of patients, who are
facing new restrictions on their choices in the kind and
length of care they receive. Therapists complain that limits
on the length of stay are compromising treatment results, but
corporate officials respond that cost control and successful
treatment aren't incompatible.
   Last year the cost of mental health and substance abuse
benefits soared 47% for companies with more than 5,000
employees, according to a survey by A. Foster Higgins &amp; Co.,
a benefit consulting firm. Because smaller companies often
offer less generous benefits, the cost to all businesses of
psychiatric and addiction treatment rose by a more modest
18%, the survey shows.
   Fed up with these increases, companies are fighting back.
Many are hiring "utilization review" firms that monitor the
length of treatment and decide when patients are ready to go
home; the firms generally get to keep a share of health-care
savings they find for their clients. Other employers are
setting up "managed care" systems, which prescribe treatment
plans for patients going into therapy.
   Brown &amp; Root Inc., a Houston-based construction subsidiary
of Halliburton Co., saw its costs for mental health and
substance abuse treatment drop $590,000 in this year's first
quarter after it adopted a managed-care plan.
   In the past, the amount of care given often was determined
by the willingness of insurers and employers to pay. Because
insurers paid for up to 28 days of treatment, that became the
industry standard for substance abuse programs. To be sure,
prices for that stay have varied widely; the nonprofit Betty
Ford Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif., charges $250 a day,
while an Arizona treatment facility owned by Sierra Tucson
Cos. charges $550 a day. But the four-week duration was
widespread. "There was no individualized treatment," says
Richard Wall, the coordinator of Mobil Corp.'s employee
assistance programs.
   During the 1980s, fueled by generous reimbursement
policies and public concern about drug and alcohol abuse, the
private treatment industry expanded rapidly. "They continued
to build capacity without taking into account managed care
and employers' efforts to control cost," says Michael Cadger
of Foster Higgins.
   But now the industry is scrambling to respond. Most
centers are offering discounts of up to 30% to care managers
who can provide volume business. In the face of corporate
demands for shorter, cheaper inpatient programs, 28-day
programs have become a thing of the past. "The average
inpatient stay now is 17 to 21 days, down from 28 to 30 days
two or three years ago," says the trade group's Mr. Ford. The
shorter stays are supplemented by intensive outpatient
therapy, which allows an employee or a family member to
return to work sooner.
   Marketing efforts are expanding. The Bradford Group, which
owns inpatient treatment centers in Alabama and outpatient
treatment facilities in major cities, has stepped up efforts
to contact managers of employee assistance program about its
substance abuse programs. The company is also working to
tailor treatment programs to the needs -- and budgets -- of
smaller employers that might not ordinarily offer such care.
   In recent years, the private treatment industry has relied
on advertising to attract patients, but some facilities are
changing their ad strategies. Comprehensive Care Corp., a
treatment chain based in St. Louis, has moved most of its
advertising to radio and print from television. The company
is trying to "break out of the clutter," says Laurence
Steudle, a Comprehensive Care senior vice president. "The TV
viewer is confused by the Partnership for a Drug-Free
America" public service announcements, as well as ads from
competing treatment centers, he says. In addition, the
company says radio is the best way to reach its most
promising target group -- young, single males.
   The industry also is consolidating. Comprehensive Care has
closed two facilities this year and reduced the number of
beds it owns or manages to 2,735 from 4,096 in 1988. The
occupancy rate in its 15 hospitals has fallen to 30% from 63%
two years ago. The company, which had a loss in the nine
months ended in February of $29.3 million, including a $14.2
million pretax write-down of assets, blames tough
competition, reduced insurance coverage for treatment,
shorter stays and the need to offer price discounts to win
managed care business.
   Earlier this year, St. Luke's Health System in Phoenix
closed an 80-bed inpatient treatment facility in a suburb
where the number of mental health and substance abuse beds
had risen to 432 at the end of last year from 74 in 1985.
   "The market was oversaturated," says Terry Ashoff Johnson,
St. Luke's vice president for marketing. Employers "are
looking at utilization, and they're looking at cost." The
Bradford Group has closed 160 of the 400 beds it opened in
Alabama several years ago. "We see a lot of people bailing
out," says E.N. Burson, Bradford's president.
   Even the Betty Ford Center, the inspiration of the former
first lady, is feeling the impact. Its occupancy rate has
dropped to 90% from 100%, and its four-week waiting list has
evaporated.
   "We're feeling the effect of managed care, definitely,"
says John Schwarzlose, the center's executive vice president.
"Patients who want to come here are told by their insurance
companies that they can't, or patients come here and then are
told by the insurance company that they can't stay for more
than two weeks." Mr. Schwarzlose says managed care often
means accountants are making treatment decisions that should
be left to therapists.
   The treatment industry and some independent analysts worry
that shorter stays will be less successful. The readmission
rate within six months of initial treatment is 15.5% for
inpatient therapy lasting 15 to 24 days, almost twice the
readmission rate after longer stays, according to a study by
Medstat Systems Inc., an Ann Arbor, Mich., health-care
information firm.
   "I believe the concept of managed care and cost
containment is good," says the Bradford Group's Mr. Burson.
"It's the implementation that's questionable. There are
incentives based purely on cost-cutting. Patients are being
harmed."
   But advocates of managed care argue that well-structured
plans featuring short inpatient treatment for detoxification
and initial therapy, followed by outpatient sessions, can
both save money and provide effective care. Saul Honigstein,
president of American Psych-Management Inc., a health
consulting company in Arlington, Va., says, "If you do it
right, it may in fact be better care."
   Though treatment centers fret about the push to discharge
patients quickly, some admit that the pressure has forced
them to look for ways to make treatment more efficient. "We
used to let {new patients} just rest for three to five days
and eat well. We spent a lot more time putting patients in a
state of readiness to accept treatment," says Mitzi Carroll,
the executive director of Keystone Treatment Center, a
Canton, S.D., unit of Comprehensive Addiction Programs Inc.,
Vienna, Va. But "we have increased the pressure on the
clinicians to get started right away," she says.
   Keystone, which charges a standard rate of $269 a day,
also says it's giving more free or discounted care to
patients after their insurance runs out. "When it's very
obvious to us that it's too early to discharge the patient,
then the responsibility falls on the patient or on the
treatment center" to continue therapy without insurance, Ms.
Carroll says. "We find it particularly true in our adolescent
population, which we believe very strongly requires longer
treatment."
   ---
               The Cost of Getting Unhooked
                                                                                                       

   Employers' rising inpatient treatment costs for drug and
alcohol addiction
                                                                                                       

                                                   % CHANGE
                   1985     1986     1987    1988   1985-88
                                                                                                       

 Admissions per
 1,000 employees
 and family
 members           2.42     3.00     3.43    3.77    +55.8%
                                                                                                       

 Average days
 in treatment     21.81    22.90    22.22   22.92     +5.1%
                                                                                                       

 Payments per
 person covered  $13.45   $21.96   $25.20  $30.84   +129.3%
                                                                                                       

   *The figures are based on a sample of companies with 5,000
or more employees.
   Source: Medstat Systems Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Amex Seat Sold for $128,000
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The American Stock Exchange said a seat was
sold for $128,000, down by $7,000 from the previous sale on
July 12. Seats are currently quoted at $117,500 bid and
$137,500 asked.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   IMF Approves Morocco Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Monetary Fund approved a
$134 million loan to Morocco to support economic adjustments
in the North African country during the next eight months.
   The IMF said Morocco's borrowing from the 151-nation
agency currently totals about $745 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Why Americans Don't Bother to Vote
   ----
   By John H. Fund
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   When was the last time you were really excited about an
election? For most Americans it was long ago. This fall
two-thirds of potential voters will stay home. More and more
people no longer feel they can affect the political process
on the national level. Many Americans seem to think that
inside the Beltway is alien territory as remote from everyday
life as Mars.
   Benjamin Ginsberg and Martin Shefter, two Cornell
University political scientists, say there is a good reason
for this political alienation. In "Politics by Other Means:
The Declining Importance of Elections in America" (Basic
Books, 226 pages, $19.95), they argue persuasively that
America is entering a "post-electoral" political order in
which most elections already have been decided before the
polls open. The average House incumbent won 73.5% of the vote
in 1988. This year, one in four House members will be
unopposed by a major-party candidate, as will four senators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Politicians increasingly are uninterested in engaging
voters directly. They spend their time building up a vast
array of incumbent protections designed to squeeze out
political competition. Incumbents and the interest groups
that back them find it easier to decide public policy not in
elections but through hand-to-hand combat in the Capitol. The
weapons of choice are no longer ballots, but congressional
inquiries, media revelations and judicial proceedings. The
authors call the most common tactic RIP: revelation,
investigation and prosecution.
   Through the use of such tactics as RIP, political players
who don't stand for election (journalists, prosecutors and
pressure groups) often can end the careers of politicians
with a much broader political base. Democratic House Speaker
Jim Wright and GOP Gov. Evan Mecham of Arizona both recently
were ousted from office by extra-electoral means.
   There's not much room for the average voter in these new
arenas of political conflict. Increasingly sidelined by the
real political struggles, it isn't surprising that most
voters don't vote.
   Messrs. Ginsberg and Shefter see a future in which both
conservatives and liberals will focus more of their efforts
away from winning votes and toward strengthening the
institutions they control while undermining those dominated
by their opponents. For Republicans, that means the White
House, which they have occupied for 26 of the last 38 years.
For Democrats, it means building up the power of Congress,
which they have completely controlled for 30 of the past 38
years.
   Already there are signs this is happening. Republicans
have tried to use their control of the executive branch to
centralize control of regulatory and tax policy in the White
House. A slowdown in government spending has weakened the
urban political machines that mobilized voters for Democratic
candidates. In addition, over the past 15 years there has
been a tenfold increase in the number of indictments brought
by federal prosecutors against local officials, mostly
Democrats. Washington, D.C., Mayor Marion Barry is the most
visible recent example.
   The Democratic Congress in turn has turned RIP into a
major vehicle for political attacks against the executive
branch. In 1978, Democrats institutionalized the process by
adopting the Ethics in Government Act, which virtually
mandates the use of special prosecutors to investigate
executive-branch officials. Congress, of course, chose not to
impose the same rules upon its own members and staff.
   The extent to which the RIP process has become ingrained
is seen in the ethical controversy that surrounded Reagan
aides Ed Meese and Anne Gorsuch. It automatically was assumed
that Congress would hold lengthy hearings and that a special
prosecutor would be called in. The authors note, "This
procedure is really quite remarkable: Officials who in other
democracies would merely be compelled to resign from office
are threatened with criminal prosecution in the United
States."
   Congress also has tried increasingly to micromanage
executive-branch agencies. Half of the Democratic House
members now chair subcommittees overseeing the executive
branch, and the size of committee staffs has more than
tripled since the 1960s. These committees have all but taken
charge of running various government agencies, including the
Legal Services Corporation. As the authors make plain, the
separation of powers is being replaced "by the emergence of a
plural executive."
   The authors aren't optimistic that the decay of political
competition and greater voter apathy can be halted. They hope
one of the two parties will seek to mobilize new voters and
thus end electoral deadlock by making elections once again
mandates for political change.
   In fact, neither party is likely to take that risk, but
there may be other ways to bring people back into the
political system. Voters have placed a bumper crop of
initiatives on state ballots this year as a way of overcoming
political gridlock. The campaign to limit congressional terms
is showing surprising life, and even if it fails it could
force incumbents to once again pay attention to the wishes of
those the Founders intended to be the major actors in
American politics: the citizens.
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kellogg's Net Rose
   4.6% in 2nd Quarter
   On International Sales
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   K
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BATTLE CREEK, Mich. -- Kellogg Co., citing "substantially"
improved sales from international operations, said
second-quarter earnings rose 4.6%, reversing a trend of lower
earnings experienced in the past three quarters.
   The cereal maker said it earned $135.7 million, or $1.13 a
share, on sales of $1.26 billion. In the year-earlier
quarter, it earned $129.7 million, or $1.06 a share, on sales
of $1.23 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier, the company's chairman, William E. LaMothe, said
the quarter would be one of "very heavy investment" in
marketing as well as product development. Therefore, the
results weren't expected to match last year's earnings.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, Kellogg shares
rose 87.5 cents to close at $69.50.
   Kellogg said sales volumes of ready-to-eat cereal in its
international operations increased substantially in the
quarter. A spokesman for the company said "international is
becoming an increasing percentage of our business. Last year,
sales from outside the U.S. contributed 37% of the sales of
the organization and it is continuing to grow." The company
also said the results were helped by cost-containment
measures taken throughout the company.
   Despite the improvement in those operations, Kellogg said
the performance of its U.S. ready-to-eat cereal business was
down because of "intense" competition and slowed growth.
   In the first six months, earnings fell 19.8% to $232
million, or $1.92 a share, on sales of $2.47 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Will `Twin Peaks'
   Get Fans to Read
   Between the Lines?
   ---
   Paramount Publishing Unit
   To Issue Books, Tapes
   Tied to Offbeat TV Show
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- "Twin Peaks" is weird television, and it's
about to make for offbeat publishing.
   Fans of the ABC series about creepy crimes in the
imaginary logging town of Twin Peaks will find "Laura
Palmer's Secret Diary" in bookstores this fall. A diary kept
by the show's prom-queen murder victim figured in last
season's plot, but this is supposed to be an earlier,
still-secret diary, which may be written into next season's
episodes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Doughnut-loving FBI agent Dale Cooper will also be
published in September, but on audiotape. Mr. Cooper is
frequently seen on the show talking into a tiny tape-recorder
to his secretary Diane. Will people who like to watch him
free on television pay up just to hear his voice -- even with
new clues to the murderer's identity?
   The diaries and tapes are just a few of the unusual Twin
Peaks items that will be published by Simon &amp; Schuster Inc.,
a unit of Paramount Communications Inc. Simon &amp; Schuster's
Pocketbooks unit said it signed an agreement with the show's
creators, filmmaker David Lynch and his co-producer Mark
Frost, to publish as many as five books in the next 18
months, with additional titles possible if the show survives.
The publisher declined to discuss terms of the agreement.
   Twin Peaks books are just one aspect of a massive
merchandising effort with a twist; the items will be approved
and sometimes designed by the show's creators, and are meant
to echo its witty surrealism. Licensing expert Seth Siegel of
Hamilton Projects Inc., New York, was hired only a few weeks
ago, but he already has dozens of ideas far beyond the usual
T-shirts and mugs. Mr. Siegel plans to license everything
from Twin Peaks bumperstickers and backscratchers to a
collection of psychedelic Dr. Jacoby ties. He has major
retail chains lined up for huge displays and he is talking to
coffee and baked goods companies about Twin Peaks coffee and
Twin Peaks cherry pie (Agent Cooper's favorite fare).
   "We want this to be as big as possible without creating
any backlash or cynicism about the show," says Mr. Siegel.
"Every so often a TV series or movie becomes a style
statement of the day, like `Miami Vice.' We feel `Twin Peaks'
will do the same."
   Concern that the show could be a short-lived fad with a
limited cult following hasn't affected executives at
Pocketbooks either. "We normally don't publish tie-ins to
television shows because they are so ephemeral," says William
Grose, editorial director of Pocketbooks. "But the hard-core
audience of Twin Peaks is committed and intelligent, and they
seem to be the kind of people who read books and can be led
to a bookstore more readily" than fans of some other shows.
Besides, Mr. Grose himself is an admitted "Peaks freak."
   Irwyn Applebaum, publisher of Pocketbooks, says books need
a much smaller audience to succeed than do television shows.
"The original Star Trek series didn't survive on TV in the
ratings, but it has lasted 25 years in book form," says Mr.
Applebaum.
   Pocketbooks is a sister company to Paramount Pictures,
which syndicates "Star Trek," and in the past decade,
Pocketbooks has published more than 60 Star Trek books. Most
are "original novels," based on the show's characters, and
many have been paperback best sellers.
   Ed Victor, a literary agent, said the Twin Peaks book
projects were dreamed up by himself and Mr. Frost, the show's
co-producer, along with Mr. Lynch's television agent, Tony
Krantz of Creative Artists Agency. It was decided that a
straightforward novelization of the series wasn't offbeat
enough, considering the original material, says Mr. Victor.
At a brainstorming session, the three men dreamed up a whole
series of ideas, many of which Pocketbooks is considering.
   After Laura Palmer's diary (which was actually written by
Mr. Lynch's daughter, Jennifer) and Agent Cooper's tapes,
expect to see some of the following: an epic James
Michener-style novel that will tell the history of Twin Peaks
"going back to the settlers and Indians," says Mr. Victor;
the high school yearbook of Twin Peaks High School, possibly
called "The Logroller;" and perhaps a travel guide to Twin
Peaks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Compaq to Unveil 3 Personal Computers,
   Posing Big Sales Challenge for Dealers
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CPQ SUNW IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Unfazed by slow sales of its Systempro 386
personal computer, Compaq Computer Corp. plans to introduce
three powerful personal computers today that also pose
daunting sales challenges for its dealers.
   The new Compaq Deskpro 486/33L and Deskpro 386/33L models
will vie with workstations for sales in engineering, design
and scientific computing markets. The new Systempro 486/33
aims to replace minicomputers and mainframes at the heart of
office automation networks. Unlike the desktop Deskpro, the
Systempro is a larger, under-the-desk machine designed to
manage the mass-storage systems in networks of personal
computers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   All three products burnish Compaq's image as a performance
pacesetter, but they also place heavy demands on Compaq's
3,000 dealers, its only distribution channel. Not many
retailers are equipped to sell machines as complicated and
expensive as the $29,999, top-of-the-line Systempro 486.
"Compaq's distribution system just can't handle it yet," said
Egil Juliussen, president of the Computer Industry Almanac.
   Compaq's sales of the Systempro 386 have been slow,
according to surveys by StoreBoard/Computer Intelligence,
which tracks sales at computer retailers. Compaq dealers sold
2,543 of the $15,000 network servers through May, below some
analysts' expectations. Similarly, the Compaq Deskpro 486/25,
first shipped in March, got off to a slow start. "None of the
486s are doing well" with price-conscious buyers, said Joe
Ann Stahel, StoreBoard president.
   "We aren't disappointed," said Michael S. Swavely,
Compaq's president of North American operations. "Our
products will have a major, strategic impact on the computer
industry over the next two to five years. Sales will build as
the market builds."
   Matt Fitzsimmons, a Compaq dealer, shares Mr. Swavely's
confidence. "Our major accounts took one or two of the
Systempro 386s just to see how they fit in," said Mr.
Fitzsimmons, a White Plains, N.Y., Computerland franchisee.
"We have enough large corporations evaluating them that we
think the sales potential is quite good."
   So far, however, corporate buyers aren't equipped to
handle the Systempro 486. Even though the muscular PC,
capable of supporting 200 users, is an inexpensive, flexible
replacement for minis and mainframes, the software and the
design consultants needed to implement the system are still
in short supply. Echlin Inc. had to write its own software to
replace a mainframe with four PC networks, one of which uses
a Systempro 386. "We'll start to see a lot of action in the
next three years," predicted Richard Hock, data processing
director for the Branford, Conn., auto parts manufacturer.
But he also wondered if Compaq dealers could make the sale.
"Some big stores may rise to the challenge," he said, but his
dealer couldn't answer some important questions about the
system's limitations.
   Compaq is beefing up its distribution by opening 15
demonstration centers to help sell network systems. The
company also has sought out network consultants to sign as
dealers and encouraged its chain store dealers to do the
same. "There is a broadbased misconception about what a
Compaq dealer is," Mr. Swavely said.
   So far, Compaq dealers are embracing the company's push to
specialize. MicroAge Inc., based in Tempe, Ariz., has signed
up a dozen network specialists as dealers; about 100 of its
stores have passed Compaq's screening process and qualified
as Systempro sellers. "I think it's going to work," said
president Jeffrey D. McKeever.
   Dealers are tractable because Compaq's high-performance
PCs haven't been as prone to brutal price competition as
low-end PCs are. That comfortable position may change soon,
however. Sun Microsystems Inc. and International Business
Machines Corp., both of whom are signing up dealers for
workstations, will pressure Compaq's Deskpro in the
higher-price end of the PC market. Netframe Systems Inc. and
others are gunning for Systempro in the network market.
   The new Deskpro 486/33L carries suggested retail prices
ranging from $13,999 to $19,499. The Deskpro 386/33L lists
for $9,999 to $15,999. The Systempro 486/33 lists for $20,999
to $29,999. All three computers use Extended Industry
Standard Architecture adopted by Compaq and eight other
companies as an alternative to IBM's Micro Channel
architecture.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Navistar Could Get New Niche in Market
   With an Acquisition of Mack Trucks Inc.
   ----
   By Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   NAV MACK F.RNA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LAND TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT (LDT)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- An acquisition of troubled Mack Trucks Inc. by
Navistar International Corp. could provide Navistar with new
manufacturing strategies and a new niche in the slumping
truck market, analysts say.
   But despite Navistar's approximately $300 million in cash
reserves and substantial balance sheet, any deal depends on
the willingness of Renault Vehicules Industriels S.A. to sell
its 45% stake in Mack.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's up to Renault," said Eli Lustgarten, a PaineWebber
analyst. "I'm not sure the odds are high that (Navistar) can
buy it."
   Navistar has said that it is considering a bid for Mack,
if, among other things, Renault agrees to sell its stake.
   But the French concern, a unit of Regines Nationale des
Usines Renault, said it isn't interested in selling its
stake.
   Navistar's expression of interest comes less than two
weeks after Renault launched a $6-a-share, or $99 million bid
for the 55% of Mack it doesn't already own. And if Renault
exercises a warrant and converts certain debt, the Paris
concern could increase its stake to 61%.
   For Navistar, manufacturing synergies and a large share of
the heavy-duty construction vehicle market that Mack serves
could make the Allentown, Pa., company an attractive
acquisition, industry experts say. Navistar, the U.S.'s
largest maker of medium and heavy-duty trucks, is best known
for its long-range hauling vehicles, unlike Mack, which made
its reputation with gargantuan cement mixers and dump trucks.
   Mack's new manufacturing facility in Winnsboro, S.C., may
also offer Navistar the opportunity to streamline production
in its Springfield, Ohio, plant, say analysts, who consider
the Navistar plant overburdened and subsequently inefficient.
Analysts also point out that because it's domestically based,
Navistar might fare better at cutting overhead at Mack than
Renault.
   With the assistance of Renault, Mack has held on in the
ailing truck market, but sales have continued to sag. Renault
began to accumulate its ownership in Mack in 1979, but
Renault hasn't enjoyed the success in the heavy-duty truck
market it then anticipated.
   "It's been sort of a one-way street," said Larry Hollis,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird. Renault has said it now wants
full ownership of Mack because of Mack's deteriorating debt.
   With the possibility of a bid from Navistar looming,
Renault will have to assess, at just what cost, it desires to
remain in the American market.
   Even before Navistar expressed an interest, Mack's stock
was trading well above the $6-a-share that Renault offered.
In over-the-counter trading, Mack closed Thursday at $7.125.
After Navistar's interest was disclosed Thursday evening,
Mack climbed 50 cents Friday in national over-the-counter
trading, closing at $7.625.
   Once known as International Harvester, Navistar divested a
series of heavy-equipment subsidiaries in the early 1980s,
capping the changeover with the 1985 sale of the giant
farm-equipment division. The moves represented a successful
effort to stem enormous losses and restructure the company
strictly as a North American truck producer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chief Guarantor in Student-Aid Program
   Faces Financial Collapse, Seeks Merger
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (EDN)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The largest guarantor of loans in the federal student-aid
program is facing a possible financial collapse, raising
doubts about the soundness of its $9.6 billion in loan
guarantees.
   Higher Education Assistance Foundation, a nonprofit
corporation based in Overland Park, Kan., last week
approached the U.S. Department of Education and congressional
staff, seeking approval for a federally-assisted takeover of
HEAF by another loan guarantor. People involved in the talks
say Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos has resisted approving
a merger because of concern about its costs to the
government.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   These people say HEAF could be forced to seek bankruptcy
protection unless it is allowed to merge or get some other
form of federal aid. HEAF's woes pose a threat of losses to
banks that made the loans it guarantees, to its creditors,
and to the troubled student-loan program.
   A failure by HEAF to meet its main obligation -- repaying
banks in the frequent cases of student defaults -- could
cause lenders to lose faith in other guarantors and stop
extending credit. The student-loan program, with an estimated
$13 billion in projected loans this year and $51 billion in
loans outstanding, is the largest source of financial aid for
paying tuition.
   HEAF declined to comment on its Washington negotiations or
financial condition. The Education Department, in a written
statement, said HEAF "is facing serious financial problems."
The department also said it is "closely monitoring" HEAF, and
added, "In the event HEAF is unable to solve its problems,
the department is considering options, all of which will
ensure the availability of new loans and the continuation of
guarantees and claim payments on the loans." A department
spokeswoman confirmed HEAF is seeking a combination with
Nebraska Student Loan Program Inc., which also declined
comment.
   The department said the situation "will not affect the
ability of students to obtain loans, or of lenders to make
those loans." But others say that prediction's accuracy
depends solely on whether the government comes to HEAF's aid.
   "The worry here is that banks will say, if HEAF can go
broke, all the other {guarantors can go broke, too," said
Mark Wolfe, an analyst who has written reports on the
student-loan program for state governments. If HEAF isn't
aided, "you will have lender reluctance settling in very
quickly," added one congressional aide who was briefed by
HEAF last week. Banks have no direct claim on the federal
government for defaulted loans under the program.
   One of HEAF's largest creditors is Student Loan Marketing
Association, or Sallie Mae, a highly profitable company with
a highflying stock. Sallie Mae, which extended an $865
million credit line to HEAF last December, is one of the
country's largest holders of student loans, which it
purchases wholesale from lenders.
   Sallie Mae is also deeply involved in the negotiations
with the Education Department, according to student-loan
officials. Gisela Vallandingham, a spokeswoman for Sallie
Mae, said, "We ultimately expect the situation will be
resolved so there is virtually no cost to Sallie Mae." She
declined to say how much HEAF currently owes Sallie Mae, or
to answer further questions.
   A spokesman for Citibank, the largest lender in the
program, with about a 5% share, said the Citicorp unit hasn't
had problems receiving defaulted-loan reimbursements from
HEAF.
   HEAF's troubles aren't new. It reported a deficit of $44.4
million in the year ended last Sept. 30, and its chairman,
Richard Hawk, has been struggling to reduce lending volume to
stanch the red ink. Mr. Hawk's main problem is HEAF's
guarantee on a huge number of defaulted loans to students of
for-profit trade schools.
   Under the rules of the loan program, banks make loans to
students that are guaranteed by HEAF and about 50 other
independent guarantee agencies. When students default, the
banks submit claims to the agencies for reimbursement. The
agencies, in turn, are required to pay the banks and submit
claims to the Education Department for reimbursement.
   HEAF's problem is that it has guaranteed so many loans
that are defaulting that it no longer qualifies for full
reimbursement. Once guarantors' default claims exceed 5% of
their outstanding guarantees, they begin to receive only
partial federal reimbursement. Thus HEAF is obligated to pay
banks 100% of defaulted loan balances, but has lately been
receiving only 80% of balances back from the government.
   Net cash outflows at HEAF have hit $3 million a day,
according to people involved in the Washington negotiations.
HEAF told congressional staffers that it expects its cash
shortfall in the next 12 months will be between $50 million
and $100 million, and about $300 million over time as claims
are made on all the problem paper on its books.
   But people familiar with the loan program say no one
outside of HEAF really knows how many defaulted loans it is
carrying or what its ultimate liability is. HEAF guaranteed
$4.9 billion in what one of its own financial reports called
"high-risk trade school loans" from 1986-1988, and many of
these loans are now believed to be in default.
   HEAF also told those it briefed last week that it has
unpaid claims outstanding with the federal government for
about $300 million. The federal government may also reject
claims when it believes lenders haven't made sufficient
efforts to collect. According to Education Department figures
released to lawmakers last week, HEAF's negative cash
position exceeded $60 million more than a year ago. A more
recent figure wasn't available.
   HEAF wants a merger because Nebraska Student Loan Program
receives 100% repayment on defaulted loans, regardless of its
default volume. That's because Nebraska Student Loan is only
four years old, and federal law allows agencies to receive
100% of default claims, with no conditions, for five years.
   But Mr. Cavazos is said to be reluctant to extend the
Nebraska exemption to HEAF and its troubled guarantee
portfolio. HEAF's Mr. Hawk told congressional aides that
Sallie Mae, as a major HEAF creditor, insisted on explicit
Education Department approval before agreeing to the Nebraska
combination.
   Mr. Wolfe, the loan-program analyst, said that extending
the Nebraska exemption to HEAF is legally questionable.
"That's a scam," said Mr. Wolfe. "But of course, it makes
sense for HEAF."
   The HEAF problems are likely to revive debate about the
loan program, whose defaults are projected to grow to $2.3
billion this year from about $1.4 billion in 1988. Mr.
Cavazos must either back down from a get-tough Republican
policy toward defaults and accept an unknown bailout cost, or
let HEAF fend for itself and risk a loss of faith in the loan
program.
   The Education Department has said that lax practices by
the schools, banks and guarantors have led to the high
defaults. Democrats in Congress, meanwhile, say the Education
Department has been inept and unable to control fraudulent
trade schools who obtain loans for their students, then
prompt defaults by giving shoddy training or closing down.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Bill Sale
   To Raise $1.45 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.45 billion in
new cash Thursday by selling a record $10.5 billion in
52-week bills and redeeming $9.06 billion in maturing bills.
   The bills will be dated Aug. 2 and mature on Aug. 1, 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum denominations
of $10,000, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Thursday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Novell Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NOVL
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NOVELL Inc., a Provo, Utah, maker of software products for
computer networks, said it plans to call for redemption on
Aug. 24 all of its 7 1/4% convertible subordinated
debentures, due 2013, with an aggregate principal amount of
$52 million outstanding. Prior to the close of business on
Aug. 24, holders may convert the debentures into Novell
common at a price of $36 a share. In national
over-the-counter trading Friday, Novell closed at $50.75,
down $3.50.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Mazda to Recall Some Cars
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MZD
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   IRVINE, Calif. -- Mazda Motor Corp. said it is recalling
102,548 of its 1986 and 1987 Mazda 626 models because of a
possible problem with the ignition switch.
   The Japanese auto maker said the ignition switch could
wear out after prolonged use. If this happens, the windshield
wipers, windshield washer, engine-cooling fan, heater blower
and air-conditioner compressor will not operate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mazda said owners should return the cars to dealers for
inspection.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- The Mobile Guide:
   Where the Japanese Tryst
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   Tokyo -- This is a small country, where three generations
often share a modest apartment. For the most part families in
Japan are agreeable, and even in close quarters people seem
to get along all right. But, same as people everywhere,
sometimes young couples need a little privacy away from the
old folks and the kids. So the Japanese have erected
thousands of small hotels across the nation, trysting spaces
with a two-hour minimum.
   Their spirit is of straightforward, almost innocent, fun.
And with the growth of disposable incomes, Japanese
practicality has met Japanese imagination to make Japanese
love hotels unique.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are love hotels built to look like ruined European
castles, alpine chalets and Japanese gardens. One Tokyo-area
chain is easy to spot because of the Statue of Liberty
replica on the roof. Others favor a larger-than-life Venus de
Milo.
   I'd seen these places from afar over the years and heard
about their more extravagant features -- gondolas suspended
from the ceiling that take you from the revolving bed to the
heart-shaped tub; in-room swimming pools and miniature golf;
whole floors evoking different periods in American life: the
Roaring Twenties or the Wild West (the Puritan era in
Massachusetts somehow was not mentioned).
   I'd heard of sports hotels with boxing ropes around the
bed, of $100 places that need reservations weeks ahead, of a
spaceship love hotel with a crawl way to the place of
retirement.
   Tired, finally, of hearsay, my wife and I asked some
Japanese friends who know about such things where we ought to
go to find the real thing. Shibuya's Maruyama district, we
were told. Nothing wild, nothing too sleazy, just your
healthy average 120-minute honeymoon spot.
   Sunday seemed like a good time to go. As Vanessa and I
came up from the train station we knew we'd arrived.
   Fashion Hotel Air France. Hotel TwoWay. Oz. Pelican. Casa
Nova.
   The frisson we felt on the train over (do all the other
people aboard know where we're headed? we wondered) was
overwhelmed by the abundance of consumer choice.
   Hotel Chez Nous. Le Pays Blanc. Once More. White Box.
Creative Room Lios.
   In the lobby of most hotels an illuminated board pictures
the rooms and identifies the style of ambience for rent. We
saw English hunting motifs in one place, in another high-tech
laser lighting and lots of chrome. Most looked like spacious
American motel rooms, which may in itself be a big fantasy
for young Japanese couples.
   When you find the room you want, you press a reservation
button that darkens the picture. The next couple makes its
choice from the lit pictures remaining.
   Each hotel has a prominent list of prices and services.
Costs range between $24 and $34 for "rest" and $47 and $61
for "stay." Most seem to have "360-channel TV," videos, video
games, stereo, sauna and in-room refreshments.
   And something called body sonic. In my notes of our tour
this attribute is followed by "]]???]]]" I'm not sure what
body sonic is, but that must be how you feel when you have
some.
   Love hotels, like many aspects of Japanese life, cause
trouble for the native English speaker through the
imaginative use of his own tongue. "Let me tell you now all
that on my mine," said the sign before one hotel, "for a love
like yours I nead you more and more." In such an atmosphere,
even reserved Japanese get into the mood, in public. In the
narrow streets of Maruyama, Japanese couples, most under 25,
walk hand in hand. Good luck to them too, because on Sundays
Maruyama sees incredible business. On our tour of love we
found almost every hotel full up. No wonder Tokyo's so quiet
at the end of the week.
   Every time we found a hotel to our liking (sorry to say,
Hotel America looked pretty run down) we faced a bank of
darkened rooms. No vacancy.
   By the fifth hotel we were getting desperate. "Let's try
Hotel Parco," said Vanessa. "After all, it's an interesting
department store."
   No room there, and we struggled on. I really could
identify with the guy standing behind us in one lobby who
whispered, "Gambatte kudasai" ("Please continue to try hard")
to his young wife. We too would do our utmost.
   Finally we found a nice little place on a side street. As
we walked into the lobby one of the rooms on its listing
board lit up like a welcoming beacon. Together we pressed the
button.
   I wanted to ask the attendant about their body sonic, but
he was mostly hidden by smoked glass, with just a small
opening to gather money. It didn't seem fair to intrude on
the fellow's privacy.
   Our room was called Piccolo Mondo. It came with twin
ceramic elves on mushrooms inside big illuminated glass
cases. They swayed amiably when you hit a switch behind the
bed, while piped-in music played the room's theme song. The
bed's headboard was a cutaway gingerbread house.
   There was a circular light overhead, which alternated
twinkling bluebirds of happiness with Doc of the Seven
Dwarves playing the pipes astraddle a crescent moon. On the
facing wall, Bambi smiled and looked modestly away.
   Not exactly what we had in mind, but it had character. A
hotel employee came by to explain how to work the television,
the videocassette player, the in-bed radio, the cassette-tape
player and the room's vending machine.
   Well, life's like that sometimes: You hope for the court
of Suleiman the Magnificent, you end up in toytown. But if
you don't worry about things it's pretty good fun, even if
you aren't sure you got any body sonic.
   ---
   Mr. Hardy is a reporter for AP-Dow Jones in Tokyo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Boeing Negotiates With European Firms
   To Sell de Havilland Small-Plane Unit
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Richard Turner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   BA I.AER F.ASP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co. said it is holding discussions with Aeritalia
of Italy and Aerospatiale of France about the sale of the
Seattle-based company's perennially unprofitable de Havilland
commuter airplane division.
   Separately on Friday, Boeing said it will build a $350
million plant on 500 acres southeast of Tacoma, Wash., to
make wing parts for its 747, 767 and proposed 767-X wide-body
commercial-jet lines. The announcement about the "skin and
spar" factory underscored how cash-rich Boeing must expand
its manufacturing space to meet its burgeoning backlog of
airliner orders.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But its tiny commuter airplane unit, by contrast, has been
faltering badly. Analysts were baffled about a sale price for
the division, which Boeing purchased for $112 million from
the Canadian government in 1986.
   "They have so many problems, it's nearly impossible to
figure out what it could fetch," said Bill Whitlow, who
follows Boeing for Dain Bosworth Inc., a brokerage firm based
in Seattle. Boeing has poured hundreds of millions of dollars
into de Havilland but has never been able to turn it around.
   A Boeing spokesman declined to elaborate on the
negotiations, except to say that "any transaction would
involve an orderly transfer of responsibility to the buyers,"
including the necessary approval from Canadian authorities.
Pierre Lestringant, president of Aerospatiale Fianance Corp.,
a U.S. subsidiary of the French aerospace concern, also
wouldn't comment. Neither would Stefano Ruocco, president of
Italian Aerospace Industries USA, which is owned by
Aeritalia.
   Aerospatiale and Aeritalia already have teamed up on a
venture to make commuter planes, called ATRs for the first
letters of the French words for regional transport aircraft.
People close to the Boeing deal said an acquisition of the de
Havilland Dash-8 turboprop line would be a natural way to
help Aerospatiale and Aeritalia expand their offerings in the
increasingly competitive commuter aircraft market.
   The two types of Dash-8 planes seat as many as 39 and 54
passengers, and de Havilland has been contemplating building
a new series that would seat 65 to 70. The ATR seats as many
as 48 or 66, depending on the model.
   The move to sell de Havilland hardly comes as a surprise.
Some Canadian analysts had been expecting Boeing just to
shutter the operation. Jerry Cantwell, who monitors the
aerospace industry for Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. in New York,
estimates that Boeing had a loss of $35 million at de
Havilland last year and will register a $25 million deficit
at the unit this year.
   When Boeing bought de Havilland, it believed it could
capitalize on the growing number of major airlines, the
company's regular customers, that were initiating commuter
routes. And unit sales lately have grown strongly; at the end
of June, de Havilland had delivered 211 Dash-8s and boasted a
backlog for an additional 125.
   But pricing is tough in a market swarming with
international competitors, including Embraer of Brazil,
Canadair and Saab. And cost control has been dismal.
   In an interview with the Seattle Times in May, Boeing
Chairman Frank Shrontz said the company had "misjudged the
degree to which {de Havilland} lacks disciplinary procedures
and operation." He added: "We're used to operating in a
situation where there may be too many controls on processes,
but at least we have some control indicators where problems
are and what works. They didn't have."
   Labor disputes haven't helped. This year marked only the
first time in two decades of union bargaining that the
Canadian Auto Workers didn't strike de Havilland. The unit
has nearly 6,000 employees.
   And Boeing has been disappointed in what it has perceived
as inadequate support from the Canadian government. In
February, Boeing accepted a $134 million settlement from
Ottawa, which included the payment of claims arising from
costs the company incurred to correct alleged health and
safety hazards at de Havilland's main plant in Toronto.
   Meanwhile, construction of the new facility in Washington
state could begin before the end of the year, and the plant
could be operational as early as mid-1992. It will have about
300 employees, the core of whom will be transferred from a
site in Auburn, Wash., where most of Boeing's 15,000
fabrication employees work. The company said operations at
the Auburn plant won't be affected.
   In addition, Boeing said Friday that it will build a new
$30 million facility on 20 acres in Puyallup, Wash., for its
tool grind operation, where tools from all of Boeing's Puget
Sound factories will be sharpened. The shop will be relocated
from Auburn, along with its 270 employees.
   Both proposed buildings will be in Pierce County, and Mr.
Shrontz praised the "supportive attitude" of local officials
there. In a statement, he said that the company was operating
"at or near capacity" in all of its Puget Sound locations and
that expanding is "imperative." Boeing has about 103,000
employees in the area.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Aztar Posts Loss
   For 2nd Quarter
   Of $25.2 Million
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   AZTR
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX, Ariz. -- Aztar Corp. said solid second-quarter
performance at its casinos was offset by a $33.6 million
provision for a court judgment, resulting in a net loss of
$25.2 million, or 62 cents a share.
   The company had a net loss of $8.1 million, or 20 cents a
share, a year earlier. Revenue dropped 6.7% to $131.3 million
from $140.7 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Operating profit before net rent nearly tripled to $22.6
million from $8 million, largely because of improved
operating profit at TropWorld, Aztar's Atlantic City, N.J.,
casino. In the face of the opening of a major competitor, the
Taj Mahal casino, TropWorld reported operating profit of
$12.9 million, up from $7.4 million, on a slight decline in
revenue to $78.2 million. Results for the year-earlier
quarter included the write-off of $2.6 million of previously
deferred pre-opening expenses.
   Paul E. Rubeli, the casino operator's president and chief
executive officer, said cutbacks in bus-patron business and
the elimination of other marginal business contributed to
improved operating profits in Atlantic City. In Nevada, the
Las Vegas Tropicana and the Ramada Express in Laughlin both
posted improved operating income in the face of expanded
competition.
   The quarter included an extraordinary charge of $3.5
million to reverse a first-quarter extraordinary gain from
using a portion of a 1989 net operating loss carry-forward.
The prior-year quarter included a $5 million loss for the
closing of a Reno, Nev., casino and expenses of $1.3 million
from the company's restructuring.
   The legal judgment involved the 1979 purchase of the
Tropicana by Ramada Inc., Aztar's predecessor. On July 3, the
Nevada Supreme Court upheld a lower court's decision awarding
Hotel Conquistador Inc. and its holders $14,225,000 with
14.5% interest from January 1982, plus attorney's fees and
other costs. Aztar said it will petition for a rehearing.
   For the six months, Aztar posted a net loss of $15.9
million, or 40 cents a share, compared with a net loss of
$26.7 million, or 67 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue
fell to $256.4 million from $259.2 million.
   John Uphoff, an analyst with Raymond James &amp; Co., said the
results reflect well on Aztar's ability to control costs and
improve margins in the face of major new competitors.
   The company also said it bought back about 700,000 common
shares, or 35% of the two million shares in a repurchase
authorization approved in May. Aztar has about 40.8 million
common shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dynatech Set to Post Renewed Growth
   In Sales, Profit for Fiscal First Quarter
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   DYTC
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dynatech Corp. expects to report renewed sales and
earnings growth for the fiscal first quarter, John F. Reno,
executive vice president and chief operating officer, said.
   The Burlington, Mass.-based technology company will report
per-share earnings for the June quarter roughly midway in the
range of analysts' estimates of 37 cents to 50 cents, on
sales of $115 million to $120 million, Mr. Reno said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, net income was $3.9 million, or 37 cents a
share on a larger base of shares, on sales of $102.8 million.
"The first quarter will show a nice increase over last year,
and that we've regained momentum," Mr. Reno said. He sees
steady growth in sales and income for the year.
   Dynatech, which is scheduled to report first-quarter
results at its annual meeting today, owns dozens of
businesses in communications, medical diagnostics, scientific
and consumer markets. The company extends broad autonomy to
its operating units, employing just 35 people in its
corporate offices.
   Mr. Reno said in an interview that the company has
acquired two new businesses, increasing its portfolio of
operating units to 42.
   Dynatech began diversifying from its base in medical
diagnostics and data communications in the early 1980s, with
acquisitions in electronic parts manufacturing,
auto-emissions test equipment, communications test gear, and
weather sensors, including lightning detectors. Its
best-known business is the consumer products unit, Whistler,
which sells auto radar detectors and marine electronics.
   More recently, Dynatech has moved into software and
geophysical and environmental test systems. Also recently,
Whistler unveiled new consumer products, including a
collision avoidance device for trucks that warns when
obstacles or cars approach the driver's blind side.
   Communications is Dynatech's largest business, says
Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. analyst Danielle Danese. She estimates
communications accounted for about $75 million in sales in
the fourth quarter, growing at a 20% clip year-over-year.
Medical and diagnostic product lines were a $15 million
business growing at just 6%, while scientific instruments
grew 25%, to about $27 million. She was cautious on the
stock's prospects in a recent report, issuing a "neutral"
rating pending a pickup in earnings momentum.
   Mr. Reno said that military product lines such as
electronic parts were growing slowly and that Dynatech was
trying to shift some of that technology to commercial
markets. But he said overall profit margins improved during
the first quarter, and cash flow per share increased. Cash
flow from operations rose 12% in the last fiscal year, and
Dynatech stock is currently trading at less than five times
operating cash flow per share, Mr. Reno said.
   Since December 1988, the company has spent about $50
million buying its own stock, narrowing the number of shares
outstanding by nearly three million, or about 25%, leaving
about 9.7 million shares outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<LP>
   AN INVESTMENT STAKE in Miller, Anderson &amp; Sherrerd by
Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan is estimated at $50 million by
Ulmer Brothers Inc. Data supplied by Ulmer Brothers for a
table in Thursday's edition incorrectly stated the estimate.
   (See: "Simon to Re-Enter Buy-Out Arena in Fund With Tokio
Marine" -- WSJ July 19, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   SYNOPTICS COMMUNICATIONS Inc. reported second-quarter
earnings of 34 cents a share, which was 19% greater than the
average estimate of analysts as compiled by Zacks Investment
Research. Because of a database error, SynOptics' earnings
were mistakenly listed as a negative surprise in the
Quarterly Earnings Surprises table in Friday's edition.
   (See: "Quarterly Earnings Surprises" -- WSJ July 20, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Succeeds in Hindering Americans
   Trying to Do Business in Eastern Europe
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The emerging market economies of Eastern
Europe offer rich commercial opportunities for Western
companies. But U.S. government penny-pinching and interagency
rivalries are restraining U.S. businesses' chances.
   Hamstrung by budget restraints, the U.S. government isn't
adding sufficient new staff at its embassies in Eastern
Europe to handle the flood of inquiries from U.S. businesses
seeking information about these markets. The Commerce
Department's foreign commercial service, which provides
economic officers at many overseas U.S. posts, has only one
officer each in Budapest, Warsaw and Bucharest, along with a
handful of people hired locally. Next year's budget provides
for only one new officer in each of these capitals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The State Department says the only way it can add
diplomats in Eastern Europe is by reducing its staff in
Western Europe. It plans to reassign 39 State Department
officers and 47 foreign employees to Eastern Europe. But,
officials concede, the department is being forced to stretch
itself thin just as Western Europe is preparing for economic
union in 1992, an event that will create the need for a
greater U.S. presence.
   "This is the way to save money and become a third-rate
economic power simultaneously," complains Rep. Sam Gejdenson
(D., Conn.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs
subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade.
   Willard Workman, director of International Policy and
Programs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, adds that many
businesses, while reluctant to complain publicly, already are
hampered by inadequate resources at U.S. embassies. He says
that in January a group of U.S. business executives in
Warsaw, "had to line up to see the only commercial officer we
have there. The officer was so busy he couldn't leave his
office. As a result, he was forced to give them information
that was dated because he was unable to get out and keep tabs
on the local market."
   At the same time, old turf battles between the State and
Commerce Departments are exacerbating these problems. In
1980, Congress, concerned that the State Department wasn't
focusing on U.S. business's problems, transferred the
agency's commercial operations to the Commerce Department,
creating the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service. Ever since,
Foggy Bottom has sought to undercut what it views as a rival
overseas.
   Last February, for instance, the Commerce Department
decided to send officers to train officials in Hungary and
Czechoslovakia to set up a new export-control system. But the
State Department refused to grant travel authority to the
Commerce Department personnel. The State Department relented
several months later, but only after being sharply criticized
by a congressional subcommittee.
   The status-conscious State Department also fought
unsuccessfully against a measure in the 1988 trade bill that
allows the Commerce Department's foreign commercial service
officers to attain the rank of minister-counselor, which had
been reserved for foreign service officers.
   When U.S. business executives travel abroad, they often
prefer to deal with Commerce Department personnel. Laura
Gubisch, director of export activities at the American
Association of Exporters and Importers, says, "the State
Department just doesn't have as its primary focus getting
American goods into a foreign market."
   In a letter supporting a bill that would set up regional
commercial centers to aid American business, the group urged
that these centers be located "wherever possible, apart from
U.S. embassies."
   The American Foreign Service Association, which represents
State Department foreign service officers, proposed recently
that the department establish a foreign service reserve
composed of retired officers. To reduce federal costs, these
retirees would be used as consultants on a temporary basis as
needed. At a meeting last Thursday, State Department
officials said they had some problems with the plan,
including that a reserve system would make the foreign
service look too much like the military. But they said they
were willing to ponder the suggestion.
   But U.S. business is growing impatient. "We're talking
about great economic and commercial opportunities that nobody
is able to gauge," says Mr. Workman of the Chamber of
Commerce. "It seems to me at a minimum we need in a hurry to
do things that help us find out as much as we can about the
economies of these countries."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time Warner Weighing Overhaul of Life,
   Making Magazine Standard-size Weekly
   ----
   By Patricia M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc., in an effort to pump new
life into its 54-year-old Life magazine, is considering
converting the monthly to a weekly and overhauling its
editorial content, including a switch to standard magazine
size.
   According to magazine unit staffers, a team of about 20
editors, writers, and designers have already produced two
"dummy" editions of a weekly Life this month and are at work
on a third. The dummy issues have had favorable reactions
from top editors of Time Inc. Magazine Co., one company
insider said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Time Warner executives in recent months have played down
reports of a change in the monthly Life, except to say a
small task force of editors was studying a range of options
for the venerable magazine. "The task force is not at a
critical point," a magazine group spokesman said. "We are a
long way from a decision or even holding it up for a
decision."
   Activity surrounding the project has increased in recent
weeks, however. Since the production of two editions, on July
2 and July 16, Jason McManus, Time Inc. editor in chief, is
said to have shown enormous interest in the plan.
   The pace accelerated this month after Life Managing Editor
James Gaines presented the second dummy of the weekly version
of the magazine to Mr. McManus, as well as to Editorial
Director Richard Stolley and Corporate Editor Gilbert Rogin.
The next issue, which is to have an Aug. 6 cover date, will
include a column from Roger Rosenblatt, Life's editor at
large, as well as real news photos from free-lance
photographers and deadline news and feature stories from
staff writers.
   Mr. Gaines, who made his name increasing newsstand sales
of People magazine, is spending most of his time on the Life
project, while Jay Lovinger, Life's assistant managing
editor, runs the monthly. In the last year, Mr. Gaines has
beefed up Life's staff by recruiting such writers and editors
as Mr. Rosenblatt, former editor of U.S. News &amp; World Report;
Daniel Okrent, founding editor of New England Monthly
magazine; and Adam Moss, founding editor of the defunct 7
Days.
   The debt-laden Time Warner is spending millions to launch
another weekly, Entertainment Weekly, whose founding editor
recently resigned after the magazine's troubled start. There
has been some speculation that Entertainment Weekly and Life
might somehow be merged. Life, once a cornerstone of the
company, has seen its circulation flatten out at 1.7 million,
while ad pages dipped 14% in the first half of 1990. The
magazine currently publishes 12 monthly issues and two extra
issues with special themes.
   Life has been down this road before. Less than two years
ago, another task force, led by former Life managing editor
Patricia Ryan, investigated the idea of Life as a weekly. Ms.
Ryan favored the weekly idea but, at the time, Mr. McManus
thought it would cannibalize circulation of Time Inc.'s other
mass-market weeklies, Time and People. Ms. Ryan subsequently
clashed with Mr. McManus, was fired, and Mr. Gaines appointed
to lead Life.
   The new Life envisioned by Mr. Gaines is the size of Time
magazine, not the oversized dimensions of the current Life.
Dummy versions used the familiar Life logo and had 12 to 14
pages of photographs with captions at the front of the
magazine, followed by news and feature stories. The new Life
has some similarities with the editorial style of Mr. Moss's
7 Days.
   The magazine's size is one of the top concerns of the task
force. Publishing a weekly magazine at Life's current size
could represent a "prohibitive cost," one company executive
said. And advertisers might resist paying premium rates for
the larger page size on a weekly basis, particularly during
the industry wide slump in ad spending.
   Something that could help the weekly version of the
magazine succeed is the Life name itself. "Life has a
tremendous franchise," said Charles Elbaum, president of
Publishing Economics Inc., a magazine consultant. "But in the
current environment I can't believe anyone would launch a
weekly. The budget for a weekly would have to be huge."
   Though a decision on changing Life is not expected soon,
it is regarded as a crucial one for the company by some
staffers. If the magazine becomes a weekly and fails, "there
is no going back to a monthly," said one company editor.
"Life's name is still on the Time &amp; Life Building. It would
be a great embarrassment if they didn't get it right."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Global View:
   Exploring the New Germany and its Future
   ----
   By George Melloan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   ERFURT, Germany -- A few months ago, this dateline would
have read Erfurt, East Germany, but now "East" is redundant.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl sewed up German reunification last
week at Mikhail Gorbachev's Caucasus retreat by persuading
the Soviet leader to withdraw troops and allow Germany "full
and unrestricted sovereignty." Germans already have begun
trying to awaken their East from its long slumber under
Soviet hegemony.
   Erfurt will need a lot of rousing. Once the thriving
center of the state of Thuringia, it today wears that dull,
dilapidated look communism inflicts. Two Russian soldiers,
with boots neatly shined, lounged in a command car angled
across a street blocked for construction work; the Red Army
has been reduced to traffic duty.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Near Weimar -- of short-lived Weimar Republic fame --
there is a distant view of what looks like a vast parking lot
for military helicopters. This region for years was a
potential launching pad for a Soviet attack through the
"Fulda gap" into West Germany. Nearby also is Buchenwald,
where Communist guides not long ago were blaming "capitalism"
for Nazi atrocities against the Jews. That the Nazis called
themselves "socialists," not capitalists, was deemed
irrelevant.
   Along a back road, three lads spot our American car and
smilingly flash V-for-Victory salutes. Graffiti scrawled on a
road-construction machine label Karl Marx with a word
unprintable in either German or English. Farther east,
Dresden, firebombed unmercifully by the RAF in World War II
in retaliation for Hitler's Coventry raid, is beginning to
recover its former beauty as long-delayed restoration work
progresses. Southward on the road to Prague, a roadside sign
advertises a "privat restaurant."
   Crossing the Czech border is no problem. Czechoslovakia
doesn't require a visa for Americans. Six years before, when
my wife and I made the same crossing, visas and hotel
vouchers were needed and there was a long wait. We had
watched green-uniformed East German "vopos" training a German
shepherd dog to sink his teeth into the well-padded arm of a
man simulating a motorist -- that is to say, someone like us.
   Clearly, shedding police-state tactics has made East
Germany a kinder, gentler place. West German Social
Democrats, trying to take the edge off Mr. Kohl's triumph,
still wring their hands about the future, warning of mass
unemployment because of the inability of East German
factories to compete with the West.
   But socialists always have trouble understanding the
energizing power of freedom. With all the rebuilding that
needs to be done and all the simple services needed -- such
as cafes and automatic laundries -- East Germany can be an
entrepreneur's paradise if entrepreneurship is allowed free
play. Just give a laid-off factory worker some tools and let
him go to work on Erfurt's plumbing. He will need only a
little practice, materials and economic freedom. The prospect
of earning real deutsche marks, exchangeable for Western
goods of a range and quality only dreamed of a few months
ago, will be sufficient incentive for hard work.
   Certainly there will be problems, such as how to privatize
land and buildings. But Poland next-door already has begun
privatization, demonstrating that what is mainly needed is
the will to begin. Demands for restoration of private
property surely will activate German authorities.
   Of course, the larger question is how the new Germany will
position itself vis-a-vis its North Atlantic Treaty
Organization partners, the European Community and the Soviet
Union. Some Europeans are fearful that Germany will gradually
"move East," as restored sovereignty gives it a political
strength it could not have under four-power supervision. Such
fears were fed, no doubt, by the chummy meeting between Mr.
Kohl and Mr. Gorbachev, and the fact that some of the points
the two agreed to, such as Mr. Kohl's promise that there
would be no nuclear weapons in what is now East Germany,
seemed to have not involved consultation with the NATO
allies. The fact that Germany will be a benefactor to Mr.
Gorbachev in his time of serious financial difficulty -- a
treatment his reasonableness was deemed to merit --
contributes to the sense of a new German-Soviet entente.
   The thought of Germany and the Soviet Union teaming up to
swing their considerable weight in the politics of Europe and
the world does, of course, give pause. Germany is an economic
powerhouse, and the Soviet Union, for all its troubles,
possesses awesome military might, including more than 500,000
troops that have not yet left the soil of its Central
European neighbors. The introduction by Germany of the Soviet
Union into a larger role in the political life of Europe is a
contingency not totally unimaginable.
   But at this point, such thoughts hardly seem worth more
than mild interest. Germany last week formally guaranteed the
borders of Poland, a country that physically separates it
from the Soviet Union. Neither the Poles nor the newly
liberated East Germans have any love for the Russians. It
seems unlikely that warmth toward the Russians would win much
political popularity in either country once fears of
provoking the Russians and their troops subside.
   Even more to the point is the question of exactly what the
words "Soviet Union" will mean in a year or so. If Soviet
chess champion Gary Kasparov is correct, those words will be
history. He predicts that the so-called union will break up
into its separate parts as the Soviet Communist Party loses
its grip on the 15 constituent republics. If that should
happen, Berlin (which may well become the capital of Germany
once more) will be separated from Moscow by still further
barriers. In yet another big story of last week, Ukraine's
Parliament declared national "sovereignty," meaning that the
Ukrainians intend to take charge of many of their own
affairs, including military conscription. Baltic independence
movements are well advanced. Byelorussia, the other republic
along the western tier of the Soviet Union, has people with
aspirations similar to those in Ukraine.
   Germany, and for that matter its partners in NATO and the
EC, will be quite interested in the lands stretching eastward
to the Urals, because they will have little choice. Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary are trying to recover from
communism and are offering opportunities for trade and
investment. The same may be true in the Soviet republics
sooner than expected. Europe has changed dramatically in the
past year, and more big changes are yet to come.
   Driving from the now-unguarded East German border at
Eisenach to Dresden, one gets a sense of that change as a
long-dormant polity stirs with new life. One can only hope
that progress toward peace and democracy continues without
serious interruption and at no slower pace than the one we
have just witnessed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heed Reagan's Errors in Filling Brennan's Seat
   ----
   By Terry Eastland
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Given the chance to solidify a conservative Supreme Court
majority, President Bush has before him two tasks of
governing. He must nominate his choice to fill the vacancy
left by Justice William Brennan, who resigned Friday, and
then he must appoint the person, as the Constitution says,
"by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate." How well
he executes this two-part labor will depend on whether he has
absorbed the lessons of recent years.
   Over the weekend Mr. Bush declared he intends to select a
"strict constructionist," and there are good reasons to
believe he will do that. Like Ronald Reagan, Mr. Bush has
made judicial philosophy central to judicial selection. And
like Mr. Reagan, he has a team of people, in the White House
Counsel's Office and at the Justice Department, some of whom
commit entire days to screening candidates for their
jurisprudential learnings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As a result, Mr. Bush has done as Mr. Reagan did,
generally putting conservatives on the district and appellate
courts. If Mr. Bush heeds the advice of his judgepickers, he
will propose a conservative to replace the court's most
important liberal. There are plenty of good choices, many of
them Reagan judges who have been taking, as it were, infield
practice, awaiting the call to the biggest league.
   Still, mistakes are possible. An "affirmative action" pick
-- where ethnicity or gender counts most -- would be a bad
idea. Sandra Day O'Connor, the least conservative of the
Reagan justices, is the case in point. Because of his
campaign promise, Mr. Reagan chose from a list of women only,
none of whom possessed strong conservative credentials. To
say Mr. Bush should avoid the O'Connor temptation is
obviously not to say that he should forgo the choice of a
woman or a minority. It is to say that he should not
subordinate judicial philosophy to such concerns.
   Mr. Bush also could be tempted to surprise the nation by
naming someone not on the standard lists surfacing in news
accounts. There's no problem with that, and in fact Mr. Bush
has more margin for a "surprise" today than he will a year
from now. Still, this is no time for the Supreme Court
equivalent of a Quayle pick, and any surprise choice should
be made with judicial philosophy chiefly in mind.
   Of greater concern is that Mr. Bush might be tempted to
spurn the advice of aides in the legal know and select
someone his purely political advisers recommend -- someone
who is jurisprudentially unknown but a "safe bet" for
confirmation. If Mr. Bush does this, he should not be
surprised if the court is still a vote shy of a reliably
conservative majority. In the worst case, he may live to
regret his nomination, as Dwight Eisenhower did with his
choice of Justice Brennan, whom he called his "worst
mistake."
   Speed in selection matters. Mr. Bush must not move so fast
that the personal and financial history of the candidate is
not adequately vetted; recalling the reasons for Douglas
Ginsburg's failed nomination should be enough to activate the
key antennae. On the other hand, Mr. Bush must not let the
business drag on. The longer it lasts the more external
voices will wish to be heard, and the less discretion Mr.
Bush may have. Already Senate Democrats are asking Mr. Bush
to consult with them over his choice. Mr. Bush should not
allow that Trojan Horse to enter the White House.
   Nominating a squeaky clean, well-qualified conservative
may prove easier than achieving a Senate confirmation. The
prospect of a solid conservative majority already is
galvanizing a left that is dedicated and organized against
any conservative nominee. This is the key point that the Bush
White House will ignore at its peril. It must be prepared to
fight. It must remember the failed Bork nomination.
   Mr. Reagan nominated Mr. Bork and then left him to fend
for himself. This meant Mr. Bork had to overcome a vicious
political campaign (the first of its kind ever against a
Supreme Court nominee) that used all the modern techniques,
including paid media advertising. Mr. Bork could not respond
in kind. No nominee can. Quite apart from the fact that
would-be justices are not politicians and are ill-equipped to
carry such a fight, only the president is positioned by his
place in the constitutional order to combat effectively the
kind of demagogic appeals that were used against Mr. Bork,
and which Mr. Bush can expect against any conservative
choice. Mark it down: There will be distortion, there will be
defamation.
   Mr. Bush must be ready, as Mr. Reagan was not, to go
public against the Democrats. He must be willing, as Mr.
Reagan was not, to fight fire with fire. If, as happened with
Mr. Bork, the left says the nominee will return the nation to
segregation or force sterilization upon women (or the like),
Mr. Bush must not confine himself to saying that this vicious
rhetoric has no place in the advice-and-consent process. He
must also be prepared to respond in sharp language that
cannot be misunderstood. With the 1990 elections a few months
away this tactic could force senators to rethink their
positions.
   Finally, Mr. Bush should not allow fear of defeat to
influence his actions. Thanks to the Constitution, the
president holds the upper hand. As Mr. Reagan showed in his
nominations of Mr. Bork, Mr. Ginsburg and Anthony Kennedy, a
president can eventually get his jurisprudential way. Still,
success can be achieved on the first try with a president of
purpose and will.
   ---
   Mr. Eastland, a former Reagan Justice Department official,
is completing a book on the Reagan and Bush presidencies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Petrocel Gets $26 Million Loan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   HPC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Finance Corp., a World
Bank affiliate, approved a $26 million loan to Petrocel S.A.,
a Mexican producer and exporter of intermediate chemicals
used in producing polyester fibers and plastic products.
   The agency said the Mexican company, which is embarking on
a three-year, $101 million expansion program, is jointly
owned by Grupo Industrial Alfa S.A. of Mexico and Hercules
Inc. of the U.S.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Other financing for the program will be provided by a
group of banks in Mexico and other countries and by Petrocel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Manager's Journal:
   Japanese M.B.A.s -- Made in the U.S.A.
   ----
   By James W. Schmotter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   I work in an American industry that is successfully
marketing its product in Japan -- so successfully, in fact,
that it turns away many potential customers each year. The
industry is graduate management education; the product is the
Master of Business Administration degree. At well-known U.S.
business schools, Japanese applicants, most financially
sponsored by their employers, are beating down our doors. At
Cornell last year more than 10% of our 3,228 M.B.A.
applicants were Japanese. Fewer than 40 were accepted for a
class of 240; 20 will enroll.
   Yet before U.S. business schools go too far in smug
self-congratulation about their success, they should look
more closely to see whether the right students are being
admitted to the right schools and receiving the right kind of
education. The process through which Japanese students find
their way to American M.B.A. schools is fraught with
inefficiencies and misunderstandings. And once they make it
into a U.S. business school, there is an incompatibility
between what is taught and what Japanese students expect to
achieve.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To start, U.S. business schools must recognize that the
goals of their Japanese students are usually quite different
from those of their U.S. applicants. Japanese government
ministries and large companies such as NTT, Nippon Steel and
Mitsubishi Corp. send young managers to the U.S. for their
M.B.A.s not primarily to learn useful techniques in marketing
or finance, but to learn about American culture and to make
personal contacts.
   Thus, more thorough introductions to American business
culture are needed for Japanese students. At the very least,
M.B.A. programs should offer intensified coursework in
American history, institutions and society. Professors could
organize study groups to promote interaction between Japanese
and American students. Case studies and other teaching
materials that view business problems from a non-U.S.
perspective also are a good idea.
   But problems with Japanese students begin even before they
arrive at U.S. business schools. Few involved in M.B.A.
admissions understand the graduate school preparation
industry in Japan. These preparatory schools have done their
work well. Japanese score very high on standardized tests;
thoughtful application essays are written in perfect English;
answers to typical interview questions are memorized. Even
the most experienced admissions officers are overwhelmed.
   Since so many of the Japanese applicants are well
qualified, business schools make decisions on these
candidates almost at random. The rationale for acceptance or
rejection comes down to inconsequentially small differences
on test scores, or worse, the potential of sponsoring
companies to make financial contributions to the school. Many
admissions offices have, in effect, lost control over their
own selection criteria. They must develop the expertise to
regain it. Not to do so is unfair to Japanese applicants, who
are paying application fees to participate in a fair
competition, not a lottery.
   The worries of some Japanese companies about
American-educated M.B.A.s are based on similar
misunderstandings. It's common for Japanese graduates to
complain that after returning to their corporations, they use
virtually none of the training they received in the U.S. It's
also increasingly common for such graduates to resent this
fact and occasionally to act upon it, forsaking lifetime
employment with the companies that sponsored their
educations. This quiet discontent is why the executive search
industry is growing in Japan and why some American investment
companies now make discreet contacts with sponsored Japanese
students at U.S. business schools.
   This non-Japanese but characteristically M.B.A.-like
behavior causes consternation. Japanese companies need to
understand that business schools raise students' career
expectations, and that these expectations, not the disloyalty
of specific employees, are behind such defections. Unless
Japanese companies change managerial career tracks for
M.B.A.s, such attrition will be a necessary cost of sending
students to top American schools.
   Another misunderstanding concerns Japanese perceptions of
the relative quality of U.S. schools. Japanese M.B.A.
applicants are brand-conscious. Hundreds of well-qualified
Japanese students are disappointed every year simply because
they focus their admissions efforts on only a handful of
schools. The students should learn the admissions tactics
that most college-bound Americans learn in high school, such
as identifying a "safety" school.
   On the U.S. side, many excellent M.B.A. programs that
would welcome Japanese students are frustrated by a shortage
of applicants. These schools should work, either
independently or through professional associations, to get
the word out.
   The sizable numbers of Japanese students in American
business schools is one of the few consistently encouraging
recent trends in the rocky relationship between the two
nations. But both sides can do better in nurturing this
trend. This current success in U.S.-Japanese relations should
not fall victim, like so many others, to incomprehension and
distrust.
   ---
   Mr. Schmotter is associate dean of Cornell University's
Johnson Graduate School of Management.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise:
   Some Parents Figure Learning a Business Is Child's Play
   ----
   By Jacob Grierson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Some parents wonder at what age their children should get
involved in business. To Valerie Groglio, age two seems about
right.
   The part-time independent accountant has established a
company in Rye, N.Y., in her baby daughter's name. Mrs.
Groglio will manage the company, Chelle Bows Inc., until her
daughter, Michelle, reaches the age of 21.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But Michelle will become increasingly involved. When she's
six, she'll accompany her mother on buying trips to New York
City and try her hand at making the handsewn fancy hair bows
the company produces. Income from the business will help
finance Michelle's education. And, if all goes well, the
experience will show Michelle that active involvement in
business can be fun, Mrs. Groglio says.
   Many parents are eager to involve their children in
business in some way, especially if the family owns a
business. About 90% of U.S. businesses are family-owned, but,
according to a study in the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology's Sloan Management Review, only 30% of them are
passed on to the second generation. Even parents who don't
have businesses to pass on often want to teach their
youngsters about entrepreneurship and the value of money.
   Robert and Rita Tucker of Rochester, N.Y., helped their
sons start a neighborhood doughnut delivery service nine
years ago, when the boys were five and seven years old, to
help make the boys more conscious of how much things cost.
   The parents taught the children such skills as taking
orders on the telephone, and they helped out by checking the
arithmetic on bills. The sons, Robert Jr. and Brian, started
out delivering doughnuts to neighbors on Sundays. Later they
diversified into delivering newspapers. The business, which
came to be known as Tucker Brother Doughnuts, lasted five
years and brought Robert and Brian $10 to $15 each a week.
   Mrs. Groglio's plan is more ambitious, though she says her
goal is for her daughter to learn about business "without it
taking over her whole life." The bow-making venture got
started after Mrs. Groglio left Coopers &amp; Lybrand, the large
accounting firm, to raise a family. Friends noticed some
fancy bows she had made for her hair and asked her to make
more. Now she supplies bows to specialty stores in and around
Rye, and to distributors in Florida, Connecticut and upstate
New York.
   Chelle Bows makes less money than an accounting practice
Mrs. Groglio established after Michelle's birth. But she says
the business is an attempt to "get back into the old days
where you put your children first."
   At first, she figures, Michelle can help choose materials,
research new fashions in Women's Wear Daily and experiment
with making bows to learn some of the more tangible parts of
the business. Later, Michelle will learn about accounting and
advertising -- she already shows off a Chelle Bows T-shirt.
   When she gets to high school, Michelle will be able to
work for her own company as much or as little as she wants.
But she won't be paid any more than the going rate for a
child of her age. Only when she reaches 21 will she get
control of Chelle Bows. Then she will be free either to
continue the business or dissolve it.
   Mrs. Groglio has high hopes for the company. Making at
least 30 bows per working day, or 7,500 a year, with minimal
overhead -- she handles the accounting herself -- she expects
to have a return on investment of 15% to 20%. The bows retail
for $6 to $16 apiece. By the time Michelle goes to college,
Mrs. Groglio hopes to have saved $300,000.
   Second-generation entrepreneurs say that a parent's
encouragement can be a major factor in a child's attitude
toward business. Stewart Leonard Jr., whose family owns Stew
Leonard's, a large grocery store in Norwalk, Conn., says he
grew up next to his father's dairy plant while the business
was still in its infancy. As the business developed, he says,
he was able to follow its ups and downs, and it became a
great adventure.
   "My father made an effort to make work seem fun," Mr.
Leonard says. "When he came home, he told funny stories, so
the first thing I wanted to do was to go right on over
there." Active involvement also played an important part. Mr.
Leonard still remembers being consulted by his father on the
floor plan for the retail store in 1969.
   Now Mr. Leonard is trying to make the business attractive
to his daughter. "When she comes over to the store, she
learns how to find my office," he says. "No matter what's
going on, I take at least four or five minutes off to spend
with her, giving her an ice-cream cone. So now she doesn't
think I really work."
   But Mr. Leonard says that involving children from an early
age can be risky: "Some of my friends are miserable because
their parents have put too much pressure on them to join the
family business." The most important thing, he contends, is
"to create the right environment for their particular fields
of expertise."
   Don Jonovic, a consultant at Family Business Management
Services in Cleveland, recommends allowing a child to develop
an idea of his own within the family business. He cites the
case of a printer of computer software manuals who gave his
teen-age son free rein to develop an innovative concept --
desktop publishing of business cards. The venture succeeded
and gave the son a chance to develop business interests on
his own.
   Parents interested in encouraging their children in
business can find plenty of help. Junior Achievement, a
national economic education program based in Colorado
Springs, Colo., has encouraged entrepreneurship among
youngsters in junior high school and high school since 1919.
   As an after-school addition to its applied economics
course for 12th-graders, Junior Achievement started a
"company program" nine years ago. Thirty students start a
company, elect officers, sell stock and market a product,
typically candy jars, address books and clocks. After one
semester, the company is liquidated, and the earnings, after
officers' salaries and sales commissions have been paid, are
distributed to the stockholders.
   The success of these ephemeral companies can be
impressive. At Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn,
N.Y., one of the companies set up by students two years ago
was so successful that when the company was liquidated after
18 weeks, shareholders who had paid $2 for a share received
$96, says Mary Honan, manager of development at Junior
Achievement's New York office.
   In New York state alone, participation in the company
program rose to 8,000 last year, more than double the 3,500
five years earlier, Junior Achievement says.
   Other programs start with even younger children. Glenda
Wills, a teacher at Mabry Middle School in Marietta, Ga.,
teaches her sixth-graders a course on business that covers,
among other things, the history of enterprise. For their own
enterprise, children develop and market products at
Christmas.
   David Hill, a consultant with Yarmouth Co., Seattle,
contends that the most important element of business
education is teaching kids that business is more than just
"chasing after big bucks." To develop tomorrow's successful
entrepreneur, he says, treat business as "an adventure and a
game."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Calfed Posts Deficit
   Totaling $53 Million
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   CAL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- CalFed Inc., stung by California's
weakening real estate market, posted a second-quarter net
loss of $53 million, or $2.10 a share.
   Citing "declining values" in real estate, CalFed, parent
of California Federal Bank, a savings and loan with about $25
billion in assets, said it took its first quarterly loss in
years after setting aside $91.7 million to provide for loan
losses and losses on real estate investments. A year ago,
CalFed earned $19.1 million, or 76 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CalFed's poor results didn't spook investors, who traded
the stock up by 37.5 cents to $14.875 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, slightly above its yearly low.
   But the news confirmed that California's once go-go real
estate market is now sputtering, a trend that could spell
trouble for many banks and thrifts in the state. And it was a
reminder that with real estate prices slumping in much of the
country, even relatively healthy thrifts will find it
difficult to produce earnings as they scramble to revise the
value of their real estate loans and holdings.
   "With changing market conditions, it is prudent to take a
more conservative view of potential future losses inherent in
our real estate loan portfolio," Jerry St. Dennis, CalFed's
chief executive officer, acknowledged in a statement.
   The increase in loss provisions wiped out benefits gained
from several positive steps taken by CalFed. Expense cuts in
its banking operations are likely to save $35 million this
year, and general and administrative expenses fell by 9.3%
compared with a year earlier. And in the second quarter, new
loan originations grew by 20% to $1.2 billion, and the
banking segment's interest rate spread improved to 2.3% from
1.8% a year earlier.
   For the six-month period, CalFed posted a loss of $34.1
million, or $1.35 a share, against net income of $36.6
million, or $1.46 a share, for the 1989 first half.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH LAUNCHED a search for a successor to Justice Brennan,
who resigned.
   The 84-year-old liberal justice's resignation Friday after
a term of nearly 34 years gives the president his first
opportunity to influence the Supreme Court's character. But
it raises the risk of a Senate confirmation fight, and of
further GOP schisms. The likely appointment of a conservative
will be felt when the court begins its next session Oct. 1.
On abortion and separation of church and state, the court's
decisions may have a stronger conservative aspect.
Affirmative action and civil-rights rulings also may be
affected. The departure of Brennan could bring a liberal era
on the Supreme Court to an end.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bush may get further chances to cement the conservative
cast of the court, as liberal Justices Blackmun and Marshall
are in their early 80s.
   ---
   A COURT REVERSED North's conviction in the Iran-Contra
affair.
   The reversal by a federal appeals court in Washington
Friday was on the grounds that trial proceedings may have
been tainted by exposure to his testimony before Congress.
North was convicted of destroying documents, accepting an
illegal gratuity, and aiding in the obstruction of Congress.
The former national security aide received a suspended jail
sentence and a $150,000 fine. The court dismissed a lower
court's ruling on the document-shredding conviction. The
other two counts weren't dismissed, but the decision improves
North's chances of being cleared.
   The ruling may benefit former National Security Adviser
Poindexter, who received a six-month jail term in June for
his role in the Iran-Contra affair.
   ---
   Liberia's Doe was confined inside his mansion in Monrovia,
with rebels besieging the capital and his 500-member
presidential guard refusing to let him flee without them,
according to military sources. In a telex to the BBC, Doe
vowed he would remain until "a clear victor emerges."
   ---
   A House panel appears ready to cancel or slash funding for
the Air Force's B-2 Stealth bomber, the Army's LH helicopter
and other weapons. Procurement cuts will account for nearly
half of the $24 billion that the House Armed Services
Committee is expected to carve out of the Bush
administration's defense budget request.
   ---
   An aftershock struck Baguio in the Philippines, creating
panic among thousands of people camping in the streets of the
city, hit a week ago by an earthquake that ravaged six
northern provinces. It wasn't clear if there were any new
casualties in the latest aftershock to last week's quake, for
which the death toll stands at 1,043.
   ---
   The Minnesota Supreme Court ruled Friday that a reporter's
promise of confidentiality to a source doesn't constitute an
enforceable contract. The ruling overturns a $200,000 verdict
against the state's two biggest papers, whose reporters told
a source he wouldn't be identified but then were overruled by
editors.
   ---
   A bomb blew a hole in the London Stock Exchange Friday,
but no one was injured and trading wasn't interrupted. A
telephone caller earlier had warned of an IRA bomb, prompting
the evacuation of scores of traders and other employees.
   ---
   British authorities banned a Pakistani film that portrays
author Salman Rushdie as a drunken pro-Israeli playboy killed
by a bolt of lightning for attacks on the prophet Mohammed.
Rushdie, whose novel "The Satanic Verses" was termed
blasphemous by many Moslems, has been in hiding in Britain
because of an Iranian death threat.
   ---
   East Germany's Parliament voted to reconstitute the
nation's five original states, reversing a 38-year Communist
decision and taking another step toward German unification.
Meanwhile, Premier de Maiziere averted his government's
collapse by getting feuding coalition members to agree to
consult Bonn about a date for unification.
   ---
   Mongolians voted in their nation's first multiparty
election, a primary contest for local, provincial and
national legislators. Diplomats in Ulan Bator said the
Communists would win but their authority, unchallenged for 69
years, would be weaker.
   ---
   Greg LeMond of the U.S. captured his third Tour de France
victory, finishing the three-week cycle race two minutes, 16
seconds ahead of Claudio Chiappucci of Italy.
   ---
   Nick Faldo of the U.K. won the British Open golf
championship in St. Andrews, Scotland, by five strokes.
   ---
   Died: Manuel Puig, 57, Argentine writer whose novels
include "The Kiss of the Spider Woman," in Cuernavaca,
Mexico, of a heart attack after gall bladder surgery.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. International Trade Commission
   Is Set to Rule on Camera Import Case
   ----
   By John T. Norman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5D
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN EK KYC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. International Trade Commission is
expected to decide tomorrow whether higher tariffs, import
quotas or some other type of restrictions are needed on
imports of fixed-focus cameras from Japan and other
countries.
   Technically, the government trade panel will be voting on
whether these imports, which totaled about $689 million in
1989, are "injuring" a domestic industry, as alleged in a
complaint filed with the ITC several months ago by Keystone
Camera Corp., Clifton, N.J.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   If, as expected, the ITC upholds the Keystone complaint --
which has been strongly opposed by Eastman Kodak Co.,
Rochester, N.Y., and others -- the trade panel could either
make some immediate recommendations to the White House about
limiting imports or delay that decision until Sept. 9, after
another round of ITC hearings on the "remedy" for the import
problem.
   White House officials are concerned that this trade case
may get to President Bush a lot quicker than previously
expected, forcing him to act by the end of the month on
accepting or rejecting "provisional" import restrictions that
the ITC could propose. Allowing the president only seven days
to make such a decision wouldn't give President Bush or his
top trade advisers much time for dealing with a difficult
trade dispute, U.S. officials say.
   If the ITC delays its recommendations on an import relief
"remedy" until September, President Bush still would be
required to make the final decision this year on whether to
accept, reject or modify any ITC proposals.
   The Keystone case, filed March 29 under Section 201 of
U.S. trade laws, has attracted a lot of attention in the
international trade community.
   It doesn't involve alleged "unfair" import competition.
Rather, it is a straightforward request for protectionist
trade measures, in the form of higher tariffs and import
quotas for a period of five years, to restrain imports of
relatively inexpensive fixed-focus cameras using 35mm and
110-type film.
   Without such import restrictions, Keystone has said it
would have to stop producing such cameras in the U.S. and
switch production abroad, as Eastman Kodak and other camera
manufacturers already have done.
   But Eastman Kodak, which is ranked as an "importer" in the
current ITC inquiry, and representatives of camera makers in
Japan, Taiwan, Brazil, Hong Kong, China, Mexico, South Korea,
Malaysia and Thailand, argued that the import restrictions
sought by Keystone should be rejected by the ITC.
   Earlier, the ITC rejected efforts of Eastman Kodak and
others to get the trade panel to terminate the inquiry on the
grounds that Keystone couldn't speak for the entire U.S.
camera manufacturing industry.
   The government trade panel had its full complement of six
members when the camera import inquiry was ordered this year.
But two ITC members have resigned, and President Bush hasn't
filled those vacancies; new appointees also would have to be
approved by the Senate before they could assume office.
   Therefore, the decision scheduled for tomorrow on the
Keystone case will be made by the four remaining ITC members,
which sets up the following possibilities on the outcome:
   If the ITC rules against Keystone by a vote of 3-1, that
would end the entire case.
   If it goes 3-1 the other way, Keystone would win.
   If the ITC members split, a 2-2 vote on the question of
injury to a domestic industry also would mean that Keystone
would be the winner in the first critical decision in this
case, because that is the way U.S. law now reads for
decisions in Section 201 cases.
   All of this suggests that President Bush, whether he likes
it or not, will have to make a tough call on restricting
imports of certain types of cameras that are sold by the
millions each year to U.S. consumers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Colorado Agency Sues OEA
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OEA
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   DENVER -- OEA Inc. said the Colorado Department of Health
filed a suit in state court claiming the automotive and
aerospace maker violated the Colorado Hazardous Waste Act.
   The suit asks for an injunction prohibiting OEA from
generating any hazardous waste until the state agency
believes that OEA is in compliance with the department's
regulations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   OEA said it asked the court for a stay of any injunction
and has temporarily discontinued production at its Denver
facility until the injunction request is heard and decided.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Stock Listings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   BJS TCH EWF SZH ADDDF NLCO ISAN MECA MODT CHUX CDNC TDAT
UJB
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The New York Stock Exchange announced three
new listings, the American Stock Exchange one, and the
National Market System of the over-the-counter market six.
All of these listings are initial public offerings.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   B.J. Services Co., a Houston-based concern that does
pressure pumping for the petroleum industry, joined the big
board Friday, under the symbol BJS.
                                                                                                       

   Compania de Telefonos de Chile S.A., a Santiago, Chile,
telecommunications enterprise, began trading American
depositary shares under TCH. Each depositary share represents
16 Series A common shares.
                                                                                                       

   The European Warrant Fund Inc., a New York-base closed-end
management company, began trading under EWF.
                                                                                                       

   Joining the Amex, Sierra Capital Realty Trust VIII Co., a
San Francisco real estate investment trust company, begins
trading today, under SZH.
                                                                                                       

   In the over-the-counter market, Alias Research Inc., a
Toronto-based maker of industrial design software products,
began trading under ADDDF.
                                                                                                       

   Environmental Elements Corp., a Baltimore supplier of air
pollution control systems, began trading under NLCO.
                                                                                                       

   In-Store Advertising Inc., a New York-based provider of
in-store electronic signs, began trading under ISAN.
                                                                                                       

   MECA Software Inc., a Westport, Conn., maker of software
products for managing personal or small business finances,
began trading under MECA.
                                                                                                       

   Modtech Inc., a Perris, Calif. maker of modular
relocatable classrooms, began trading under MODT.
                                                                                                       

   O'Charley's Inc., a Nashville, Tenn., owner and operator
of restaurants and franchises, began trading under CHUX.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange began trading options on the
over-the-counter stock shares of Cadence Design Systems Inc.,
a San Jose, Calif., maker of computer-aided design software
products, under CDQ.
                                                                                                       

   Also on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Teradata
Corp., a El Segundo, Calif., supplier of relational database
computer systems, began trading under TDQ and UJB Financial
Corp., a Princeton, N.J. banking company, began trading under
UJB.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Oak Industries Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OAK U.YVL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   WALTHAM, Mass. -- Oak Industries Inc. said it sold its
Diamond H. Controls Ltd. unit to Yale &amp; Valor PLC. Terms
weren't disclosed, but Oak said the price is "substantially
in excess of book value."
   Oak, a maker of electrical and electronics parts and
controls said that it decided to sell the British unit
because it prefers to invest proceeds in the U.S. where it
can take advantage of corporate tax-loss carryforwards.
Diamond H. makes appliance controls.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rocky Mountain Helicopters
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   PROVO, Utah -- Rocky Mountain Helicopters Inc. said it
filed an initial public offering with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to sell 1.5 million shares of stock at
prices ranging from $8.50 to $9.50 a share.
   The offering will be underwritten by Blunt Ellis &amp; Leowi
Inc., Milwaukee, and 300,000 shares will be sold by
shareholders. Proceeds from the sale of the remaining shares
will be used to repay certain indebtedness.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rocky Mountain provides air transport services to
hospitals and ambulance operations in its region.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   `Dear Buyer: Sorry Your Widget
   Broke, but It's a Nice Day and...'
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   It ain't necessarily so that the customer's always right.
The old adage has been given new meaning by a contest to find
the best written response to a consumer complaint.
   In bestowing its "Silver Pen" award, the Major Appliance
Consumer Action Panel, a nonprofit mediation board sponsored
by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, considers
such qualities as sensitivity and responsiveness to a
consumer's situation and complaint. Clear and concise
language and proper writing style also are de rigueur.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What the letter doesn't have to do is give the consumer
what he or she wants.
   Indeed, say experts in the field of consumer relations,
it's not what you tell consumers that counts, but how you
tell it.
   "You tell people to go to hell in such a way that they
look forward to the trip," John Goodman, president of
Technical Assistance Research Programs, quotes one of his
trainers as saying.
   Complaining consumers who fail to receive a satisfactory
response from a company that participates voluntarily in the
program may write to the panel and ask it to review the
complaint. The panel also forwards letters it gets directly
to a company and gives it time to respond. The panel's
recommendations aren't binding.
   Marian Stamos, who runs the well-regarded program, says
the reason the award doesn't require that consumers get what
they seek is simple: "Consumers may not be right in what they
want."
   The panel's 1989 Silver Pen award went to Julie Cicero
Bezotte, customer-service manager at Emerson Electric Co.'s
InSink-Erator division, a garbage-disposal company and
dishwasher marketer.
   Ms. Bezotte's letter responded to one by an engineer who
complained about his dishwasher. "He was listening to it,"
Ms. Bezotte says, and he thought the water in the unit might
not be clean.
   The letter, which is exceedingly cordial, won't get any
prizes for liveliness. But then, nobody would expect a
detailed description of a dishwasher's timer sequence to set
the world on fire. Ms. Bezotte cautioned the consumer not to
"confuse the `wash' cycle and the `purge' cycle." And, she
wrote, "as long as all plumbing and drain connections are
correct, waste water cannot back up into the dishwasher."
   The world will have to take it on faith that the letter
satisfied his complaint. Both the company and the panel
prefer to keep the identity of consumers confidential.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Any Buying Interest in Yen Soon Fizzles
   As Currency Is Hurt by Capital Outflows
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST CANDA EUROP JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The yen has been behaving like a soggy
firecracker: Any buying interest that has flared up has
fizzled quickly.
   That's because the yen is still hindered by capital
outflows from Japan and concerns about Japanese inflationary
pressures -- even though investors are warming up to the
currency, some economists say.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The yen has come a long way from its trough, {but} it
hasn't been a sensational rally," says Lawrence Krohn, a
senior economist at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. He believes
it will take a while for the yen to get up a "good head of
steam."
   When dealings finished here Friday, the dollar was quoted
at 148.60 yen, moderately higher than 148.10 at Thursday's
close.
   In Tokyo Monday, the dollar was trading at 148.20 yen soon
after the opening; it closed at 148.30 yen in Tokyo Friday.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about 1.6330
marks, down from Tokyo's Friday's close of 1.6378 marks.
   In non-dollar trading, the mark and Swiss franc finished
the week at 90.80 and 106.07 yen, respectively, up from 90.25
and 105.38 yen late Thursday.
   While the yen's performance wasn't impressive Friday, the
longer-term picture is brighter. The dollar is down about
7.3% from the 39-month high of 160.30 yen hit April 2; since
early May, the yen has risen approximately 5.5% against the
mark and the Swiss franc.
   Between February and April, the yen was caught in a
downward spiral because of the dive in the Japanese stock and
bond markets and the foreign exchange market's disappointment
with Japan's relatively low interest rates.
   The drop came to a halt after the Japanese financial
markets stabilized and higher Japanese rates lured investors.
   But capital outflows from Japan are offsetting those
bullish influences, economists say. In May, net long-term
capital outflows from Japan totaled $5.6 billion, slightly
more than $5.3 billion in April but less than this year's
high of $7.9 billion in February.
   "The capital flows haven't dropped off that much. They
{the Japanese} have a sustained desire to diversify" their
portfolios, says David Hale, chief economist at Kemper
Financial Services Inc. in Chicago.
   Because yen-denominated investments remain pricey despite
the selling binge earlier this year, Japanese investors favor
less expensive West German, Canadian and Australian assets,
he says.
   With growing interest in the financial markets of West
Germany and other Western European nations, the U.S. markets
are no longer the clear favorite of the Japanese, economists
say.
   Although Japan's inflation rate is relatively low compared
with the rates in other major industrial nations, worries
about building price pressures are still making investors "a
little bit leery" about putting capital in Japan, says
Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America
Inc.
   Japan's broadly defined money supply grew at an average
rate of 12.6% in June from the year-earlier level,
accelerating at a double-digit rate for the seventh month in
a row. The June rate was, however, off substantially from the
13.2% rate in April and May.
   The Bank of Japan predicts the money supply will expand at
rates around 12% in the third quarter, slower than the 13%
average in the second quarter. The central bank's governor,
Yasushi Mieno, said recently that the rapid money supply
growth is due to temporary and special factors, such as the
liberalization of Japanese interest rates.
   Inflation worries have weighed on the yen for some time
even though the Bank of Japan has maintained a tight monetary
policy. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecasts that Japan's inflation rate will run
about 2.7% this year, much higher than 1.5% in 1989.
   Although the yen has drawbacks, it is expected to keep
working its way up in coming months with help from the higher
Japanese interest rates.
   Yen money market rates have been on the rise recently, and
there is widespread speculation that the Bank of Japan will
soon raise its 5.25% discount rate, possibly in September.
   The yen aside, traders say the dollar will probably
continue to trade within a range for the time being as market
participants wait for fresh news about the U.S. economy and
the budget negotiations in Washington.
   On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday, gold for
current delivery settled at $361.30 an ounce, down 10 cents.
Estimated volume was a light two million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Monday, gold was quoted at
$361.45 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Production, Refining and Shipping Problems
   In Central Africa Are Pushing Up Price of Cobalt
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- Resistance against one-party rule in central
Africa is pushing up the price of cobalt, an important
strategic metal.
   In only the past three weeks, the price surged to $10.50 a
pound from $7.80 because of acute production, refining and
shipping problems in Zaire and Zambia, says Oscar Prager,
managing director of Ayrton &amp; Partners Ltd., London metal
dealers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Cobalt is an integral part of "super alloys" used in
military and civil jet engines and in machine tools. It is
strong, corrosion-resistant and able to withstand very high
temperatures, analysts say.
   It is "strategic" because such things as jet engines can't
be built without it. About two-thirds of normal annual world
cobalt supplies of around 20,000 metric tons is mined as a
byproduct of copper in politically unstable Zambia and Zaire,
Mr. Prager says. He estimates that supplies from these two
landlocked countries could fall as much as 4,000 tons short
of normal.
   Production difficulties are the result of deteriorating
conditions in the economies of the two nations, says Gavin
Sanderson, chief executive officer of China Industrial
Resources, a London metals company, adding that Chinese and
Eastern European industries were buyers of scarce cobalt.
   Moreover, skilled expatriate technical and administrative
managers left Zaire and Zambia in recent months, Mr.
Sanderson says. An attempted coup in Zambia and fighting in
the mineral-rich Shaba province of Zaire are discouraging
foreign personnel from working there, he says.
   "The shortage could be critical," Mr. Sanderson says.
Central African output has fallen in recent years because of
depressed prices, he says.
   But mines and refineries won't be in a position to raise
production markedly, Mr. Sanderson says. There hasn't been
sufficient maintenance to raise capacity, and they won't
attract replacements of foreign qualified staff. They fear
tribal strife if President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire and
Zambian president Kenneth Kaunda are deposed, Mr. Sanderson
says.
   In 1978, an invasion of Zaire's Shaba province
precipitated a ballooning of cobalt's price to $50 a pound
from $7, dealers recall. The price then slumped to around $4
as mines raised output rapidly and speculators dumped stocks.
   Prices could rise sharply again, unless metal is released
from consumer inventories or the U.S. National Defense
Stockpile, Mr. Prager of Ayrton &amp; Partners says. The U.S. has
built up a cobalt stockpile of around 24,000 tons, equivalent
to about 14 months of world consumption, as an insurance
against political or other disruptions, officials say.
   It is included with 91 other commodities in a $10 billion
stockpile. But stocks of cobalt will only be released for
defense purposes and won't be sold if there is a shortage in
the markets, the officials say. Meanwhile, the U.S. is
upgrading the quality of cobalt in its stockpile, and its
long-term goal is to raise inventories to 38,000 metric tons.
   But Phillip Crowson, chief economist of RTZ Corp., a major
international mining company, contends metals merchants are
being alarmists about cobalt. Fears of short supplies of
strategic metals arise periodically, he says, but there are
large stocks of metal world-wide.
   Moreover, the defense industry, a major user of cobalt, is
likely to cut back purchases of cobalt because of detente
between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Warsaw
Pact, analysts say.
   Cobalt is traded in a narrow, illiquid market, dealers
say, which means speculators can drive prices up or down
rapidly.
   Rhodium, another strategic metal, which is used in
automobiles to reduce pollution, is a prime example, Mr.
Crowson says. Prices rose to a peak of $7,350 an ounce early
July from $1,250 a year earlier because of supply disruptions
at a refinery of South African producer Rustenburg Platinum
Mines Ltd. The price then fell to $4,300 an ounce early this
week and bounced back to $5,000 on Friday on extremely low
volumes, dealers say.
   Rhodium supplies are likely to rise in coming months, say
Barry Davison, managing director of Rustenburg Platinum
Mines, who insists that the mine's refinery has overcome its
problems.
   Although rhodium has risen swiftly because of a temporary
shortage, the price could easily tumble when more supplies
hit an illiquid market, dealers say. The same applies to
cobalt.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   After the close of trading Friday, the Agriculture
Department reported that the number of cattle on feedlots in
13 major ranch states on July 1 rose 1% from a year earlier.
   The report was in line with the expectations of analysts.
   The department reported that the number of young cattle
placed on feedlots for fattening in the second quarter
dropped 2% while sales by feedlots to slaughterhouses were
flat.
   According to analysts, heavy rains this spring improved
the condition of pastures, which in turn reduced pressure on
ranchers to sell their cattle to feedlots.
   On Friday, the Agriculture Department is slated to release
a survey of the nation's cattle herd, which began to slowly
rebound last year after slipping to its smallest number since
1961.
   Industry analysts expect the government to report that the
number of cattle is increasing slightly.
   In the hog market, traders will watch whether pork belly
prices recover from last week's plunge. The price decline was
fanned by speculation that high retail prices are damping
consumer demand. Pork bellies are used to make bacon.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude oil prices soared Friday on the belief that members
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would
toe the line in the face of Saddam Hussein's strong-man
tactics. For the first time in almost two months crude for
August delivery broke through a resistance level and finished
trading at more than $19 a barrel.
   With oil ministers preparing to sit down and talk in
Geneva on Wednesday, traders say they don't want to be caught
short in the market. Iraq's threat to discipline cartel
members who are pumping beyond their quota may cause OPEC
producers to rein in output to no more than 22.5 million
barrels a day. That level is still above the overall OPEC
quota, but far below real OPEC production in recent months.
   Demand for the cartel's crude is expected to increase
during the third and fourth quarter on a seasonal basis,
another factor that will bring some relief to a market
glutted with crude supplies, experts say.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices Friday rose almost two cents a pound; the
September contract closed at $1.1980. Traders will be
watching to see if the gains are sustained.
   Friday's advance was a rebound from five consecutive days
of declines, which saw the September price drop 6.15 cents.
The rally occurred despite a 15,000-ton increase in London
Metal Exchange copper warehouse stocks and a tentative
settlement of the Asarco strike that began July 1.
   However, the stock increase had been predicted, and a
labor settlement had been expected after Asarco and the
United Steelworkers union sat down Friday for the first time
since July 3 to resume contract negotiations. Basically,
analysts said, the selling pressure just seemed to have run
its course.
   The copper industry is behaving normally this summer, in
contrast to the past two years when demand for copper was
strong and prices were high, according to Fred D'Agostino,
president of Metal Resources Inc., of Riverside, Conn., a
scrap and refined copper trading firm.
   "Brass, tube and wire mills this summer are closing down
for their regular overhauls, which is leading to a lack of
demand for copper," he said. "Japan, on the other hand, for
several months has been a major buyer of U.S. copper and this
has contributed an underlying support to the market."
   There have been spurts of buying, such as early in the
month when the July contract rose 20 cents on no discernible
reason, Mr. D'Agostino said. "If that demand were to come in
August and September for fourth quarter consumption, I could
understand it. Maybe speculators see something the rest of us
don't," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southern New England Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   SNG
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW HAVEN, Conn. -- Southern New England Telephone, a unit
of Southern New England Telecommunications Corp., said it
filed for a rate increase of $86.4 million, or 8.7%.
   If the state Department of Public Utility Control approves
the move following hearings this fall, the increase would
take effect in January. The company said it hasn't requested
a rate increase in eight years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chrysler Offers Union Workers a Share
   In Ownership, Bonuses for Productivity
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   C LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   HIGHLAND PARK, Mich. -- Chrysler Corp. offered its union
employees part ownership of the company and incentive
payments in return for helping the auto maker slash costs.
   Chrysler officials didn't provide details such as how much
stock the company would offer workers, and the sketchy
proposal seemed to raise more questions than it answered.
Union officials immediately said they didn't take the offer
seriously. But Chrysler says it needs radical measures to
close the cost gap with Japanese competitors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "What we desperately need at Chrysler is cost parity,"
said Anthony P. St. John, Chrysler vice president for
employee relations. "The long-term result of not being
competitive . . . is failure." In addition to offering the
UAW a piece of the company, Mr. St. John said Chrysler would
be willing to give UAW workers bonuses for meeting specific
productivity goals.
   Chrysler's sales and earnings are mired in a steep slump,
and crucial new products are still two years away. The
company wants to be the UAW's target for negotiating a
pattern contract for the Big Three auto makers, because
Chrysler believes it can't afford to be as generous as
General Motors Corp. or Ford Motor Co. If it isn't the
target, Chrysler would like a different contract -- although
breaking a pattern is near-anathema to the UAW.
   In return for stock and bonus payments, the auto maker
wants greater flexibility to operate its plants. It also
wants the union's support for a plan to build a health care
network with other employers that would help cut Chrysler's
steep medical care bills, which are about $700 for each
vehicle sold.
   Chrysler is asking similar moves from its white-collar
employees. They have been invited to bet a portion of their
salaries on the performance of the company -- specifically,
on whether Chrysler can meet ambitious cost-cutting goals.
   This isn't the first time Chrysler has offered stock in
return for the union's assistance. A decade ago, when
Chrysler teetered near bankruptcy, it got wage concessions
from the union. In return, Chrysler paid stock into a fund to
be distributed to workers. In 1985 the company and union
agreed to terminate the fund, and Chrysler distributed $550
million to 87,500 hourly workers in the U.S. and Canada. The
workers had a choice of getting stock or cash, and most took
cash.
   Also in return for concessions, the company named Douglas
Fraser, then the UAW president, to its board. Owen Bieber,
the current UAW president, still sits on Chrysler's board.
   Mr. Bieber has called on the Big Three auto makers to give
union workers more say in management decisions, and to view
workers as equal partners. But several union officials said
privately that Chrysler's proposal was wildly unrealistic.
Publicly, however, a UAW spokesman said, "It's far too early
in the process to begin responding in the press to specific
proposals."
   Analysts responded favorably to Chrysler's employee
ownership and incentive initiatives. "We've seen in company
after company that if you own part of the company, you work
smarter," said Ronald Glantz, an analyst with Dean Witter in
San Francisco.
   On Friday, Chrysler stock closed at $16, down 50 cents in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Officials of GM and Ford, which also opened negotiations
with the UAW last week, said they would wait for Chrysler to
be more specific before commenting on its move.
   Chrysler has the highest labor costs of the Big Three --
$33 an hour, compared with $31 an hour for Ford, and $30 an
hour for GM. And the Japanese factories in the U.S. that have
eroded Chrysler's share of the car market in recent months
enjoy labor costs about $10 an hour below Chrysler's.
   While these Japanese-owned plants simply operate more
efficiently, some of the cost gap is beyond Chrysler's
control. Its employees are older, and the ratio of retired
employees to active workers is higher than GM's or Ford's.
The Japanese plants are new, and have virtually no retirees.
   These problems are compounded by the 13% drop in
Chrysler's vehicle sales this year. The auto maker has said
it expects a second straight year of negative cash flow in
1990. The company is expected to post a sharply lower
second-quarter profit and said last week it expects a
"substantial loss" in the third quarter.
   In outlining Chrysler's initiative, Mr. St. John said the
gain-sharing concept would reward workers at Chrysler plants
for meeting specific productivity targets, such as lower
absenteeism rates. The concept is similar to plans in many
factories around the nation.
   Chrysler said it also needs the flexibility to institute
three shift operations at certain plants. Last fall, the
company and union leaders agreed to such a plan for
Chrysler's minivan plant in St. Louis. But workers at the
plant voted down the plan. Three-shift production would allow
the company to boost output and profit from a plant, without
substantial spending for additional facilities.
   In a related cost-cutting initiative, Chrysler said it
wants to join with another large employer to build a
multi-employer health care network. That would enable the
auto maker to cut medical costs through efficiency of scale,
Chrysler said.
   Unless it creates a multi-employer health care trust fund,
Chrysler's health care costs will increase by about $7 an
hour, per employee, Mr. St. John said. That's because a new
federal rule will force employers to allow health care
retirement benefits to accrue while employees are still on
the job, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chandler Insurance
   Will Post Record Net
   For Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   CHANF
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   GRAND CAYMAN, Cayman Islands -- Chandler Insurance Co.
expects to report record net income of about $3 million for
the second quarter, compared with $2.6 million in the
year-earlier period, W. Brent LaGere, chairman and chief
executive officer, said.
   Per-share earnings fell to between 38 cents and 40 cents
from 50 cents a year earlier because of a stock offering in
March of 2.2 million shares. At the end of the most recent
quarter, Chandler had an average of 7.7 million shares
outstanding, compared with 5.3 million a year earlier, Mr.
LaGere said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the first half, Chandler, which primarily reinsures
auto and general liability risks for trucking companies,
expects to report earnings of about $5.7 million, compared
with $5.2 million a year earlier. Per-share earnings fell to
about 85 cents from 97 cents. Chandler had an average of 6.7
million shares outstanding at the end of June, compared with
5.3 million a year earlier.
   Mr. LaGere, in an interview, attributed the improvement in
earnings to strong growth in the company's large-fleet
trucking program, which accounts for about 36% of premiums.
Chandler expects earned premiums in the segment to total
about $10.2 million for the quarter, compared with about $7.8
million in the year-earlier period.
   Chandler is also seeing significant growth in its surety
bond program, Mr. LaGere said, particularly because the
Treasury Department in December authorized the company to
write bonds for contractors that perform U.S. government
work. In the second quarter, the surety bond program had
earned premiums of about $3.7 million, compared with about
$1.8 million in the first quarter and about $1.5 million in
the 1989 second quarter.
   Mr. LaGere declined to project results for the remainder
of the year. But he characterized Chandler as being "somewhat
immune" from price competition because of the specialty
niches that the company occupies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   MGM/UA Communications Co.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   MGM
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM/UA COMMUNICATIONS CO. said it distributed $4 a share
to its shareholders from a partial payment made by Pathe
Communications Corp. in its $1.3 billion agreement to buy the
movie studio. The payment gives majority shareholder Kirk
Kerkorian a gain of $180 million. Mr. Kerkorian, who has
worked to sell the beleaguered studio for two years, owns
about 35 million of MGM/UA's 51 million common shares and 10
million preferred.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Management:
   Eastern Air Seeks Fast Fix for Labor Ties
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian and Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CTA LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Eastern Airlines is out to prove that a company beset by
employee strife can do a quick about-face.
   The airline, seeking to rebound from an acrimonious strike
that began over a year ago, has set an ambitious 100-day
deadline for mending its strike-torn labor-management
relations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If there is one thing I can promise and deliver on it is
that the human equation will be paramount at Eastern," said
Martin R. Shugrue Jr., the bankruptcy-court-appointed trustee
now running the carrier, in a recent newspaper and television
advertising campaign. "If that thinking is a change from what
you've experienced before, so be it. That's the way we are
going to do it. Period."
   But Eastern still faces a rash of troubles, the most
recent of which include possible charges by federal
prosecutors that it falsified maintenance records two years
ago. Eastern contends an indictment could devastate its
efforts to rebuild. Though Eastern's pilots and flight
attendants ended their sympathy walkout last November,
machinists remain on strike, and contract talks for pilots
reached an impasse this month.
   "It's a classic example," says Jackie Greaner, executive
vice president of EnterChange Inc., a consulting firm. "How
do you renew an organization that's died or is dying?"
   Improved morale, for which the continuing labor friction
doesn't bode well, is critical to the airline's efforts to
dig itself out from under bankruptcy-court protection.
Service organizations such as airlines rely heavily on good
relations with employees sparking similar good vibes with
customers. At Eastern, though, passengers often bore the
brunt of hostility between management and pilots, machinists
and flight attendants.
   Its employees "didn't give a damn about the passenger,"
says James Petillo, manager of management development at
Wickes Lumber Co., recalling a pre-strike flight he took as
employee disaffection neared its apex. "All they talked about
was . . . the company and how bad it was."
   Eastern agrees. "If we don't take care of each other, how
are we going to take care of our customers?" the ads ask. The
company, among other things, has begun running focus groups
and seminars for employees, dousing workers with videotapes
and preparing training sessions on customer service.
   But simply resolving to change doesn't ensure success.
Eastern's attempt to remake itself is "a long-term process,"
and senior managers "have to build up employees' trust in
them," says Mr. Petillo. "You don't do that just by saying
you're going to do that. You have to do that on a day-to-day
basis, by showing you mean what you say."
   Employees easily sense insincerity, says Joseph L.
Mancusi, a consultant from Alexandria, Va. He recalls one
client that held a gathering for 600 employees at a New York
hotel to reassure them about the effects of some pending
changes. The chief executive "spent hundreds of thousands of
dollars on the meeting, and lies were coming out of his
mouth," Mr. Mancusi says. The company "was in trouble, and
it's still in trouble."
   Perhaps Eastern's most crucial action was the ouster of
Texas Air Corp., now Continental Airlines Holdings Inc., from
day-to-day management of the airline and Mr. Shugrue's
subsequent appointment. That came in April, after Eastern's
creditors lost faith in Texas Air and Chairman Frank
Lorenzo's plans to reorganize the airline.
   Mr. Lorenzo, who headed the team that took over Eastern in
the mid-1980s, quickly became the focal point of employee
hostility. With an icy demeanor and a steel will, Mr. Lorenzo
locked horns with union representatives in his efforts to
turn around the struggling carrier. Though he often has
dismissed complaints against him as exaggerated, many people
who know him say his chilly personality alienated airline
workers. Eastern "would never be able to restore commitment
or loyalty under previous management," says Ms. Greaner.
   Mr. Lorenzo wouldn't comment, but a spokesman for
Continental says his negative image is the result of a
successful negative campaign by Eastern's unions. "The
relations Mr. Lorenzo enjoys with the employees at
Continental disproves the image of him deliberately created
by Eastern's unions," the spokesman says.
   Mr. Shugrue is at ease with people, cultivating good
relations with the media, suppliers and customers. An open
and friendly person, he has moved quickly to capitalize on
his assets.
   Good employee morale is accomplished by exercising
"visible leadership," Mr. Shugrue says. "I have to be
available, flexible, visible, and I have to lead, not order."
The key, he says, is good communication. "You have to tell
employees where they stand, good or bad, what's expected of
them, and how they can contribute." He says Eastern is doing
all of that.
   Mr. Shugrue says he has met with thousands of Eastern
employees, all of whom have been frank about their concerns.
"Airline employees are not shy people," he says. He says
morale at the airline is "just fantastic."
   Mr. Shugrue isn't the only Eastern officer making the
rounds. He has accelerated a program of executive visits that
began shortly before he took charge, now making other
officers visit employees at least monthly, says Alan C.
Gibson, Eastern's vice president of employee relations. And
as it has since the strike began, the carrier sends daily
briefing notes by teletype to its bases and has an 800 phone
number for traveling employees to get the latest company
news.
   Flight attendants returning to work since their strike
must complete a threeday program that includes a meeting with
the airline's vice president of in-flight operations. They
also view a video called "Rainbow Wars." The airline
describes it as a light-hearted animated cartoon about three
warring kingdoms that find they work better when they pull
together.
   Returning pilots have a similar one-on-one "focus group"
with Eastern officers, each of whom spends about a half-hour
with the pilots.
   Some employees minimize these efforts so far. Mary Jane
Barry, who heads the flight attendants union, says there
hasn't been much more than rhetoric in Eastern's morale push.
"There hasn't been a concerted effort to make things better,"
she says. "I don't think you'll find a great number of people
saying there have been dramatic changes."
   Such employee skepticism is among the biggest obstacles to
the success of an employee-involvement program, specialists
say. Eli Witt Co. in Tampa, Fla., installed such programs in
the wake of its own Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding in 1979,
but employees "perceived it as another program coming from
corporate management," says George Pollack, a senior vice
president. Managers were reluctant to confide in workers
about information and decision-making. The company eventually
fired some supervisors and hired new ones.
   Many Eastern managers feel the strike was cathartic
because it helped weed out disaffected managers and
employees. "People who are here today are here because they
want to be here," says Mr. Gibson, Eastern's
employee-relations manager. The company's work force has
shrunk 40% since the strike began.
   Mr. Gibson says the airline already is reaping the results
of its efforts. He cites measures most important to Eastern:
passenger traffic and Department of Transportation
statistics. Eastern is no longer trailing its rivals in
on-time performance or racking up the most passenger
complaints. Also, reservations have increased, officials say.
   Still, most agree that big changes won't come quickly. Mr.
Pollack from Eli Witt says that 18 months after setting out
to improve employee involvement, "we're still not there." He
says Eastern faces a harder task. "Eastern's Chapter 11 was
bitter. Ours wasn't that bitter," he says. "Eastern has a lot
more employees and many more levels of management. It will
have to do a lot of education."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Damning Facts of a New Stocks Tax
   ----
   By Joseph A. Grundfest
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   A decision has apparently been made to raise revenues
through new taxes. The question facing Congress and the
administration now is whose ox to gore and where to gore it.
Needless to say, ox-goring is never pleasant or riskless.
But, if you're going to gore, you should at least do it
intelligently. And therein lies the rub.
   Budget negotiators are reportedly toying with the idea of
a securities transfer tax that would levy a fee of up to 0.5%
on sales of stocks, bonds, futures and other instruments,
with the exception of Treasury securities. The hope is that
this tax will raise billions, while reducing volatility in
financial markets. There is only one problem with this plan.
It won't work.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the course of its failure, this tax is likely to
destroy part of the U.S. financial market, enrich foreign
competitors, increase the cost of capital for U.S. firms,
drive down U.S. stock and bond prices, hurt small investors
and increase volatility in capital markets.
   Let's march through the logic. The transaction tax has
strong support from the British financial services sector.
London's Financial Times led its coverage of the proposal
with the headline "City Sees Advantages in U.S. Levy on
Volume," and explained that "if the U.S. Administration
decides to go ahead with a securities turnover tax, it will
have strong support in the City of London."
   The British are excited about the tax because, if it is
set at a high enough level, it is certain to drive billions
of dollars to London. It is easy for traders to shift their
activities to any market via a phone line and a fax machine.
A meaningful financial transaction tax in one jurisdiction
can drive business to other, lower-tax jurisdictions in the
shake of an electron's tail.
   The natural bureaucratic response is to write rules that
would gather the tax regardless of where the relevant
transaction takes place. But even bureaucrats who might be
charged with this Herculean task know they would fail.
   The Congressional Budget Office recognizes, for example,
that the tax "would be difficult to administer." The CBO
allows that "it would be difficult for the IRS to audit these
transactions, so compliance would be low." The staff of the
Joint Committee on Taxation joins in the chorus, explaining
cautiously that it "may prove difficult to exert jurisdiction
over foreign situs transfers," and that "transactions by
U.S.-owned foreign intermediaries could present significant
avoidance possibilities. Broadening the base of the tax to
include such intermediaries may entail modifying tax
treaties."
   English translation: If the government adopts this tax it
won't be able to collect a big piece of it. Even an army of
bureaucrats producing a mind-numbing blizzard of regulations
would fail. An informal survey shows that tax lawyers have
already come up with several ideas for legally avoiding the
tax. One example involves setting up investment vehicles
offshore. U.S. taxpayers would hold interests in these
vehicles for relatively long periods of time, but the
vehicles' portfolios would trade rapidly in newly designed
foreign securities that would be carefully structured to
mimic highly taxed U.S. stocks and bonds. To reach these
transactions, American authorities would have to tax foreign
entities trading foreign securities in foreign markets. Good
luck.
   History unfortunately demonstrates that the government has
the gumption to embark on such pointless ventures. Recall the
Interest Equalization Tax adopted during the Kennedy
administration and the baroque set of regulations designed to
prevent capital flight in connection with that tax. That
ill-fated experiment created the Eurodollar market -- a
market that is today the backbone of Europe's financial
services industry.
   Better yet, compare the American plan to what's going on
overseas. Britain is now eliminating its transaction tax, as
are West Germany and the Netherlands. Pressure is building on
French and Swiss authorities to abolish their transfer taxes.
The Swedish transfer tax was recently abolished after
resourceful Swedes successfully transferred much trading to
London from Stockholm. The U.S. is, at the moment, the only
nation in the world thinking of bucking the trend by raising
transaction taxes.
   But suppose the inevitable doesn't happen, and the U.S.
adopts a transaction tax that raises billions of dollars and
doesn't drive business offshore. Is that the end of the
matter? Hardly.
   To start with, it is important to understand that a 0.5%
transaction tax looks "bigger" to the world's capital markets
than a 0.5% sales tax looks to consumers. On a $40 share of
stock, a 0.5% sales tax amounts to 20 cents per transaction.
Institutions, however, pay as little as 5.3 cents per share
in brokerage fees. For these investors, a 0.5% tax on a $40
transaction would almost quadruple brokerage costs. The tax
is even costlier for those in foreign-exchange and other
markets that are more liquid than the U.S. stock exchanges.
Consider transaction costs in the government securities
industry, where primary dealers can earn as little as $312 on
a $1 million bond transaction. A tax of 0.5% on $1 million
amounts to $5,000 -- 16 times the primary dealers' income on
the trade.
   There's another way a tax on financial transactions
differs from a consumer sales tax. A sales tax is paid once,
at the point of consumption. In contrast, a transaction tax
is like a diamond -- it is forever. It is paid again and
again, everytime a security is traded. To adjust for this
compounded transactions cost, markets are likely to reduce
the current price of all financial instruments subject to the
tax. The Congressional Research Service estimates that such a
tax would cause at least a 9.3% drop in the value of the
stock market.
   It seems clear that the administration also understands
the harm its proposals can do. Notice that the proposals
floating around Washington all exempt federal debt securities
from the tax -- so that the price of Treasury securities
won't fall while other prices decline. But why would we want
to raise capital costs for the private sector while
effectively subsidizing federal debt creation. Sauce for the
goose seems not to be sauce for the gander.
   As for those who believe the tax will raise substantial
revenue, they are likely to be disappointed. One of the
axioms of tax economics is that you should try to tax
behavior that won't change much in response to the imposition
of the tax. Here, the government is considering a tax on one
of the world's most quickly moving targets. Even absent
forcing migration, the imposition of the tax will reduce the
volume of trading and lower value of the instruments traded,
thereby reducing the Treasury's take.
   The bulk of the tax burden is likely to fall on a silent
but solidly middle class group of investors whose wealth is
invested in pension funds, mutual funds, insurance companies
and other collective investment vehicles. It will also weigh
on charitable foundations and educational institutions, which
will see the value of their endowments decline and the rate
of return on their assets decrease. Hard hit too will be
small investors who want to buy and sell but don't have the
means to make sophisticated trades offshore. This is a
middle-class tax that will be paid out of middle America's
pockets. The burden won't fall on Wall Street fat cats.
   To be fair, I must mention that there is a theory popular
among some economists that low transaction costs lead to
"trend-following" trading rules that exacerbate market
volatility and promote excessive speculation. In theory the
transactions tax will slow this type of trading, diminish
speculation and reduce volatility.
   The trouble with this theory is that it is at least as
speculative as the speculation it hopes to drive from the
market. As the CBO has noted, "The October 1987 crash seemed
to be no less severe in Japan and the United Kingdom despite
the existence of {transaction taxes} in both."
   The anti-volatility argument also seems to fall apart once
it is cast in the real world. If traders are able to engage
in portfolio insurance in foreign markets, and if
international pricing mechanisms transmit that selling
pressure back to the U.S. (in larger, more discrete "chunks"
designed to avoid the cumulation of transaction tax
payments), then the U.S. will still experience the price
effects of portfolio insurance emanating from abroad.
   Indeed, because the transaction tax will have to be paid
by all investors -- not just trend-followers, speculators and
other vermin -- it could well make the markets "choppier."
Investors would be loathe to trade until markets have moved
far enough for or against their positions to make it
worthwhile for them to bear transaction tax costs.
   Perhaps the best short criticism of a transaction tax was
presented to the Senate Government Affairs Committee in
January 1989: "A stock transfer tax has no evident
justification. It could cause distortions in the financial
markets, and could cause many investors, particularly
institutions, to shift their equity trading away from
organized exchanges and to foreign countries." Who could have
analyzed the issue so succinctly and so well? Only the head
of the Office of Management and Budget, Richard Darman. Need
we say more?
   ---
   Mr. Grundfest, a former commissioner of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, teaches at Stanford Law School.
   ---
              Headed in the Wrong Direction . . .
                                                                                                       

                            CURRENT STOCK     PROPOSED
                             TRANSFER TAX         RATE
                                                                                                       

   Britain                       0.50%            0%
   Germany                       0.25             0
   Canada                        0                --
   Japan                         0.30             --
   U.S.                          0                0.5
                                                                                                       

   Source: Securities Industry Association
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law:
   Control of Manville Reorganization
   Is Turned Over to Judge Weinstein
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Control over Manville Corp.'s bankruptcy
reorganization was turned over to U.S. Judge Jack B.
Weinstein in Brooklyn, who has harshly criticized the
financing of the company's asbestos personal-injury trust.
   The decision by Chief Judge Charles Brieant of the federal
Southern District of New York clears up questions over
whether Judge Weinstein has jurisdiction over the trust.
Judge Weinstein touched off a controversy a few weeks ago
when he urged that the trust be refinanced to make up for its
current shortfall of cash.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The trust, which is independent of the company, was formed
to pay the thousands of asbestos personal-injury claims that
drove Manville into bankruptcy proceedings. Because of its
cash shortfall, however, the trust says it can't pay current
claimants for 15 to 20 years, long after most of the
claimants will have died from the ailments of asbestos
exposure. Asbestos, once widely used as insulation, causes
cancer and respiratory ailments.
   Judge Weinstein earlier this month ordered the trust to
stop paying any settlements until its financing is
restructured. In response, two groups of claimants asked a
federal appeals court to lift Judge Weinstein's freeze,
arguing that he lacked jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case.
   Chief Judge Brieant's order clearly states that questions
arising out of the bankruptcy court plan, which was cleared
in 1986, will be assigned to Judge Weinstein, who has been
handling some 500 asbestos cases against Manville and other
companies. The order also says that Judge Weinstein can seek
changes in the bankruptcy plan, although he wasn't involved
in its creation.
   The Manville trust declined to comment on Judge Brieant's
order. A spokesman for Manville said the company will
continue to work with Judge Weinstein to resolve his concerns
about the trust.
   Judge Weinstein's attack on the trust's financing -- as
well as other asbestos defendants' ability to pay the
thousands of claims against them -- has sparked a debate in
courts across the nation over how to consolidate the cases.
Because the Manville trust's problems are likely to be a
major hurdle to any nationwide settlement, Judge Brieant's
decision establishes a clear avenue for Judge Weinstein to
take on such a major settlement effort.
   At a hearing Friday in federal court in Brooklyn, Judge
Weinstein called for a truce among federal judges staking out
their jurisdiction for a possible asbestos class-action suit.
"There will be no court battles for control of these cases,"
Judge Weinstein said. He said he has contacted federal and
state judges across the country, and that the judges are
moving toward a consensus on how to handle the cases.
   Meanwhile, Chief Judge Thomas Lambros of the federal
Northern District of Ohio issued an order announcing that
judges and attorneys handling asbestos cases across the
country will begin meeting in Washington to organize a
nationwide approach. Judge Lambros ordered a hearing for Nov.
1 in Cleveland on how to consolidate the cases. Last week,
Judge Lambros ordered a national class action for all
asbestos personal-injury suits, but he left unclear how the
order would be implemented.
   At the hearing in Brooklyn, Judge Weinstein said asbestos
plaintiffs' attorney fees also are an obstacle to coming up
with a nationwide plan for settling the cases.
   "We are literally spending billions of dollars on legal
fees and expenses that should be available for the aid and
succor of those injured by asbestos. This waste can't
continue," Judge Weinstein said in an order. The judge said
that at least twothirds of the total amount paid for asbestos
personal-injury claims has gone to litigation costs, mostly
in legal fees.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Watts Industries to Buy Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   WATTA BC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORTH ANDOVER, Mass. -- Watts Industries Inc. said it
agreed to acquire Brunswick Corp.'s Circle Seal Controls
unit. Terms weren't disclosed.
   Watts, a water-valve maker, said that the acquisition of
Circle Seal, a maker of aviation and commercial valves, is
subject to review by government regulators.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Circle Seal had revenue of $32.9 million last year. Watts
had sales in the nine months ended March 31 of $217.5 million
and net income of $22 million, or $1.73 a share.
   Brunswick makes boats, recreation equipment and industrial
products.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Moen Purchase
   By American
   Brands Agreed
   ---
   At $975 Million, Sale Price
   Represents Big Profit
   For Forstmann Investors
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB FST
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Brands Inc. agreed to pay $975 million to acquire
Moen Group Inc., a faucet maker, from Forstmann Little &amp; Co.,
a leveraged buy-out firm.
   For American Brands, the acquisition sharpens the focus of
its hardware and home-improvement business. That business is
one of four areas where the Old Greenwich, Conn., company is
trying to diversify to reduce its dependence on tobacco,
which still generates 59% of its sales and 67% of its
operating profit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For Forstmann Little, the sale price represents a fat
sixfold profit for its equity investors since the New York
concern paid $840 million to acquire Stanadyne Inc., Moen's
predecessor, in March 1988.
   American Brands stock price rose $1 a share to $70.50 in
composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange
despite a broad market decline, mainly because of
higher-than-expected second-quarter earnings.
   For the quarter, American Brands said profit rose 32% to
$158.4 million, or $1.51 a share fully diluted, from $120.2
million, or $1.18 a share; revenue rose 8.4% to $2.95 billion
from $2.72 billion. The results were helped by strong sales
of cigarettes, including Benson &amp; Hedges, in Britain.
   Allan Kaplan, a beverage and tobacco analyst at Merrill
Lynch &amp; Co., said American Brands paid "a rich price" of 10
times operating cash flow for Moen that he estimated will
dilute earnings 20 cents to 30 cents a share in 1991.
American Brands also sells life insurance, liquor and office
products.
   Emmanuel Goldman, beverage and tobacco analyst at
PaineWebber Inc., said American Brands is targeting the
market for kitchen and bathroom repairs because homeowners
believe that in a flat real estate market, such repairs can
boost their resale price. Even so, American Brands said it
plans to sell its Waterloo tool-box business.
   Brian Little, a founding partner of Forstmann Little, said
the sale is "a classic example of how a deal can go right,
even as the critics look back on leveraged buy-outs of the
1980s that reached a point of excess."
   Forstmann financed the Stanadyne purchase with $75 million
in equity, $530 million in bank debt and $235 million in
subordinated debt from Forstmann's own investors. The firm
then sold five businesses in metals and auto parts for $240
million.
   At the same time, it renamed the company Moen and boosted
its sales to $380 million from $300 million, Mr. Little said,
"by pushing distribution toward the replacement market" via
such sales outlets as Channel home centers and away from the
weaker new-housing market. Moen, which pioneered
single-handle kitchen and bathroom faucets, has about 25% of
the U.S. faucet market.
   After debt repayment, the sale will yield Forstmann about
$500 million, giving its equity investors a gross annual
profit, before fees, of 112% and the firm's debt investors a
29% annual return. Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. advised Forstmann,
Little &amp; Co. on the transaction and Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
advised American Brands.
   The sale is Forstmann's third big deal this year. The
buy-out firm acquired Gulfstream Aerospace from Chrysler
Corp. for $825 million and has agreed to acquire General
Instrument Corp. for $1.47 billion, or $44.50 a share.
   General Instrument shares have been trading above the
Forstmann bid because two other concerns, Kelso &amp; Co., a
leveraged buy-out company, and Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Inc., have asked for information about General
Instrument, saying they might want to make a bid before a
mid-August deadline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A&amp;P to Buy Stores in Canada
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GAP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTVALE, N.J. -- Great Atlantic &amp; Pacific Tea Co. said it
agreed to acquire 69 supermarkets in Ontario from Canadian
food retailer Steinberg Inc. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The supermarkets to be purchased include 58 Miracle Marts
and 11 Ultra Mart Food and Drug stores, most of which are
located in the Toronto area. A&amp;P, which is majority owned by
Tengelmann Group of West Germany, operates 1,218 supermarkets
in the U.S. and Canada.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Time Warner Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TWX
</CO>
<LP>
   TIME WARNER Inc. (New York) -- Fred Anton was named vice
president, international finance and administration, a new
post at this publishing, information services, television
programming and cable television company. He was previously
executive director, taxes, at the Warner Communications Inc.
entertainment unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP SLM I.CIT F.CBA J.OSM FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among Friday's offerings and pricings
in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report:
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATES
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Student Loan Marketing Association -- $250 million of
notes, due Aug. 6, 1995, priced with a coupon of 8.63% at
variable prices based on prevailing market conditions at the
time of the sale. The notes, which are noncallable for two
years, were initially priced at par to yield 8.63%, a spread
of 35 basis points above Treasury's five-year note. The issue
will be sold through underwriters led by Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
The amount of the offering was increased from an origianl
amount of $150 million.
                                                                                                       

                          EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Republic of Turkey (sovereign) -- $150 million of 10 3/8%
bonds due Aug. 16, 1995, priced at 101.20, to yield 10.55%
less fees, via Daiwa Europe Ltd. Fees 1 7/8.
   Credito Italiano (Italy) -- via Law Debenture Trust Co.,
$100 million of floating-rate notes due Aug. 8, 2000, priced
at par. Sumitomo Finance International Ltd. lead manager.
Coupon is 0.40 point above six-month London Interbank Offered
Rate. Call is after fifth year on coupon payment dates.
Amortization is from August 1996, at 20% annually.
   New South Wales Treasury Corp. (Australia) -- 300 million
Australian dollars of zero-coupon Eurobonds due Sept. 5,
2005, at an issue price of 15.65 and a fixed, reoffering
price of 15.25, via Merrill Lynch International Ltd.
Guarantee by Crown in right of New South Wales. Fees 0.90.
   Eurofima (agency) -- One billion French francs of 9 7/8%
Eurobonds due Aug. 21, 2000, priced at 101 1/4 to yield 9.98%
less fees, via Banque Paribas Capital Markets Ltd. Fees 1
7/8.
   Compagnie Bancaire (France) -- 400 million French francs
of 10 1/4% Eurobonds due June 10, 1992, priced at 101.025,
via Credit Commercial de France. Fungible with existing 600
million francs launched in May.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 200 million marks of bonds
due Aug. 14, 2000, and priced at par, via Trinkaus &amp;
Burkhardt. Coupon for first two years fixed at 9 1/2%,
calculated under the German method, or 30 days per month,
divided by 360. Coupon for final eight years is 16% less
six-month Libor. Calculated using the Euro method, or the
actual number of days per month, divided by 360. Libor is
capped at 16%.
   Canon Sales Co. (Japan) -- 300 million Swiss francs of
privately placed convertible notes due Dec. 31, 1994,
indicating a 3 1/2% coupon at par, via Banca della Svizzera
Italiana. Put Dec. 31, 1992, at indicated 106.38 to yield
6.01%. Terms to be fixed July 25.
   OSG Corp. (Japan) -- 60 million Swiss francs of privately
placed notes due Aug. 9, 1994, with equity-purchase warrants.
Fixed 4 1/4% coupon at par, via Union Bank of Switzerland.
Guaranteed by Industrial Bank of Japan. Warrant exercise
period: Aug. 28, 1990, to July 26, 1994. Terms to be fixed
July 27. Call at issuer's option from Aug. 9, 1992, at 101
declining by 1/4 point semiannually. Fees 1.38.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   More Sponsors Put Their Money
   On This Fall's Kiddie TV Shows
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CBS GE CCB DIS NWS ACCOB FCB X.PTX SAA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   "The Cosby Show" used to be mass advertisers' ideal way to
reach consumers. This coming season, though, the venerable
Cosby is getting some stiff competition from Peter Pan,
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and the New Kids on the Block.
   After years of talking about the spending power of kids,
advertisers are finally betting real money to try to prove
it. Advertisers that used to ignore the kids' market are
waking up and discovering after-school and Saturday morning
TV. "Up-front" sales of network ad time for kids' programming
ballooned for the coming season, fueled by new advertisers
ranging from microwave dinners to fastfood chains. The big
jump came even as prime-time ad sales fell short of
expectations. Kiddie cable and syndicated kid shows had
blockbuster ad sales too.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The influence on spending by kids has become apparent to
everybody, and that's the reason there's more money for
everyone," says Paul Rittenberg, vice president of daytime
and kids' sales for Capital Cities/ABC's network. Despite
mounds of research and years of lecturing by ad industry
gurus on kids' buying power, he says, "it's taken a while to
sink into the ad agency planning process."
   Anyone up early enough to catch the Saturday morning
cartoons on TV this fall will find a new group of advertisers
joining the usual candy, cereal and toy hawkers. Ad
executives say microwave foods, such as Tyson Foods' new
Looney Tune meals for kids, are becoming major spenders. So
are sneaker companies that apparently have decided they had
better hook the kids before they grow into brand-obsessed
teens. And Burger King is making a major new kids' push, in
an aggressive bid to invade McDonald's warm-and-fuzzy Ronald
McDonald turf, ad executives say.
   Adding to the spending spree, traditional toy companies
are beefing up their ad budgets this year, people in the
industry say.
   The kids' market has a "relatively small number of
advertisers," says Jerry Dominus, senior vice president of
entertainment marketing and sales for CBS. "When you have key
players stepping up spending, and add in a few totally new
contenders, it really ratchets up the market."
   Loretta Volpe, senior vice president and director of media
and marketing services for ad agency Griffin Bacal, whose
clients include Hasbro, Playskool and Milton Bradley, adds:
"This was one of the craziest kid marketplaces of any time.
It just exploded."
   All told, the kid-show boom adds up to tens of millions of
new kiddie-TV dollars. Industry executives estimate that the
three major networks brought in a total of $155 million to
$165 million for this fall's kids' TV ad time, up sharply
from about $135 million a year earlier. On top of that, News
Corp.'s Fox network is offering its first kids' lineup,
including a daily animated Peter Pan cartoon and several
Saturday morning shows, that ad executives estimate took in
an additional $30 million. And this fall, ABC will roll out a
new animated New Kids on the Block show.
   Meanwhile, syndicated kiddie shows, aired on independent
stations and network affiliates, saw an equally powerful ad
surge. That market was propelled largely on the strength of
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles" and Buena Vista Television's
new two-hour kiddie schedule called "Disney Afternoon."
   The Disney shows, aired Monday through Friday and
including the popular "Chip 'n' Dale's Rescue Rangers" and
"Duck Tales," proved to be some of the strongest contenders
in the kiddie market. Mark Zoradi, vice president and general
manager of Buena Vista Television, says the four shows in the
two-hour block pulled in $71 million in upfront ad sales.
   That would make Buena Vista a bigger player than any of
the three major networks. Industry executives estimate that
ABC was the biggest network player, with about $65 million in
upfront sales, followed by CBS with $50 million to $55
million, and then General Electric Co.'s NBC with $40 million
to $45 million.
   Certainly, advertisers had reasons for moving money into
the kids' market other than just deciding the ad industry's
research departments were right about kids after all. For
one, prime time has gotten stratospherically expensive: "The
networks keep seeing an erosion in ratings, but the prices
don't go down. The kids' market is so much less expensive,"
Griffin Bacal's Ms. Volpe says. She also credits the catfight
shaping up among the networks, Disney's powerhouse programs
and upstart contender Fox.
   At its heart, though, the boom in the kiddie market
suggests that advertisers are finally realizing just how
tight a hold on the family pursestrings kids really have. Not
only do kids personally spend about $4 billion in allowance
money each year, estimates Children's Market Research Group,
a New York-based research firm, but they influence families'
decisions on another $60 billion worth of purchases --
everything from vacations to computers.
   "I'm beginning to get calls from advertisers who are
recognizing it's both the parents and the children who make
decisions," says Selina Guber, Children's Market Research
president. And while she has been preaching about kids'
spending power for years, she adds, the advertisers' interest
"is definitely a recent trend."
   ---
   FCB Wins Coors Job
                                                                                                       

   Coors Brewing Co. pulled its estimated $20 million to $25
million Coors Extra Gold account from GSD&amp;M and handed it to
Foote, Cone &amp; Belding, Chicago.
   Golden, Colo.-based Coors wouldn't say what prompted the
switch of the big beer account. A spokeswoman would only say
that the move resulted after a "periodic agency review
process," adding, "We're fortunate to have agencies that are
very talented, and we need to draw resources from them as
needed."
   The win is a big addition to the Coors business at Foote
Cone, the shop that already handles ads for the company's
Coors Light, Keystone and Killian's Red brands. New ads for
Coors Extra Gold are expected to begin airing in December.
   GSD&amp;M, in Austin, Texas, continues to handle the ad
account for the regular Coors brand and Hispanic ad
responsibilities for Coors and Coors Light brands.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   JHIRMACK SWITCH: Playtex Family Products Corp., less than
a year after awarding its Jhirmack hair-care account to
Backer Spielvogel Bates, switched the business to Rosenfeld,
Sirowitz, Humphrey &amp; Strauss. According to Leading National
Advertisers, Playtex spent nearly $13 million advertising the
brand last year. New York-based Rosenfeld Sirowitz handled
the account from 1978 until last September. Backer Spielvogel
is a unit of Saatchi &amp; Saatchi. Stamford, Conn.-based Playtex
couldn't be reached for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Singapore Scheme
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST DJ
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Foreign ministers of 12 nations are scheduled to gather in
Singapore July 30 for a meeting of APEC, the Asian-Pacific
Economic Cooperation forum, a fledgling organization with the
purpose of promoting commerce among Pacific Basin nations
ranging from Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines to the
U.S., Canada and Japan. It now turns out that the Singapore
hosts also have their own private scheme, using the visiting
dignitaries to wave a mantle of international legitimacy over
their ongoing efforts to intimidate the press.
   The government of Singapore made this plain Thursday by
issuing a 28-page press release bragging that it had turned
down applications to cover the conference from The Asian Wall
Street Journal and the Far Eastern Economic Review, and
complaining about affronts to the dignity of Singapore by
these publications and various officers of their publisher,
Dow Jones &amp; Co. We urge officials of the other 11 governments
to peruse the extraordinary assertions in this document --
for example that it is illicit for attorneys for defendants
even to raise fundamental arguments in Singapore courtrooms.
The ministers attending the conference ought to know why they
will not be allowed to explain their actions firsthand to
correspondents of the two publications most relevant to their
collective enterprise.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   They may also want to ponder the issue of consultation
about matters so obviously pertinent to the organization they
are trying to launch. Singapore's action was taken against
the advice offered by several of the other governments, which
cannot bode well for the future of APEC. In the case of the
United States government, Singapore's treatment of Dow Jones
publications was raised by President Bush during the recent
Washington visit of Goh Chok Tong, Singapore's first deputy
prime minister, and by Vice President Quayle, Secretary of
State Baker and other U.S. officials. We thank them for their
efforts, which may have contributed to Singapore's permission
for a correspondent for the U.S. edition of The Wall Street
Journal to enter Singapore on Secretary Baker's plane. But
most governments do not, as Singapore did, require advance
clearance for press accompanying the Secretary of State.
   Singapore's shabby treatment of its APEC partners is of a
piece with the recent contentiousness of Prime Minister Lee
Kuan Yew's government. In the past five years it has been
embroiled not only with its natural political opponents but
also with longtime associates of Mr. Lee such as former
President Devan Nair and initially apolitical leaders such as
former Law Society President Francis Seow. In a National Day
speech last year, Prime Minister Lee expressed puzzlement
over the island's brain drain, some 4,700 mostly young and
educated families having emigrated in one year to Australia,
New Zealand, Canada and the United States.
   Mr. Lee's government has also expelled a U.S. diplomat,
closed down the local office of the prestigious merchant bank
Jardine Fleming, engaged in a tiff with the Catholic Church
and exchanged unpleasantries with the Privy Council, the
Commonwealth's highest court. It has restricted Time and
Asiaweek as well as the Dow Jones publications, but its
battles with the press are merely one facet in the broader
picture. The various frictions are those bound to arise in an
interdependent world from heavy-handed efforts to stifle
local dissent and criticism.
   For the record, though, a brief summary of the status of
the disputes between Singapore and Dow Jones publications: In
1985 Singapore brought contempt-of-court charges against The
Asian Wall Street Journal for an editorial on treatment of an
opposition member of Parliament; the publication and its
editors apologized and paid fines. In 1986, the Asian Journal
published an article quoting businessmen with doubts about a
new Singapore stock exchange. Singaporean officials refused
to negotiate over their lengthy and, in our view, inaccurate
letters to the editor. For failing to publish their verbatim
texts, they restricted the Asian Journal's circulation in
Singapore to 400 copies; it had sold 5,000.
   Shortly thereafter, Singapore similarly restricted the
circulation of the Far Eastern Economic Review over articles
pertaining to its retention of 16 individuals, mostly
Catholic lay workers, in an alleged "Marxist conspiracy." The
Review did not refuse to publish Singapore officials'
letters, it was simply punished for what it did publish. The
Review reacted by suspending all circulation in Singapore,
whereupon Singapore chartered a local union to pirate its
editorial content and circulate a sloppily printed
counterfeit version absent advertising.
   In the course of this dispute, Prime Minister Lee also
sued the Review in Singapore courts for libel, asking for
personal damages. In 1989, the courts awarded him a judgment
of some $132,000 plus costs (including those of the firm of
Lee &amp; Lee, in which his wife is a principal partner). Dow
Jones President Peter Kann issued a statement in New York
criticizing this decision. This statement is now the subject
of four additional lawsuits -- further contempt and libel
actions against the Asian Journal, its editors personally and
Mr. Kann in Singapore courts, and libel actions in Malaysian
courts against the same defendants and also the Review.
   Anyone who still views this dispute as the result of an
arrogant American press should especially read the
correspondence released in Singapore. It's available from the
Ministry of Communications and Information, 460 Alexandra
Road, Singapore 0511. Except in jurisdictions where cases are
sub judice, a Dow Jones history of the dispute is available
from the Corporate Relations Department, Dow Jones &amp; Co.
Inc., 200 Liberty Street, New York, N.Y. 10281.
   Any fair reading of this record will show that the Dow
Jones publications have been forthcoming in their efforts to
settle this dispute, insisting only on reporting truthfully
to their readers world-wide. Our reward, predictably we
suppose, is an escalation of the dispute to keep our Asian
publications from covering not only Singapore but Asian
multinational organizations that choose to convene there. We
wish the APEC governments better luck in their dealings with
Singapore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metro Machine's Navy Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ML
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Metro Machine Corp. received a $53.9 million
Navy contract for maintenance of amphibious ships.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Martin Marietta Corp. won a $15.6 million Army contract
for night vision sights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Recent SEC Filings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   AL T.AL AMR C INEL NRM SLS WMTT ONE
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The following issues were recently filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Alcan Aluminium Ltd., shelf offering for $400 million of
debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   American Airlines, a unit of AMR Corp., offering of zero
coupon, convertible subordinated notes, via Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   Banc One Corp., shelf offering for $300 million of
unsecured debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler Auto Receivables Co., a unit of Chrysler Corp.,
offering of $1,001,435,874 of class A asset backed
certificates, via Merrill Lynch.
                                                                                                       

   Intelligent Electronics Inc., proposed offering of
2,141,667 common shares, of which two million are being sold
by the company and 141,667 by venture capital firms, via
Merrill Lynch and Janney Montgomery Scott Inc.
                                                                                                       

   NRM Steelastic, proposed initial offering of 3.35 million
common shares, of which 2.8 million are being offered by the
company and 550,000 by holders, via Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Selas Corp. of America, offering of 900,000 common shares,
via Wheat First, Butcher &amp; Singer Capital Markets.
                                                                                                       

   Willamette Industries Inc., shelf offering of up to $200
million of senior debt securities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Lockheed Loses
   Pact to Build
   P-7 Aircraft
   ---
   Navy Alleges Default After
   Firm Refuses Possible
   Loss Up to $300 Million
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LK
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   CALABASAS, Calif. -- The Navy accused Lockheed Corp. of
defaulting on its contract for the P-7 anti-submarine
aircraft and terminated the project, after the company
refused to accept production losses that it says could have
exceeded $300 million.
   Lockheed already has taken one writedown of that size to
reflect miscalculations it made on the development of the
plane. Had it gone ahead with production under the Navy's
terms, it would have encountered another deficit "comparable
to or more than" the earlier charge, Lockheed Chairman Daniel
Tellep said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We didn't ask for a bailout on development, but we
weren't going to take losses on production," Mr. Tellep said
in an interview. "I had to be firm on that."
   The Navy's action, which scuttles the $600 million
development pact and deprives Lockheed of a major project
that ultimately could have been valued at as much as $5
billion for 123 aircraft, is one of the harshest of its kind
ever initiated against a contractor. It overshadows, for
example, the 1985 cancellation of the $4 billion Sergeant
York tank-gun program with Ford Motor Co.'s aerospace unit.
   Under a termination for default, the government compels a
contractor to pay for all expenses associated with ending a
program. But Mr. Tellep guaranteed that the $300 million
reserve taken earlier would cover all such obligations on the
P-7. "If the default is sustained, we will have no more
write-offs," he said.
   The Navy also can opt to bring in another company to build
the plane and then make Lockheed pay for any additional costs
that arise from the switch. But Mr. Tellep said: "We've been
given assurances from very high-level people in the Navy that
they do not intend to reprocure the airplane from anybody
else. There are both practical and legal arguments why they
can't do it."
   Meanwhile, Lockheed is appealing the Navy's decision, in
an effort to force the government to pay for the termination.
If the appeals process, which can take years to resolve, is
successful, Mr. Tellep said, Lockheed expects to recover
"well over half" of the earlier write-down.
   In accusing Lockheed of defaulting on the P-7 deal, the
Navy said the company "failed to make adequate progress
toward the completion" of two prototypes that fulfill
contract-performance specifications.
   But Mr. Tellep insisted that the plane Lockheed has
designed "meets all requirements and is reasonably priced,"
adding that "we had a great airplane."
   Nonetheless, cancellation of the P-7 program leaves
Lockheed, once one of America's most illustrious plane
makers, with only one active aircraft line -- for the old
C-130 transport. Moreover, it throws into doubt whether the
nation's sixth-largest Pentagon supplier can ever really turn
around its ailing Marietta, Ga., factory, which had been
counting on the P-7 eventually to restore about 2,000 jobs.
Lockheed also leads a team that is bidding to make the Air
Force's next-generation fighter-jet, but this is a highly
uncertain proposition.
   In a larger sense, the default notice also raises serious
questions about other Pentagon contracts that are in dispute.
Under these so-called fixed-price arrangements, a company is
often forced to lock into a pricing schedule before it is
sure about the cost to develop and produce a new technology.
Though the government has vowed not to use such grievous
agreements anymore, billions of dollars have been written off
across the industry because of them.
   And some analysts interpreted the Navy's intransigence on
the P-7 to be a sign that the government was going to play
hardball with those companies that are trying to renegotiate
their fixed-price accords. Just last week, McDonnell Douglas
Corp. and General Dynamics Corp. said they would file claims
against the Navy on the A-12 attack plane program.
   But other observers cautioned that each project must be
assessed on an individual basis. In the case of the P-7,
Defense Department officials said that Navy brass -- already
battling to stave off deep cuts in larger, higher-priority
programs -- simply became convinced they couldn't get
lawmakers to support an overall increase in the cost of the
plane.
   Still, the cancellation came as something of a surprise.
In an interview with this newspaper in May, Mr. Tellep
indicated that he was "encouraged" that the P-7 issue would
be resolved favorably.
   But in the end, the chairman said, price became the hurdle
that the two sides just couldn't get over. He explained that
Lockheed and the Navy agreed on pricing for the first three
production lots, covering a total of seven aircraft. Yet they
couldn't make headway on the last five lots.
   Mr. Tellep said he believes that Lockheed, by making the
$300 million adjustment on development, had owned up to its
share of problems on the P-7. But the Navy "also bears
responsibility," he said, for delays on the project. For
example, he said that 18 months into the program, the Navy
still hadn't specified its requirements on "design loads."
   "It was their inability to provide data in a timely way,"
Mr. Tellep said. "We were in conflict on that."
   Navy officials reportedly urged saving the P-7 by agreeing
to buy a maximum of 100 from the planned fleet, thus holding
down the overall program cost. But Mr. Tellep disputed this,
saying that the service never put such a plan on the table.
   The development error essentially was the result of
Lockheed's believing the P-7 would have a lot in common with
its predecessor, the P-3; in fact, to meet the Navy's wishes
for an aircraft that could travel 1,600 miles from home and
linger over waters for as long as four hours, an entirely new
design was called for.
   Mr. Tellep maintained, however, that the Navy was asking
to have it both ways -- a plane that was based on a previous
model, which theoretically would hold down the cost, as well
as difficult-to-meet specifications and design guidelines.
"This was inherently contradictory and not discoverable until
you did a year's worth of design work," Mr. Tellep said.
   "This was not a technical failure or a design failure," he
insisted. "This just underscores the failure of fixed-price
total package procurement. This is one, I'm afraid, where
everybody loses."
   ---
   Andy Pasztor in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   An Era Closes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   Supreme Court Justice William Brennan was appointed by
President Eisenhower in 1956 only soon to become the
intellectual godfather of the judicial activists. What was
called the Warren Court could as well be called the Brennan
Court.
   On a personal level, we join the chorus saluting Justice
Brennan. He did have the decency of candor in his opinions.
His resignation at age 84 is similarly honest and
clear-headed. Justice Brennan was the only justice left who
took the time to read all the appeals to the Supreme Court
instead of leaving the task to young clerks. And unlike other
liberal judges, he was not afraid to admit there was no clear
constitutional justification for much of what he did.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   His ideology was that courts can decide all issues,
whether or not they are legal issues. The Constitution
envisions capital punishment in several clauses, but this
didn't stop Justice Brennan from invoking his own view of
"human dignity" to declare all death penalties
unconstitutional. Justice Brennan's expansion of the
exclusionary rule helps explain why we so rarely convict
criminals. His creation of broad due-process rights for
government benefits locked in the welfare state.
   It is fitting that Justice Brennan's enormous influence
extends to defining the debate about his successor. With all
the issues that our court system must confront, somehow the
biggest impact of his departure is supposed to be over
abortion. Yet this is not mentioned in the Constitution, and
even an outright reversal of Roe v. Wade would have only a
minimal effect on the actual availability of abortion. This
is a Supreme Court issue only because Justice Brennan and his
allies made it one.
   For many years the activist view prevailed over the idea
that judges should strictly construe both the Constitution
and their own roles, but the pendulum is swinging back.
President Reagan's brilliant nominations to the lower federal
courts created a long list of qualified potential nominees
whose views begin with the certainty that Brennan-style
judicial activism is illegitimate. Their intellectual leader
is Robert Bork, defeated for the court by a smear campaign by
those now demanding that President Bush look for "balance" in
choosing a new nominee.
   This time, in short, the fight has started even before the
nominee has been named. But the Bork experience should be a
lesson to the left, for they ended up with Anthony Kennedy, a
more consistently conservative vote. We don't know whom
President Bush will pick for the seat, but if his first
nominee is knocked out for political reasons we'd say a fine
second choice would be Senator Orrin Hatch, confirmable
because of Senatorial courtesy and more conservative than any
other likely nominee.
   More broadly, President Bush won a mandate by running on
the clear platform that he would pick an original-intent
justice, that it's time to close the activist era personified
by Justice Brennan. The electorate's view must count for
something; the selection of a nominee is the only time the
voters get their say on the Supreme Court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Here's a Big Thrill
   For Every Little Girl
   And Her Mother
   ---
   New Kids Rock Group Draws
   An Audience So Young
   Parents Have to Go Along
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   HAS J.NTD RAL
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill. -- By the time the New Kids on the
Block concert begins at 9:30 p.m., the amphitheater is as
humid as a wet sock, and the groupies are agog.
   Each hip rotation by the rockers drives the 24,000 fans
into a frenzy. Ivory Flores, a pretty brunette who hasn't
slept in 24 hours, is hoarse and breathless. Janice Shoop,
who spent the day prowling the parking lot of a nearby hotel
hoping for a glimpse of the five young men in the group, is
weak from joy. Rachel Simon, a brown-eyed beauty with blond
tresses in French braids, is transfixed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So what if it is past their bedtime?
   Rachel is six years old and a recent graduate of
kindergarten, but she is hardly out of place at this
after-hours gig. Nor is seven-year-old Ivory, or Janice, who
just turned eight. The New Kids are the Beatles of the
prepubescent set, not in talent but in appeal. The open-air
Poplar Greek music pavilion here looks more like day camp
than a rock concert.
   "I just love Jordan," coos Rachel. (Jordan Knight, 19, is
one of the New Kids.) Rachel's principal other interests, she
says, are "playing" and watching "Sesame Street." Says her
mom, Linda: "I loved Frankie Avalon, but, come on, I was in
high school."
   Paul McCartney, cover your ears. The New Kids are five
Boston lads aged 17 to 21 who didn't know how to read music
before they were recruited in 1985 by promoter Maurice Starr
-- and who still don't play guitars. But they stand to share
about $55 million in earnings this year. And why not? They
are cute and their bubble-gum music is wildly popular with
the preteen set. About 80% of the take is from New Kids
merchandise, 15% from record sales, 5% from concerts.
   In rock history various groups assembled by promoters,
from the Monkees to Menudo, have touched this especially
young audience. Sibling acts like the Osmonds and the Jackson
Five had big preteen followings, too. But concessionaires and
critics alike say that never before have parking lots filled
with so many station wagons and minivans, and auditoriums
with so many parents, captives of kids too young to go out
alone.
   "I wouldn't really say (the) music represents the decline
of the West, but I don't think you can find a dozen fans over
the age of 18," says Rolling Stone senior editor Anthony
DeCurtis. At least some older children reject the New Kids as
kids' stuff. Some radio stations shun their records, as did
MTV for a while, because they don't want to turn off older
kids with deeper pockets. The music has been called the
beltless slacks of the entertainment field by one critic and
"a hormonal response rather than music per se," by another.
People magazine's critic David Hiltbrand writes that the
musical content of the New Kids album "Step by Step" is "not
unprecedentedly shabby." But that is as enthusiastic as he
gets: "Most of this record is perfectly horrid fluff."
   Still, the quintet is clean-cut and camera-ready, plucked
from the streets of blue-collar Boston by Mr. Starr, now 36,
whose main interest was the boys' looks. (In fact, an FBI
agent at one point contacted Mr. Starr in response to a
parent's complaint, to ask why he was handing out business
cards to good-looking young boys.) Mr. Starr, a musician
himself, had earlier put together a black group called New
Edition, which also hit it big. He and his partner, Dick
Scott, who arranges bookings for the New Kids, get a 20%
management fee for concerts and share in the proceeds from
the sale of merchandise and recordings. Mr. Starr originally
wanted tight control of the group itself, including the power
to replace members as they get too long in the tooth for the
concept, but according to the boys' lawyer, Barry Rosenthal,
"the Kids got too big."
   The New Kids sing harmless lyrics suburban grade-schoolers
can understand and that are a far cry from the X-rated
effusions of Guns n' Roses, Motley Crue and 2 Live Crew.
Parents are relieved if not thrilled that the group endorses
milk-drinking and saying "no" to drugs.
   The New Kids are an industry, thanks to the sufferance of
parents. This year, Block Heads and Kidophiles (nicknames
given to New Kids fans) will buy more than $800 million in
New Kids toys, sleeping bags, lunch kits, pillowcases,
trading cards, cartoons, puzzles and other gear. New Kids
dolls will be introduced next month by Hasbro Inc. A New Kids
Nintendo video game is in the works, also New Kids comic
books. Ralston Purina Co. wants to market a New Kids
breakfast cereal, though talks are bogged down. The New Kids
want marshmallows; Ralston does not.
   The New Kids autobiography, "Our Story," is No. 6 on the
New York Times list of paperback best sellers. Written for
the newly literate, it is heavy on photos and light on
insight. Writes New Kid Joe McIntyre: "I started school in
kindergarten." Confesses Donnie Wahlberg: "In high school I
started getting zits."
   Children eat this stuff up.
   Ivory Flores's bedroom in Roselle, Ill., is an archive of
New Kids memorabilia. Not only is it covered wall-to-wall
with New Kids posters, it is also furnished in New Kids tote
bags, bracelets, watches, $50 and $125 jackets,
back-to-school books, off-to-school lunch pails, thermoses,
puzzles, beach towels, party plates and invitations, a
shellacked New Kids walnut and a $200 New Kids grandfather
clock. Ivory doesn't sleep in the room herself; she doesn't
want to disturb the exhibit.
   The Floreses have spent more than $8,000 so far on their
daughter's New Kids fancy, including a score of concert
tickets purchased from scalpers at between $60 and $375
apiece. "Sometimes I get angry at these people for coming out
with all this new stuff," says Ivory's mother, Annette. "I
can't afford to buy myself a decent dress."
   Other children, less extravagant or with less-indulgent
parents, are just as spellbound.
   Alice Barry, seven, has a pinup of the New Kids stretched
across her bedroom ceiling in Wichita, Kan. "I want them to
be the first thing I see when I wake up in the morning and
the last thing I see when I go to bed," she says. Sherri
Michaud, an Everett, Mass., first-grader, recently wrote in
her diary: "I'm ging to mare Jordan today and Jordan is ging
to mare me. . . ." A drawing of a bride and groom illustrates
the entry.
   Some fans don't even care about the music. Ten-year-old
Becky Garcia, though deaf, is a Kidophile. So are a number of
her hearing-impaired schoolmates at Auburndale Elementary
School in Miami. "They can't hear a plane flying over,"
explains Mary Chojnicki, their teacher. Yet, they hole up in
a room and play New Kids music video tapes full blast. Miss
Garcia recently wrote one of the band members to ask for a
date. "They're cute and they dance good," she says.
   The Kids get 6,000 to 10,000 letters a day from children
barely able to put pen to paper, kids as young as four.
   Admirers go to strange lengths to catch an offstage peek
at the group. The night before the concert in Hoffman
Estates, young fans keep a vigil through the night, alongside
dozing parents, in the lobby of the Hyatt Regency. The New
Kids are guests there.
   At about 1 a.m., 11-year-old Jenny Lebec reaches into the
hotel fountain and splashes water on her face to stay awake.
Moments later, she and three friends scramble out a side
door. They have heard that the New Kids are going out for a
pizza. Waking up, her mom mumbles, "I'm glad this darn group
don't visit Chicago too often."
   The pizza rumor turns out to be false. There is no
sighting.
   When the New Kids are home in Boston, there is a hubbub
there, too. Neighborhood streets attract girls from as far
away as the West Coast. Last February, two 14-year-olds from
Glendale, Calif., lifted their parents' American Express card
and flew to Boston, hoping for a close encounter. In May, two
other runaways from California were found sitting on their
suitcases on Jordan and Jon Knight's front lawn. "They also
had stolen their parents money," reports Sharon Knight, the
boys' sister. "It's kind of weird the way they faint and
swoon," she adds.
   Says Jordan Knight: "I don't mind being a sex symbol to
seven-year-old girls. They probably fantasize holding hands
with me."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Estimates of Duties
   On Some Sweaters
   Are Raised by U.S.
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Commerce Department sharply raised its
estimates of anti-dumping duties that could be imposed on
imports of synthetic-fiber sweaters from Hong Kong.
   In a final ruling, the department recommended that Hong
Kong suppliers be subject to remedial duties of 5.86%,
compared with a 2.25% rate recommended in the department's
preliminary finding. The potential assessment on Comitex
Knitters Ltd., one of the largest sweater makers in Hong
Kong, was raised to 5.86% from 1.89%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The department also recommended that duties for two
related suppliers, Prosperity Clothing Co. and Estero
Enterprises Ltd., be raised to 115.15% from 12.04%. But the
department exempted Crystal Knitters Ltd. and Laws Fashion
Knitters Ltd. from the prospective duties.
   The assessments, which stem from a trade complaint filed
by the National Knitwear and Sportswear Association, will go
into effect if the U.S. International Trade Commission
affirms that Hong Kong imports are hurting U.S. producers.
The ITC ruling is due in 45 days.
   The Commerce Department said the U.S. imported $208.8
million of such sweaters from Hong Kong last year. The
prospective duties are intended to offset unfair pricing in
which Hong Kong producers allegedly sell at less than their
production costs or home-market prices.
   Hong Kong trade officials called the ruling a
"disappointment," insisting all along that manufacturers in
the free-trading entrepot don't need to engage in unfair
export pricing. However, lawyers for the Hong Kong
manufacturers and U.S. importers are relieved that the
average potential duties didn't go any higher.
   Bruce Mitchell, counsel for the Hong Kong Woolen and
Synthetic Knitting Manufacturers Association, said the trade
body succeeded in persuading the Commerce Department not to
let the unusually high estimates for Prosperity and Estero
send the rates for all other Hong Kong suppliers soaring.
"Otherwise, we could be facing duties of 61% for all the
others," he said.
   Hong Kong officials confirmed that Prosperity and Estero
were penalized for refusing to cooperate with U.S. trade
investigators. The U.S. petitioners have charged that the two
companies obtain some of their sweaters from other countries
in violation of U.S. textile-quota rules. However, P.C.
Leung, Hong Kong's Washington-based economic counselor,
insists that "there could be many other reasons why a company
decides not to cooperate."
   Lawyers for the Hong Kong side estimated that these two
companies account for no more than 2% of synthetic-fiber
sweater exports to the U.S., but American industry officials
said that percentage could be higher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McKinzie Gets
   20-Year Term
   In Thrift Case
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge in Santa Ana, Calif., sentenced Janet Faye
McKinzie to 20 years in prison for stealing millions of
dollars from North America Savings &amp; Loan Association, a
now-insolvent Orange County thrift.
   Ms. McKinzie, a 41-year-old former business manager and
executive consultant for the thrift's late president, also
was ordered to pay $13.4 million in restitution to the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ms. McKinzie was ordered Friday by Judge Alicemarie H.
Stotler to begin serving her prison term immediately. Ms.
McKinzie's attorney, Richard "Racehorse" Haynes of Texas,
filed a notice of appeal at the sentencing hearing, said
David Schindler, one of the two assistant U.S. attorneys who
prosecuted the case. Neither Ms. McKinzie nor her attorney
could be reached.
   After an eight-week trial, a jury found Ms. McKinzie
guilty in March of stealing $15.5 million from North America
Savings. She was convicted on 22 criminal counts, including
racketeering, conspiracy, wire and bank fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property.
   Federal banking and thrift regulators say the sentence was
among the toughest ever levied for fraud. Last month, Woody
Lemons was sentenced to 30 years in prison for his role in
defrauding a Texas thrift. That sentence also is being
appealed.
   "The government considers the sentence to be appropriate
in light of the egregious misconduct of McKinzie," the two
prosecutors said in a statement. The demise of North America
Savings is expected to eventually cost taxpayers $118
million.
   Ms. McKinzie had pleaded innocent because of insanity. Her
attorneys had argued that her judgment was impaired by
prescription drugs she was taking.
   Duayne D. Christensen, a Westminster, Calif., dentist,
invested $6.4 million to open the thrift in 1983. Ms.
McKinzie was a consultant to Dr. Christensen in operating the
thrift. In 1986, the concern lost $8.9 million in the first
11 months. Government prosecutors charged that the two lived
a lavish life style, using thrift funds to buy Rolls-Royce
autos, a $125,000 gold eagle statue and an $18,500 gold
letter-opener.
   In 1987, a week before federal regulators declared the
thrift insolvent, Dr. Christensen, 57 years old, died when
his Jaguar crashed into a freeway overpass. The Orange county
coroner classified the cause of his death as undetermined,
failing to rule whether it was an accident or suicide.
   Federal regulators have also filed a civil suit seeking
$40 million for negligence and breach of fiduciary duty in
the case, an FDIC attorney said. "This sentencing was a very
gratifying victory, but it could also speed things up in our
civil case," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Out of Stock:
   Soviet Retail System
   Gets Strikingly Worse
   In Era of Perestroika
   ---
   More Stores Sell by Invitation
   Only, Creating a Market
   In Options to Buy Goods
   ---
   One Ruse: Fake Engagements
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- A consignment of clothes from Eastern Europe has
just arrived at Moscow's Belgrade department store. An
expectant crowd soon gathers on the sidewalk outside, only to
be shooed away by seven beefy policemen with truncheons.
   The police point to a handwritten sign in the window:
"Closed to the public." The only people they let in, a few at
a time, are those with special printed invitations to shop at
the store.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It's outrageous," an elderly woman shouts at the police.
"Even when there's something to buy, it's not for sale."
   In an office high above the crowd, meanwhile, store
director Nina Moskaleva entertains four visitors. As they sip
coffee, smiling store assistants bring in an array of men's
suits from East Germany, leather shoes from Italy and winter
boots from Yugoslavia. The visitors are impressed. "You
really can't purchase these anywhere," confides one, a
middle-aged Georgian, packing three pair of dapper woolen
trousers and some boots into his bag.
   The Soviet state-run retail system has never been a model
of efficiency. But over the past few months, as shortages of
most goods have become the norm, it has all but broken down.
Across the nation, consumers now need more than just money to
buy anything worth having, particularly imported goods. They
either must have a special invitation to shop, be unusually
ingenious, or know people who will sell them goods under the
counter.
   The breakdown in retailing is one of the worst failings of
perestroika, Mikhail Gorbachev's attempt to overhaul the
economy. It has enraged consumers and fed the burgeoning
black market. It also puts a question mark over the
effectiveness of any big aid program for the Soviets of the
sort being considered by the U.S. and Western Europe. Even
when imports arrive, the murky distribution system means they
rarely reach most ordinary people, except through the back
door.
   "Ugly forms of commodity distribution have emerged," Prime
Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov told parliament recently, explaining
why shopping has become so difficult. Otto Latsis, a leading
economist, is more blunt. "Trade has actually ceased to
exist," he told the Izvestia daily. "For people this is not
abstract statistics, but a fact of life they have to face
each time they go shopping."
   At the top of the list of government and consumer
complaints is shopping by invitation, a fast-growing form of
special distribution. It involves big factories cutting deals
with department stores such as the Belgrade to enable their
workers to buy hard-to-find goods.
   For example, people wanting a refrigerator or a television
set apply to union officials at their workplace. When a
consignment arrives at the store, the officials hand out
coupons entitling workers to buy the items. In Moscow alone,
invitation shopping has soared 20-fold since 1986, accounting
for sales last year of $2.5 billion.
   The procedure is fraught with so many difficulties that
authorities in Moscow are now trying to ban it. One drawback
is that people who don't work for enterprises big enough to
organize such activities lose out. So do pensioners and
others who don't work at all.
   Moreover, with demand far outstripping supply, corruption
is rampant. In theory, union officials give invitations to
people who work well. In practice, they often keep them for
themselves.
   "No social justice is achieved this way," complains Vasily
Buslakov, a senior official in the Ministry of Trade. "It's
accompanied by all sorts of abuse of power that are very
difficult to control."
   Sometimes the abuse of power is so blatant it backfires.
Workers at a rubber factory in Yaroslavl almost went on
strike recently when 90 out of 108 video recorders ended up
being taken by union and factory officials instead of handed
out to the workforce, according to Alexander Tsvetkov, a
local journalist who exposed the incident.
   "In times of shortages, you can't eliminate certain
subjective approaches to questions of distribution,"
acknowledges Pyotr Fyodorov, a senior official at labor union
headquarters in Moscow. "Only Jesus Christ could distribute
five loaves and two fishes to thousands of people fairly."
   Mr. Fyodorov says union bosses are opposed to their
officials' organizing such activities, fearing that it harms
labor's already poor reputation. But many factories ignore
such objections. They argue that shopping by invitation is
still better for workers than having to shop at depleted
stores or on the black market.
   In fact, the practice has added a new twist to the shadow
economy: the rise of a new, semi-legal options market. An
invitation to buy a color TV set costing 600 rubles may trade
for 200 rubles and upward. The right to buy furniture worth
10,000 rubles goes for about 2,000 rubles.
   "Strictly speaking, it's not a crime," frowns Col. Mikhail
Shestopalov. "It's sale of a right, not a good."
   Col. Shestopalov is the Elliot Ness of Soviet shopping. A
beefy plain-clothes cop with thick glasses and slicked-back
hair, he runs the Moscow Administration for Combating Theft
of Socialist Property, with the mission of fighting the black
market. He has his work cut out for him.
   "Speculators" are the main target -- people who aim to buy
low and sell high. Such an ambition may be close to the heart
of capitalism, but in the Soviet Union it is illegal.
Authorities hate it because it involves people siphoning off
goods from the state sector, where prices are fixed, and
reselling them for a big markup on street corners. As the
number of products in short supply has soared, speculating
has become big business.
   "In principle there's speculation with everything --
everything except for bread," Col. Shestopalov growls. "In
the U.S. you had it during Prohibition. Now we're in a tough
situation."
   Well-organized groups of black marketeers are working
hand-in-hand with corrupt retail officials, he says,
diverting truckloads of goods ranging from shoes to mink
coats. In the first three months of this year, Col.
Shestopalov and his men caught more than twice as many
big-time speculators and store directors taking bribes as in
the whole of 1989. And that's just scratching the surface.
   "There are entire underground department stores," says
Rimma Kogay, a retail specialist at Moscow's All-Union
Institute for Market Research. "Some speculators have goods
worth 20,000 to 30,000 rubles, the same amount a normal shop
has."
   The black market has long played an important role in
Soviet society, enabling people to overcome the inadequacies
of the creaky state-controlled economy. For every big fish,
there are a multitude of nimble minnows. They are quick to
spot holes in the special distribution nets. Just ask Ludmila
Kurakina.
   Mrs. Kurakina is the cheery director of the Department
Store for Newlyweds, a squat, two-story building in the north
of Moscow. It is the nearest thing to a Soviet shopper's
paradise. The shelves are laden with piles of cotton shirts
from India, woolen suits from East Germany and mountains of
socks -- an item in woefully short supply nationwide. Best of
all, behind a metal grille are rows of dainty shoes imported
from Yugoslavia and Finland.
   As its name suggests, the Store for Newlyweds isn't open
to all. To shop here, consumers must produce documents from a
registry office showing they are to be married. Along with
the papers comes an invitation enabling the couple to shop.
   That's where the fiddling starts.
   "Unfortunately, many young couples apply to be married in
three or four different registry offices," Mrs. Kurakina
says. That means they can buy three or four times as much.
"In fact, it's possible to get six invitations," she says:
two from the place of residence of the bride and the groom,
and one from each of four Moscow wedding palaces where people
can also go to register.
   "They don't care about the wedding dresses," she says.
"It's the shoes they're after."
   In the past, such abuses were impossible because the
registry offices would mark a small dot in the passports of
prospective couples. But Mr. Gorbachev inadvertently loosened
the system by ordering local bureaucracies to cover their
costs. Offices in Moscow immediately raised the price of
registering marriages from 1.5 rubles to 15 rubles and
stopped putting dots in passports. That made it lucrative for
the bureaucrats to register people as often as possible.
   In fact, thousands of people just get engaged to go
shopping, and never get married at all. Last year, 31,500
couples didn't show up at their weddings in Moscow,
one-quarter of those who registered. "People are pretty
enterprising," Mrs. Kurakina shrugs.
   Soviet officials say that similar scams regularly occur at
other special stores, which include shops for invalids and
war veterans. At the same time, they are trying to fight an
alarming increase in the longstanding Soviet practice of
selling scarce goods under the counter. The Russians even
have a word for it: "nalevo", or "on the left."
   Last year the government issued instructions to all
retailers to be more vigilant. Stores now must keep a book
listing delivery and sale date of all hard-to-find and
imported goods in an effort to prevent shop assistants from
siphoning the stuff off and selling it to their friends.
Inspectors from a union-run organization called Workers'
Control drop by from time to time to take a look at the book.
   The measure hasn't been too effective. Last year, Workers'
Control uncovered just 85 million rubles worth of goods that
had been put to one side, a drop in the bucket. For
speculators, says Col. Shestopalov, the book "isn't a big
obstacle, just an additional one."
   His organization has had a little more success fighting
the organized crooks. In one provincial town recently,
investigators caught a couple selling invitations to buy
liquor. They had been printed and distributed by the local
town council, where the wife worked. According to Soviet news
media, the woman obtained more than 70,000 invitations
enabling the holder to buy vodka at less than half the
regular price. The scam was uncovered when police filmed one
of the couple's friends trying to buy 80 bottles at once.
   Despite such successes, Col. Shestopalov isn't a happy
man. The only way to uncover such scams is by catching the
people red-handed, he complains. He dreams of the day when
the Soviet Union will allow police to use stings,
plea-bargaining and other techniques. "If we could use the
methods of our U.S. colleagues, it would be easier," he says.
"We would uncover much more."
   Mr. Buslakov, the trade ministry official, isn't so sure
that giving police extra powers would help solve the problems
of the state retail industry. "We've always had speculation
and corruption," he says sadly, blaming the special
distribution networks for much of the present shortages. "I
think only a market economy can help solve the problem."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<LP>
   Two Ways Out
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since we're shaped by genetics or environment,
   Either way is all to the good,
   For some faults we can blame on parents,
   And others on our neighborhood.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
   ---
   Back to Basics
                                                                                                       

   The empty-nest syndrome is a delightful coup:
   Your birds have flown and you can be you.
   -- Betsey Freiburger.
   ---
   Rate of Recovery
                                                                                                       

   It can take a long time for a person to get over an
illness if compensation sets in.
   -- Sam Ewing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citizens Banking Rights Plan
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CBCF
</CO>
<LP>
   FLINT, Mich. -- Citizens Banking Corp. said its board has
adopted a shareholder rights plan under which shareholders
will receive rights to purchase shares of preferred stock.
   Under the plan, shareholders may purchase one 1/100 of a
share of preferred stock for each share outstanding of its
common stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to the terms of the plan, if anyone acquires or
makes a tender offer for 15% or more of Citizens' common
stock, all rights holders except the acquiring person may
purchase Citizens' common stock at 50% of the market price.
If Citizens is acquired, all rights holders may purchase
common stock from the acquiring person at a similar discount.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Ferranti International PLC:
   U.K. Firm to Cut 500 Jobs
   In Effort to Reduce Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   U.FNT
</CO>
<LP>
   Ferranti International PLC said it is cutting 500 jobs in
an effort to cut costs at its U.K. operations.
   The London-based electronics and engineering company said
the move was part of its recovery program. On Thursday, the
company posted a pretax loss of #161.7 million ($293.6
million) for the year ended March 31, mostly arising from the
massive fraud discovered in September 1989 at a subsidiary of
International Signal &amp; Control PLC of the U.S., with which
Ferranti merged in 1987.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said the discovery of three sets of bogus
contracts and subsequent loss of $215 million made Ferranti
overdependent on bank finance. A program of asset disposals
was launched and now the company is "progressing with a clear
strategy and achievable plan for recovery," the company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Export Orders Decline
   For Taiwan's Products
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5D
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Export orders for Taiwanese products in
June eased to $5.56 billion, down 7.4% from the previous
month, a government agency said.
   The figures also registered a drop of 2.3% from the
year-earlier $5.69 billion, according to the Economics
Ministry.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Officials attributed the month-to-month drop to a cut in
machinery orders as well as those for home appliances and
transportation equipment. Machinery orders totaled $468
million, a decrease of 19% from the previous month.
   Transportation orders fell to $320 million in June from
May's $397 million. Home-appliance orders fell 45% to $100
million.
   Export orders from January through June amounted to $33.29
billion, down 0.9% from the year-earlier period.
   The U.S. remained the leading destination for Taiwanese
exports, accounting for orders valued at $2.04 billion in
June, down 14% from May and down 9.5% from June 1989.
   European countries ranked second among buyers of Taiwanese
goods. Those orders in June stood at $865 million, against
May's $864 million and June 1989's $820 million.
   Orders from Japan were valued at $786 million, a gain of
4.4% from May but down 6.4% from the year-earlier period.
   Hong Kong ranked fourth among buyers, with orders valued
at $569 million. The figure was a drop of $60 million from
May but a gain of $152 million from June 1989.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   BASF Says Workers
   Accounted For in Blast
   At Cincinnati Plant
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BAS
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARSIPPANY, N.J. -- BASF Corp. said it has accounted for
all employees at a Cincinnati chemical plant where an
explosion and fire killed one person and injured 73 others,
mostly BASF employees. But it said it hasn't yet been able to
estimate damage to the plant.
   A spokesman said BASF has set up a center to provide
support and counseling for employees and neighbors at a hotel
in Cincinnati. The company, a subsidiary of West Germany's
BASF AG, said it also is opening a claims office at Xavier
University.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The explosion at the coatings and resins facility killed a
maintenance worker, Lawrence Krechting, a 55-year-old
resident of Norwood, Ohio. Four of the injured were hurt
critically, Cincinnati police said. Initial reports said 63
people were injured and at least one person was missing.
   The facility makes resins, as well as coatings for paper
and for containers such as beverage cans. The company said it
is investigating the incident along with the federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration; it suspects
the explosion and fire started in the resin building.
   Air-quality tests show that environmental hazards to
residents are low, BASF said. But "damage to the plant is
serious," and production won't resume for "a considerable
period," BASF said. Customer orders shouldn't be affected
because they will be handled by other BASF plants, BASF said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Your Money Matters:
   Latest Look in Mutual Funds: Cushions
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   With stock prices in record-high territory, mutual-fund
marketers are trying to lure investors who are afraid of
heights.
   They're pitching funds -- including equity-income,
balanced and convertible-securities funds -- that are
supposed to cushion the fall if the long market rally should
finally run out of steam. That's because funds in these
groups contain bonds, high-dividend stocks or other
yield-producing securities intended to provide protection in
down markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But although some funds have done a lot better than others
in times when the market has headed south, investors should
be careful about buying a fund simply because of its
category. In the past, some equity-income, balanced and
convertible funds got clobbered in down markets, and their
returns lagged when the market was up.
   Instead of relying on labels, investors should "look for
funds that do reasonably well on the downside -- regardless
of the fund's category," says A. Michael Lipper, president of
Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
   Investors who take this advice will discover that some of
the funds that have performed best in down markets turn up in
categories they might have passed over as too risky.
   For example, according to an analysis by Lipper, one of
the best down-market performers of the past 10 years was
Lindner Fund. It did better than the average equity-income,
balanced and convertible-securities fund in each of the six
periods during the past decade when the market as a whole
fell at least 10% from its previous peak.
   But risk-averse investors may never have given Lindner a
look. Why? Because Lipper and some other firms that track
mutual funds classify it as a growth fund. And growth funds
typically invest in stocks that often get slammed when the
market falls.
   Lindner, however, uses a classic "value" investing
strategy -- buying companies' stocks at a discount to what
Lindner thinks the companies are worth now, says Kenneth
Gregory of Litman/Gregory &amp; Co., a San Francisco investment
adviser. In contrast, growth-stock investors generally give a
lot of weight to future growth and earnings.
   Lindner is a no-load fund, which means it has no sales
charge. Other value-oriented funds that are often lumped into
the growth category include Neuberger &amp; Berman Partners (a
no-load fund) and Quest for Value (which has a 4.5% load).
Both outperformed most equity-income, balanced and
convertible funds in down markets over the past decade -- and
delivered top returns in up markets as well.
   "We try to estimate the downside risk in every stock we
buy, and outperform the market," says Eileen Rominger, Quest
for Value's portfolio manager. "The best way to make money
over time is not to lose money," she says.
   Another fund that turns up among good performers in down
markets and up markets is Phoenix Growth (which has a 6.9%
load). Though invested primarily in high-growth stocks, its
managers concentrate on traditionally "defensive" stocks in
pharmaceuticals, health-care and consumer staples. Earnings
in such companies aren't cyclical, which means they tend to
hold up well in recessions. In addition, the fund currently
holds 17% cash and 13.5% in Treasury securities, which would
soften the blow if the stock market fell.
   Phoenix Balanced and Phoenix Convertible Securities funds
(with 6.9% loads) also turned up as top performers in their
categories during down markets, according to Lipper. Cathy
Dudley, co-manager of Phoenix Growth, says the Phoenix group
uses a similar conservative, top-down approach for all three
funds. "We start by looking at the economy, then the most
favorable sectors. We then buy the most growth at the least
cost, looking for predictable earnings and international
exposure."
   Investors interested in unearthing other good down-market
performers won't find it easy. Since mutual funds generally
quote performance figures on an annual basis, investors will
have to ask the fund representative what happened during
specific down cycles.
   "By looking only at total returns on a year-by-year basis,
you're not going to see how well the fund performed in down
markets," says Mr. Lipper. He recommends looking at funds
that have been around at least 10 years. If the fund is only
five years old, it will have weathered only one downturn.
   Why look at down-market performance at all, rather than
total returns? Because even though two funds can have the
same results over 10 years, they may have given investors two
completely different rides, depending on how well they did in
down markets.
   For example, Lindner Dividend and Oppenheimer Equity
Income, both equity-income funds, had annualized average
total returns of 18.8% and 17.45%, respectively, over the
past 10 years. However, during that period, Lindner Dividend
performed within the top 20% of equity-income funds during
all six down cycles. The Oppenheimer fund was in the bottom
40% in the two earliest cycles, the bottom 20% in the next
three cycles and the top 40% in the latest cycle, according
to Lipper.
   While volatility may not matter to some investors, it's no
plus to those who prefer steady-as-you-go returns. "If
someone were going to pick a fund and close his eyes and not
look at it for 10 years, he'd probably want a pure growth
fund," says Mr. Gregory, who is also editor of L/G NoLoad
Fund Analyst newsletter. "But most people don't invest that
way. Their eyes are open all the time, and they get real
nervous."
   For those people, funds that do well in down markets make
the most sense, he says. "They don't drop as much, so they're
less likely to panic investors," he says, and derail them
from their buy-and-hold strategies.
   Finally, investors should plan to keep their money in
place even if the market tanks. Those who fled the market
following the 1987 crash missed a lucrative rebound: Since
that time, the average equity fund has gone up 61.24%. "Being
on the sidelines was an expensive seat," says Mr. Lipper.
   ---
          Funds With Good Records in Bad Markets
                                                                                                       

   Funds that outperformed the market and other funds in
their respective groups during downturns over the past 10
years. (Total returns with dividends and capital gains
reinvested. Averages are for all funds in respective fund
groups.)
                                                                                                       

 Growth -- Lindner Fund
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                      + 4.7%
      6/11/81-9/24/81                      - 0.2
     12/10/81-3/11/82                        0.0
      5/13/82-8/12/82                      - 1.6
      6/23/83-7/26/84                      + 3.6
      8/20/87-12/3/87                      -17.4
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90    20.7
                                                                                                       

 Growth -- N&amp;B Partners
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 2.9
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 6.2
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 1.3
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 2.0
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 3.9
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -25.5
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     16.8
                                                                                                       

 Growth -- Phoenix Growth
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 7.3
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 9.2
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 1.5
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 4.6
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 0.3
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -25.0
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     21.1
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       + 0.5
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 6.1
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 2.0
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 3.8
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 4.0
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -26.7
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     21.3
                                                                                                       

 Growth -- AVERAGE
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 8.2
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       -15.4
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       -11.5
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       -10.4
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       -17.6
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -30.3
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90    15.3
                                                                                                       

 Equity-Income -- Lindner Dividend
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       + 6.1
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 0.5
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       + 2.4
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 1.4
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       +11.9
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       - 9.0
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     18.8
                                                                                                       

 Equity-Income -- AVERAGE
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 2.5
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 9.1
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 3.0
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 4.3
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 2.3
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -21.1
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     15.3
                                                                                                       

 Balanced -- Phoenix Balanced
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 4.6
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 5.6
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       + 2.8
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 2.7
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       + 3.5
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -16.5
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     17.2
                                                                                                       

 Balanced -- AVERAGE
                                                                                                       


     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 4.0
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       - 9.7
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 3.6
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 4.2
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 5.0
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -18.0
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     14.4
                                                                                                       

 Convertibles -- Phoenix Convertible
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                        N.A.
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       -10.2
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 0.6
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 0.1
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 1.9
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -16.7
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     16.6
                                                                                                       

 Convertibles -- AVERAGE
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 5.8
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       -10.4
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       - 3.6
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       - 4.4
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 7.5
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -20.9
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     14.0
                                                                                                       

 S&amp;P 500 Index
                                                                                                       

   DOWN MARKETS
     11/20/80-2/19/81                       - 8.7
      6/11/81-9/24/81                       -12.5
     12/10/81-3/11/82                       -13.0
      5/13/82-8/12/82                       -13.4
      6/23/83-7/26/84                       - 7.3
      8/20/87-12/3/87                       -32.0
   AVERAGE ANNUAL RETURN 6/30/80-6/30/90     16.8
                                                                                                       

   Source: Lipper Analytical Services Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   One Count of North Conviction Dismissed
   On Appeal; Hearing Ordered on 2 Others
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Oliver North case is back in the lap of
U.S. District Court Judge Gerhard Gesell.
   That development follows a federal appeals court's
decision Friday reversing Mr. North's conviction in the
Iran-Contra affair on the grounds that trial proceedings may
have been tainted by exposure to his testimony before
Congress.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. North was convicted in May 1989 for altering and
destroying official documents, accepting an illegal gratuity,
and aiding and abetting in the obstruction of Congress. The
former national security aide received a suspended jail
sentence and a $150,000 fine that he hasn't yet been required
to pay. He was also sentenced to 1,200 hours of community
service.
   The appeals court dismissed the lower court's ruling on
the document-shredding conviction on technical grounds
regarding the way Judge Gesell instructed the jury.
   The other two counts weren't dismissed outright. But the
appellate decision substantially improves Mr. North's chances
of being cleared of all criminal charges. It also may benefit
former National Security Adviser John Poindexter, who
received a six-month jail sentence in June for his role in
the Iran-Contra affair. Mr. Poindexter, who was convicted on
five counts, including conspiracy and obstruction of
Congress, is expected to appeal his case.
   Friday's ruling came in response to a challenge by Mr.
North and the American Civil Liberties Union. Lawyers for Mr.
North and the ACLU questioned the prosecution's ability to
honor the "use immunity" guarantee granted to Mr. North by
the congressional Iran-Contra committee. Under use immunity,
a witness such as Mr. North can be forced to testify provided
that testimony isn't used against him in a criminal
proceeding.
   In a 2-to-1 ruling, the appeals court panel ruled that the
lower court should have held a full hearing to demonstrate
that independent counsel Lawrence Walsh made no use of Mr.
North's testimony before the Iran-Contra committee. In order
to maintain Mr. North's conviction, Mr. Walsh now must show
in a hearing before Judge Gesell that this testimony didn't
affect the trial.
   "Everyone familiar with these proceedings has recognized
the difficulty presented by the grants of immunity by
Congress," Mr. Walsh said in a statement Friday. "We have
diligently tried to work around these difficulties."
   In its decision, the court expressed concern that Reagan
administration officials who watched or were briefed on Mr.
North's televised testimony to the Iran-Contra committees
were influenced by it when they subsequently testified at Mr.
North's trial.
   For example, the court said that former National Security
Adviser Robert McFarlane, who testified to the Iran-Contra
committee before Mr. North's appearance, testified a second
time at his own request after Mr. North. In this second
appearance, the court said, Mr. McFarlane responded directly
to Mr. North's testimony, and "apparently managed to recall
items he had not remembered" the first time around. Mr.
McFarlane was a key government witness at Mr. North's trial.
   Given the appeals court's strict requirements concerning
use immunity, Mr. Walsh is unlikely to prevail in a hearing
before Judge Gesell. A more likely course is for Mr. Walsh to
either petition all the judges of the appeals court circuit
for a rehearing, or to petition the Supreme Court. Mr. Walsh
didn't say Friday what course of action he would take.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   German Unification Meets Obstacles,
   Including Economic, Political Concerns
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT -- Helmut Kohl set off on his Austrian holiday
with every sign that German unification was on track with the
blessing of the four World War II Allies. But it's likely the
would-be unification chancellor will be spending more time
off the sun deck and on the telephone grappling with knotty
problems brewing back home.
   The move toward unity in December has been complicated by
East Germany's deepening economic crisis and predictions of a
"hot autumn" of social unrest as thousands more East Germans
lose their jobs every week. Then a prickly debate over the
mechanics of unification erupted into an open quarrel that
has rifted the coalition governments of both German capitals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The clash centers on whether Germany should be reunited on
Dec. 1, a day ahead of the all-German parlimentary elections
ballot, or at midnight Dec. 2 after the polls close. If votes
weren't at stake, it might be a minor point of procedure. But
progress toward German unification has been hindered by
old-fashioned party politics.
   In Bonn, the Free Democrats, the centrist junior coalition
partner of Mr. Kohl's center-right Christian Democratic Union
party, have sided with the opposition Social Democrats in
demanding that East Germany be absorbed into the Federal
Republic prior to the Dec. 2 elections.
   Mr. Kohl's CDU wants to delay formal unification until
just after the election to allow smaller parties in East
Germany to skirt West Germany's election rule that parties
get a minimum 5% of the popular vote to qualify for
parliamentary representation. Although claiming that small
East German parties should be given a fair shot in their
first run at the national polls, the CDU's critics assert the
party is catering to the tiny East German affiliate of the
CDU's Bavarian sister party, the conservative Christian
Social Union.
   The Free Democrats, including Foreign Minister
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, are rebelling. "We don't want to
repeat the mistake of the Weimar Republic," said a spokesman
for the Free Democrats in Bonn, "where governing was made
nearly impossible by all the splinter parties in parliament."
   East German parties are lining up behind their Bonn
counterparts, dividing the East German government. Prime
Minister Lothar de Maiziere, head of the East German CDU,
spent a rancorous Friday session in parliament fighting off
strong demands for pre-election unification from within his
own coalition, led by the East German Free Democrats. The
issue may have to be decided by a special parliamentary vote.
   Once the timing issue is solved, the second state treaty
for political unity -- expected in September -- could be
snagged by Mr. de Maiziere, who this time differs with Mr.
Kohl over the Berlin question. Bonn hopes to defer over
deciding on Bonn or Berlin as Germany's future capital to a
decision next year by the all-German parliament. Mr. de
Maiziere insists that Berlin be set down as the future
capital of a united Germany in the second state treaty. (The
first treaty covered July 1 monetary union.)
   The dispute over details of unification, which is likely
to continue through September, hasn't obscured the sudden
tide of sobering news on East Germany's economy and the
rising cost of unity.
   Even pessimistic economists are alarmed at the economic
aftershocks from the July 1 merger of the two German
economies. Unemployment is skyrocketing as the aftershocks
continue to shake down 40 years of stratified central
planning. East German suppliers are collapsing under the
onslaught of Western competition. The mass incursion of
Western goods and services has all but swept East German
products from their former markets, tearing huge gaps in the
work force as former clients turn to Western suppliers.
   "Certain East German industry sectors are in desperate
need of help because they simply can't produce efficiently,
particularly agriculture and consumer goods," said Peter
Danylow, a German analyst for the Foundation for Sciences and
Policy outside of Munich. "And if the trend continues, we
could well see an outburst of social unrest and another mass
migration to the West," Mr. Danylow said.
   East Berlin reported that 30% of East Germany's 8,000
major companies already are insolvent and unable to pay wages
or purchase materials. By early July, about 223,000 of East
Germany's 8.5 million workers were already reported out of
work and another 500,000 had been placed on shortened shifts
under a special 2 billion mark (US$1.22 billion) compensation
plan. East Germany estimates that unemployment rolls are
swelling at a rate of between 30,000 and 40,000 a week.
   "We didn't expect the impact of monetary union would be
this bad, it's uncanny. Up to 40,000 more jobless every week
seems incredible," said a senior economist for one of the
five West German economic think tanks regularly advising the
Bonn government.
   Spotty data make firm assessments difficult, the analyst
said. But the main problem is identified as the inability of
East Germany's moribund industry to defend against the
invasion of Western goods and foodstuffs. "That is
particularly disappointing," he said.
   East German Finance Minister Walter Romberg sounded the
alarm in an interview with Bonn's Die Welt newspaper last
week, when he appealed to Bonn for closer cooperation in the
critical aftermath of monetary union.
   "I have the impression," Mr. Romberg said, "that the
difficulty of some of the problems is underestimated by many
politicians in the Federal Republic."
   The Bonn government has agreed to East Berlin's request to
increase its 1990 quota on credit guarantees for East German
companies needing a quick cash infusion. Funds available
under the facility were doubled to 8 billion marks from 4
billion marks. Another 700 million marks in subsidies was
made available to East Germany's badly mauled farm sector for
the months of July and August alone.
   East Germany's industrial production dropped 15% in June
from a year ago, a pre-economic merger reading that is
expected to worsen in coming months as firms are swept aside
by Western competitors.
   While the West German economy is widely predicted to
expand between 3% and 4% next year, the German Institute for
Economic Research in West Berlin estimates that average
monthly output in East Germany could slump by 20% before
recovering in 1992 or 1993. Thus, economists predict,
unemployment could reach two million or more next year as
East German firms drop workers to cut costs, or give up the
fight.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Earth First] -- Madmen
   Or Valiant Crusaders?
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   In reference to your June 19 page-one article "Earth
First] Group Manages to Offend Nearly Everybody," I find it
amusing that everyone is so shocked and sanctimonious about
how we mustn't destroy private property, e.g., bulldozers,
trucks, etc., while our national property -- the ancient
forests -- is being systematically destroyed by those who
hide behind those very property rights and free enterprise.
Entire civilizations have died because they abused their
forests, land and water. Now, our ancient forests are being
destroyed. By the time the system gets around to saving the
ancient forests, there won't be any left.
   Earth First] would be rendered unnecessary if we would all
join together to save our ancient forests.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Daniel H. Stone
   San Francisco
   ---
   Contrary to your story, Earth First] is not a "burden and
an embarrassment" to all in the "genteel" environmental
movement. Here's Brock Evans, vice president of the
mainstream National Audubon Society, as quoted in the Los
Angeles Times Magazine: "I honor Earth First] for having the
guts to do the things they do. It's not for me, but I
understand why they do what they do. And, ultimately, we all
help each other."
   Mark Rey
   Executive Director
   American Forest Resource Alliance
   Washington
   ---
   Your article wasn't the first on the subject that doesn't
excuse militant environmentalists' behavior as a justifiable
means to a noble end. While you reported that the Sierra Club
and National Wildlife Federation have denounced Earth First]
as "the moral equivalent of outlaws," this fact has been
minimized or ignored.
   Lawlessness, even under the protective umbrella of "saving
the planet," must not go unpunished. The destroyers and their
tacit consenters do little more than discourage new recruits
for mainstream environmental groups. Some of us just might
retreat to the closet rather than appear as though we
sympathize, through indirect association, with a bunch of
madmen.
   Norman Jacobson
   Los Angeles
   ---
   Doug Bandow's June 20 editorial-page article appropriately
criticized the concepts of ecoterrorism currently espoused by
Earth First] and obviously practiced widely by irresponsible
people. I strongly agree that such ecoterrorism must be
denounced by true environmentalists, those of us who use and
produce forest products, as well as protectionists who use
forest products but wish to deny forest-products producers
access to raw materials.
   But I do object to Mr. Bandow's assertion that
"government-subsidized timbering . . . is both
environmentally destructive and wasteful. . . ." That is
irresponsible and generally untrue.
   I earn my living producing forest products. Much of the
timber is purchased from state and federal forests. When
properly managed, such renewable resources are grown and
harvested as a cyclical crop that benefits wildlife,
recreationists, hunters, the atmosphere, the watershed and
many other interests as well as the forest-products industry.
Such use of public timber doesn't strike me as wasteful, and,
if properly managed for multiple-use objectives, it is not
subsidized.
   Charles R. Pottenger
   Cloquet, Minn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   S&amp;L Withdrawals
   Outpaced Deposits
   In Early Part of '90
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Withdrawals at savings and loans continued
to outpace deposits in January and February, and produced a
$13.3 billion net outflow in January, the Office of Thrift
Supervision said.
   For the two months, the net outflows totaled $19.9
billion, compared with $20 billion in the same period last
year. This past January's outflow grew from the $10.7 billion
in net withdrawals a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The outflows result from efforts by savings and loans to
meet regulations under the S&amp;L cleanup law, which requires
thrifts to hold a greater amount of capital as a percentage
of assets.
   S&amp;Ls with lower deposits don't have to hold as much
capital, and many thrifts have lowered the rates they pay
depositors in order to allow controlled outflows of deposits.
Capital is the equity that the thrifts hold, and acts as a
cushion to taxpayer-backed deposit insurance.
   "It just tells us that, clearly, so many institutions
still don't meet the new capital requirements," said James
Barth, an Auburn University economist.
   Mr. Barth said the deposit withdrawals may also indicate
that some depositors are concerned that with so many federal
S&amp;L takeovers, their funds could be tied up. The deposits are
all guaranteed for as much as $100,000.
   "Either way, it still suggests that we have massive
consolidation and shrinkage, and that's been the story for a
year now," Mr. Barth said.
   Total deposits at all 2,527 solvent and insolvent S&amp;Ls --
354 fewer institutions than a year ago -- fell to $796.3
billion in February 1990 from $927 billion a year earlier.
   Mr. Barth said it's possible that a recent spate of media
coverage about S&amp;L woes could fuel an acceleration in
withdrawals, but later data haven't been released yet.
"Unfortunately, we are getting numbers for January and
February, and it's July," he said.
   The thrift office, which was overhauled a year ago under
the S&amp;L bailout law, was recently reorganized and has
frequently delayed the publication of its data.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Imagine: Gloating
   Over Poor Old Mikhail
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A11
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   The June 22 letter from Prof. John Manley of Stanford
University clarifying his role in Mikhail Gorbachev's
cancellation of his scheduled visit to the Hoover Institution
was most revealing.
   Let me get it straight: On the one side are a bunch of
researchers from the Hoover Institution, all mild-mannered
academics, who, over the years, have done nothing more
sinister or violent than to describe how communism at best
impoverishes people -- and at worst murders them by the
millions -- and to predict communism's eventual demise. On
the other side is Mr. Gorbachev, a man whose whole life was
built on service to the Soviet Communist Party and who,
during that service, most certainly abetted, if not actively
engaged in, countless human-rights violations including the
imprisonment of peace-loving people such as Andrei Sakharov
and the massacre of thousands of civilians in Afghanistan.
And here comes Prof. Manley, who would rather deny the poor
fellows from Hoover the chance to "gloat" over how right they
were all along than see the "proud and self-respecting"
Soviet dictator suffer the ignominy of seeming to come "hat
in hand to the tower of anti-communism for advice on how to
save his failed country."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It's nice to know where the sympathies of some Stanford
professors lie.
   U.S. Rangan
   New Orleans
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Italy Producer Prices Are Flat
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   MILAN -- Italy's industrial producer price index was
unchanged in May from April and was up 3.6% from a year
earlier, the state statistical institute Istat said.
   The May increase followed a monthly increase of 0.1% in
April, when the year-toyear increase stood at 4.0%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Istat also reported that the wholesale price index fell
0.4% in May from April but rose 3.9% from a year earlier.
   The May increase in wholesale prices followed a monthly
increase of 0.2% in April, when the index was up 4.4% from a
year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sino-Soviet Accords Signed
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEIJING -- Chinese and Soviet officials signed agreements
to protect investment in each other's countries and avoid
double taxation for their nationals, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported.
   The pacts were signed at the end of a six-day meeting of
the Sino-Soviet Economic, Trade, Scientific and Technological
Cooperation Committee. Xinhua said Chinese Vice Premier Yao
Yilin and his Soviet counterpart, U.D. Maslukov, signed a
memorandum but its contents and details of the other accords
weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Premier Li Peng also met with Mr. Maslukov. He called for
growth in Sino-Soviet trade, which totaled about $3.2 billion
last year, and for more joint ventures; about 20 ventures
have been set up.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Citicorp Trims Management Structure
   At Developed-Country Banking Unit
   ----
   By Robert Guenther
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Citicorp said it eliminated two layers of
management in its commercial and investment-banking operation
for North America, Europe and Japan, in the start of an
effort to cut the unit's operating expenses.
   The flatter management structure isn't expected to trigger
any massive dismissals of employees, but it is expected to
result in piecemeal layoffs over the next couple of years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rumors have been rife among Citicorp employees that about
1,000 jobs will be cut from the 15,000 in the unit.
   Michael A. Callen, Citicorp's head of global finance for
developed countries, said in an interview: "There is no
number {of jobs to be eliminated} that has been settled on. I
know that revenues and costs have gotten out of whack. We
have to sit down with the 50 activity-center managers and
look at revenue and costs and say: `You tell me what the
correct number is.' There won't be any slashing and burning
like we've seen elsewhere."
   Eight group and division heads will lose their
administrative roles and become, in the words of Mr. Callen,
"player-coaches." They are Rodney F. Ballek, Peter Burnim,
Michael T. Welch, Philip B. Lassiter, Michael Kelland, Ernst
Brutsche and Jeffrey Grandy.
   The elimination of the eight group and division executive
titles is the latest step in Chairman John S. Reed's
reshaping of Citicorp's commercial and investment-banking
business. For much of his five years as chairman, Mr. Reed
has been preoccupied with the developing-country debt
problem. Only in the last 18 months has he immersed himself
in the commercial and investment bank.
   Like many of its competitors, Citicorp's commercial and
investment banking for developed countries has suffered from
rising costs of problem loans and sluggish corporate demand
for loans and services.
   In the first six months of this year, Citicorp's
commercial and investment-banking business for developed
countries earned $85 million, down 72% from a year earlier.
That's largely because loss provisions and other related
costs for problem commercial real estate and highly leveraged
transaction loans soared to $501 million from $149 million.
   In recent weeks, several large banking companies,
including Chase Manhattan Corp., Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
and Continental Bank Corp., have announced sweeping staff
cutbacks. Some analysts have said that Citicorp, too, was
overdue for cutbacks.
   Mr. Callen said Citiorp has no further plans to scale back
any businesses, as it recently did in its municipal
securities and London securities units. Citicorp, however, is
expected to concentrate its resources on what Mr. Callen has
called its "seven towers of excellence" -- foreign exchange,
risk-management products, real estate finance, transaction
processing, highly leveraged transactions, securitization of
assets and loan syndications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   South Korea's Economic Recovery
   Belies Recent Speculation of a Crisis
   ---
   A Falling Won, Labor Peace
   Keep `Miracle' Alive, but
   Global Ties Cause Worry
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL, South Korea -- Is South Korea's economy going to
the dogs?
   A lot of people might think so when they see news footage
of riot police in combat gear battling strikers. Or when
Korean government economists and business associations
pronounce the country in a crisis. Newsweek says, "South
Korea's Economic Miracle Has Lost Its Glow," and the New York
Times echoes, "The South Korean `economic miracle' looks
increasingly fragile now."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Don't bet on it. It is becoming increasingly clear that
Korea's economy has turned around and, while not quite ready
to roar, will be purring contentedly.
   For all their recent talk of a crisis, economists now
agree Korea's gross national product will probably grow 9%
this year -- one of the biggest increases in the fast-growing
Asian region. Domestic demand is strong. Exports will be
expanding by an annual rate of more than 10% by the end of
the year, averaging more than 5% growth for all of 1990.
   With machinery backlogs up 50% over last year and
shipbuilding orders up 50% -- enough to keep Korea's
shipyards busy for three years even if they get no new orders
-- a continuation of double-digit export growth into next
year looks like a sure thing. "Growth was somewhat more
robust than expected," says Koo Boo Young, a presidential
economic adviser.
   There are of course some potential trouble spots.
Inflation, clipping along at an annual rate of about 12%, is
one of them. And Korea's merchandise trade balance may go
slightly into the red for the first time since 1985, although
that isn't as bad as it seems: Imports grew quickly because
Korean companies were buying 40% more U.S.- and Japanese-made
machinery than they did in 1988 to automate factories and cut
production costs.
   All in all, optimism is breaking through the clouds.
"Policy makers are gradually getting more optimistic --
although some uncertainties linger over the optimistic
opinion," says Chang Seung Woo, a top official of the
government's Economic Planning Board.
   In fact, the biggest worry these days among the
technocrats who engineered Korea's economic "miracle" isn't
the health of the economy. They worry that the factors that
will keep Korea's economic machine whirring are no longer
ones controlled by their macroeconomic tinkering. Korea's
economy now is so complex and intertwined with world markets
that developments in Tokyo, New York or Frankfurt -- an
interest rate change or a product innovation -- can have more
impact than government decisions. "In the past the outside
world did not interfere as they do now," says Lee Hahn Koo,
president of Daewoo Research Institute.
   Korea's recovery was spurred by an abrupt end to labor
union unrest and a favorable turn in the value of Korea's
currency, the won.
   The Labor Ministry says that through the first week of
July when the strike season usually finishes, the country
suffered only 255 strikes, compared with 1,127 last year.
Moreover, the average length of the strikes declined to about
12.4 days from 19.2 last year. Pay increases averaged only
about 7% this year, compared with 17.8% last year.
   The labor peace shows up on the bottom line. In the first
quarter last year, companies claimed they lost $643 million
in exports due to labor disputes. This year the loss claimed
is only $20 million. Wages are rising, but they no longer are
outstripping productivity gains. "This year things are going
very smoothly," says Park Sung Kyou, president of Daewoo
Telecom Co. "Businessmen have got their confidence back,
their ego back, and they are starting to invest and starting
to export."
   While many Korean businessmen had blamed higher wages for
Korea's loss of overseas competitiveness, the real culprit
seems to have been the change in the currency rates.
   In 1986, when the Japanese yen began rising sharply
against the dollar, Japan's products became more expensive
overseas. Korea, which linked its currency to the dollar,
thus gained an advantage in the U.S. market. But it quickly
lost this advantage when the won started rising against the
dollar. Things got even worse when the yen started to fall
against the dollar and the won fell more slowly. That meant
that the price difference between Japanese and Korean
products narrowed. In some product areas, Korean products
became more expensive than their Japanese rivals, with
disastrous consequences for Korean exports.
   SKC Ltd., a Korean video and audio tape maker, even
discovered that tapes imported into Korea grabbed 15% of the
local market because the prices were almost the same, even
though imported tapes were hit with a 13% duty. "We are not
very competitive," says Park Jang Suk, manager of the
government's planning department.
   There was little the economic planners could do. The Korea
Institute of Economics and Technology, a government-supported
think tank, estimated that when the won-yen rate is at about
435 won to 100 yen, Korea loses about $3.4 billion in
exports.
   Recently the won fell to around 484 to 100 yen, exports
surged, and the economy began its recovery.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Instruments
   Net Fell Sharply
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   TXN
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Texas Instruments Inc. contributed to the
sell-off of high-technology stocks Friday by reporting
sharply lower second-quarter earnings, largely because of
lower prices for semiconductor memory chips.
   The company also said that it might report a loss for the
third quarter, citing depressed memory-chip prices,
earthquake damage to its Philippines plant and research and
development and start-up costs for its new products,
including its four-megabit memory chip.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company reported second-quarter net income of $11
million, or two cents a share, compared with $106 million, or
$1.14 a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell to $1.59 billion
from $1.63 billion. For the six months, net was $24 million,
or seven cents a share, compared with $171 million, or $2.04
a share. Revenue in the six-month period declined to $3.13
billion from $3.23 billion.
   Although analysts called the earnings disappointing, they
said that a drop in second-quarter earnings had been
expected. Estimates had ranged from five cents to 20 cents a
share. Richard Whittington, analyst for Kidder, Peabody &amp;
Co., said he thinks the company's downturn is temporary,
although he now expects it to show a third-quarter loss. "If
they're saying {a loss is} possible, it'll probably happen,"
he said.
   The company blamed its lower earnings on weak prices in
the commodity end of the memory-chip segment of its
semiconductor business. That caused a loss at the company's
components division, which also includes electrical controls,
custom semiconductors and integrated circuits, Texas
Instruments said. Memory-chip orders increased slightly in
the second quarter, though, and the losses in the division
were smaller than in the first quarter, the company said.
   Texas Instruments also said that startup operations and
plant construction depressed earnings. The company is
building a $250 million memory-chip plant in Avezzano, Italy,
which may be operating by early 1991, in time for what the
company expects to be a turnaround in the semiconductor
market. In addition, the company is developing a four-megabit
memory chip that should be marketed late next year and a
16-megabit chip that may be available late in 1992 or in
1993, a spokesman said.
   Other semiconductor manufacturers that are exposed to the
commodity end of the chip market are also suffering.
   National Semiconductor Corp. about a month ago reported
lower net for its fourth quarter, and Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. contributed to Friday's high-tech stock sell-off with a
report of its own second-quarter loss. But other
semiconductor makers not so heavily dependent on the
lower-priced chips, including Motorola Inc. and Intel Corp.,
have reported higher quarterly earnings recently.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS Inc. says it will introduce its new
four-megabit memory chip late this year. The introductory
date was incorrectly reported in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ July 24, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Equitable Resources Vote
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   EQT
</CO>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Equitable Resources Inc. said its directors
voted to exclude the utility holding company from some of the
provisions of Pennsylvania's new anti-takeover law.
   The legislation, signed into law April 27, allows publicly
owned concerns incorporated in the state to exclude
themselves from all or part of its anti-takeover provisions
within 90 days of passage.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Westinghouse
   Vows to Preserve
   Ford Aerospace
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   F WX LOR GM GMH F.CIU ITT F.CGE F.ASP
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The bidding heated up Friday for Ford Motor Co.'s
aerospace unit, with a consortium led by Westinghouse
Electric Corp. promising not to dismantle the
communications-satellite and military products maker if it
wins the auction for it.
   The Westinghouse-led partnership, which includes the
French company Aerospatiale and merchant banker Carlyle
Group, was identified earlier last week as one of three
parties vying for Ford Aerospace, which was put on the block
in January. The others are Loral Corp. and a coalition of
General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft division and Alcatel
N.V. of Belgium.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "If selected as the winning bidder, our primary focus will
be to keep the business intact and to support growth,"
Westinghouse said in a statement. "Ford Aerospace has an
excellent work force of over 16,000 employees, and we plan to
be very sensitive to their needs and provide these people
with the confidence and security they enjoy and deserve."
   The proclamation came as some Ford Aerospace employees
launched a behind-the-scenes campaign to paint Loral, widely
rumored to be the front-runner in the contest, as
anti-worker. Under the proposal from Pittsburgh-based
Westinghouse, current Ford Aerospace management would
participate in the ownership of the Newport Beach, Calif.,
firm.
   "People here are very negative about a Loral deal," said
one Ford Aerospace executive. "They feel like it has only a
short-term interest in the companies it gets involved with."
   Officials at New York-based Loral didn't return phone
calls.
   How much sway the workers' concerns might have wasn't
clear. One person close to the deal insisted that Loral
already had the acquisition locked up, largely because of the
persuasiveness of its investment banker, Shearson Lehman
Hutton Inc. Philip Caldwell, a former chairman and chief
executive officer at Ford, is now a senior managing director
at Shearson.
   But a Ford spokesman stressed yesterday that no decision
has been made. And a company source said representatives of
all three bidders were at Ford's Dearborn, Mich.,
headquarters on Friday to meet with the auto maker.
   All three bids were thought to be close in monetary terms,
according to the person close to the negotiations. He placed
all of them in the $700 million to $800 million range in
cash, plus the assumption of Ford Aerospace debts and
obligations that would drive the total value of the
transaction closer to $1.5 billion.
   But Westinghouse is the only one that would guarantee to
keep certain employee benefits intact, this person said.
Loral, which sources indicated would have to tap into a
Shearson leveraged buy-out fund to buy Ford Aerospace, isn't
expected to keep the company together should it emerge
victorious.
   And should Hughes win, the Los Angeles company would
almost certainly carve out and pass on Ford Aerospace's
satellite business to Alcatel, a telecommunications venture
of ITT Corp. and Compagnie Generale d'Electricite. That's
because Hughes already is the U.S. market leader in producing
satellites, and trying to hang on to that line is likely to
lead to antitrust problems.
   Hughes has declined to comment on the Ford Aerosapce
situation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sigma Designs Aims to Be First to Cut
   ELF Emissions of Computer Monitors
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   SIGM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   A major supplier of computer monitors plans next year to
begin selling models that give off sharply reduced amounts of
extremely low frequency, or ELF, electromagnetic emissions.
These emissions, which are produced by standard computer
monitors and many other electrical devices, are considered
hazardous by some medical researchers.
   Sigma Designs Inc., which makes large-screen monitors
generally bought as an upgrade to standard computer
equipment, is the first supplier to pledge to build low-ELF
products. Other companies, notably International Business
Machines Corp. and Digital Equipment Corp., announced plans
last year to reduce the amount of very low frequency, or VLF,
emissions, but none has disclosed plans to reduce ELF
emissions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Fremont, Calif., company said it is responding to
pressure from some consumers and health researchers, who
contend that extended exposure to ELF emissions can cause
cancer and other illnesses. Sigma is scheduled to formally
announce its plans today.
   "This is a sign that the computer industry is finally
taking this {ELF} risk very seriously," said Louis Slesin,
editor of VDT News, a bimonthly publication that reports on
health and occupational concerns involving computer monitors.
   While Sigma hopes to capitalize on growing demand for
monitors that emit lower ELF levels, it doesn't plan to
describe the new monitors as safer in its promotional and
advertising materials.
   "We think the data is absolutely indeterminate whether
there is a safety issue or not," said Charlie Waters, Sigma's
vice president of marketing, "so we don't want to add to the
alarm about emissions."
   Nevertheless, Mr. Waters said Sigma is convinced that a
market exists in the U.S. for low-ELF monitors, and he
expects other companies to enter it. "The attention being
given this issue is creating concern," he said. "We believe
that's going to generate demand."
   Already, some makers of personal computers, which ship
most of the monitors sold in the U.S., are coming under fire
for failing to reduce electromagnetic emissions from their
products. In June, for instance, MacWorld, a monthly magazine
devoted to the Macintosh computer brand, began a campaign to
pressure the manufacturer, Apple Computer Inc., into taking
action. So far, Apple has agreed to fund health research on
the question, but it insists that the monitors it ships with
its computers are safe.
   Sigma's new monitors, which will work with the most
popular brands of personal computers, will give off only
about one-tenth of the ELF emissions produced by the
company's current monitors. The new monitors, which will come
in monochrome but not in color, are outfitted with special
circuitry that reduces both ELF and VLF emissions. They will
be priced at $200 more than Sigma's standard monitors, which
range in price from $1,299 to $3,495. The company will begin
selling the low-ELF models in the first quarter of next year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Trade Surplus Narrows
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's trade surplus narrowed to $873.3 million
in the first 10 days of July, from $1.93 billion in the
year-earlier period, the Ministry of Finance said.
   Exports during the first 10 days of July dropped 3.1% to
$6.83 billion from $7.05 billion a year ago, while imports
rose 16% to $5.95 billion from $5.12 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Finance Ministry said the average exchange rate of
154.27 yen to the dollar was used in measuring goods during
the 10-day reporting period, compared with 143.28 yen the
year before.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Spanish Banks' Merger Clears
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MADRID -- Spain's Ministry of Economy approved the merger
of two of the country's top savings banks, Caixa de Pensions
de Catalunya and Caixa de Barcelona, creating the largest
financial institution in Spain and one of biggest in Europe.
   The ministry said the two Barcelona-based banks, with
combined deposits estimated at more than four trillion
pesetas ($39.76 billion) will be given a tax write-off
amounting to 99% of their total tax bill, or 112.6 million
pesetas. They initially sought a tax concession of 167.5
million pesetas.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Spanish government has strongly encouraged a spate of
recent bank mergers, fearing that Spain's financial
institutions otherwise may be too small to compete when the
European Community fully liberalizes its markets in 1992.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Checchi Slates
   Bid to Liquidate
   Eastern Airlines
   ---
   NWA Chief Is Said to Plan
   To Acquire Some Assets,
   Broker Sale of the Rest
   ----
   By Judith Valente and Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   NWA CTA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AIRLINES (AIR)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Northwest Airlines Chairman Alfred A. Checchi is expected
to make a proposal to Eastern Airlines and its creditors'
advisers today, under which Mr. Checchi would oversee a
controlled liquidation of Eastern assets.
   Under the plan, people familiar with the proposal said,
Northwest would take over certain Eastern assets it has eyed
for some time: 80 of Eastern's newer aircraft, airport gates
in Atlanta and maintenance facilities in Atlanta and Miami.
In return, Mr. Checchi would volunteer to "broker" the sale
of Eastern's remaining assets for the benefit of creditors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It couldn't be determined whether Northwest would own the
Eastern aircraft outright or assume leases on them as it
would on Eastern's gate facilities. But either way, Northwest
-- while risking little -- would effectively acquire a strong
East Coast hub, something it lacks now, and badly needed
narrow-body jets to replace its aging DC-9 fleet.
   It isn't clear how Eastern and those representing its
creditors will react to Mr. Checchi's proposal.
   The plan would leave Eastern short of its stated goal of
finding a buyer to operate the whole airline. "We continue to
maintain we're not interested in liquidation, but we're
willing to entertain proposals for the entire company," a
spokeswoman said for Eastern yesterday. She added that so far
Northwest hasn't made any such formal proposal.
   Eastern is a unit of Continental Airlines Holdings Inc.,
Houston, formerly Texas Air Corp. A bankruptcy judge in April
appointed a trustee, Martin R. Shugrue Jr., to take control
of the airline.
   Mr. Checchi and Northwest spokesmen couldn't be reached.
   Several difficult issues would have to be resolved,
including what to do about Eastern's financial liabilities.
By some estimates, Eastern's pension plan alone is
underfunded by at least $500 million. Mr. Checchi has told
people that he wants no part of such obligations and that he
wouldn't enter into any agreement with Eastern that would
result in additional debt for Northwest.
   Despite its drawbacks, the proposal could prove attractive
to Eastern creditors. They would receive additional proceeds
from asset sales Mr. Checchi would arrange, and they would
retain Eastern's existing cash and cash equivalents. Eastern
has about $700 million in cash from prior asset sales in an
escrow account and shortly will receive about $300 million
from AMR Corp. for the sale of Latin American routes.
   Eastern creditors also might be able to negotiate some
kind of securities in NWA Inc., Northwest's St. Paul,
Minn.-based parent, people familiar with the proposal
speculated.
   Eastern has been in Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection
since March 1989, and there hasn't been any plan approved yet
for resolving the bankruptcy proceedings. Mr. Checchi's plan,
if it materializes, would be the only one so far offering
creditors the prospect of an immediate partial recovery of
their claims.
   In addition, creditors might be impressed with Mr.
Checchi's credentials. He had been a top strategist for the
Marriott Corp. hotel concern and the Bass brothers of Texas
before winning a bidding war for NWA last year with a $3.65
billion leveraged buy-out proposal. Some people have said he
might be able to negotiate better prices for Eastern assets
than creditors would otherwise receive.
   "Checchi's deal might be marginally worse for the
creditors {than a successful reorganization of the carrier}.
But he can argue it would be cleaner for them and at least
the whole thing would be over with," one person familiar with
the proposal said.
   Even if the creditors proved responsive, both sides would
have to work out an arrangement for labor. Most of Eastern's
current employees were hired after the airline's three unions
went on strike last year. Eastern's mechanics union has yet
to return to work. Northwest's unions don't want any
strikebreakers hired. And it's unlikely Mr. Checchi will do
anything to rile them after spending much of the past year
trying to improve labor-management relations at Northwest.
   Mr. Checchi could argue that he doesn't have to take
Eastern employees as part of the deal. But as a practical
matter, he probably will need to if he wants to use Eastern's
aircraft, gates and maintenance facilities immediately. One
person familiar with Northwest's plans said Northwest's
pilots union is looking into how quickly pilots could be
trained to fly new jets.
   Integrating the two work forces would be complicated. Mr.
Checchi is said to favor placing Eastern employees at the
bottom of Northwest's seniority list, which would relegate
them to the lowest wages. Such a move is likely to draw fire
from Eastern's employees.
   Despite his interest in Eastern, several persons close to
Northwest say Mr. Checchi isn't prepared to rush into any
transaction. They say that while Northwest executives have
looked at a combination with Eastern from a financial and
marketing standpoint, they have yet to draw up a plan for
blending the two airlines' operations.
   Mr. Checchi, who has spent months and millions of dollars
revamping Northwest's service, is said to be extremely
concerned about avoiding the problems that plagued
Northwest's 1986 merger with Republic Airlines. A lack of
planning for that merger produced labor strife and wreaked
havoc with Northwest's on-time performance and baggage
service. It took the airline more than two years to emerge
from those problems.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Wood Gundy Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WOOD GUNDY Inc. (Toronto) -- John Hunkin was appointed
deputy chairman and chief executive officer of this
Torontobased securities dealer, and Richard Venn was named
president. Mr. Hunkin, 45 years old, was president and chief
operating officer of Wood Gundy. He succeeds G. Edmund King
as chief executive. Mr. King, 56, remains chairman of the
brokerage firm. Mr. Venn, 39, was previously president of
CIBC Wood Gundy Capital. Wood Gundy is about 62%-owned by
Toronto-based Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. The
remaining shares are held by Wood Gundy employees.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   French Consumption Eases
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5D
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   PARIS -- French household consumption of manufactured
goods eased to 55.72 billion francs ($10.12 billion) in June
from May's high level of 55.91 billion francs, according to
seasonally adjusted figures published by the National
Statistics Institute.
   The state agency said in a communique that the drop was
led by leather and textile goods, but was partly offset by a
2.4% rise in consumption of durable goods, especially
household electronics. It said auto demand was also down
slightly.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The June figures fit into the trend seen since the start
of 1990, with monthly consumption bouncing between 55.5
billion francs and 55.9 billion francs. A brief exception was
seen in April, however, when consumption fell to 54.07
billion francs.
   The relatively steady consumption data coincide with a
period of little growth in industrial production and
moderation on the import front.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Advanced Micro Posts Loss
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   AMD
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Advanced Micro Devices Inc.'s stock
skidded Friday on a report that the chip maker posted a net
loss of $5.9 million, or 10 cents a share, for its second
quarter ended July 1.
   Advanced Micro was expected to break even or turn a small
profit of as much as five cents a share. The company's loss
would have been even larger had the quarter not included a
$6.1 million gain from the sale of its stake in another chip
maker. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday,
Advanced Micro's shares closed at $7.25, down $1.75.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts blamed the poor results on a shortfall of roughly
$17 million in revenue, which overall declined 2.6% to $267.7
million from $274.9 million. The decline was caused by a 29%
drop in the price of the company's 286 microprocessor. A lack
of availability of certain memory and logic chips also hurt
sales.
   In the year-earlier period, Advanced Micro earned $12.1
million, or 12 cents a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy -- Tracking the Economy:
   Second-Quarter GNP Data Due Friday
   As Consensus Puts Growth Rate at 1.5%
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The government unwraps its initial tally of
second-quarter gross national product this week as economists
grapple with revisions, concerns about the rest of the year,
and data flaws.
   The consensus view expects that GNP, or the total value of
the nation's output of goods and services, grew at an annual
rate of 1.5% in the second period, after adjusting for
inflation, a bit slower than the first quarter's 1.9% pace.
The GNP report, due out Friday, also includes benchmark
revisions stretching back three years. The week's only other
major offering is June durable goods orders, due out
Wednesday. Orders are expected to show an increase of 1.5% on
the heels of May's 4% jump as capital-goods orders continue
to rebound after several months of decline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although this week's calendar is thin, there's plenty to
puzzle over. In a quite informal survey, several economists
were quizzed on their estimate for the quarter, on the most
significant positive and negative forces in sight for the
balance of the year, and on their pet peeves about data and
interpretation of the data.
   "The weakest aspects of second-quarter numbers are likely
to be in both residential and business fixed-investment" plus
weak consumption, said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at
Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., New York. As one positive, he cited
auto production, which he credits for about two-thirds of his
1.8% GNP growth estimate for the second quarter. Mr. Roach
said the swing in autos is largely driven by
inventory-building in advance of a possible strike, and he
expects an "equally strong or stronger boost to the third
quarter."
   Mr. Roach's pet peeve? "A lot of people are presuming the
consumer will stay weak. I think the consumer will snap out
of lethargy in the second half -- not for a big surge, but
for something closer to trend," he said.
   Brian J. Fabbri, chief economist at Midland Montagu
Economics, New York, cited inventory rebuilding in the second
quarter as "a big variable" that could swing the GNP growth
rate as much as one percentage point. His GNP estimate for
the period is from 1.5% to 1.75%, which takes part of the
variable into account.
   Looking ahead, Mr. Fabbri said "the principal negative
right now is consumer psychology." He cited "recession in the
home-building industry" as a major factor affecting prices of
new and existing homes and "depressing" homeowners. "If
{homeowner} confidence is down, it could also imply that
spending could be a trickle for the remainder of the year,"
he said.
   As for positives, Mr. Fabbri noted "we could fashion
something out of a deficit-reduction package. It would be the
first in years, and that's positive." His peeve concerns the
premier indicator these days: employment data. "It's a number
we're discovering we don't forecast well on a month-to-month
basis" as well as one that's subject to huge revisions, Mr.
Fabbri said.
   Neal Soss, a managing director of First Boston Corp., New
York, expects "essentially all" second-quarter GNP growth
(his estimate is 2%) to be attributable to inventory
accumulation. Among the negatives ahead, he cited: domestic
demand that continues to be stressed by weak employment,
tighter credit and weaker profits; fiscal drag stemming from
federal, state and local belt-tightening; and softer exports.
   On the plus side, Mr. Soss noted that the Federal Reserve
Bank "almost guaranteed" not to use monetary policy to force
a recession. Until recently, his pet peeve has been that the
slowdown in money-supply patterns means something significant
-- such as a slowing of banks' willingness to lend money. "It
was a pet peeve," said Mr. Soss. "But it's hard for me to
claim it now that {Fed} Chairman {Alan} Greenspan has himself
claimed it."
   Francis H. Schott, chief economist at Equitable Financial
Cos., New York, said second-quarter GNP "might be a positive
surprise, closer to a 2% than a 1.5%" growth rate. He expects
a recovery in the industrial sector to ensure more growth
down the road. "Export orders will start to show through in
the second quarter, and even more in the third and fourth
quarter. Exports are my big positive," he added.
   Mr. Schott stopped short of naming a negative ahead, but
cited "contingencies" that include weakness in residential
and commercial construction that "could drag the economy
down." But he countered that declining mortgage rates "might
alleviate that."
   As for pet peeves, Mr. Schott cited the "continuing
misconception" of economists who view monthly job growth of
100,000-plus positions "as weakness." Last year, growth
averaged well over 200,000 jobs a month. Mr. Schott said the
slowing this year simply corresponds with the pace of the
economy and full employment. He added: "All the people on the
`200-pitch' may have it wrong."
   ---
                  Closely Watched Reports
                                                                                                       

       Statistics Released in the Week Ended July 20

                                                 CHANGE
                                                 (from prior
                                 TOTAL           period)
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   Money Supply
                                                                                                       

     M1 -- Week ended
     July 9 (in billions)       $810.2          - $7.5
                                                                                                       

     M2 -- Week ended
     July 9 (in billions)     $3,274.8          - $2.7
                                                                                                       

     M3 -- Week ended
     July 9 (in billions)     $4,061.5          + $2.8
                                                                                                       

   Housing starts
   June, annual rate
   (in thousands)                1,177          - 2.3%
                                                                                                       

   Building permits
   June, annual rate
   (in thousands)                1,107          + 3.9%
                                                                                                       

   Industrial production index
   June                          109.8          + 0.4%
                                                                                                       

   Capacity utilization
   June, change in
   percentage points             83.5%          +  0.2
                                                                                                       

   Consumer price index
   June                          129.9          + 0.5%
                                                                                                       

   Merchandise trade deficit
   May (in billions)             $7.73          +0.42%
                                                                                                       

   Business inventories
   May (in billions)           $799.40          + 0.4%
                                                                                                       

   Business sales
   May (in billions)           $538.33          + 0.9%
                                                                                                       

   New jobless claims
   Week ended July 7           350,000          + 3.1%
                                                                                                       

            Statistics to Be Released This Week
                                                                                                       

   Auto sales (Tues.)
   Mid July
                                                                                                       

   Durable goods orders (Wed.)
   June
                                                                                                       

   Money supply (Thurs.)
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Real GNP (Fri.)
   Second quarter, advance
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Friday, July 20, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 7/8% low, 7 15/16% near closing
bid, 8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.875% 15 to 44 days; 7.85% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 119 days; 7.70% 120 to 149
days; 7.65% 150 to 179 days; 7.55% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.99%
30 days; 7.95% 60 days; 7.91% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.67% one month; 7.71% two
months; 7.73% three months; 7.89% six months; 8.10% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8% one month; 8% three months; 8%
six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.91% 30 days; 7.83% 60 days; 7.80%
90 days; 7.75% 120 days; 7.72% 150 days; 7.68% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 1/8% - 8% one month; 8 1/8% -
8% two months; 8 1/8% - 8% three months; 8 1/8% - 8% four
months; 8 1/8% - 8% five months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% six
months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 1/16% one month;
8 1/8% three months; 8 3/16% six months; 8 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 11.25%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, July 16, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.62% 13 weeks; 7.52% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 9.90%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.375% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 9.85%, standard conventional fixed-rate
mortgages; 8.55%, 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate
mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.76%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dexter Corp.:
   Firm Signs Accord to Sell
   Unit to British Company
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   DEX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dexter Corp. said it signed an agreement to sell its
Charlotte, N.C., polyvinyl chloride compounding and extrusion
business to Evode Group PLC of Britain.
   The Windsor Locks, Conn., company didn't disclose terms of
the agreement, but said it is expected that the cash sale of
the business, "which is profitable, will result in a capital
gain for Dexter."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dexter had said it was in talks for the sale of the
business, which had 1989 sales of about $50 million, but
hadn't named the prospective buyer.
   Dexter said the transaction is subject to completion of
financing arrangements, approval by Evode shareholders, and
various regulatory approvals.
   Evode is a specialty chemical concern.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Decades After Nationalization Drive,
   Tanzanian Business Clan's Hopes Revive
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -- Manilal Devani opens the porch
windows of his roomy house to let in the night breeze coming
off the Indian Ocean, a stone's throw away. His family built
this house in 1951; today, he pays rent to the state to live
in it.
   The house, along with the family's business property and
most of its export-import trade, was confiscated by the
government during an all-encompassing nationalization drive
after Tanzania gained independence from Britain in 1961.
About the only thing Mr. Devani still owns from before then
is his trusty old Peugeot 404, which he lovingly navigates
around the city's potholes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "These are great cars for Africa," he says. "They have
really endured."
   And so, too, has Mr. Devani. The family wealth is mostly
gone. His five brothers packed up and headed home to India
years ago. His two sons are partial to London. His beloved
city, of which he was mayor in 1960, has deteriorated almost
beyond recognition. But Mr. Devani is still here, 63 years
old and rail thin, trying to keep the 120-year-old family
business going.
   Mr. Devani's story is no ordinary tale of entrepreneurial
perseverance. It is a saga of doing business in Africa -- of
making a bundle under colonialism, of losing it all in the
post-independence embrace of socialism, of scratching to make
it back while surrounded by economic decay.
   "In Africa, you learn to make adjustments," he says. "We
have become great adjusters."
   Mr. Devani's grandfather arrived in East Africa in 1870,
coming from India with dreams of getting rich in the
Asian-African trade. He first settled in Zanzibar, the island
just off the Tanzanian coast, and found work at a bank. By
1885 he had started his own import business, and five years
later he opened a branch in Dar es Salaam. At the time,
Tanzania, then called Tanganyika, was under German rule.
   "Grandfather was always full of praise for the German
administration," Mr. Devani says. "He said the security was
so good you could leave your shop unattended for an hour and
nothing would be taken."
   The Devani family business -- importing clothing and
textiles from India and exporting African fruits and animal
hides -- expanded across East Africa. As World War I ended,
Tanganyika came under British control. With the Empire
pushing into the African interior, the Asian traders
flourished like never before. By 1920, the Devanis were
operating a merchant bank, financing much of this "upcountry"
business.
   Just as his grandfather praised the Germans, so did Mr.
Devani's father admire the British administration, so much so
that he sent his sons to London for their higher education.
Manilal returned to Dar es Salaam in 1951 and joined the
family business as a cashier. He also became involved in
civic affairs; first, president of the Tanganyika Swimming
Club, then mayor of Dar es Salaam.
   He was the city's last non-black African mayor, for in
1961 Tanganyika won its independence and the country's black
majority took political control. At first, little changed for
the businessmen, mostly Indians who dominated the merchant
class. In 1963, Mr. Devani became managing director of the
family business, which by this time was importing goods,
mainly textiles, from India and Japan and exporting to Europe
and Asia. As Africa modernized, the Devanis even began making
air conditioners.
   In 1967, the Tanzanian government steered sharply toward
socialism, asserting the state's right to control all major
means of production and exchange. In the wake of the
nationalization binge, businessmen fled the country and the
Indian population shrank to 40,000 from 100,000. The Devanis
shrank to one. His brothers pleaded with Manilal to leave
too, but there was something compelling about
post-independence Africa that enticed him to stay.
   "It was really like watching a whole society in the
process of change," he says. Even now, there is excitement in
his voice. "They {the Africans} had a purpose. I found that I
shared their aspirations."
   While he was mayor, Mr. Devani had become good friends
with a bright young politician named Julius Nyerere. Now Mr.
Nyerere was the president and the driving force behind the
nationalization.
   "Nyerere's aim was to improve the lot of the whole
society, and who can argue with that?" says Mr. Devani. "He
believed that if in the process there were casualties, that's
the way it had to be."
   Despite losing most of what he had, Mr. Devani continued
his civic work, sitting on both the salary and civil service
commissions, which were charged with correcting the racial
inequities in the old colonial civil service. At the same
time he worked cautiously to revive the family business. He
started over again as a small trader, buying locally made
goods from the state enterprises and occasionally contracting
for some imports through the agency that handled all foreign
trade.
   As the state-run enterprises faltered, the entreprenuers,
both Asian and African, gradually moved to fill the gaps.
Now, with the country's infrastructure in ruins and its
Eastern European models turning away from socialism, the
Tanzania government is even courting private enterprise and
foreign investment. These days, Mr. Devani spends most of his
time with the Dar es Salaam Chamber of Commerce and the
government's taxation and banking commissions, helping the
government retool the economy toward the free market. He even
dares to dream of a Dar es Salaam stock exchange.
   Another dream, perhaps even more elusive, is for his
eldest son, Rohit, to move back home from London and keep the
family business going for at least another generation.
   "At the moment, things look OK. But can one be certain
they will stay that way?," says Rohit, 32, a London-trained
accountant and commodity broker who is on a visit home,
exploring the business possibilities.
   "I'd love to come back, but I'm looking for security," he
says, bouncing his 10-month-old son on his knee. "Everything
has to fit."
   The father smiles at the son and the grandson. The pieces,
he believes, are finally beginning to fall into place. "After
all these years, this is the time we've been looking forward
to," he says. "Patience, my son. Patience."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Consumer Prices
   In Canada Rose
   4.3% Last Month
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada's consumer price index rose in June at
its slowest pace in 18 months, but the Bank of Canada showed
no signs of relaxing its tough anti-inflation policy.
   The index in June was up 4.3% from a year earlier,
Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said Friday. June was
the first month in a year that Canada's consumer price index
has shown a smaller annual increase than the U.S. index. The
U.S. consumer price index increased 4.7% in June from a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Economic analysts welcomed the price report, saying it
gave the Bank of Canada additional scope to ease Canada's
high interest rates. But federal government officials warned
that Canadian wage pressures remained strong and high wage
settlements were cutting into corporate profits rather than
being offset by higher prices. Corporations can't swallow
such cost increases indefinitely, an official said. Corporate
profits in January-March fell to their lowest quarterly level
since the July-September period of 1986.
   John Lipsky, London-based economic analyst at the
investment bank of Salomon Brothers, said Canadian monetary
authorities appear to be pursuing "more aggressive monetary
goals than in the U.S." Canadian monetary restraints have
kept short-term Canadian interest rates more than five
percentage points above comparable U.S. rates for four
months.
   Mr. Lipsky said Canada's domestic demand growth appears to
have slowed sufficiently to permit monetary policy to be
eased without a resurgence of inflation. But he said Canadian
authorities remain concerned about wage pressures and
inflationary expectations in advance of the planned Jan. 1
implementation of a 7% goods and services tax.
   A major round of wage bargaining is due to start later
this week when Canada's auto makers are to open contract
negotiations with the Canadian Auto Workers Union.
   Major Canadian collective agreements in the three months
ended in April provided for a 6.2% average annual wage
increase, compared with 5.5% in the three months ended in
January.
   Michael Gregory, Royal Bank of Canada economist, said some
recent wage contracts have involved smaller settlements. If
this trend continues, he predicted the Bank of Canada will
allow interest rates to edge lower, starting in September.
   Sherry Cooper, chief economist at the Toronto-based
securities company of Burns Fry Ltd., said the case for lower
interest rates was strengthened by Canada's May retail sales
data, also reported Friday by Statistics Canada. Retail sales
in May declined 1% following a 1.4% drop in April.
   "Despite concerns over rising wages, the current
environment provides the central bank with leeway to ease
policy," said Bank of Nova Scotia economist Aron Gampel. As
well as lower consumer inflation, he noted a significant
reduction in the pace of economic activity, credit demands
and money supply growth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Will GE Topple IBM's Crown
   As the Stock-Market's Value King?
   ----
   By David B. Hilder and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE XON IBM
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The stock market may soon crown a new king.
   For years, General Electric Chairman Jack Welch dreamed of
the day when GE would become the U.S. company with the
biggest stock market value.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In 1987, when GE ranked third behind International
Business Machines and Exxon, Mr. Welch exhorted executives of
GE's newly acquired NBC television network to help him scale
the market's heights. "We are $4 billion behind Exxon," Mr.
Welch said then. "If you guys can still get ratings, then
every portfolio manager in the world will have to bet on IBM
-- a one-product company -- or GE. If we can get in that No.
2 position, every portfolio manager in the world will have to
choose between IBM and us."
   Now the 54-year-old Mr. Welch, GE's chairman since 1981,
is on the brink of realizing his dream. Since last December,
GE has moved in and out of the No. 2 position and now is
challenging IBM for the No. 1 ranking.
   At Friday's closing price of 74, GE has a market
capitalization, or stock price times the number of shares
outstanding, of $65.76 billion. IBM, which for decades
reigned unchallenged as the "market cap" champion, is valued
at $67.43 billion, based on Friday's closing price of 117
5/8.
   GE can make up the $1.67 billion difference in market
value if its stock price increases by only $1.88 a share, or
if IBM slips by $2.91 a share. Though it is unlikely that the
town fathers of Fairfield, Conn., GE's headquarters, would
honor Mr. Welch with a ticker-tape parade, GE's surging past
IBM would be akin to winning the World Series for Mr. Welch.
   The stock market value of a company isn't a commonly used
measure of its performance. Investors, understandably, tend
to focus on how far a company's stock price moves, not on the
aggregate value of all its shares. One reason is that a
company's total market value can be increased by actions that
could depress the price of individual shares, such as by
issuing more stock to make an acquisition. Likewise, some
companies have boosted their stock prices by buying back
shares and issuing debt, which reduced their total stock
market values.
   Becoming the stock market's biggest company "is a good
goal, in the sense that it derives from delivering corporate
performance," Martin Sankey, a First Boston analyst, says.
But he warns that simply expanding a company's stock market
value is "not necessarily good for the per-share stock
price."
   Though some of GE's progress toward the market value title
is the result of IBM's sagging stock price, most of it has
come from a steady surge in GE's stock over the past 18
months. During that time, GE's stock price soared 54.7%,
nearly twice the 28.9% rise in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500
stock index. During that same period, IBM's stock price fell
3.6% and Exxon's rose 8.8%.
   Over a 10-year period, GE's stock has outpaced IBM, Exxon
and the broader market. GE's stock price more than quadrupled
from June 1980 to June 1990, rising at an 18.3% annual clip,
according to CDA Investment Technologies Inc. In the same
period, the S&amp;P 500 rose 12.1% annually; Exxon, 11.2%; and
IBM, a scant 7.2%.
   It is impossible to say whether GE will pass IBM. And even
if Mr. Welch wins the market value crown, history shows that
in the stock market, as in Eastern Europe, the mighty can
fall, and fast.
   IBM's market value peaked in 1987 at about $105 billion,
but sank in part because of the October 1987 stock market
crash and because of IBM's lackluster earnings performance
since then. IBM even lost the "biggest market cap" title for
a few months late last year and early this year to Exxon.
Exxon, perhaps not eager to draw attention to itself in the
middle of investigations of the Valdez oil spill in Alaska,
didn't rush to proclaim itself king of the market.
   GE contends that having the biggest stock market value
isn't an enshrined goal -- this might smack of mindless
corporate gigantism or hubris -- but merely a byproduct of
GE's hitting its operating targets, particularly in earnings
and dividend growth. A rise in market capitalization "is
something that happens if you achieve those objectives, not
something you have as a goal," a GE spokesman says. Mr. Welch
declined to comment.
   But evidence abounds that the hard-charging Mr. Welch, who
became known early in his chairmanship as "Neutron Jack" for
closing plants and getting out of businesses where GE
couldn't be No. 1 or No. 2, is keenly aware of GE's market
value ranking and is intent on passing IBM.
   In a letter to shareholders in GE's latest annual report,
for example, Mr. Welch noted that GE ranked 11th among U.S.
companies in market value in 1980, but moved up to second by
the end of the decade. GE's $46 billion increase in market
value in the 1980s, he boasted, "was the largest of any
company in the U.S."
   Mr. Welch has been known to talk up his "market cap"
ambitions in meetings with Wall Street analysts. Russell
Leavitt, a Salomon Brothers analyst, remembers Mr. Welch's
speaking about his hopes of moving GE from No. 3 to No. 1.
But Mr. Leavitt believes that Mr. Welch used the market-value
yardstick "to provide some impression of growth . . . to
suggest that there was more room for upside in the stock."
   GE has a good business reason to maintain a large equity
base and avoid taking on too much debt. GE and its big
financial services unit, GE Capital, both enjoy triple-A
credit ratings. An increase in debt and a corresponding drop
in credit rating would drive up the company's cost of
borrowing.
   A company intent on maximizing its total stock market
value also might avoid buying back its own stock, a common
corporate strategy used to buoy stock prices.
   But in spite of Mr. Welch's desire to power past Exxon and
IBM in terms of total stock market value, GE last year
announced a five-year plan to buy back as much as $10 billion
of its shares. Since then, GE has purchased and retired 22.9
million of its shares at a cost of about $1.5 billion.
   "Mr. Welch is a very competitive individual, and to the
extent that GE's stock price and market capitalization is a
measure of performance, he focuses on it," Mr. Sankey of
First Boston says. "He cares, but he doesn't care so much
that he'd do something stupid. Witness the $10 billion stock
buy-back. If he were entirely focused on market
capitalization, he wouldn't be doing that."
   ---
   Janet Guyon contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Legal Watershed:
   High Court Vacancy Is
   Threat to Abortion,
   Opportunity for Bush
   ---
   Choice He Makes May Pacify
   Right but Split the GOP
   And Spark Battle in Senate
   ---
   Brennan Leaves Giant Legacy
   ----
   By Stephen Wermiel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- For more than a decade, William Brennan had
flirted with the idea of retiring. Always in the past, his
love for the job of Supreme Court justice and his role as the
court's most ardent defender of individual rights and
liberties finally outweighed all other considerations.
   This time was different. In the Newark, N.J., airport
three weeks ago, en route to a North Sea cruise, he hit his
head in a fall that left him periodically disoriented
throughout the trip. Although he didn't know it at the time,
he had suffered a minor stroke. Last Tuesday, when Mr.
Brennan returned to Washington, he was forced to face medical
reality. He spent the next two days consulting with his
doctors and family. There was relatively little dissent.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I had no choice," Justice Brennan said in a telephone
conversation yesterday, "but to give it all up."
   The 84-year-old justice's resignation on Friday after
nearly 34 years gives President Bush his first opportunity to
influence the character of the Supreme Court. It also gives
him a chance, if he chooses to take it, to assuage
conservatives angry with him on other issues by moving the
deeply divided court significantly to the right. At the same
time, though, it raises substantial political risks: of a
potentially bruising Senate confirmation fight, and perhaps
of deepening the schisms within the Republican coalition on
the explosive issue of abortion -- where a new nominee will
be under enormous pressure from social conservatives to vote
to overturn the 1973 Roe vs. Wade ruling.
   The effects of the liberal Justice Brennan's departure and
his likely replacement with a conservative will be felt
almost immediately once the court begins its next session on
Oct. 1. On abortion and issues of separation of church and
state, the conservatives already have a 5-4 edge. But
differences among themselves have somewhat slowed their
course to the right.
   On some matters, the court's liberal wing still has
managed to muster some major 5-4 victories, particularly on
affirmative action and some other civil-rights issues, on
freedom of expression, and on the rights of accused
criminals. Justice Brennan's departure is likely to bring
those victories to an abrupt halt. Mr. Bush may get further
chances to cement the conservative cast of the court, as
liberal justices Harry Blackmun and Thurgood Marshall are in
their early 80s.
   On abortion, administration officials say, Mr. Bush is
virtually certain to nominate a jurist opposed to Roe vs.
Wade. And, although a moderate himself on many domestic
issues, the president firmly believes his rhetoric about
favoring judges who lean toward strict construction of the
Constitution's meaning and who dislike judicial activism.
   Some administration aides see a timely opportunity for Mr.
Bush to regain ground with conservatives offended by his tax
and other positions by doing what he would do naturally --
pick someone with generally conservative judicial views.
"Just by doing what he wants to do anyway he'll re-energize
conservative support," says one senior administration
official.
   But such a nomination also could drive a deeper wedge
between the social conservatives of the Republican Party and
voters, particularly younger ones, who hold more liberal
social views but hew to the GOP line on economics and
national security. This rift, already apparent on issues like
the environment and civil rights legislation, has been an
undercurrent since the day the party nominated Mr. Bush in
1988. But it is a division Mr. Bush's advisers, particularly
GOP National Chairman Lee Atwater, have tried to keep out of
view. The court opening, while not creating the rift, could
serve to bring it into clearer focus.
   The administration may try to avoid political divisiveness
by looking for a conservative nominee with other attributes
that can be emphasized to moderates -- for instance, by
naming the first Hispanic to the court.
   In comments to reporters over the weekend, President Bush
said he wants a choice "very, very soon," which aides say
means later this week or early next. Mr. Bush hopes to win a
promise from the Senate Judiciary Committee to hold
confirmation hearings in early September, and then use the
August congressional recess to drum up support for the
candidate. Conservatives are still smarting from what they
consider President Reagan's failure during a similar recess
in 1987 to rally support for former Judge Robert Bork, whose
Supreme Court nomination was defeated.
   The administration hopes such a schedule will either win
Mr. Bush a successful vote before November's mid-term
elections, or else allow the Republicans to turn a Senate
rejection into an issue to attack Democrats.
   Among lists of candidates for the high court vacancy,
Solicitor General Kenneth Starr and federal appeals court
judge Patrick Higginbotham of Dallas are favorites of some
Bush aides. Others outside the administration are urging the
president to be more venturesome and appoint a Hispanic
(possibilities include district judge Ricardo Hinojosa of
Brownsville, Texas, and appellate judge Ferdinand Fernandez
of Los Angeles) or a second woman justice (possibly appellate
judges Edith Jones of Houston or Cynthia Hall or Pamela
Rymer, both of Los Angeles).
   Other potential nominees include David Souter, a former
New Hampshire Supreme Court justice recently appointed to the
federal appeals court in Boston; J. Harvie Wilkinson, a
federal appeals court judge in Charlottesville, Va.; Ralph
Winter, a federal appeals court judge in New Haven, Conn.;
and Laurence Silberman, an appeals court judge in Washington,
D.C.
   Assuming Mr. Bush names a staunch conservative, it is
possible that Senate Democrats will try to block the
nomination, and it is assured that abortion-rights activists
will. In doing so, opponents are likely to focus on the
legacy built by Justice Brennan, who since being appointed to
the court by President Eisenhower in 1956 has played a
significant role in virtually every major constitutional
decision affecting modern society.
   When he arrived on the high court at age 50, the always
cheery and congenial Mr. Brennan brought with him an uncanny
ability to befriend and work with his colleagues, even those
with whom he disagreed. Former law clerks recount seeing him
pause in the hallway en route to the court's secret
conferences to await fellow liberal Blackmun or former swing
vote Lewis Powell, who is now retired. They would then walk
off arm in arm.
   But Mr. Brennan has long bridled at his public image --
that of an affable Irish politician glad-handing fellow
justices and cajoling them to join him.
   Rather, one thing that made him so effective, liberal
admirers and conservative critics alike concede, was an
unusually pragmatic approach to the job. He loved to tease
his law clerks year after year by asking them what was the
most important principle of constitutional law. When they
were stumped, he would hold up five fingers. "You can't do
anything around here without five votes," he would say. He
wasn't saying that anything the majority did was right, he
would explain, but rather that in his view of the job the
point was to win majorities.
   That pragmatic approach always dictated his handling of
court opinions, say former clerks and some justices. More
than most, Justice Brennan would go to great lengths to make
changes in opinions, reword arguments and otherwise
accommodate colleagues to obtain and keep a majority.
   He also had an unwavering view of the role of the court in
interpreting federal laws and the Constitution. A few years
ago he wrote to a law professor that he struggled daily as a
judge with whether to rely simply on "reason" or to "go
beyond sterile rationability and have government treat its
citizens with dignity." He added, "A judge who operates on
the basis of reason alone risks cutting himself off from the
wellspring from which concepts such as dignity, decency and
fairness flow."
   Conservative critics have long attacked this approach as
judicial activism, leading judges to legislate their personal
views from the bench. More recently, conservatives have
called for a return to emphasis on the intent of those who
ratified the Constitution.
   Justice Brennan shrugged off such criticism, declaring in
a 1985 speech, "We current justices read the Constitution in
the only way we can: as 20th Century Americans. . . . The
ultimate question must be, what do the words of the text mean
in our time?"
   His effectiveness within the institution is documented in
the opinions that bear his name -- and in some that don't.
Public and private court records show that he wrote most of
the 1958 decision requiring the Little Rock, Ark., schools to
desegregate, although it was signed by all nine justices for
emphasis. This included the still-controversial assertion
that it is not only the Constitution that is the "supreme law
of the land" and must be obeyed, but the Supreme Court's
interpretation of it as well.
   Justice Brennan also played a major part behind the scenes
in reshaping both Justice William Douglas's 1965 decision
first recognizing a constitutional right of privacy and
Justice Blackmun's 1973 decision recognizing a right to
abortion.
   His concern for the individual has dominated not only his
opinions but his personal style. Court employees stop in to
say hello to him regularly, and he knows dozens of them by
their first names. Last Friday, he wanted badly to delay his
announcement so he could first meet this morning with four
new law clerks who were scheduled to begin work for him
today. But word of his decision leaked out and forced the
Friday announcement.
   Mr. Brennan's legal legacy is sweeping. Among other
things, his opinions chased from the scene the old notion
that you can't fight city hall: A series of decisions made it
possible to sue state and local governments for damages for
violating the civil rights of individuals, and in some
circumstances even to sue members of Congress or other
federal officials over civil liberties.
   Perhaps the most significant change in the legal landscape
came during his tenure under Chief Justice Earl Warren, when
the court made most of the guarantees of the Bill of Rights
applicable to the actions of state and local government
rather than just to the federal government. Justice Brennan
was the chief advocate of the incremental approach, selecting
only those constitutional protections that seemed most
important, such as the Fifth Amendment privilege against
self-incrimination.
   Other significant aspects of his legacy include most of
the major decisions upholding affirmative action; a losing
fight to have the death penalty declared unconstitutional;
and decisions broadening free speech and free press
guarantees, including protecting the news media against libel
suits by public figures and, most recently, protecting
flag-burning as a form of expression. He also wrote the 1962
opinion that led to the principle of "one person, one vote"
by finding that federal courts had the authority to require
voting reapportionment.
   Still another area in which Mr. Brennan had a significant
impact was in expanding the 14th Amendment guarantee of "due
process" to require that welfare recipients receive hearings
before benefits are cut off. The decision was the first step
in a virtual due-process revolution that was later expanded
to, among other things, increase the protections of
government employees.
   It is typical of Justice Brennan, given his concern with
the effects of constitutional law on the individual, that he
has come to see this last area as possibly "my most important
decision in its practical significance."
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Bush Plans Daily Sessions
   On Deficit-Cutting Effort
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- President Bush is inviting congressional
leaders to meet with him daily to speed progress toward a
deficit-reduction compromise.
   Senate Republican leader Bob Dole said yesterday on
NBC-TV's "Meet the Press" that Mr. Bush plans to begin the
sessions tomorrow.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You're going to see a more active President Bush," said
the Kansas senator, who spoke to Mr. Bush over the weekend. A
White House spokesman later confirmed the invitation but
couldn't say whether the meetings would continue beyond this
week.
   Democrats have been clamoring for Mr. Bush to take a more
prominent role in the talks between administration officials
and a bipartisan contingent of 21 members of Congress. The
talks began in mid-May.
   Unless the pace picks up considerably, negotiators are
unlikely to meet their stated goal of reaching an agreement
in the next two or three weeks. Budget Director Richard
Darman has argued that a breakthrough will occur only in a
smaller group.
   Sen. Dole's aides said Mr. Bush's daily meetings will
include Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine),
House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.), House Majority Leader
Dick Gephardt (D., Mo.), House Minority Leader Bob Michel
(R., Ill.) and Sen. Dole.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Healthdyne to Post
   Big Earnings Gain
   For 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   HDYN
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARIETTA, Ga. -- Healthdyne Inc., profiting from increased
cost-consciousness in the health-care industry, said it
expects to report net income of roughly $2.9 million, or 17
cents a share, for the second quarter, compared with profit
of $163,000, or one cent a share, a year earlier.
   Parker "Pete" H. Petit, chairman and chief executive
officer of the home healthcare service and manufacturing
concern, said in an interview that Healthdyne expects to
report second-quarter revenue of about $33.5 million, up 40%
from $24.1 million a year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "I think you'll see Healthdyne continue just like we are,"
said Mr. Petit. "We've gotten our business to where we want
to be from a strategic standpoint. We will continue putting
our resources into our three core entities."
   Mr. Petit said Healthdyne had strong second-quarter
revenue growth in all three main units: its 66%-owned Home
Nutritonal Services unit, which provides athome service for
patients with intravenous drug needs; its Healthdyne
Technologies unit, which manufactures physiological monitors
and other medical devices for home use, and its Healthdyne
Perinatal Services unit, which provides home obstetrical care
for pregnant women at risk of premature delivery.
   Mr. Petit said operating profit and revenue from the Home
Nutritional unit rose about 25% in the second quarter.
Operating profit, he said, is expected to be about $3.5
million in the recent period, on revenue of about $19
million.
   The Home Nutritional unit's "home infusion market is
growing rapidly," said Mr. Petit. "There's an educational
process taking place. More and more physicians are realizing
they can provide this type of (intravenous-drug) service at
home instead of at the hospital."
   Mr. Petit said Healthdyne Technologies' operating profit
more than doubled in the second period to about $1.3 million
from $500,000 a year ago. Its revenue soared to roughly $8
million from $4.9 million.
   Mr. Petit said Healthdyne Perinatal had an operating loss
of more than $600,000 in the quarter, compared with an
operating loss of $500,000 a year ago. Its revenue jumped to
$6.5 million from $3.6 million. Mr. Petit said the unit
opened its last two centers in the quarter, until at least
the end of the year, accounting for the increased loss. It
now has 28 centers.
   In June, Mr. Petit said, the obstetricians panel of the
Food and Drug Administration voted not to recommend FDA
approval of Healthdyne Perinatal's System 37 Home Uterine
Monitor for use on women 24 to 36 weeks pregnant. Mr. Petit
said the system, currently approved for use by the FDA under
"investigational" status, is being prescribed by about 7,000
of the nation's roughly 30,000 obstetricians. But roughly 30%
of insurance companies won't pay for its use because it
doesn't carry the FDA's full approval, he said.
   "The panel wasn't familiar with our type of study," Mr.
Petit said. "It's not a question of whether System 37 is
safe. The only business issue is whether some insurance
carriers will pay for it."
   Mr. Petit said Healthdyne will consider spinning off part
of its Technologies and Perinatal units, as it has done with
Home Nutritional Services, "if those divisions perform as
well as HNS was performing."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PS of New Hampshire Plan
   Is Approved by State Panel
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PNH NU
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CONCORD, N.H. -- The New Hampshire Public Utilities
Commission has unanimously approved the bankruptcy
reorganization plan for Public Service Co. of New Hampshire
under which the utility will be acquired by Northeast
Utilities for about $2.3 billion.
   The proposed reorganization plan has already been approved
by shareholders, creditors, and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manchester. Northeast Utilities has been managing PS New
Hampshire since April 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reorganization plan still requires the approval of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
   The New Hampshire commission said parties to its
proceedings have 20 days to request reconsideration of its
decision and the commission then has 10 days to respond. If
the commission denies requests for reconsideration, the
parties then have 30 days to appeal to the state supreme
court.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hotel Investors Corp.:
   California Investor Proposes
   To Buy Certain Properties
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HOT
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Beverly Hills, Calif., investor Leonard M. Ross said he
made a proposal to acquire certain hotel and gaming
properties of Hotel Investors Trust and Hotel Investors Corp.
for $46 million.
   In a July 18 letter attached to a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing, Mr. Ross indicated these assets aren't
among the hotel properties that the company already entered
into an agreement to sell.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hotel Investors Trust is a real estate investment trust
based in Los Angeles whose shares are paired for trading with
Hotel Investors Corp., based in San Diego. The companies are
in the process of selling most of their assets following a
falling stock price in the past few years. Hotel Investors
executives didn't return phone calls, nor did Mr. Ross.
   Hotel Investors shares closed 12.5 cents lower at $3.625
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Publicly Traded Funds
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Friday, July 20, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Following is a weekly listing of unaudited net asset
values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by
the companies as of Friday's close. Also shown is the closing
listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each
fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
                                                                                                       

                                Stock   N.A.   Stock    %
   Fund Name                    Exch.  Value   Price   Diff.
                                                                                                       

   Diversified Common Stock Funds
                                                                                                       

   Adams Express                NYSE   19.25  16 1/4  -15.58
   Baker Fentress               NYSE   24.39  20 1/8  -17.49
   Blue Chip Value              NYSE    7.66   6 3/4  -11.88
   Clemente Global Gro          NYSE  b12.92  11 1/4  -12.93
   France Growth Fund           NYSE   11.26   9 7/8  -12.30
   Gemini II Capital            NYSE    9.68  12 3/4  +31.71
   Gemini II Income             NYSE   15.94  13 1/8  -17.66
   General Amer Invest          NYSE   25.42  21 3/8  -15.91
   Growth Stock Outlook         NYSE   10.48   9 1/2  - 9.35
   Liberty All-Star Eqty        NYSE    9.91   8 1/4  -16.75
   Niagara Share Corp.          NYSE   18.19  15      -17.54
   Nicholas-Applegate           NYSE   11.99  11 5/8  - 3.04
   Quest For Value Cap          NYSE   18.66  13 5/8  -26.98
   Quest For Value Inco         NYSE   11.59  13 5/8  +17.56
   Royce Value Trust            NYSE   10.63   9 5/8  - 9.45
   Salomon Fd                   NYSE   15.59  12 7/8  -17.42
   Source Capital               NYSE   41.45  42 3/4  + 3.14
   Tri-Continental Corp.        NYSE   28.95  24 3/4  -14.51
   Worldwide Value              NYSE   19.65  16 7/8  -14.12
   Zweig Fund                   NYSE   11.07  11 1/4  + 1.63
                                                                                                       

   Closed End Bond Funds
                                                                                                       

   CIM High Yield Secs          AMEX    6.95   5 7/8  -15.47
   Franklin Prin Mat Tr         NYSE   b8.12   9 1/8  +12.38
   Franklin Universal Tr        NYSE   b7.77   7 1/2  - 3.47
   Municipal High Inco          NYSE   a9.39   9 1/2  + 1.17
   Zenix Income Fund            NYSE    6.49   6 1/4  - 3.70
                                                                                                       

   Flexible Portfolio Funds
                                                                                                       

   America's All Seasn          OTC     5.96   4 1/2  -24.50
   Franklin M-M Inco            NYSE   b8.99   8 3/8  - 6.84
   Zweig Total Return Fd        NYSE    9.30   9 1/4  - 0.54
                                                                                                       

   Specialized Equity and Convertible Funds
                                                                                                       

   Alliance Global Env Fd       NYSE   14.34  12 1/2  -12.83
   Alliance New Europe Fd       NYSE   12.20  10 7/8  -10.86
   American Capital Conv        NYSE  a22.24  19 1/2  -12.32
   ASA Ltd                      NYSE bc58.05  46 7/8  -19.25
   Asia Pacific                 NYSE   17.32  14 3/4  -14.84
   Austria Fund                 NYSE   16.69  15      -10.13
   Bancroft Convertible         AMEX   20.60  17 3/8  -15.66
   Bergstrom Capital            AMEX   66.04  63 7/8  - 3.28
   BGR Precious Metals          TOR  be10.91   9 1/4  -15.22
   Brazil                       NYSE   12.08  11 3/4  - 2.73
   CNV Holdings Capital         NYSE   10.03   5 1/8  -48.90
   CNV Holdings Income          NYSE    9.38  10 7/8  +15.94
   Castle Convertible           AMEX   21.68  18 3/4  -13.51
   Central Fund Canada          AMEX   b4.83   4 3/4  - 1.66
   Central Securities           AMEX   11.32   9 1/2  -16.08
   Chile Fund                   NYSE   16.39  18 1/8  +10.59
   Couns Tandem Secs            NYSE   12.54  10 1/4  -18.26
   Cypress Fund                 AMEX   10.16   9 3/4  - 4.04
   Duff &amp; Phelps Sel Utils      NYSE    8.08   8 1/8  + 0.56
   Ellsw Conv Gr &amp; Inc          AMEX    8.37   7 3/8  -11.89
   Emerging Ger Fd              NYSE   11.52  10 1/2  - 8.85
   Engex                        AMEX   12.14   9 3/8  -22.78
   Europe Fund                  NYSE   14.84  14 1/4  - 3.98
   1st Australia                AMEX   10.28   8 1/2  -17.32
   First Financial Fund         NYSE    6.60   7      + 6.06
   First Iberian                AMEX   11.70  11 3/4  + 0.43
   First Philippine Fund        NYSE   11.01   9      -18.26
   Future Germany Fund          NYSE   17.79  16 3/8  - 7.95
   Gabelli Equity Trust         NYSE   11.98  12 1/4  + 2.25
   Germany Fund                 NYSE   13.91  15 3/8  +10.53
   Global Utilities Fund        NYSE   11.02   9 5/8  -12.66
   Growth Fund Spain            NYSE   13.15  11      -16.35
   GT Greater Europe Fd         NYSE   14.87  14 1/4  - 4.17
   H&amp;Q Healthcare Inv           NYSE   13.26  11 5/8  -12.33
   Hampton Utils Tr Cap         AMEX  b11.20  10      -10.71
   Hampton Utils Tr Pref        AMEX  b48.99  48 1/2  - 1.00
   India Growth Fund            NYSE  f13.87  17      +22.57
   Indonesia Fund               NYSE   15.31  15 1/8  - 1.21
   Inefficient Market Fund      AMEX   11.17  10 3/8  - 7.12
   Irish Investment Fd          NYSE   11.13   9 3/4  -12.40
   Italy Fund                   NYSE  b16.22  14 1/2  -10.60
   Jakarta Growth Fd            NYSE   11.08  12      + 8.30
   Japan OTC Equity Fund        NYSE   13.02  13      - 0.15
   Korea Fund                   NYSE   14.02  23      +64.05
   Malaysia Fund                NYSE   15.50  16 3/4  + 8.06
   Mexico Fund                  NYSE  b16.38  15 5/8  - 4.61
   Morgan Grenf Sm Cap          NYSE   11.86  11      - 7.25
   New Germany Fund             NYSE   15.57  14      -10.08
   Pacific Eur Growth Fd        NYSE   11.63  11 7/8  + 2.11

   Patriot Prem Div Fd II       NYSE   10.18  11 1/8  + 9.28
   Petrol &amp; Resources           NYSE   32.10  28 3/4  -10.44
   Pilgrim Regional             NYSE    8.71   8 1/2  - 2.41
   Putnam Dividend Inco         NYSE   a9.96  10 7/8  + 9.19
   Portugal Fund                NYSE   13.74  14 1/2  + 5.53
   Rl Estate Sec Inco Fd        AMEX    6.37   5 5/8  -11.70
   ROC Taiwan Fund              NYSE   10.19  11 1/4  +10.40
   Scudder New Asia             NYSE   19.64  17 1/4  -12.17
   Scudder New Europe           NYSE   12.49  11 1/4  - 9.93
   SE Savings Inst Fd           OTC    b7.54   6 1/2  -13.79
   Spain Fund                   NYSE   15.77  17 1/2  +10.97
   Swiss Helvetia Fd            NYSE   15.15  14 5/8  - 3.47
   Taiwan Fund                  NYSE  b17.90  27 1/4  +52.23
   TCW Convertible Secs         NYSE   b8.04   8 1/2  + 5.72
   Templeton Em Mkts            AMEX  b17.18  17 5/8  + 2.59
   Templeton Global Util        AMEX   11.19  11 3/4  + 5.00
   Templeton Value Fund         NYSE  b10.51   9 7/8  - 6.04
   Thai Capital Fund            NYSE   11.64  11 3/4  + 0.95
   Thai Fund                    NYSE   24.20  24 3/4  + 2.27
   Turkish Inv Fund             NYSE   15.81  12 3/8  -21.73
   United Kingdom Fund          NYSE   12.06  10 3/8  -13.97
   Z-Seven                      OTC    14.28  14 3/4  + 3.29
                                                                                                       

   a-Ex-dividend. b-As of Thursday's close. c-Translated at
Commercial Rand exchange rate. e-In Canadian Dollars. f-As of
Wednesday's close.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Sanyo Electric Co.:
   Pretax Profit Gained 1.2%
   In the Fiscal First Half
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   SANYY
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sanyo Electric Co. said consolidated pretax profit in the
first half ended May 31 rose 1.2% to 19.02 billion yen
($128.6 million) from 18.8 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income edged up 2.8% to 5.71 billion yen, or 3.02 yen
a share, from 5.56 billion yen, or 2.95 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citing Japan's strong consumer spending, the company
reported sales of 676.17 billion yen, a 4.3% gain from 648.17
billion yen. Domestic sales rose 3% to 412.01 billion yen,
while overseas sales gained 6.4% to 264.15 billion yen.
   Sales of television sets and other visual products gained
14% to 122.35 billion yen.
   However, audio products sales declined 10% to 62.47
billion yen. Sales of household electric appliances rose 7.7%
to 163.15 billion yen.
   For the year ending in November, the company predicted
consolidated sales would rise to 1.45 trillion yen from 1.37
trillion yen a year ago. Pretax profit is seen at 47.5
billion yen, rising from 46.57 billion yen, with net income
standing at 17.5 billion yen, up from 16.84 billion yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Syntex Reaches Accord
   Over Dioxin in Missouri
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   SYN
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)
</GV>
<LP>
   PALO ALTO, Calif. -- Syntex Corp. said it reached a
settlement with Missouri and the Environmental Protection
Agency over a dispute involving one of the company's
subsidiaries and dioxin contamination in the state.
   The dispute stems from the contamination of a number of
Missouri sites in the 1970s by wastes allegedly transported
from a Verona, Mo., plant operated by a tenant of Syntex
Agribusiness, the subsidiary. The worst hit of the sites is
Times Beach, a town about 20 miles southwest of St. Louis
that was rocked seven years ago when it was discovered that
dioxin in waste oil had been sprayed on the town's streets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As part of the settlement, Syntex will clean up the
biggest site and pay the EPA $2 million a year for five
years. The company says it expects reserves and possible
reimbursements from insurers to cover the cost of the
cleanup, which the company says could take as long as 10
years to complete.
   The EPA estimates that cleanup of the sites will cost $118
million. Syntex, which didn't produce the dioxin, is
considered a responsible party under federal law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Maho AG:
   West German Tool Maker's
   Fiscal '90 Sales Rose 35%
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   G.MAP
</CO>
<LP>
   Maho AG of West Germany, a machine tools maker, said sales
for the year ended June 30 rose 35% to 710 million marks
($432.7 million), citing acquisitions of new operations and
good domestic and foreign demand. Maho didn't disclose
profit.
   The parent company's fiscal 1990 sales rose 24% to 535
million marks. Maho said fiscal second-half profit exceeded
that for the first half, but it didn't give details. It said
that fiscal 1991 sales are expected to rise, but at a
somewhat slower pace, and that earnings will improve.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the opening of East European markets, Maho has
established a 50-50 joint-production venture with Szim, a
Hungarian engineering company, and wants to increase its
holding in the venture to 65%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Lonrho PLC:
   British Overseas Trader Buys
   10% Stake in German Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   G.ASK U.LRH G.MAS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lonrho PLC, a British overseas trader, said it purchased a
10% stake in Asko Deutsche Kaufhaus AG, a German wholesale
and retail store operator, for 94 million pounds ($170.7
million).
   Tiny Rowland, Lonrho's chairman, will join Asko's
supervisory board. The Asko stake "will enable Lonrho to make
further advances in the expanding opportunities which will
occur" in Germany as well as Eastern Europe, the company
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Lonrho is buying the holding from German retailer Massa
AG. The stake will be paid for by a mixture of 8.5 million
Lonrho shares and the balance of 71 million pounds in cash.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CrossLand Savings:
   Firm Posts $40 Million Loss
   For the Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CRL
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   CrossLand Savings reported a second-quarter net loss of
$40 million, or $3.64 a share, after taking $50 million of
charges for, among other things, writing down the value of
its real estate assets.
   For the year-earlier period, the Brooklyn, N.Y., savings
bank, the largest in the state and one of the biggest in the
U.S., reported net income of $3.8 million, but it posted a
loss of 47 cents a share after paying dividends on its
preferred stock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   CrossLand, which like many Northeast banks was hit hard by
the slump in the region's real estate market, has submitted
to regulators a plan to bring itself back into compliance
with federal capital standards.
   CrossLand said that regulators haven't yet cleared the
proposal and that it will update the proposal to reflect the
latest results. The plan calls for converting its two classes
of preferred stock, which don't qualify as capital, into
common stock, which does.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Anxieties
   Over Rates
   Surge Anew
   ---
   Worry Over Inflation
   Spreads, But Some
   Remain Optimistic
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MZ AZTR CUE
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond investors, always a mercurial and
hypersensitive lot, are up in arms about inflation again. But
a few Wall Street economists think such fears are overblown.
   There is nothing bond investors dread more than inflation.
So, it came as no surprise when bond prices fell sharply last
week after the Department of Labor reported that consumer
prices rose an unexpectedly strong 0.5% in June.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   What did come as a surprise was the lack of hard-nosed,
inflation-fighting rhetoric in Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Alan Greenspan's testimony before Congress last week. That,
along with the consumer price index report, led to
accusations that the Fed is abandoning its battle against
inflation and giving in to White House calls for lower rates.
The Bush administration says lower rates are needed to avert
a recession.
   But several economists, including Lawrence Kudlow at Bear,
Stearns &amp; Co., Robert Barbera at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
and Edward Yardeni at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
believe that investors are getting all worked up for nothing.
Despite the consumer-price report, these economists believe
that inflation is moderating and that the Fed is on the right
track. And they all were perplexed at the market's harsh
reaction to Mr. Greenspan and the consumer-price report.
   Bond investors' rising anxiety about inflation "is a
tempest in the tiniest teapot," said Mr. Barbera. Bear
Stearns' Mr. Kudlow went so far as to call the latest price
report "a scam" and said it should come with a warning label
that says "use of this release for investment decisions could
pose grave risks to your financial health."
   Mr. Yardeni blamed the market's negative reaction to the
consumer-price report and Mr. Greenspan on the uncomfortable
heat and humidity that hugged New York and other Northeast
cities last week. "The bond market is a collection of humans
who are prone to emotional mood swings," he said. "Right now,
it's hot and everybody's a little cranky."
   But these optimistic economists are bucking the consensus
view on Wall Street. Most analysts, economists and
professional investors are very worried about inflation and
suspicious of the Fed's motives for cutting short-term
interest rates July 13.
   When Mr. Greenspan failed to talk tough about inflation
last week while raising the Fed's inflation forecast for
1990, bond investors fretted that the Fed has shifted
emphasis away from inflation and now plans to save the
economy from recession. (Mr. Greenspan said the economy isn't
deteriorating and the credit easing was to avert a credit
crunch, but many bond investors didn't buy his explanation.)
Many bond investors would rather see the economy crash land,
than have the value of their portfolios erode due to rising
inflation.
   Economist Richard B. Berner, of Salomon Brothers Inc.,
holds the consensus view. In Salomon's weekly "Comments on
Credit," Mr. Berner warned investors that the Fed's
priorities have indeed shifted and warned that a less-hawkish
monetary-policy stance by the Fed, high overseas interest
rates and a weaker U.S. dollar will "reinforce the upward
drift in bond yields." He forecasts that U.S. long-term bond
yields will remain at current levels of 8.5%.
   By contrast, Messrs. Kudlow and Yardeni see inflation
moderating -- and not rising as the consumer-price report
would indicate.
   For one thing, they think that falling prices of gold,
aluminum, silver, oil and other commodities are signaling
lower inflation ahead.
   Mr. Kudlow believes the consumer-price report overstated
housing and rental-cost inflation, which comprises about 40%
of the inflation index and was partly responsible for the
large monthly rise in the June price index. The government
reported that housing costs rose about 0.6% in June and by
4.4% over the past 12 months.
   Mr. Kudlow says the housing component is flawed. He notes
that home price data collected from trade associations reveal
that prices are rising at a very modest rate of about 2%, and
prices for apartments are declining by about 1%. "In other
words, housing and real estate are presently experiencing
their worst slump since 1982," Mr. Kudlow said. That makes
the housing price increases reported in the June data "very
hard to swallow," he said.
   Among other problems, Mr. Kudlow claims that some prices
used by the Bureau of Labor Statistics to calculate housing
costs represent homeowners' asking prices, and not actual
transaction prices, which are nearly always far lower than
asking prices. "Perhaps {the consumer price index} gave us an
inflation reading for the third ring of Saturn, but not for
the planet Earth," Mr. Kudlow scoffed. The economist believes
that yields on the Treasury's 30-year bond could fall as much
as one percentage point this summer as evidence of lower
inflation becomes more visible.
   Mr. Yardeni forecasts an 8% long-bond yield by the end of
the summer. He's expecting the next employment report, due
out August 3, to be weak enough to trigger a bond market
rally.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bonds ended modestly higher as fears of inflation
eased at least for a day and investors looked at other
economic news.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose less than 1/4
point, a gain of about $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face
amount. The issue's yield eased slightly to 8.53%. That was
after Treasurys fell a total of 1 1/8 points Wednesday and
Thursday in reaction to the consumer-price report and Mr.
Greenspan's comments.
   Traders attributed the firmer tone largely to the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's report that manufacturing
activity in that region is slowing. In its monthly report,
the Philadelphia Fed said that 29% of the firms surveyed said
business activity slowed down last month, while 16% reported
an upturn.
   That report "provided a positive impetus for the bond
market," said Robert Chandross, a vice president and
economist at Lloyds Bank PLC. Market participants focused on
the regional Fed report because there were few other
developments.
   Meanwhile, dealers said investors continue to favor
short-term securities over longer-term securities, as
evidenced by the continued steepening of the yield curve. The
yield curve measures the spread, or gap, between short-term
rates and long-term rates.
   The Treasury's bellwether 30-year bond yields 8.53%, which
is 0.44 percentage point more than the 8.09% yield on the
outstanding two-year notes. But just a month ago, 30-year
bonds yielded only 0.10 percentage point more than two-year
notes.
   Junk bonds, which had a sharp run up for much of the week,
slipped between 1/8 and 1/4 point Friday. Junk bonds are
speculative-grade issue that carry low ratings or no ratings
at all. Traders said that investors used the publication of
the Resolution Trust Corp.'s $3.7 billion junk-bond portfolio
as an excuse to take profits after the nearly weeklong rally.
The RTC is the federal agency overseeing the thrift-industry
rescue.
   Traders, however, said the publication of the RTC's
junk-bond holdings should not have any further negative
impact on the market and may actually help by erasing some of
the uncertainty concerning which issues the RTC might sell.
   Earlier this year, some analysts had warned that the RTC's
sale of its huge junk-bond holdings would flood the market
for high-yield junk bonds and put further pressure on already
weakened prices.
   Among major market movers:
                                                                                                       

   R.H. Macy &amp; Co.'s 14.5% junk bonds gained about three
points Friday to trade at 65 1/2 on news that the company
reached an agreement with its bankers that allows some added
financial leg room during the crucial Christmas shopping
season.
   Aztar Mortgage Funding Corp.'s junk bonds fell after
issuer Aztar Corp. reported a second-quarter loss from
continuing operations. The casino builder's 13.5%
firstmortgage bonds fell 1 1/2 points to trade at 95.
   Quantum Chemical Corp. bonds weakened on speculation that
it will report weak second-quarter earnings. Quantum's 12.5%
senior subordinated notes fell one point to 87 3/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Murdoch Brand New Bag:
   Starting a Record Label
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   NWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Starting up a new record label is the chic
thing to do these days, and Rupert Murdoch is about to join
the party.
   A New York spokeswoman for Mr. Murdoch's News Corp.
confirmed reports that he is investing in the start-up of a
new record company, but said the name of the company and
other details won't be released until this fall.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Insiders in the record industry said Mr. Murdoch has hired
Aart Dalhuisen, a former executive with N.V. Philips's
PolyGram subsidiary, to run the company. Mr. Dalhuisen
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Mr. Murdoch enters the record industry at a time of
massive consolidation, but also a very healthy time for
independent labels. Even small successful independents have
sold in the past year for $300 million and more, including
A&amp;M and Island, both bought by PolyGram. Geffen Co.'s record
unit was bought by MCA Inc. this year for stock valued at
more than $500 million.
   Geffen, started just a decade ago, is a demonstration of
how quickly the value of a hot label can escalate. On the
other hand, entry costs for the record business are small, in
the double-digit millions. Walt Disney Co. started its own
pop label last year, Hollywood Records, rather than pay a
prohibitive price for an existing independent.
   News Corp. has interests in newspaper, book and magazine
publishing, as well as owning a movie studio and Fox
Broadcasting Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By David Stipp
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
</IN>
<LP>
   Including Pollution
   In Utilities' Costs
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   UTILITY regulators are putting more weight on
environmental factors, giving a boost to alternative energy.
   Nine states now take account of the environment "in one
way or another" when planning to meet power needs, says
Richard Ottinger, a professor at Pace University, White
Plains, N.Y., who led a recent study on the subject. Two of
the states, New York and Wisconsin, now require bids on new
power generators to include projected environmental costs --
a "major breakthrough," says Mr. Ottinger.
   Projected costs of new coal-fired generators in New York
must include about 1.4 cents a kilowatt-hour to account for
air pollution and other environmental impacts. (New York
residents now pay, on average, a total of about seven cents a
kilowatt-hour.) The add-on is lower than recent estimates of
future pollution costs, says Nicholas Lenssen, a researcher
at the Worldwatch Institute, a Washington-based group that
studies environmental issues. But it helps put solar, wind
and other "renewable energy on a level playing field" with
conventional alternatives, he says.
   The California Energy Commission is considering a similar
rule, but the environmental costs it's considering "wouldn't
be sufficient to make renewable energy {projects by
utilities} cost-effective vs. low-emitting natural gas"
generators, says William Pennington, a research manager at
the commission.
   But to diversify California's energy base, the commission
may require utilities to devote a portion of new-capacity
outlays to renewable energy, he adds.
                                                                                                       

   Recycling Drive Faces
   Another Go-Around
                                                                                                       

   AN INITIATIVE on recycling in Massachusetts drew 120,000
petition signers but was derailed for lack of a single
signature.
   The initiative, a potential landmark law watched closely
by environmental and industry groups nationwide, would have
required all packaging sold in the state to be reusable,
recyclable or made partly of recycled material by 1996.
Proponents argued that it would help build markets for
recycled goods and cut wasteful packaging. Industry
opponents, countering that it would be onerous for them and
do little to cut garbage, mounted legal challenges to block
it.
   A drive by the initiative's backers, which included
various state officials, had collected about 120,000
signatures to put the proposed law on the November ballot,
says Amy Perry of the Massachusetts Public Interest Research
Group, the initiative's main sponsor. But in a lawsuit
brought by the industry opponents, the Massachusetts Supreme
Judicial Court ruled this month that the originating petition
for the initiative was invalid.
   State law required it to have 10 valid signatures. The
court ruled that because one of its 10 signers hadn't seen
the final draft of the initiative -- it was described to her
over the phone -- the petition didn't count. Now it's too
late to resubmit for this fall. Environmentalists are trying
to overturn the ruling, but for now the initiative appears to
be quashed.
                                                                                                       

   Trash Crisis Collides
   With Health-Care Crunch
                                                                                                       

   SOARING COSTS for health care may face further upward
pressure from a hospital trash crisis.
   After medical wastes turned up on beaches in recent years,
state and federal laws were enacted requiring hospitals to
track trash more carefully. The laws also classify more
hospital trash as infectious material, which is treated
"almost like nuclear waste," says Jim Karpiak, a
health-policy analyst with the American Hospital Association.
Some hospitals pulverize infectious waste, then soak it in
chlorine before sending it to special incinerators or
landfills.
   Of 6,700 tons of trash produced daily by U.S. hospitals,
about 15% is classified as infectious, says William Rutala, a
University of North Carolina specialist on medical waste. But
hospitals in four Eastern states participating in a pilot
program of new federal medical-waste rules typically classify
30% or more of their trash as infectious, he adds. For
Yale-New Haven Hospital in New Haven, Conn., the annual trash
bill has tripled to almost $1 million under the new rules,
says Norman Roth, a hospital official.
   Such bills threaten funding crunches at many hospitals,
which are trying harder to cut trash. Emerson Hospital, in
Concord, Mass., switched this month to cloth from disposable
diapers. The change won't mean much saving on its trash bill,
but it represents the first step in a broad program to "start
decreasing waste, because it won't be affordable if we
don't," says Coco Richmond, Emerson's materials manager.

   Clarifying Impurities
   In Bottled Water
                                                                                                       

   SOME KINDS of bottled water in Vermont may soon dry up
because of a new labeling law there.
   The law, effective this month, requires sellers of bottled
water in the state to disclose on their labels the levels of
four common contaminants: sodium, lead, arsenic and nitrates.
Thought to be the first of its kind, the law was sponsored by
State Rep. Andrew Christiansen of East Montpelier, who says
he grew worried because of high levels of nitrates found in
some awful-tasting bottled water he bought.
   One of the state's largest sellers of bottled water,
Perrier Group of America, which markets Poland Spring bottled
water, says it probably will drop some bottled-water products
in Vermont to avoid the costs of new labels.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Christiansen now gets his water from a
nearby well that tested low in nitrates.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Korea Selects Three Firms
   As Aircraft Manufacturers
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5D
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST C.SSG C.DHI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEOUL -- The South Korean government designated three
companies as the country's exclusive manufacturers of
aircraft, the Ministry of Trade and Industry said.
   Ministry officials said Samsung Aerospace Co., Korean Air
Co. and Daewoo Heavy Industries Co. were selected as those
that will be eligible to receive government orders for
aircraft, particularly from the military.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The decision was reached in a meeting of government
officials and aircraft experts that was to reduce the number
of local aircraft manufacturers to reduce excessive and
duplicating investments in the industry.
   As a result, three other major aircraft makers, Hyundai
Precision &amp; Industrial Co., Sammi Aerospace Co. and Daewoo
Sikorsky Aerospace Co. were excluded from the lists.
   The selection was based on the evaluation on the technical
status, development potentials and management capabilities of
the companies, officials said.
   South Korea's aircraft industry is still in its infancy,
but a growing number of companies are entering the business
due to its high growth potential, analysts say. The
government designated the industry as a strategic sector for
the next century and plans to provide various supports for
its growth.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Media General Inc.:
   Communication Firm's Net
   Doubled in Second Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   MEGA
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Media General Inc. said net income more than doubled in
the second quarter but would have declined slightly if not
for a gain on the sale of the company's West Coast weekly
newspapers.
   Including the $6.4 million gain, net was $12.4 million, or
48 cents a share, up from the year-earlier $6.1 million, or
23 cents a share. Revenue climbed 5.4% to $158 million from
$149.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Media General of Richmond, Va., said its newspaper
operations remained sluggish. Broadcast division revenue and
earnings rose as the Fairfax, Va., cable operation grew
strongly. Revenue dropped at the company's broadcast
television stations, although profit rose slightly. Newsprint
sales volume increased, and prices continued to rise.
   In the first half, net declined 16% to $15.1 million, or
58 cents a share, from the year-earlier $17.9 million, or 69
cents a share. The drop would have been somewhat worse except
that the latest period included the $6.4 million gain while
the 1989 half included a $5.7 million gain on the sale of a
newsprint mill in California. Sales rose 2.3% to $306.1
million from $299.2 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   LOR
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LORAL CORP. (New York) -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp. said it
placed this defense contractor's triple B-plus senior debt
and triple B subordinated debt ratings on its CreditWatch
with negative implications. About $410 million in debt is
affected. S&amp;P's action followed Loral's announcement that is
a finalist in the bidding for the aerospace operations of
Ford Motor Co. The acquisition could be well in excess of
$500 million, S&amp;P said, and Loral's credit quality could be
hurt if it acquired the operations largely with debt.
Officials of Loral couldn't be reached for comment Friday.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. -- Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
said it affirmed the triple-A rating on the company's
claims-paying ability and the A-1-plus rating on its
commercial paper. S&amp;P also affirmed the triple-A rating on
the senior debt of the insurance company's MetLife Funding
Inc. affiliate and the A-1-plus commercial paper rating for
MetLife Funding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Accountants' Group Head
   Steps Down Unexpectedly
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
ACCOUNTING (ACC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Charles Kaiser Jr. abruptly resigned as
chairman of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, the major professional body for U.S.
accountants.
   Thomas W. Rimerman, managing partner of Frank, Rimerman &amp;
Co., Menlo Park, Calif., was designated acting chairman by
the AICPA board. Mr. Rimerman, who was vice chairman, will
formally assume the chairmanship for a one-year term when the
institute holds its annual meeting in October.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The AICPA is the primary professional group of
accountants; it has more than 296,000 members, and sets
auditing standards for public accountants.
   In submitting his resignation as chairman, Mr. Kaiser, a
partner in the Los Angeles office of Pannell Kerr Forster,
told the AICPA that "other commitments have become so
compelling" that he didn't believe he could "continue to do
justice" to the position.
   The institute wouldn't comment beyond the statement, and
Mr. Kaiser was said to be traveling and couldn't be reached
for comment.
   However, in a statement, Mr. Kaiser indicated the other
commitments related to a dispute with Pannell Kerr over his
partnership agreement. James Tinney, partner in charge of
Pannell Kerr's New York office, said that the dispute was
settled after arbitration and that Mr. Kaiser was
"absolutely" still a partner.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lone Star Industries Inc.:
   Firm Says 2nd-Quarter Net
   Dropped 77% to $1.5 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   LCE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lone Star Industries Inc. reported that second-quarter net
income dropped 77%, largely because of tax benefits reflected
in year-earlier results.
   Earnings before taxes grew 67%, said the Stamford, Conn.,
maker of cement and other construction materials.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Second-quarter net dropped to $1.5 million, or two cents a
share, from $6.6 million, or 32 cents a share, in the
year-earlier period. The 1989 period included $5.6 million,
or 34 cents a share, of investment tax credits.
   Sales fell 26% to $71.2 million from $96.3 million. The
company has been shedding assets under a restructuring
program, and the latest quarter's sales figures don't reflect
a number of assets that the company is planning to sell.
   Lone Star is facing litigation over railroad cross ties
that it manufactured; purchasers have claimed the ties are
defective.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Sun Savings &amp; Loan Association:
   RTC Shuts Colorado Thrift,
   After Effort to Sell It Fails
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Resolution Trust Corp. said Sun Savings &amp; Loan
Association, Parker, Colo., was closed by the federal
government on Friday, after the federal agency failed to sell
the thrift.
   The RTC, which was named receiver, said that it solicited
bids for Sun Savings but that it decided to pay off insured
despositors instead, because it didn't receive any
"acceptable bids."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sun Savings had about $240.7 million in deposits, with
"minimal" uninsured deposits, the RTC said. The thrift had
assets of $208.4 million and liabilities of $298.7 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   South Carolina Lawmakers
   Focus of Inquiry on Votes
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   COLUMBIA, S.C. -- A federal grand jury here has subpoenaed
the financial records of all 170 of South Carolina's state
legislators as part of an investigation into a cash-for-votes
scheme.
   In a statement, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the Justice Department confirmed that they were investigating
"allegations of illegal conduct involving certain members of
the South Carolina Legislature." They wouldn't elaborate,
except to say the investigation would be thorough and would
be concluded as quickly as possible.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, one person familiar with the investigation said
that it stems from the FBI's use of an undercover lobbyist to
offer legislators money in exchange for their votes. The
grand jury subpoenaed financial records from the 124 state
representatives Wednesday, the individual said, and
subpoenaed records for the 46 state senators Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Medical Dynamics Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MEDY WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MEDICAL DYNAMICS Inc. (Englewood, Colo.) -- Van A.
Horsley, formerly chief financial officer of this maker of
medical video equipment, was named president and chief
executive officer and was elected a director, increasing
board membership to four. As president, he succeeds Jo Brehm,
who became vice president, sales and administration, and as
chief executive, he succeeds Dr. Edwin L. Adair, who remains
chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Marion Merrell Dow Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MKC WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   MARION MERRELL DOW Inc. (Kansas City, Mo.) -- Lyle D.
Bighley, formerly vice president, research and development,
at this pharmaceutical concern, was named senior vice
president, research and development planning and
administration, a new post.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   People's Heritage Financial Group
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   PHBK
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   PEOPLE'S HERITAGE FINANCIAL Group management said it
recommended a cut in its quarterly to 12.5 cents a share from
the current rate of 24.75 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Rio Algom Ltd.:
   Closing of 2 Mines to Begin
   As Early as September
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ROM T.ROM RTZ
</CO>
<LP>
   Rio Algom Ltd. said it plans to close two of its uranium
mines at the beginning of September, as much as nine months
sooner than the Toronto mining company had indicated.
   Rio Algom, which is 52%-owned by RTZ Corp. of Britain,
said the closures of the Quirke and Panel mines in Elliot
Lake, Ontario, will eliminate about 1,700 of the company's
work force of 5,000. A third mine in the area will continue
to produce uranium under a long-term contract with
provincially owned Ontario Hydro.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Rio Algom had said in January it planned to shut the two
mines in the first half of 1991 because of low ore grades and
depressed uranium market prices. A Rio Algom spokesman said
the closure date was advanced after agreements were reached
with customers to reduce the amount of uranium contracted.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS NWS
</CO>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: News Corp.'s Fox Broadcasting Co. named Anita
Klever senior vice president of Fox Network News. The
venture, scheduled to begin within the next year, will
provide news to Fox's affiliated stations nationwide. Ms.
Klever, who was vice president of news and program services
at Conus Communications, will design and organize the news
service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Time Warner Inc.:
   Firm's Lorimar Unit Sues
   LJM Toys for $4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX MCA AKLM
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lorimar Telepictures Inc., a unit of Time Warner Inc.,
filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles Superior Court seeking $4
million in damages from LJN Toys Ltd. for allegedly breaching
a pair of toy licensing agreements.
   MCA Inc. agreed to sell LJN, its financially troubled toy
making unit, to Oyster Bay, N.Y.-based Acclaim Entertainment
last March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The complaint alleges that LJN agreed to pay Lorimar a $3
million advance for use of characters from its TV show
"Thundercats" by last Aug. 31, and that the payment was not
made. Lorimar also alleges that $1 million of a "royalty
guarantee" for use of the characters from "The Comic Strip"
was not paid by Dec. 31. LJN executives couldn't be reached
for comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   NASA Faces Need
   To Revise Plan
   For Space Station
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- NASA may have to take a much riskier
approach to building its proposed $37 billion space station
because of growing problems maintaining and repairing it.
   Two panels of National Aeronautics and Space
Administration experts said Friday that the space agency
would have to radically simplify its design and increase its
dependence on robotics to reduce the number of space walks
needed to build and maintain the space station. "One of the
ways they're trying to solve their problem is by increasing
the risk of the program," said John Pike, a space analyst for
the Federation of American Scientists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Unless the recommended changes are made, the panels
estimated that NASA astronauts would have to spend about
3,500 hours annually in space suits repairing the station in
orbit -- about one space walk each day. Even before
astronauts begin living on the station, one of the panels
estimated, space station maintenance would require a space
walk about every other day. The problem is "there's no one up
there to do it," says William Fisher, an astronaut who led
one of the studies.
   NASA wants to avoid space walks because they are
inherently dangerous and because they siphon away time that
crews would otherwise devote to scientific research. In
NASA's history, U.S. astronauts have spent a total of only
about 400 hours in space walks.
   To reduce the number of space walks to about 500 hours
annually -- roughly one each week -- the panels recommended
dozens of actions. But Richard Kohrs, NASA's space station
director, said that NASA wasn't planning to adopt several of
the most important recommendations, including building an
improved space suit or moving several repairable items inside
the station, where they could be fixed without space walks.
   One important recommendation that NASA seems willing to
accept is a greater use of the station's four proposed
robots. Jerry Grey, director of science and technology for
the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, said
that could involve taking greater risks in robot design. The
station's robots should be designed so they can incorporate
the latest technology, he said, even if that increases the
chance that the robots won't work as well as expected. "You
trade risk for accomplishment," he said.
   But Mr. Pike fears that the space agency is simply
changing problems by relying more on the unproven robots.
"You make the {space walk} problem go away by creating a
robot problem," he said. "These robots haven't been built
yet. There's concern about their adequacy and their testing."
   Space agency managers working on robots say that NASA is
pushing them to choose a design too early to incorporate the
latest technology. The first flight to test proposed hardware
for the station's main robot is planned for September 1991 --
about 3 1/2 years before the station is supposed to start
construction. If the robot falls behind schedule or develops
glitches, the station assembly also could lose ground.
   The space station is already in trouble with Congress,
which is threatening to cut off funds in December -- when the
space agency is conducting a design review -- unless NASA can
substantially improve the station's capabilities. The added
risk involved in curing the maintenance problem "increases
concern that the station's design is too complex," a
congressional aide said.
   The panels also made a number of other recommendations
that highlight the station's riskiness. One group, headed by
William Simon, a Johnson Space Center manager, suggested
eliminating the requirement that all critical systems be
designed to withstand two separate failures. "Ten years from
now, when the station comes unglued because of a failure of
redundancy," warned Mr. Pike, "you can point to this
{recommendation} and say it all started here."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Nevada Power Co.:
   Utility Wins State Approval
   Of Power Purchase Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NVP SCE
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Nevada Power Co. said it received approval from the state
Public Service Commission for a $110 million power purchase
contract between the utility and SCEcorp's Mission Energy Co.
unit to provide more generating capacity for the fast-growing
Las Vegas area.
   An earlier version of the contract was rejected by the
commission last month as too expensive, so the companies
renegotiated and lowered the price by $50 million. A company
spokesman said the 210-megawatt power plant, consisting of
three combustion turbines to be built, owned and operated by
Mission, would go on line in June 1991, if federal approval
is obtained quickly. It is to be built on the property of an
existing Nevada Power generating station.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Nevada Power sought to contract out the power plant when
its own construction budget was already at $200 million, the
spokesman said, adding that the utility is adding customers
at a rate of 10% per year. The contract runs for 25 years.
SCEcorp. is a Rosemead, Calif.-based utility holding company.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Hinderliter Industries Inc.:
   Judgment Entered for Itel's
   Signal Capital Unit in Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HND X.SCH ITL WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Hinderliter Industries Inc., Dallas, said a San Antonio,
Texas, court entered a summary judgment in favor of the
Signal Capital Corp. unit of Itel Corp., Chicago, in a $28
million lender liability lawsuit.
   Hinderliter, which makes alternative fuel-system parts,
said it will appeal. Costs associated with the suit were
primarily responsible for two quarterly losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also said it asked the Securities and Exchange
Commission for approval to withdraw its convertible
subordinated debenture offering. It has been unable to sell
the notes because of conditions in the unsecured bond market,
and will seek refinancing alternatives, including a private
placement or debt restructuring.
   Hinderliter said it will post a charge of about $2 million
against earnings for the year ended June 30, related to
litigation costs associated with the suit, costs for the
company's move from Oklahoma City, the offering's withdrawal,
and the May resignation of John L. Robertson, 70 years old,
as chairman. Richard H. Hughes, president and chief executive
officer, was named to the added post of chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   EASTERN AIRLINES would be liquidated under a proposal
expected to be made today by Alfred Checchi, Northwest
Airlines' chairman. Northwest would take over certain assets,
including planes, airport gates and maintenance facilities.
It would offer to broker the sale of the rest to benefit
Eastern's creditors, people familiar with the plan said.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A major guarantor of loans in the student-aid program, the
Higher Education Assistance Foundation, is facing possible
financial collapse, raising doubts about the soundness of its
$9.6 billion in loan guarantees.
   ---
   American Brands agreed to buy Moen Group from Forstmann
Little for $975 million, sharpening the focus of its
home-improvement business. American Brands also posted a 32%
rise in second-quarter profit.
   ---
   Lockheed's contract to build P-7 anti-submarine aircraft
was terminated by the Navy after the company refused to
accept production losses it says could have topped $300
million.
   ---
   Chrysler offered union employees part ownership of the
company and incentive payments in return for helping the auto
maker slash costs.
   ---
   McDonald's failed to meet Wall Street's earnings
expectations and said it is considering new menu strategies
to attract customers.
   ---
   Boeing is holding discussions with Aeritalia of Italy and
Aerospatiale of France about selling its unprofitable de
Havilland commuter airplane unit.
   ---
   Grumman's ex-chairman has drawn the attention of
investigators conducting an inquiry into Pentagon contracting
fraud. But John O'Brien, who resigned suddenly last week,
isn't believed to be a target of the probe.
   ---
   The bidding war heated up for Ford Motor's aerospace
subsidiary, as a consortium headed by Westinghouse promised
not to dismantle the unit if its bid is successful.
   ---
   Compaq plans to introduce today three powerful personal
computers, even though sales of its Systempro 386 personal
computer have been slow.
   ---
   Time Warner may convert Life magazine from a monthly to a
weekly, overhaul its content and switch to a standard
magazine size.
   ---
   Manville's reorganization was placed under the control of
federal Judge Jack B. Weinstein, who has criticized the
financing of the firm's asbestos personal-injury trust.
   ---
   The Philadelphia Stock Exchange is close to signing a pact
with the Frankfurt Stock Exchange to trade warrants on a
German stock index.
   ---
   Texas Instruments profit tumbled in the second quarter,
largely because of lower prices for semiconductor memory
chips. The firm also warned that it might post a
third-quarter loss.
   ---
   Citicorp eliminated two management layers in its
commercial and investment banking unit for North America,
Europe and Japan as part of an effort to trim expenses.
   ---
   Disney settled EPA allegations that the company illegally
dumped hazardous paint thinner and other cleaning solvents
used at Disneyland.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 177,810,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2961.14, off 32.67; transportation 1159.31, off 13.32;
utilities 202.15, off 1.38.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3433.51, up
8.61.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 130.45, off 0.70;
spot index 131.16, off 0.83.
   Dollar: 148.60 yen, up 0.50; 1.6365 marks, off 0.0045.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Several Defendants
   In GTE-Related Case
   Identified by SEC
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES INDUSTRY (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Securities and Exchange Commission
identified several of the defendants in its insider-trading
case in connection with GTE Corp.'s agreement to merge with
Contel Corp.
   The agency said it identified four West German residents,
all of whom traded through accounts at Dean Witter Reynolds
Inc. in New York from accounts maintained at Simonbank AG,
Dusseldorf. All four traded call options within two days of
the announcement of the deal, the SEC said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A call is an option to buy a security at a specific price,
usually above the current price and usually within a limited
period.
   The agency identified the four as Ortwin Heider of
Hofheim, Hans-Jurgen Klisch of Meerbusch, Hannelore
Mirbach-Krahn of Meerbusch and Bodo Pawlik of Ratingen.
   The SEC also charged a German mutual fund, Union
Investment, and two Swiss companies, Nalasag Corp. of Geneva
and Sigesse SA of Lausanne, with trading Contel stock and
options ahead of the announcement. The two companies bought
the securities through Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. and
Union Investment bought its shares through Dean Witter.
   Officials of Nalasag and of Sigesse couldn't be reached
for comment.
   Mr. Heider, one of the four West German defendants, said:
"I'm not an insider -- I heard a rumor, and the investigation
will clear that." He added that he knows one of the other
West German defendants, but wouldn't say whether it was one
of the other three named by the SEC. "Dealing on rumor is not
insider trading -- at least I hope not," he said.
   Mr. Klisch, another of the individual defendants, is a
Duesseldorf-based broker for Dean Witter. He says he is
cooperating with the SEC, but insists that he cannot speak
regarding the case in general. For himself, however, he says:
"To my knowledge, this was rumor and a recommendation by
Shearson Lehman -- that's why I bought." He said Shearson
gave a buy recommendation; in addition, there were very good
fundamental reasons to buy. Mr. Klisch says Union Investment,
is a Frankfurt-based group and one of his customers.
   The other two West German defendants couldn't be reached
immediately for comment.
   The SEC charges were brought last week, soon after Contel
agreed to merge with GTE for $6.2 billion. At the time, the
agency didn't identify any of the defendants but was granted
a temporary restraining order by a federal court barring the
defendants from selling their stock or options.
   On Friday, the SEC also issued a laundry list of trades of
both stock and options that it says were insider trades on
material non-public information. It also dropped charges
against buyers of some call options through Advest Inc.,
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Smith Barney.
   None of the banks or brokerage firms have been charged
with any wrongdoing in the case.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Angeles Corp.:
   Pact Set to Acquire Option
   To Buy Back a 22% Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   ANG
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Angeles Corp. said it agreed in principle to acquire for
$30 million a three-year option to buy 22% of its common
stock and other securities from certain former owners of
Quinoco Cos., an oil and gas concern.
   The securities were issued to the former owners as part of
a $50 million acquisition of Quinoco in 1984. Angeles sold
the Quinoco oil and gas businesses and related businesses to
Hallwood Energy Partners of Dallas for about $26 million in
September 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Angeles, a Los Angeles investment management concern, said
that company officials weren't available to discuss the
agreement. It said it expects the agreement to be finalized
by early next month.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ANGELES Corp. said its agreement to acquire a three-year
option to buy 22% of its common and other securities from
certain former owners of Quinoco Cos. involves an exercise
price for the option of $30 million. Monday's edition
incorrectly said Angeles agreed to pay $30 million for the
option.
   (WSJ July 25, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wall to Wall Sound
   Files for Chapter 11
   After Loan Talks Fail
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WTWSE
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHILADELPHIA -- Wall to Wall Sound &amp; Video Inc. filed for
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code after it failed to reach an agreement with lenders.
   Under Chapter 11, a company is protected from creditor
suits while it works out a plan to repay its debts.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Wall to Wall, a chain of 88 music and electronics stores,
said it filed the bankruptcy-law petition after loan talks
broke down and lenders demanded immediate payment of certain
term loans and lines of credit. The Cinnaminson, N.J.,
company reportedly has about $22.4 million in unsecured debt.
   Wall to Wall officials could not be reached for comment.
In a statement late Friday, the company's president and chief
executive officer, Jerome Shulman said, "We believe that the
action we are taking today will give the company the
breathing room necessary" to complete previously reported
strategic changes.
   In May, the company said it was phasing out the
electronics portion of its business to concentrate on audio
and video software.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   As Pace of IPOs
   Quickens, Many
   Are Getting Pricey
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   CHUX
</CO>
<IN>
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   If you are thinking of investing in the "hot" market for
new stock issues, you had better be quick about it.
   Initial public offerings are rolling briskly off the Wall
Street assembly line. Seven new stocks made their debuts last
week alone. Four arrived on Thursday, a day when IPOs were a
rare bright spot in a bleak over-the-counter market. Many
IPOs are up sharply in price this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But investors who jump on the new-issues bandwagon now
might be wise to jump off in a matter of hours, warns Robert
Natale, editor since 1983 of Standard &amp; Poor's Emerging &amp;
Special Situations newsletter. Increasingly, he says, IPOs
are surging in price on their first trading day, but failing
to follow through with longer-term gains.
   "In the beginning of the year, you could buy an IPO in the
immediate aftermarket and still expect a very good return
over the next three months," he says. "Now, much of the
performance is compressed into the first day."
   To Mr. Natale and others, the pattern is ominous because
it suggests the IPO market may be overheating. Now that the
pace of new stock offerings has revived from a two-year
torpor following the 1987 crash, it is getting more important
for investors to be cautious, investment advisers say.
   The quality of companies that went public earlier in the
year is widely praised by analysts and portfolio managers.
Some, such as John W. Ballen, director of research for
Massachusetts Financial Services, say they don't see any
signs of deteriorating standards as the pace of new offerings
quickens. "It's been surprising how good the quality has
been," he says.
   Others, however, say it is getting harder for investors to
do the careful spade work needed to pick winning IPOs.
   "When there's only one deal a week, it's easy to do your
homework," says Roger McNamee, co-manager of T. Rowe Price
Associates' New Horizon Fund. "When there's one deal a day,
it gets much tougher. When there's more than one deal a day,
it's impossible . . . you have sellers and buyers who aren't
well prepared."
   A total of 115 companies, excluding investment funds, have
entered the public market so far this year, up from 95 a year
earlier, according to Securities Data Co. The offerings have
reaped proceeds of $3.76 billion, up from $3.06 billion a
year earlier.
   Trading prices for new offerings have soared, far
surpassing the stocks of older companies. The IPO 100 Index
-- which measures the average price change in shares of the
most recent 100 new issues -- rose 18.7% through July 11,
compared with a 2.2% rise in the S&amp;P 500 index in the same
period.
   That is the highest level for the index since Feb. 4,
1987, according to the IPO Reporter. The strong performance
is proof that the companies going public this year are
high-quality, says Mr. Ballen. But Mr. Natale still worries
about those big price gains now seen in the first day of
trading. A first-day rise of 5% to 10% generally is expected,
he explains. But gains much higher than that can wipe out
longer-term returns.
   Shares of the last 10 IPOs recommended for purchase by Mr.
Natale rose an average 16% on the first day of trading, but
then gained only 3.3%, he says. That pattern provides little
incentive for investors to buy shares after the first day of
trading, he adds, particularly because newly public stocks
typically underperform the market after the first three
months of trading.
   So Mr. Natale says he has been issuing more "flip"
recommendations. That is, he is advising institutional
clients to buy stocks in the initial offering and sell them
within a few days, rather than wait and buy after the first
trading day.
   Among the pending IPOs he is recommending as "quick flips"
are the retail jeweler Crescent Jewelers, restaurant concern
O'Charley's, and Ikos Systems, a computer concern. For the
longer term, he suggests investors buy the initial offering
of Allied Clinical Laboratories under $14 a share. The
operator of regional clinical labs is expected to go public
soon at $12 to $14 a share.
   Many investment advisers dislike Mr. Natale's approach.
Mr. Ballen, for example, says he doesn't subscribe to
"flipping." And the technique isn't generally recommended for
smaller investors by the Institute for Econometric Research,
the Fort Lauderdale, Fla., publisher of New Issues
newsletter.
   Of the seven IPOs recommended for purchase this year by
New Issues, none have been for short-term holdings, says
senior analyst Allan Hadhazy. Mr. Hadhazy agrees that
first-day prices seem to have heated up in recent weeks. But
he says he is still finding some good companies for smaller
investors among the large backlog of pending IPOs in
registration.
   Recently, New Issues advised purchase of Failure Group at
$15 a share or below. A consulting firm that has investigated
and analyzed disasters since 1967, Failure Group is expected
to go public in early August at $13 to $16 a share. He calls
Crescent Jewelers fairly priced, but not an outstanding value
unless it were priced at $8 to $9 a share, instead of the $10
to $12 planned.
   Mr. Hadhazy called four other pending IPOs overpriced:
O'Charley's; Mayor's, a Florida jewelry retailer scheduled to
go public for later this month at $9 to $12 a shares; Marcam,
a maker of computer software, due to go public at $13 to $15
in early August; and Bird Medical Technology, a maker of
respiratory and other medical equipment set for an IPO later
this month at $7.50 to $9.50 a share.
   To portfolio managers such as Edwin B. Powell, IPO prices
now seem steep. As manager of a value-oriented small-stock
portfolio for Provident Capital Management of Philadelphia,
Mr. Powell says he believes prices are creeping up as
companies "succumb to the temptation of a higher price rather
than a satisfied, long-term investor relationship."
   Although he has participated in 19 IPOs this year, Mr.
Powell says it's getting tougher for him to find offerings
that meet his criteria. He will invest only in stocks that
trade at significant discounts to the multiples of the
overall market and comparable companies. For instance, he
said he looked at Bird Medical "for a second." It is expected
to go public at 31 to 40 times the 24 cents a share earned by
the company on a pro-forma basis for the 12 months ended
March 31, according to New Issues.
   Mr. McNamee at T. Rowe Price says he is seeing some
proposals that wouldn't have crossed his desk earlier this
year. For instance, he just received a prospectus for a
proposed $5-a-share offering underwritten by a company that
is being investigated both by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the state of Florida.
   "You're starting to see the fleas as well as the dog," he
says.
   At its recent pace, he suggests the IPO market will have
to "slow down or get ugly. It's already getting junkier."
   It just might slow down, at least temporarily, suggests
one of this year's busier investment bankers. "Historically,
you get a break in August" when a number of potential
investors are on vacation, explains Alexander Daigneault,
managing director of capital markets for Alex. Brown &amp; Sons,
Baltimore. Mr. Daigneault's department has been one of this
year's top underwriters, taking three companies public on
June 29 alone.
   However, he notes that a number of companies have
registered their initial offerings with the SEC. The pace, he
says, promises to pick up again after Labor Day.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks buckled again under the weight of
more bad news from the technology sector.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 2.90 to 455.27, a 0.63%
decline. Volume eased to 174.6 million shares from 182.6
million shares Thursday.
   Technology shares came under pressure after
exchange-listed Storage Technology said demand for its
disk-drive products was lower than planned and Texas
Instruments, also on the New York Stock Exchange, gave a
bleak profit outlook late in the day.
   The Nasdaq Industrial Index, which includes many OTC
technology stocks, dropped 4.63, or 0.93%, to 491.96. The
index is down 3.65% since closing at a high Monday of 510.61.
The broader Nasdaq Composite Index lost 2.8% for the week.
   Intel, the OTC market's biggest technology stock, slid 2
5/8 to 45 1/8 after Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette removed the
issue from its list of stocks recommended for purchase. The
brokerage firm downgraded the Santa Clara, Calif.,
semiconductor maker to "moderately attractive" from "buy."
   Among other technology shares, Sun Microsystems sagged 1
3/4 to 32 1/4, Conner Peripherals lost 2 to 27 3/4, Novell
tumbled 3 1/2 to 50 3/4 and Quantum slid 1/2 to 23 3/8.
   One Price Clothing Stores rose 2 3/4 to 18. Late Thursday,
the Duncan, S.C., specialty clothing store reported that net
income for the second quarter rose to 43 cents a share from
27 cents a share a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Japan's Big Securities Firms Are Easing Back
   Into Underwriting Equities, but Curbs Remain
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Big securities companies are tiptoeing back into
the underwriting business, 14 weeks after they suspended all
new equity issues to protect the then-faltering Tokyo stock
market.
   But the brokerage houses, still chastened by the market's
precipitous decline in the first four months of the fiscal
year, have imposed strict limits on the volume of new issues
the firms will back. The cautious pace will cost Japan's
securities houses tens of millions of dollars in lost revenue
and delay capital expansion plans of many of the nation's
manufacturers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Business is not going to be easy for us this year, and
probably the next," concedes Yasuo Kanzaki, executive vice
president of Nikko Securities Co.
   For the stock market, though, the go-slow approach is
crucial. The market's recovery from the crash has been
wobbly. On Friday, unnerved by Bank of Japan Gov. Yasushi
Mieno's continuing hints of tighter credit, the Nikkei Index
of 225 issues plunged 634.10 points, or 2%, to 32421.52.
Volume was thin, at about 500 million shares, down from 620.9
million Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the Nikkei retreated
another 102.54 points to 32318.98.
   The securities companies' reluctance to lift restrictions
on equity-linked financing reflects deeply rooted uncertainty
about the Tokyo market's prospects.
   The combination of higher interest rates and investors'
new wariness has impaled Japan's brokerage firms on the horns
of a nasty dilemma: The firms desperately need the fat
commissions they typically earn by underwriting new issues,
but fear that churning out too much new stock too quickly
might send the Tokyo market into a second tailspin.
   "The market's going to have to be nurtured very
carefully," says J. Brian Waterhouse, a financial analyst at
James Capel &amp; Co., a British brokerage house. "If you stuff
it too full of paper, investors will back away."
   It would be hard to put more paper into the market than
the firms put through last year: Japanese securities firms
raised $173 billion in equity-linked issues in the year ended
March 31.
   Those big numbers meant big profits to the Japanese
brokerage houses. The four largest securities companies'
revenues from underwriting topped 400 billion yen, or nearly
$3 billion, and accounted for about 7% of their total income.
   Executives at the Big Four securities companies -- Nomura
Securities Co., Daiwa Securities Co., Yamaichi Securities
Co., and Nikko -- voluntarily suspended equity-linked
financing on the Tokyo market on March 20 in an effort to
pull the Tokyo exchange out of a nosedive. Before the plunge
was over, the market had lost more than 27% of its value on
the last day of trading in 1989.
   Executives of the top trading houses initially agreed to
refrain from underwriting new issues for a month, but later
extended the ban amid uncertainty about the market's recovery
prospects. Underwriting resumed July 6 when Nomura issued
warrants for a $300 million offering by Daikyo Real Estate.
That deal was quickly followed by about a dozen others.
   Trying to keep the pace of new issues under control, top
executives in the Big Four brokerages' underwriting divisions
are meeting weekly to coordinate underwriting operations,
according to market analysts. Ministry of Finance officials
deny direct participation -- "All I know is what I read in
the newspapers," insists an official in the ministry's
capital market's division -- but it is widely believed that
the ministry is monitoring the discussions closely.
   So far, the brokers have moved cautiously. They have
agreed to steer clear of fixed-rate equity deals for now,
instead confining underwriting to convertible bonds and
warrants, which allow investors to buy stocks without the
obligation to commit cash to the market immediately. Those
companies planning to issue new stock before the crash are
being given precedence by the securities houses; other
companies are being told to cool their heels.
   At the moment, analysts believe Japan's stock market can
handle a slow, steady diet of new issues. The market is
buttressed by a solid array of fundamentals. Japan's economic
growth charged ahead at a 10.4% rate in the year's first
quarter, and corporate and consumer spending remains
vigorous.
   Phillip Dodd, chief economist at S.G. Warburg Securities,
a British brokerage firm, thinks the Tokyo exchange will
"struggle to see good news over the next several months," but
argues that Japanese stocks remain a sound investment over
the long haul.
   Akira Suzuki, a senior Morgan Stanley analyst who was one
of the first analysts to turn bearish on Tokyo market in the
weeks before it crashed, takes a different view. He predicts
that the Nikkei will break the pre-crash high of 38915.87,
reached at the end of last year, before the end of August.
But he worries that the market may slip below 30000 before
year end, as the effects of two quarters of high interest
rates filter through Japan's economy, pushing up prices and
dragging down exports.
   In either case, the Big Four aren't anxious to force
recovery before the economy can support the market. For an
extra measure of safety, they've set the upper limit for new
issues in convertible bonds at 100 billion yen and for issues
in warrants at 50 billion yen. That's a far cry from the pace
of dealing in the heady days before the market's crash, when
firms would routinely announce several issues of more than $1
billion in a single day.
   The securities companies self-restraint will cost them.
The moratorium on new issues wiped out this year's
first-quarter underwriting income, and many analysts estimate
that new issues will be off by as much as half for the rest
of the year.
   Not surprisingly, investor interest in the stock of the
securities companies themselves has also plummeted. Financial
analysts at many of the major foreign brokerage firms in
Tokyo confess they've stopped monitoring the Big Four
altogether.
   Unlike Wall Street's brokerage houses, though, Japan's Big
Four aren't contemplating layoffs. Mr. Kanzaki says Nikko
plans to make up for its losses by shifting resources to
foreign securities and new products like mortgage-backed and
asset-backed securities. And in the long run, he says, "We
think there's still money available here" in the Tokyo
market.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   London shares ended relatively robust trading just off
intraday highs, helped by institutional buying on the last
day of the current two-week trading account.
   A bomb explosion at the exchange didn't affect share
trading but prevented options trading. One dealer said this
led to some liquidity problems but otherwise there was
considerable buy interest, albeit on a selective basis.
   Overseas earners recovered from midweek lows, despite a
continued strong pound. This was mostly ascribed to heavy
U.S. buying, particularly of Glaxo and Reuters.
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index gained
12.8 points to 2400.1. The Financial Times 30 Share Index
rose 9.4 points to 1898.1.
   Dealers noted the considerable buy interest in British
Gas, following on activity generated by the issue of over 50
million shares earlier in the week. British Gas rose 5 pence
to 228 pence (9 cents to $4.14).
   The oil sector generally gained, as the oil price climbs
on the border dispute between Kuwait and Iraq. Shell rose 10
pence to 484 pence, while British Petroleum gained 7 1/2
pence to 334 1/2 pence. BP also rose on news that the
government is retiring its "golden share" in Britoil, BP's
subsidiary. Dealers said the move gave BP more control of
Britoil.
   Elsewhere, share prices closed higher in Paris, Madrid,
Amsterdam, Brussels and Stockholm. Shares closed lower in
Frankfurt and mixed in Zurich and Milan. South African gold
stocks closed lower.
   Share prices closed higher in Hong Kong and Taipei, mixed
in Manila and Seoul, and lower in Sydney, Singapore and
Wellington.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                      % This
                                     Jul 19   Jul 18   Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. ............................  338.6    337.5  +  4.2
   Britain .........................  709.3    713.6  -  1.6
   Canada ..........................  394.5    394.9  -  8.8
   Japan ........................... 1328.5   1330.9  - 19.7
   France ..........................  563.9    566.1  -  0.5
   Germany .........................  316.2    316.0  + 10.8
   Hong Kong ....................... 2629.8   2622.8  + 25.4
   Switzerland .....................  228.3    229.1  +  3.4
   Australia .......................  331.5    333.2  +  0.1
   World index .....................  538.1    538.7  -  5.2
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Caesars World Inc.:
   Holders File Suits Over Bid
   For Caesars New Jersey
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CAW CJN
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Two shareholder lawsuits seeking class action status have
been filed against Caesars World Inc. in the wake of its
announced intention to make a tender offer for the 13.4%
stake it doesn't already hold in Caesars New Jersey Inc.
   In a suit filed in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles, an
investor alleges that the company's $22-a-share, or $48
million, offer is inadequate and that it didn't seek
competing acquisition proposals. Another suit filed in state
court by four investors names 10 officers and directors of
the company as defendants and seeks an injunction blocking
the offer. Caesars World, based in Los Angeles, owns and
operates hotels and casinos.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Wells Fargo &amp; Co.:
   Firm Continues Expansion
   And Buys Citizens Holdings
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   WFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Wells Fargo &amp; Co. continued to expand its operations in
Southern California, reaching a definitive agreement to
purchase Citizens Holdings, parent of El Camino Bank of
Anaheim and Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa.
   Terms of the deal weren't disclosed. The two banks have a
total of six branches in Orange County, one of the state's
wealthiest areas, but one where Wells Fargo has only a small
presence now.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   This month, the San Francisco banking and financial
services company agreed to acquire the California branches of
Great America Bank for $492 million in a move that gives it
the leading retail banking and thrift share of the lucrative
San Diego area.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   Washington Area Braces for Lean Times
   ---
   Capital City Feels Impact
   Of Economic Slowdown
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Forget the "T word" -- taxes. In this town,
the new dreaded scarlet letter is R -- for recession.
   Conventional wisdom has long held that the Washington
area's economy is recession-proof, resilient when other areas
have downturns. Its primary industries -- government,
consulting, contracting and law -- seem to roll along
oblivious to the ups and downs of the business cycle.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Until now. Recent data, while not indicating a serious
decline for the area's overall economic health, reflect a
marked slowdown in growth. And a sharp downturn in the real
estate market has sent shock waves throughout the community.
The latest sign of deep trouble came Wednesday, when
Washington Bancorp. posted an $80 million second-quarter loss
and said that its National Bank of Washington subsidiary, the
District of Columbia's fourth-largest bank, no longer meets
federal capital requirements and faces a threat to its
survival.
   Local residents, long accustomed to a robust economy, are
suffering from a case of declining expectations. "The
slowdown, even if the economy is still growing, is enough to
shake a lot of people," says Joel Popkin, a local consultant.
For the first time in memory, job growth in the Washington
area is less than the rest of the country -- 1.7% from April
1989 through April 1990, compared with 2.1% for the rest of
the nation.
   The signs of trouble are evident throughout the
metropolitan area, which includes suburbs in Virginia and
Maryland as well as the District of Columbia itself. After
years of booming growth, the value of office-space building
permits dropped 43% last year, the Commerce Department says,
while the value of residential building permits declined
5.5%. The vacancy rate for existing office buildings in the
region rose to 14.4% from 9.6% in 1984, according to the
Office Network, a real-estate brokerage firm.
   In the wake of the slowdown, Perpetual Financial Corp.,
the parent company of Perpetual Savings Bank, the area's
largest thrift, had a $50.2 million loss in the second
quarter, while MNC Financial Inc., the holding company for
three of the area's largest commercial banks, recently
announced that it expects a second-quarter loss of $75
million.
   Meanwhile, Garfinckel's, once the area's premier upscale
retailer, is conducting a going-out-of-business sale, as is
Arthur A. Adler, the venerable men's clothing store favored
by George Bush. Some local observers blame the problems of
Garfinckel's and Adler mostly on management miscues and
increased competition. But the problems have been exacerbated
by what a recent report by management consultants Grant
Thornton concludes is a flattening of retail sales in the
area.
   To be sure, a lot of areas would be quite satisfied with
the kind of "recession" Washington is experiencing. Despite
the slowdown, the Grant Thornton report ranks the area's
economy as the seventh-strongest out of 24 major metropolitan
areas in the U.S. And job growth, while down from 4.5% in
1988, could still be as high as 2% this year -- about average
for the rest of the country. "In the '80s, you were going
down the road at 80 miles an hour," says William Wrench,
president of the Greater Washington Board of Trade, the local
chamber of commerce. "Now we're slowing down to 55."
   But that slowdown is being felt in a broad range of
sectors. "We've laid off quite a few of our construction
workers, and now we're at the stage of looking at other
layoffs," says Edward Miller Jr., a local developer.
Meanwhile, with Congress preparing to whack at the Pentagon
budget, Towson, Md.-based Black &amp; Decker Corp. has run into
trouble in its efforts to sell Planning Research Corp. and
Advanced Technologies Inc., two companies in the northern
Virginia suburbs that have significant defense-related
components. "The market is somewhat softer than we expected,"
said Barbara Lucas, a spokeswoman for Black &amp; Decker.
   Experts say that one of the main culprits in the area's
slowdown is the same thing that has fueled growth for so many
years: federal spending. According to a recent report by
Stephen Fuller, chairman of George Washington University's
Department of Urban Planning and Real Estate Development,
federal procurement awards in the metropolitan area declined
16% between 1987 and 1989, while they declined 9.5%
nationwide in the same period.
   Mr. Fuller's report says that federal purchases decreased
about a third faster in the Washington area than in the rest
of the country in 1989. The area's share of all U.S.
government purchases slipped to 5.4% in 1989 from 5.8% in
1987. Nonmilitary purchases in the area dropped 15% last
year, compared with a 2.3% drop nationwide.
   Even more worrisome are long-term demographic changes
reflecting economic deterioration in the area's core -- the
District of Columbia.
   The notion of Washington as recession-proof has always
been "a relatively snobbish perspective," says local
consultant Clifford Alexander, a former D.C. mayoral
candidate and secretary of the Army under President Carter.
"When you see what people in this city do, it's far from
recession-proof," he says, referring to the variety of
hardships that beset the poor residents of the district
during economic downturns.
   While the metropolitan area continues to gain people, a
study by the Greater Washington Research Center concludes
that the federal city itself has been losing residents at an
average rate of 3% a year in the 1980s, and that its
population will decline to 595,000 in the year 2000 from
roughly 613,000 now. Further, D.C. residents' median income
declined $1,500 in real dollars between 1980 and 1986 and is
projected to decline a further $3,000 by the turn of the
century.
   That trend is expected to worsen pressures on the suburbs,
which until now have been the engine of the region's growth.
"If we have a very dependent and economically weak urban
center of the metro area, that can have negative consequences
to the suburban areas," says Mr. Fuller. "The fringes are
moving out, too. The suburban jurisdictions will be taking on
greater social costs than they had before. What happens if
you only have basket cases and millionaires living in the
district?"
   Some analysts believe the trend will lead the suburbs and
affluent D.C. residents to put more and more pressure on the
district to spend money to remedy its problems. But that will
be hard, given that city tax revenues are likely to decrease
as the median income declines. The federal government, which
makes an annual payment to the district in lieu of property
taxes on government buildings, is itself strapped for money
and seems ill-inclined to help much. One possible solution
might be a commuter tax, but that idea is routinely scuttled
by opposition in Congress from suburban lawmakers.
   Political turmoil is also taking a toll. The current drug
and perjury trial of Mayor Marion Barry, and the
countercharges of racism by some in the black community, have
had a dispiriting effect on the city that may yet affect its
economic prospects.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Eastman Kodak Co.:
   Unit, French Firm Study
   Feasibility of Joint Venture
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5B
</SO>
<CO>
   RP.C EK
</CO>
<LP>
   The chemical units of Rhone-Poulenc S.A. and Eastman Kodak
Co. plan to study the feasibility of jointly producing
cellulose acetate, the French company said.
   If the project receives a green light, Rhone-Poulenc
Chimie and Eastman Chemical Co. will form a joint venture
requiring a total investment of about $200 million to $300
million, a Rhone-Poulenc spokesman said. The partners would
divide the costs equally.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The site of the venture will be determined in the course
of the feasibility study, he said.
   Cellulose acetate is used in the production of cigarette
filters, textiles and plastics. The companies are targeting a
completion date around the end of 1993 for a factory that
would produce 60,000 tons of the chemical annually.
   The spokesman said this would represent the first
cooperative effort between Paris-based Rhone-Poulenc and
Kodak of Rochester, N.Y.
   A U.S. subsidiary of the French concern bought Kodak's
Beta Physics polyester film operation in January 1988.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Grossman's Inc.:
   Dissident Shareholder Group
   Nominates Nine to Board
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5A
</SO>
<CO>
   GROS
</CO>
<LP>
   Grossman's Inc. said that a dissident shareholder group
led by real-estate investors Jay H. Shidler and Robert W.
Holman Jr. made filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission naming nine nominees for Grossman's board.
   Grossman's said that the papers indicate that if elected
they would name W. Allen Doane, a Hawaii real-estate
executive, to be chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to Grossman's of Braintree, Mass., Messrs.
Shidler and Holman announced their plans to gain control of
Grossman's after Grossman's rejected a plan by which the
building-supply retailer would sell its properties to the men
and then lease them back "on terms which Grossman's believed
were highly unfavorable."
   Grossman's said that once the dissidents send material to
shareholders, it will send shareholders its response.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Caterpillar Inc.:
   Second-Quarter Net Income
   Declined 67% to $46 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   CAT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   Caterpillar Inc. said second-quarter earnings tumbled 67%
on a 3.1% decline in sales.
   Net income dropped to $46 million, or 46 cents a share,
from $141 million, or $1.39 a share, in the year-earlier
period. Sales slipped to $2.95 billion from $3.04 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The discouraging numbers didn't come as a surprise. The
Peoria, Ill., heavy-equipment maker disclosed late last month
that its once highly profitable Brazilian operation has been
badly hit by the economic disruptions in that nation.
   In addition, Caterpillar is feeling the effects of a soft
demand in the U.S. and some other markets. And the dollar's
recent strengthening means Caterpillar's sales to Japan
generate fewer dollars, and render competing Japanese imports
relatively cheaper in this country.
   In composite New York Stock Exchange trading Friday,
Caterpillar shares closed at $52.50, unchanged.
   Caterpillar also disclosed Friday that it is the target of
a shareholder suit, filed in U.S. District Court in Peoria,
which alleges the company violated securities laws by failing
to properly disclose its financial situation. The company
said it thinks the suit, which seeks class-action status, is
"without merit."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Stock Market Loses Vital Corporate Crutch
   ---
   Dip in Buy-Backs,
   Takeovers Cited
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- One of the strongest muscles in the stock
market's long bull run is withering with the decline in
takeovers and share buy-back programs.
   Corporate purchases gave stock prices a major push in the
1980s, but this mode of propulsion lost steam quickly this
year as prices pushed to record highs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, this lost supply of buying power has been more
than replaced by other players, among which are mutual funds
that are growing bigger as individual investors pour cash
into them. But fewer corporate buy-backs means less
underlying support when these other investors bolt for the
exits, which happened Friday when more earnings
disappointments helped sink the Dow Jones Industrial Average
32.67 points to 2961.14.
   Corporate stock buy-backs and takeover mania, which
rapidly shrank the supply of stock available to investors,
reached a frenzied pace in the 1980s. From 1984 through 1989,
the combination of takeovers and buy-backs reduced the market
value of all New York Stock Exchange-listed issues by an
average 6.5% a year, Goldman Sachs estimates. A smaller
supply of stock during a period of high investor demand
helped buoy prices. Goldman figures overall corporate
purchases accounted for more than a fifth of the 114.8% rise
in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index in the decade's
second half.
   But this year, corporate demand for stocks through
takeovers and buy-backs is waning. After adjusting for a
quickened flow of new stock issues, the annualized rate at
which shares are being taken out of investors' hands has
fallen to the lowest level since 1984. Goldman Sachs
estimates that the rate of shrinkage in Big Board market
value will slow to 3% or less this year.
   Robert Farrell, chief market strategist for Merrill Lynch,
suspects corporations are on the way to becoming net sellers
of stock after seven years of being net buyers. Companies
will use proceeds from selling new shares to retire debt, he
predicts.
   Throughout the 1980s, companies gobbled up their own
shares or took over other concerns because both tactics were
cheaper than the cost of replacing corporate assets or
starting a business from scratch. But in the process, many
companies took on a lot of debt.
   "Now corporations will start using any opportunity they
get to sell equity in order to pay down debt and reduce
interest costs," says Mr. Farrell.
   At the start of the bull market in 1982, says Steven
Einhorn, portfolio strategist at Goldman Sachs, stocks
generally were selling at 50% of the per-share cost of
replicating companies' assets. Now many stocks are trading at
a premium to replacement value. That means, he says, buying
its own stock isn't any longer a smart way for a company to
invest its cash.
   The buy-back fad is fading before many large companies
have completed purchases of all the shares they announced
months ago that they might buy, notes Laszlo Birinyi of
Birinyi Associates, a research firm. As of the end of 1989,
the 30 companies whose stocks make up the Dow Jones
industrials had purchased only a fourth of the 685.4 million
shares they had authorized themselves to buy.
   Theoretically, these companies could come back into the
market when prices head lower, but because of a sluggish
economy and high interest payments on debt, companies have
less cash these days to buy shares.
   Reduced corporate stock purchases isn't necessarily all
negative for the market, though, analysts say. For example,
the much-slowed pace of takeovers means pension-fund capital
is being diverted from once-hot buy-out pools. "Part of that
money is coming in the front door {of the stock market, as
direct investment} instead of the back door," Mr. Birinyi
suggests.
   Mr. Einhorn of Goldman Sachs says the decline of takeover
speculation should free up more capital for investing in a
broader array of stocks. The latest rally has been
concentrated in growth stocks, which many analysts complain
makes for a cockeyed advance that can't be sustained.
Theoretically, says Mr. Einhorn, as the focus on big stocks
declines, smaller stocks have a chance to outperform the
larger ones. In practice, it hasn't happened yet.
   But James D. Awad, president of BMI Capital, a money
manager, says that while 1980s-style takeover speculation has
ebbed, a new wave of takeover activity in smaller companies
will help spur investor enthusiasm.
   "Investment bankers still have to make a living," he says.
"The theme is to move away from highly leveraged financial
takeovers toward all-cash strategic acquisitions of small to
medium-sized growing companies, especially niche companies."
This is the undervalued part of the market, he says.
   As for whether individual investors can take up the
stock-buying slack left by corporations, the jury is still
out. Some analysts think individuals are ready to become more
active in the stock market. While the stock portion of
individually held assets has shrunk to a historically low
level, the recent heavy flow of cash into mutual funds
suggests that trend is reversing.
   Carmine Grigoli, vice president, equity research, at First
Boston, notes that the average individual's net worth
currently is just 14% in stocks, down from 26% in 1965.
During the same period, the real estate portion, including
the individual's home, has risen to 29% from 21%. Realigning
those relationships presumably would help offset a slowdown
in corporate buying.
   Individuals whose net worth now is heavily in real estate
will increasingly move cash into stocks as they seek
investments that will outperform the rate of inflation, Mr.
Grigoli says. A real estate recession, which has beset many
regions of the nation, makes people feel less wealthy and
inclined to save more and spend less; much of that cash is
likely to go into mutual funds, with stocks promising a
higher rate of return than real estate, he says.
   "More people are going to be renting and saving rather
than buying real estate," says Mr. Grigoli. He predicts that
the strong flow of money into mutual funds will continue for
three to five years, when a recovered real estate market,
among other things, may compete more effectively for
investors' funds.
   Not all analysts agree with this scenario. Among them is
Abby Joseph Cohen, market strategist at Barclays de Zoete
Wedd Research, who has been steadfastly bearish throughout
the market's latest rally.
   Ms. Cohen agrees that corporate buying has been
"enormously important" in lifting the stock market to its
current levels. But she says no matter how unattractive other
investments such as real estate may look by comparison,
institutional and individual investors eventually will
realize, as corporations apparently have, that many stocks
are overpriced. Besides, she says, there are investment
alternatives, such as U.S. Treasury bonds and bills.
   Meanwhile, Ms. Cohen is bothered that much of the buying
in the recent rally has been centered on the big-name
companies with strong, dependable earnings growth. "You end
up with a tiering of the market," she says, as a small, elite
group of stocks zoom way out front and the rest plod along in
the dust.
   "How long can that last?" she asks. Not very, she says.
And when the next big market break comes, "These {elite}
stocks will be the hardest hit. You can only sell what you
own, and investors like to sell what they can at a profit."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices dropped sharply as the latest shock waves on
corporate earnings reverberated through the market,
especially in the technology sector.
   Although the market held firm through most of the session
amid disappointing earnings developments at Storage
Technology and Advanced Micro Devices, prices tumbled near
the close after Texas Instruments' second-quarter results and
outlook provided more bad news.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which rallied past 3000
at midday, fell more than 34 points in the final hour of
trading.
   The expiration of July stock-index futures and options
contributed to the market's slide, traders said. A number of
expiration-related buy orders that were placed in advance of
the earnings report from Texas Instruments were quickly
canceled when the news came out, said Thomas Gallagher,
managing director in charge of capital commitment at
Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Then sell orders in the Chicago stock-index futures
markets triggered stock-index arbitrage sell programs. The
tactic involved buying futures contracts and selling stocks
to lock in price differences between the two.
   The late wave of selling pushed New York Stock Exchange
volume to 177,810,000 shares, compared with 162 million
Thursday. On the Big Board, declining stocks beat advancers
by 912 to 585.
   Among broader market measures, the S&amp;P 500 fell 3.71 to
361.61; the New York Stock Exchange composite index lost 1.73
to 197.65; and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index tumbled 3.18
to 335.87.
   The Friday retreat left the Dow industrials with a loss
for the week of 19.06 points, or 0.6%. Other indices posted
sharper declines: the S&amp;P 500 fell 1.6% for the week; the Big
Board's composite index lost 1.3%; and the Dow Jones Equity
Market Index retreated 1.7%.
   With the market "breaking one stock after another" in
response to disappointing earnings, Oppenheimer's Thomas
Gallagher said institutions are likely to become more
hesitant in committing more cash to stocks now.
   "People are getting annihilated, losing tons of money
here," Mr. Gallagher said. "There is no chance to get out of
a {stock} position when things go bad."
   Texas Instruments dropped 5 3/4 to 33 1/8 following its
report that second-quarter net income tumbled 89.6% from a
year earlier. The company also said it may report a loss for
the third quarter, noting that it expects the semiconductor
market to be "sluggish" for the next few months.
   Advanced Micro Devices, another chip maker, plunged 1 3/4
to 7 1/4 on 1.4 million shares in the wake of its
disappointing second-quarter results. The company reported a
loss of 10 cents per share. Analysts had expected the company
to break even or report a modest profit.
   Storage Technology, which had been one of the
best-performing stocks of the year, plunged 8 3/4 to 25 3/4
on 4.8 million shares. Although the company reported that its
second-quarter earnings surged about 250% from a year
earlier, it warned analysts that earnings for the full year
"may end up being at the low end instead of the high end" of
Wall Street's current forecasts. Demand in New England and
United Kingdom markets has been weaker than expected, the
company noted.
   ---

                                                                                                       

                              NO. OF SHARES      SHARES NOT
                                 SLATED FOR    YET ACQUIRED
                                   BUY-BACK  AS OF 12/31/89
                              (in millions)   (in millions)
                                                                                                       

   Allied-Signal                    25.0           25.0
   AT&amp;T                             12.1           12.1
   Boeing                           22.5           18.1
   DuPont                           60.0           24.0
   General Electric                155.0          151.4
   General Motor                   128.0           90.4
   IBM                              53.1           51.9
   Merck                            12.9           10.2
   Philip Morris                    36.0           34.4
   Procter &amp; Gamble                 14.2            2.9
                                                                                                       

   Source: Birinyi Associates Inc.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ALLIED-SIGNAL Inc. had completed all its stock buy-back
programs as of the end of 1989. In January 1990 it authorized
a new 25 million-share buy-back, under which six million
shares have been purchased. A table in Monday's edition
misstated the status of these purchases.
   (WSJ July 25. 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Many States Will Be Watching Massachusetts
   To See Whether New 5% Service Tax Pays Off
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Whether or not to tax services is the question more states
will be asking now that Massachusetts has slapped a 5% tax on
many services.
   The service tax will add $223 million a year to the $2
billion raised from the existing 5% sales tax, which now
accounts for 22% of the state's total tax revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While not the first of its kind in the nation,
Massachusetts's newly adopted service tax is the broadest of
any major industrial state. And it is the boldest step toward
taxing services since Florida repealed its tax three years
ago, after vociferous protests and threats by some businesses
to pull out of the state.
   It is inevitable, tax experts say, that many states will
consider following Massachusetts' lead. "There seemed to be a
lull after Florida, and now it appears that states are taking
another look at broadening the sales-tax base," says Corina
Eckl, a tax specialist at the National Conference of State
Legislatures, a research group.
   Last month, New Jersey decided to raise additional revenue
by taxing, among other things, a number of services including
telecommunications and janitorial services. And last year,
Connecticut extended its sales-tax base to 21 services, from
public relations to landscaping and window cleaning.
   "I'm receiving more and more calls from legislators and
legislative staff assistants with inquiries about taxing
services," says Ronald Schreiner, secretary of the Department
of Revenue for South Dakota, which long has taxed services in
the state.
   Fiscal deterioration in many states -- as in Massachusetts
-- and the fact that the nation's economy is becoming more
and more service-oriented are catalysts spurring legislatures
to move toward taxing services, experts say. "The question is
bound to pop up in legislatures every time somebody needs
money," says Hal Hovey, editor of State Budget and Tax News
in Alexandria, Va. "As states look for new tax bases,
services consumed by individuals will be up for inspection
before the more sensitive issue of corporate taxes."
   From a fairness standpoint, taxing services makes sense,
many contend. "There's no reason why buying a color TV should
be taxed and having that color TV repaired should not be
subject to a sales tax," argues John Mikesell, professor of
public and environmental affairs at Indiana University and
co-author of a book titled "Sales Taxation."
   But there are drawbacks. For starters, almost any new tax
is politically unpopular, a fact lost on few legislators.
Moreover, until service taxes become common in states, those
that don't have them will have an economic advantage over
those that do.
   "You can tax your services, but you make them less
competitive," says James W. Wetzler, commissioner of taxation
and finance for New York state. "States like Massachusetts
and Connecticut are going to have to fall behind the field in
competitive ability." Stiff opposition to a broad service tax
prompted New York state to back down and instead levy a
watered-down tax on only cleaning and security services.
   Not all services in states with service taxes risk losing
customers to out-of-state competitors, of course. Customers
aren't likely to cross state lines for an out-of-state
television repairman or studio photographer, for example,
just to avoid the tax.
   And there are ways to try to limit the effect on other
service providers. Massachusetts, for instance, will impose a
"use fee" equal to the service tax on in-state businesses
that employ an out-of-state accounting firm.
   No doubt, a tax on services could create a paper quagmire,
especially with scores of exemptions tacked onto bills. In
Massachusetts, for instance, separate electric meters may
have to be used to track the energy used by businesses
specifically for manufacturing (which won't be taxed) as
opposed to electricity used for lighting and air conditioning
(which will be). If collection difficulties permit many to
avoid paying the tax, it could be perceived as inequitable
and become even more controversial.
   The state's Department of Revenue concedes that tax
enforcement won't be without snags. "Certainly there're going
to be glitches," a department spokeswoman says. "Things, at
first, aren't going to be crystal clear; there's some
educating to be done to clear up confusion."
   The department is underestimating tax revenue from
services during the first year, partly in anticipation of
collection difficulties.
   As a result, some states are expected to proceed
cautiously. This year, Kentucky toyed with the idea of a
service tax but backed off, afraid of possibly blunting state
business. California, still locked in a struggle to balance
its fiscal 1990 budget, isn't considering broadening a sales
tax.
   The Massachusetts Legislature modified its tax bill with a
pastiche of exemptions to overcome some of the objections and
win political support. For example, it exempted services
provided by Massachusetts firms to out-of-state clients from
having to pay the tax, so that Massachusetts companies
wouldn't be at a competitive disadvantage.
   To appease small businesses and individual taxpayers, the
Legislature decided to waive the tax on professional bills of
less than $20,000. It also exempted advertising costs and
medical services from the tax. And Boston-based Fidelity
Investments, the nation's largest mutual-fund company, used
its lobbying clout to get mutual funds exempted from the tax.
   But the law will tax 594 types of services, including fees
charged by lawyers, accountants, architects and engineers, as
well as parachute training for pleasure, yoga instruction,
fortune-telling and piped-in music.
   Opponents still haven't given up their campaign against
the new tax. While the state's Supreme Judicial Court gave an
advisory opinion that the tax doesn't violate the state's
constitution, several businesses and professional groups say
issues addressed in the ruling were narrow. They plan further
legal challenges to the tax, raising U.S. constititutional
issues.
   "For instance, the opinion doesn't treat the Sixth
Amendment issue of an individual's constitutional right to
(legal) counsel," says Charles Swartwood, president of the
Massachusetts Bar Association, a reference to the effect the
service tax would have on legal fees. In bypassing that issue
in the advisory opinion, "the Supreme (Judicial) Court in
essence has invited us to come back to court," he says.
   In addition, a Massachusetts citizens group is seeking to
dismantle the law this November by bringing before voters an
initiative that would in effect rescind the tax package.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Southeast Banking Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   STB WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SOUTHEAST BANKING Corp. (Miami) -- Douglas E. Ebert,
formerly a sector executive vice president at the
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. unit of Manufacturers Hanover
Corp., was named president and chief operating officer of
this bank holding company, succeeding John Porta, who
resigned in March.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Langer Biomechanics Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   GAIT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   LANGER BIOMECHANICS GROUP Inc. (Deer Park, N.Y.) -- Paul
S. Langer, 34 years old, chief operating officer of this
maker of medical and health products, was named to the
additional post of president. He succeeds his father, Sheldon
Langer, 66-year-old founder and a podiatrist, who remains
chairman and chief executive officer. Paul Langer's former
post of executive vice president, operations, won't be
filled; he also was president of the orthotics division, a
post that was eliminated. Separately, Jason M. Kraus, 33,
previously vice president, marketing, was named senior vice
president, marketing.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia Exchange Nears Deal to Let
   Investors in U.S. Bet on German Stocks
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C16
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Philadelphia Stock Exchange is close to a deal that
would give U.S. investors an easy way to bet on the direction
of the German stock market.
   Last month, the Philadelphia exchange signed a
surveillance agreement and within a few days will sign a
licensing agreement with the Frankfurt Stock Exchange to
trade warrants on a German stock index. The agreements will
give the Philadelphia exchange nonexclusive rights to trade
put and call warrants on the Deutscher Aktien-index, or DAX.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Joseph Rizzello, the Philadelphia exchange's senior vice
president, new products, said the exchange started looking at
the DAX as soon as it was apparent that the six put and two
call warrants based on the Nikkei index of 225 Tokyo stocks
that began trading earlier this year on the American Stock
Exchange were a success. "I think the Amex had a great idea
with the Nikkei warrants," Mr. Rizzello said. "After they
came out, I figured the next best place to go was Germany."
Other exchanges are likely to follow with their own German
stock-index warrants, exchange officials said.
   The DAX index is a widely followed stock market indicator,
based on the performance of 30 blue-chip stocks traded on the
Frankfurt exchange. The index includes companies such as
Volkswagen, Siemens, Schering, Lufthansa, Henkel and
Bayerische Motoren Werke, or BMW.
   A DAX call warrant entitles an investor to a payment if
the DAX rises above the exercise or "strike price" specified
in the warrant's prospectus. A put warrant pays off if the
DAX falls below the warrant's strike price. The actual amount
of the payment depends on the difference between the DAX and
the strike price. Typically, such warrants have a three-year
life.
   Investors who purchased Nikkei put warrants in February,
just before the Japanese stock market crashed, more than
tripled their money, in some cases, in less than three
months. More recent purchasers haven't fared as well, as the
Nikkei index has traded in a narrow range.
   Trading in the DAX warrants can't begin until the
Securities and Exchange Commission approves the surveillance
agreement signed by the two exchanges. The SEC is withholding
its approval, because, under German law, if there were an
investigation of wrongdoing, it wouldn't be possible to
compel a German brokerage house or bank to deliver the name
of a customer suspected of violating exchange or SEC rules.
Under U.S. and most other countries' laws, it is possible to
gain access to such information.
   But Mr. Rizzello said that in the past, German
institutions have delivered the names of customers as
requested by investigating bodies. He added, "Of course, the
SEC has to be satisfied with the surveillance agreement
before we can proceed." Mr. Rizzello wouldn't speculate on
when the agreement could be approved.
   Brandon Becker, associate director in the SEC's division
of market regulation, declined to comment specifically on the
agreement between the Philadelphia and the Frankfurt
exchanges. But he said, "In general, we review filings on
index warrants to insure that adequate surveillance
procedures are in place between the markets trading the
derivative product and its underlying index."
   Stocks in the DAX are selected on the basis of market
capitalization and trading volume. The index itself is
capitalization-weighted, which means shares of companies that
have more common and preferred shares outstanding will have a
bigger weight in the index. The index is calculated
continuously during the Frankfurt Stock Exchange's market
hours. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 stock index also is
capitalization-weighted.
   Mr. Rizzello said the Philadelphia exchange is a good
place for the DAX warrants to trade, because of its active
market in foreign currency options. "I think the American
public have become sophisticated investors," he said. "They
see what is taking place with unification between the two
Germanys and they want to be able to participate."
   Mr. Rizzello said that while he expects some institutional
buying of the warrants, he believes the warrants will appeal
mostly to individual investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Scientists Say Cold Fusion
   Experiments Produced Neutron Bursts
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B6A
</SO>
<CO>
   J.NTT
</CO>
<IN>
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- A team of Nippon Telegraph &amp; Telephone Co.
scientists investigating "cold fusion" say they have produced
significant test results that have proven elusive to U.S.
researchers.
   The group reported a burst of neutrons up to 50 times as
large as those claimed by University of Utah chemists in
March 1989. Those results sparked a "cold fusion" craze, but
skepticism has mounted since then, largely because of the
failure of other U.S. scientists to detect large numbers of
neutrons and other indications of fusion. The fusion of
hydrogen atoms at room temperatures would be expected to
produce such a result.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   An NTT Basic Research Laboratories team led by Eiichi
Yamaguchi published a report in April's Japanese Journal of
Applied Physics saying they triggered a "gigantic" blast of
one million to two million neutrons a second for two to three
seconds. Two follow-up tests produced blasts of 600,000 to
900,000 neutrons a second for one to two seconds.
   The scientists said the results seem to prove the
existence of cold fusion.
   The paper reports that about 20 additional tests were
conducted without showing such results. Mr. Yamaguchi's group
has conducted several experiments in recent weeks and
produced excess heat three or four times -- another possible
sign of fusion -- but failed to detect neutrons again.
   Fusion scientists familiar with the work say it is
interesting, as much for the unique technique as for the
results. Most fusion research involves a basic electrolysis
experiment of soaking a palladium rod in "heavy" water. But
the NTT reseachers soaked the palladium rods in deuterium gas
for a day, then put them in a vacuum chamber. As they
evacuated the chamber, the neutron blast occurred.
   One side of the palladium rods was coated with gold to
prevent the escape of deuterium atoms from that side, while
the other side was coated with magnesium oxide, which would
permit the atoms to escape.
   The approach is similar to techniques sometimes used in
semiconductor research, a field Mr. Yamaguchi has worked in.
   Last November, separate research teams at Nagoya
University and Osaka University each claimed to have detected
unusually large bursts of neutrons coming from cold fusion
experiments. Both groups are still working to duplicate those
results.
   Japanese university scientists have created a fairly
organized structure for pursuing cold fusion. In February,
Hideo Ikegami, a professor at Nagoya University, selected a
group of 20 academic research teams from around the country
to work loosely together, dividing up research methods and
sharing results. The Ministry of Education is supporting
their work for two years, although Mr. Ikegami refuses to
disclose the amount of support.
   Mr. Ikegami said the most significant result to come out
of the university effort will be published this month in the
Journal of Nuclear Science and Technology. In the experiment,
Osaka researchers, using conventional approaches, say they
detected neutrons with the energies that would be produced by
the fusion reaction. But the neutron emission occurred so
infrequently that the results aren't as noteworthy as the NTT
tests. Their work is similar to that done at Brigham Young
University, which was released around the same time as the
University of Utah tests. Scientists at Hitachi Ltd. in April
also produced similar results.
   With skepticism high and funding in question for U.S.
fusion research, supporters are quick to highlight any claims
of success. Singling out Japanese progress could become
another tool for trying to draw more backing.
   Fritz G. Will, director of the U.S. National Cold Fusion
Institute in Utah, spent four days this month visiting five
labs in Japan, including those in NTT and Osaka.
   Mr. Will said in an interview last week that he concluded
"the rate of progress in Japan at the present time is
considerably larger than in the U.S., " because "there is a
considerably larger number of groups in Japan . . . and there
is quite a good level of coordination or cooperation."
   Mr. Will also praised the relatively low level of
controversy over the efforts in Japan. The Japanese, he said,
"can devote their time to cold fusion work -- they are not
exposed to this barrage of unfair criticism that the
researchers {in the U.S.} are constantly exposed to."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Securities Offering Calendar
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
INITIAL STOCK OFFERINGS (INI)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The following U.S. Treasury, corporate and municipal
offerings are tentatively scheduled for sale this week,
according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report:
                                                                                                       

                       U.S. TREASURY
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                                                                                       

   $18 billion of three-month and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   $11.5 billion in two-year notes.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $10.5 billion in 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Allied Clinical Laboratories Co. -- initial 1.7 million
common shares, via Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc.
   Bank of San Francisco Holding Co. -- 1.1 million common
shares, via PaineWebber Inc.
   Banner Aerospace Inc. -- initial 9.5 million common
shares, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Bird Medical Technology Inc. -- initial two million common
shares, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham &amp; Co. Inc.
   Coho Resources Inc. -- initial 3.5 million common shares,
via Salomon Brothers.
   Commonwealth Edison Co. -- 650,000 shares of $100
preference stock, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
   Crescent Jewelers Inc. -- initial 2.2 million common
shares, via Alex. Brown.
   Crop Genetics International Corp. -- two million of $10
convertible exchange preferred stock, via Lehman Brothers.
   Franklin Savings Bank -- 7,000 units, each consisting of
one 12% subordinated capital note and 30 stock warrants.
   Healthcare Services Group Inc. -- 875,000 common shares,
via Morgan Stanley &amp; Co.
   IKOS Systems Inc. -- initial 3.1 million common shares,
via Alex. Brown.
   Keppel Corp. -- 6.5 million American depository receipts,
via Salomon Brothers.
   Latin America Investment Fund Inc. -- initial five million
common shares, via Salomon Brothers.
   Lunar Corp. -- initial 1,475,000 common shares, via Smith
Barney.
   Medical Care International -- $50 million of convertible
subordinated debentures, via Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette
Securities Corp.
   National Health Laboratories Inc. -- 13 million common
shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   Nichols Institute -- 1,767,032 common shares, via Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. Inc.
   Nuveen California Municipal Market Opportunity Fund Inc.
-- 1,100 fund shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   Nuveen New York Municipal Market Opportunity Fund Inc. --
800 fund shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   Patriot Select Dividend Trust -- initial seven million
common shares, via Dean Witter Capital Markets.
   Projectavision Inc. -- initial 1.49 million units, each
consisting of one share of common stock and one warrant, via
Keane Securities Co.
   Offshore Pipelines Inc. -- 3.6 million shares, via
Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
   Seagull Energy Corp. -- 2.5 million common shares, via
Lehman Brothers.
   Sears Credit Account Trust 1990C -- $250 million of credit
account pass-through certificates, via Dean Witter Capital
Markets.
   United Medicorp Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares, via
Eppler, Guerin &amp; Turner, Inc.
   USX Corp. -- $250 million of zero-coupon convertible
senior debentures, via First Boston Corp.
   Venture Stores Inc. -- initial 2,320,000 common shares,
via Morgan Stanley.
   Vintage Petroleum Inc. -- initial six million common
shares, via Dillon, Read &amp; Co.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   New York City -- $1.1 billion of tax anticipation notes,
Fiscal 1991 Series A, via competitive bid.
   Richmond, Va. -- $50 million of general obligation revenue
anticipation notes, 1990 Series B, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Washington Suburban Sanitary District, Maryland -- $90
million of general construction bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                     One Day This Week
                                                                                                       

   Alaska Energy Authority -- $61.069 million of power
revenue bonds, Bradley Lake Hydro Electric Project Issue with
capital appreciation bonds, via a John Nuveen &amp; Co. Inc.
group.
   Dade County, Fla. -- $55 million of aviation revenue
bonds, Miami International Airport Issue, Series T
(MBIA-insured, Alternative Minimum Tax) via a Lazard Freres &amp;
Co. group.
   Essex County, N.J. -- $65 million of improvement authority
county general obligation bonds and lease revenue bonds, 1990
Series (AMBAC-insured), via an A.G. Edwards &amp; Sons Inc.
group.
   Minnesota Public Facilities Authority -- $72,425,000 of
water pollution control revenue bonds, 1990 Series A, via a
Kidder Peabody group.
   New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority --
$50,625,000 of revenue bonds, Holy Name Hospital Issue,
Series B (AMBAC-insured), via a Dillon Read group.
   New York State Dormitory Authority -- $65 million of
special act school district revenue bonds (FGIC-insured), via
a Lazard Freres group.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN TAXES FREST G.BMW LATAM E.ILA
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
BEVERAGES (BVG)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAPANESE INVESTMENT IN U.S.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Japanese investment in the U.S. is helping revitalize U.S.
manufacturing, the Japan Development Bank said.
   Investments made since the early 1980s should be
appreciated, rather than resented, the bank said in a report
on the role of Japanese manufacturers in the U.S. Ultimately,
Japanese investment will help stop the "hollowing out" of the
U.S. manufacturing sector, the bank's study asserted.
   The Development Bank undertook the report in response to
growing condemnation in the U.S. of Japanese investment. Of
Japanese corporations' overall investments, 80% are made in
developed nations and two-thirds of that in the U.S.
   By investing in local capacity, Japanese manufacturers are
adding to the U.S.'s capital stock and making a long-term
contribution to the nation, the Development Bank said.
                                                                                                       

   COMPENSATION FROM HUNGARY
                                                                                                       

   Hungary said it would compensate people for loss of
personal liberty under communism. A government spokesman said
a compensation bureau would be set up in September to start
handling complaints. "We are talking about compensating those
who lost their personal liberty for political reasons and not
about compensation for lost or nationalized belongings or
real estate," the spokesman said. "I mean those who were
interned, deported or were taken for {hard labor} to the
Soviet Union."
                                                                                                       

   NEW ITALIAN TAXES
                                                                                                       

   The Italian government is increasing the tax on gasoline
by 60 lire (five U.S. cents) a liter, raising the price per
liter of super gasoline to 1,485 lire ($1.23). There are 3.8
liters in a gallon. The government is also raising the price
of automotive diesel oil by 55 lire a liter. The excise tax
on mineral water and beer was raised to 19% from 9%, while
the manufacturing tax for liquor was increased 40%, the
government announced. The revenue from new taxes is expected
to be around 1.925 trillion lire in 1990.
                                                                                                       

   A WARNING FROM MR. DELORS
                                                                                                       

   The creation of new currencies by independence-minded
Soviet republics could be "devastating" for the Kremlin's
attempt to integrate its sickly economy into the global
economy, European Community Chairman Jacques Delors said.
Four of the 15 Soviet republics have said they want to
replace the ruble with their own currencies. Mr. Delors,
wrapping up the first official visit by an EC chairman to the
Soviet Union, said the republics' actions would run counter
to the EC's moves toward a single currency.
                                                                                                       

   CHINESE INFLATION
                                                                                                       

   Inflation in China dropped to its lowest level in five
years in May, when the retail price index climbed only 2.6%,
the State Statistical Bureau said. The average retail-price
increase for the first six months was 3.2%, down from the
25.5% increase for the same period last year, the bureau
said. In the fall of 1988, with inflation running at more
than 30%, China instituted an austerity program to cool an
overheated economy and ease inflation.
                                                                                                       

   BMW'S EAST GERMAN PLANS
                                                                                                       

   West Germany's Bayerische Motoren Werke AG said it would
invest an initial 100 million marks (about $61 million) to
build a factory for large machine tools in Eisenach, East
Germany. BMW, which started operations in Eisenach before
World War II, said it bought the rights to use a piece of
property there and would buy this land for the factory as
soon as the two Germanys have cleared the way for such
cross-border property-ownership arrangements. BMW, which
earlier said it had no intention of making cars in Eisenach
again, said it was putting the tools project there "because
of the availability of qualified labor."
                                                                                                       

   PANAMA'S AILING HEALTH SYSTEM
                                                                                                       

   Panama's state-run health system is near collapse,
government officials and doctors say.
   Three years of political crisis leading up to last
December's downfall of Gen. Manuel Noriega have left
hospitals and health centers throughout the country in
serious disrepair, and a scarcity of medicial supplies has
forced the closing of some operating rooms. "To repair all
hospitals and health centers we would need about $10
million," said Minister of Health Jose Trinidad Castillero.
   A lack of medical supplies, including penicillin and
painkillers, has sometimes forced the closing of operating
rooms. "Each day, more people are going to die who don't have
to . . . because there aren't supplies," said Ruben
Echavarria, the president of an association of Panamanian
doctors.
   The government, deeply in debt and facing a host of other
problems, increased the health budget by 26% over last year
to $101.5 million; but doctors say more money is needed.
Panama has received some foreign donations to help resolve
the crisis, including $1 million promised from Spain.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   East Germany's 62,000 professional soldiers swore a new
oath of allegiance superseding the oath they once swore under
communism. Gone were references to defending the "workers'
and peasants' government against all enemies," alongside
Soviet troops. . . . Spain's Iberia airlines inaugurated its
first nonstop flight from Madrid to Moscow. The twice-weekly
flight goes on to Tokyo.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Stardent Computer
   Fires Co-Chairmen
   In Wake of Suit
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   KUB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWTON, Mass. -- Stardent Computer Inc. said its board of
directors voted to fire Allen H. Michels and Matthew Sanders
as the company's co-chairmen in the wake of their lawsuit
against Kubota Corp., Stardent's largest investor.
   Messrs. Michels and Sanders remain directors of Stardent
under the company's by-laws, although they lose the
co-chairman title. The two men, who co-founded Ardent
Computer Corp., one of the two firms that were merged to form
Stardent, hadn't been active in operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Our terminations are unlawful and retaliatory," Mr.
Michels and Mr. Sanders said in a written statement. "This
compounds the illegal acts alleged in our complaint and we
plan to seek immediate redress in the courts."
   Messrs. Michels and Sanders have sued Kubota for $25
million in damages, charging that the Japanese tractor maker
had conspired to fraudulently obtain Stardent's technology.
   Stardent said that a special board committee formed to
investigate the lawsuit "found the claims to be without
merit."
   Stardent also said that Kubota agreed to invest up to $50
million more in Stardent over the next two years in a series
of transactions that could boost its stake to as much as 30%
from the 22% it holds currently. Kubota has already invested
about $100 million in the company, a maker of graphics
supercomputers.
   In addition, Stardent said, Kubota will take over
continuing development of Stardent's current computer line as
well as final assembly and testing. Those functions had been
done at Stardent's Sunnyvale, Calif. facilities. Kubota
already makes the computers in Japan. Stardent will remain
responsible for marketing the products and will develop a new
product line.
   A spokeswoman said that of roughly 100 Stardent workers in
Sunnyvale, about 75 will be offered jobs by Kubota and most
of the rest will be offered jobs at other Stardent
facilities.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing:
   Kimberly-Clark
   Enlivens Market
   For Toilet Paper
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   KMB
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL-CARE PRODUCTS (HHP)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- There hasn't been much excitement in the
bathroom-tissue business since Mr. Whipple first squeezed the
Charmin on Procter &amp; Gamble Co.'s television commercials in
1964. That's about to change.
   Kimberly-Clark Corp. hopes to blow some life into the
staid market with its new Kleenex-brand toilet tissue. The
immediate impact of the entry last week, according to
industry analysts, could be a fierce round of couponing and
price-cutting. That could enliven what has been a rather
sleepy quest for market share and at least temporarily end
the regular price increases tissue makers have been able to
push through in the past three years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The new tissue -- made with a blow-dry process the company
claims will produce a softer, Kleenex-like tissue -- will
compete head-on with P&amp;G's White Cloud and Charmin, the
market segment leaders with a combined 30% of the $2.9
billion consumer market; Scott Paper Co.'s Cottonelle and
Scott brands; and James River Corp.'s Northern brand.
   But Kimberly-Clark's re-entry into a market it once
abandoned represents a risky thrust into a business without
per-capita consumption growth. "It's not an easy market,"
said George Adler, an analyst for Smith Barney, Harris Upham
&amp; Co.
   However, he noted, Kimberly-Clark has a weapon: the
well-regarded sales force that helped put the company on the
consumer products map with its Huggies disposable diapers and
Kleenex facial tissues. "They'll get their product on the
shelves," said Mr. Adler.
   Kimberly-Clark all but abandoned the bathroom-tissue
market in 1984, when it quit making Kleenex Boutique bathroom
tissue so that it could devote more of its paper-making
capacity to facial tissues and household paper towels, a
spokeswoman said. The company's Kleenex brand facial tissue,
for example, is the market leader, with 40% of sales.
   Technically, Kimberly-Clark never left the bathroom-tissue
market. For the past six years, the company has continued to
sell its Delsey brand, which holds just 0.1% of the market at
the economy end. That segment, consisting mostly of
private-label, generic and institutional brands, has shrunk
to 16.8% of overall bathroom-tissue sales from 18.7% since
1985, while premium bathroom tissues' share jumped to 62%
from 54.4%.
   Still, knocking heads with P&amp;G at the top end of the
market won't be easy. In a business that is growing only as
much as the population grows, any increase in market share
will have to come either from customers abandoning economy
brands or by chipping away at competitors' shares.
   But few analysts are willing to dismiss Kimberly-Clark's
chances just yet. In recent years, the onetime bulk paper
producer has shown an increasing knack for marketing consumer
products. In the mid-1970s, the company's Kimbies brand
disposable diapers were languishing, and company officials
toyed with dropping the product entirely as P&amp;G's Pampers
pulled ahead. Instead, Kimberly-Clark came back in 1978 with
a new brand that featured the catchy Huggies name, an
improved shape and more absorbent filling. And the company
backed it with heavy marketing support. Today, Huggies holds
31% of the throw-away diaper market, compared with Pampers's
26%.
   Kimberly-Clark is expected to spend $25 million to $50
million to introduce its Kleenex brand, stressing the
product's softness, an image enhanced by the well-known brand
name. The "through-dried" process of blow-drying the tissue
produces a softer finish than the roll driers typically used
to remove the water used in papermaking, the company claims.
   But it's doubtful that P&amp;G will yield any bragging rights
on whose tissue is more squeezably soft. "We are very
committed to this category as an important business for us,
and P&amp;G will continue to lead in the market and grow in the
category," a P&amp;G spokesman said. He declined to indicate what
steps the company would take to defend its market position,
which garners about $750 million in annual sales.
   Analysts expect the battle will initially be confined to
the south and central U.S., where Kimberly-Clark is
introducing its product. But it will be fierce. "When
Kimberly-Clark moves into this market, P&amp;G and James River
and Scott are all going to try to cut them off at the knees,"
said Bruce Kirk at S.G. Warburg &amp; Co.
   More extensive couponing and perhaps even out-and-out
price-cutting are possible tactics in the battle. Mr. Kirk
expects increased price promotions, such as
three-for-the-price-of-two bargain packs. Also, the annual
price increases of recent years may grind to a halt, at least
until the market shakes out, analysts said.
   Initially, Kimberly-Clark's market incursion will be
limited by its production capacity, said Brenda Lee Landry,
analyst for Morgan Stanley Co. The company's new Jenks,
Okla., plant, which has been built to produce the toilet
paper, can satisfy only about 5% of the market. "If they take
market share from P&amp;G, it would only be about 1% or 2%," Ms.
Landry extrapolated, until the company commits more plants to
the effort.
   The introduction of Kleenex bathroom tissue, analysts
said, seems to be part of a more aggressive strategy of
new-product development. The company announced Wednesday, for
instance, that it will begin marketing Huggies brand baby
wipes, an extension of its Huggies disposable-diaper line.
The new baby wipes will compete with top brands made by Scott
and by Sterling Drug Inc., a unit of Eastman Kodak Co., and
Johnson &amp; Johnson.
   In the past, they said, the company has been loath to
venture into smaller markets, such as the $350 million
baby-wipes business. Now, it seems more willing to enter
those markets, using them to extend families of products that
bear the same brand name.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Contract Status Is Denied for Vow
   Of Confidentiality by Reporters
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus and Edward Felsenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   SYN LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Minnesota Supreme Court ruled that a reporter's
promise of confidentiality to a news source doesn't
constitute an enforceable contract.
   The ruling overturns a $200,000 verdict against the
state's two biggest newspapers, the St. Paul Pioneer Press
Dispatch and the Minneapolis Star Tribune, whose reporters
told a news source he wouldn't be identified and then were
overruled by their editors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a decision Friday, the court found that a reporter's
promise of confidentiality is given as a moral commitment and
that neither side expects it to constitute a legally binding
contract.
   The court upheld a decision by a lower appeals court
dismissing the plaintiff's claim of fraudulent
misrepresentation and a $500,000 punitive-damage award. The
$200,000 award was for compensatory damages.
   News organizations often depend on confidential sources as
part of the news-gathering process. Lawyers said the issue of
whether a source can collect for breach of contract if a
newspaper breaks such a promise is pending in a handful of
cases around the country.
   The case arose from stories in 1982 about the Minnesota
gubernatorial race. On condition of anonymity, Dan Cohen, a
public-relations professional associated with one candidate,
gave reporters information that another party's candidate had
previously been arrested for shoplifting. Editors at the
papers overruled the reporters because they believed readers
should know the information came from a rival camp. Mr. Cohen
sued the newspapers, alleging he had lost his job because he
was identified as the source of the stories.
   The Minnesota Supreme Court acknowledged that there may be
instances when a confidential source is entitled to seek
damages for a broken promise. But the court found that
because Mr. Cohen's case involved public officals and issues
of public concern the press was entitled to protection under
the First Amendment.
   In a harshly worded dissent, Justice Lawrence Yetka said
the decision "makes this a sad day in the history of a
responsible press in America." Justice Yetka said the media
was misusing the First Amendment to avoid liability and that
news organizations should be compelled to keep their
promises.
   Lawyers for the newspapers contend it would have been
unfair to rule that the press can be sued for breaking a
moral commitment when other people who disclose confidences
revealed in a personal situation, such as office co-workers
or best friends, aren't usually sued for breach of contract,
says John Borger of the Minneapolis law firm of Faegre &amp;
Benson, a lawyer for the Star Tribune.
   Media defense lawyers say an adverse decision would have
enabled plaintiffs to circumvent the press's constitutional
privileges. "What was published was true information. To
carve out a broad exception for contract law would invite
very serious erosion of that First Amendment protection," Mr.
Borger said.
   Elliot Rothenberg of Minneapolis, Mr. Cohen's lawyer, said
that the decision will discourage people from coming forward
with information and that the public may be denied access to
important information. He said he planned to ask the U.S.
Supreme Court to review the case because the Minnesota court
had dangerously expanded the press's First Amendment rights.
   Joel Kramer, executive editor of the Minneapolis Star,
said the case had prompted the newspaper to implement formal
guidelines outlining the circumstances under which a reporter
is allowed to make promises of confidentiality to sources.
Mark Nadler, managing editor of the Pioneer Press, said he
had met with reporters to discuss the issue but no formal
rules have been implemented.
   ---
   WHISTLE-BLOWER at pharmaceutical firm awarded $15 million
in punitive damages.
   A San Jose, Calif., jury found that Syntex Corp., a Palo
Alto-based pharmaceutical manufacturer, had fired a
gastrointestinal-research scientist "in violation of
fundamental public policy." The jury awarded the scientist,
Dr. Gabriel Garay, $15 million in punitive damages and $2.5
million for economic loss and emotional distress.
   Labor lawyers said the award is among the largest ever in
a California wrongful termination case.
   Dr. Garay said he was fired for protesting the company's
alleged failure to disclose adverse side effects of an
anti-ulcer drug it was developing. He says that after he
complained to the Food and Drug Administration, the company
withdrew its application to market the drug.
   James Der, a San Jose lawyer who represented Dr. Garay,
said the jury's verdict may enhance "the attractiveness of
wrongful-employment litigation in California." He said that
in recent years California courts have been reluctant to
award more than wage and benefit compensation to plaintiffs
who allege they were wrongfully fired.
   A spokeswoman for Syntex said Dr. Garay left voluntarily
after he was passed over for a promotion.
   She said the company will ask the judge to reverse the
jury's decision and if he doesn't, the company will appeal
the verdict.
   ---
   LAW FIRMS NEED NOT APPLY for work from the Office of
Thrift Supervision.
   The thrift office, which took over many of the
savings-and-loan supervisory duties of the old Federal Home
Loan Bank Board, intends to handle all new legal matters in
house, OTS director Timothy Ryan said last week during a
meeting with reporters in Dallas.
   "The previous policy was to use outside counsel
frequently," Mr. Ryan said. "Our policy is to use no outside
counsel."
   Under the direction of chief counsel Harris Weinstein, who
joined the OTS on May 7 from the Washington law firm of
Covington &amp; Burling, the 200-member legal staff will be
pursuing civil actions against thrift owners and officers and
other matters.
   "We feel we can do the work as effectively as fee
counsel," said Mr. Ryan, himself a lawyer. "We know how to
try cases."
   ---
   Christi Harlan contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First Fidelity Posts
   Second-Quarter Loss
   Of $150.4 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5C
</SO>
<CO>
   FFB
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAWRENCEVILLE, N.J. -- First Fidelity Bancorp., parent of
New Jersey's largest bank, said it had a loss of $150.4
million in the second quarter, the result of a sweeping
review of the bank's loan portfolio.
   The loss, which contrasted with net income of $21.1
million, or 30 cents a share, a year earlier, reflects a
previously announced $300 million provision for loan losses
and a provision of $13.9 million for possible losses on
foreclosed property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tony Terraciano, chairman and chief executive officer,
said First Fidelity "should begin to return to a more normal
level of profitability in the second half of the year as
credit loss provisions decline."
   The sharp increase in second-quarter loan-loss provisions
is part of an ambitious effort by Mr. Terraciano, who took
over First Fidelity in January, to resurrect the bank's
profit, which has languished for the past few years. Since he
became chairman, he has fired 1,400 of the bank's
approximately 14,000 employees, taken a $23 million charge
and slashed the dividend 40%.
   First Fidelity said total nonperforming assets at June 30
were $839.9 million, up 39% from the previous quarter, and
reserves for loan losses totaled $534.8 million, up 29% from
$413 million. Net charge-offs for the second quarter totaled
$178.2 million.
   Net interest income for the second quarter was $260
million, down $4 million from a year earlier, and the
company's net interest margin -- the difference between what
it pays for funds and what it earns -- shrank to 3.8% from
4.1%. Non-interest income for the second quarter totaled $73
million, down from $79.9 million a year earlier. Overhead
expenses for the quarter were $220.9 million, compared with
$228.1 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   McDonald's Net
   Rises, but Lags
   Expectations
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<CO>
   MCD
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
EARNINGS (ERN)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<LP>
   OAK BROOK, Ill. -- McDonald's Corp. posted a 10% rise in
second-quarter net income, but the gain still failed to meet
Wall Street's earnings expectations, as domestic sales fell
victim to continuing vicious discounting by competitors.
   Apparently acknowledging the bites others in the fast-food
industry are taking out of its sales, the company said it is
weighing new menu strategies to woo customers. Such changes
could mean lower everyday prices on some items.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   McDonald's has sought to resist the discounting trend
spreading through the industry, but after reporting yet
another quarter with lower figures for same-store sales
(stores open at least one year), the company said, "We are
not satisfied with the current sales situation in the U.S."
   Nor were industry analysts. "It was a very disappointing"
quarter, said Michael G. Mueller of Montgomery Securities,
who like most analysts had been expecting McDonald's to
report per-share earnings of at least 60 cents. Instead, it
reported 59 cents a share. Perhaps more significantly, Mr.
Mueller calculated that real same-store sales domestically
have slipped 12% in the past two years.
   Although McDonald's didn't announce its results until just
before the market closed last Friday, its stock quickly fell
more than $1 a share, closing at $36, down $1.50 cents, in
composite New York Stock Exchange trading.
   For the second quarter, McDonald's reported earnings of
$215.8 million, or 59 cents a share, compared with earnings
of $196 million, or 53 cents a share, in the year-earlier
quarter. Revenue rose 9.9% to $1.7 billion from $1.55
billion. Systemwide sales, which include those of franchisees
and affiliates as well as company-operated stores, totaled
$4.6 billion for the latest quarter, up 7% from the
year-earlier figure of $4.3 billion.
   But on a per-store basis, both company and franchisee
units in the U.S. slipped in the latest quarter, continuing a
worrisome trend. Internationally, McDonald's continued to
ring up impressive sales and earnings gains.
   For the six months, net rose 11% to $373.9 million, or
$1.02 a share, from the year-earlier results of $337.7
million, or 90 cents a share, on a greater number of shares
outstanding. Revenue rose 10% to $3.23 billion from $2.93
billion.
   In the quarter, the average company store did about $4,000
less business than a year ago, while the average
franchisee-operated unit had about $10,000 fewer sales than
previously -- despite price increases this past February.
   McDonald's admission it was "considering several menu
strategies" indicates the concern with which the world's
largest fast-food operator views its situation. McDonald's
officials couldn't immediately elaborate on precisely what
those strategies might entail.
   But in its earnings announcement, McDonald's USA president
Edward H. Rensi said that McDonald's was "taking steps to
further enhance value for our customers." He said the company
is advertising its old staple, the Happy Meal for children,
for $1.99. The item, which includes a hamburger, small french
fries and drink, as well as a toy, normally sells for about
$2.29 in most markets.
   "It's a value-package price," a company spokesman said
yesterday. "The idea is to offer families a good value for
children."
   McDonald's has been reluctant to join the discounting
binge, in the belief that customer gains are fleeting. Still,
it has been forced to join the fray in certain markets where
cut-rate meals are the norm. "The main thing the heavy
fast-food user cares about is price," said Mr. Mueller, the
Montgomery analyst.
   PepsiCo Inc.'s Taco Bell unit, has been among the leading
discounters, offering a slate of entrees priced at 59 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   House Panel
   May Cut Funds
   For Weapons
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
07/23/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<CO>
   NOC
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The House Armed Services Committee appears
ready to cancel or sharply slash funding for the Air Force's
B-2 Stealth bomber, the Army's new LH helicopter and a host
of other multibillion dollar proposed weapons.
   Cuts in procurement will account for nearly half of the
overall $24 billion the committee is expected to carve out of
the Bush administration's nearly $307 billion defense budget
request.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The first clear indication of that trend is likely to come
today, when committee chairman Les Aspin (D., Wis.) is
expected to urge the House to eliminate procurement money for
additional B-2 bombers built by Northrop Corp. The move could
save at least $35 billion by the late 1990s.
   Meanwhile, the House panel is ready to eliminate some
125,000 active-duty troops in 1991, but lawmakers and
committee aides said savings from those cuts are likely to
total well under $1 billion for the fiscal year starting Oct.
1. That's primarily because the committee will provide
expensive health-care benefits, temporary housing, relocation
assistance, severance payments and other programs intended to
help cushion the blow for both officers and enlisted
personnel removed from the Pentagon's payroll.
   Rep. Aspin told reporters last Friday that the committee,
which is slated to approve a defense authorization bill at
the end of the month, will rely more heavily on savings from
procurement cutbacks than the Senate's version of the
measure. "We're sympathetic to the problem of" soldiers being
forced out of the military, he said.
   The Senate Armed Services panel envisioned saving nearly
twice as much in military personnel accounts next year,
although it called for fewer troop cuts. The Senate committee
also approved the bulk of the Pentagon's request for the
radar-eluding B-2 and the LH helicopter.
   In the case of the LH, some senior House Republicans are
leading the battle to remove it from the budget entirely.
Moreover, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney in the next few weeks
is expected to propose deep cuts of his own to reduce the
program's $42 billion price tag, according to Pentagon
officials.
   For the radar-eluding B-2, each of which carries an
estimated price tag of $800 million or more, Rep. Aspin's
anticipated attack could be the most serious blow yet. Last
year, the Wisconsin lawmaker played a major role in keeping
the embattled bomber alive. But in the past few months, cost
estimates have skyrocketed and the Air Force has come under
increased criticism on Capitol Hill for failing to
effectively monitor contractor performance or justify the
need for a full fleet of B-2s.
   Rep. John Kasich (R., Ohio), a leader in the drive to kill
the B-2, declined to talk about Rep. Aspin's anticipated
change of heart. But in an interview, he said that at least
207 House members have indicated they support an amendment to
complete flight tests but cut off production after 16 planes.
"The program is literally falling apart," Rep. Kasich
asserted. A Northrop spokesman declined to comment.
   In the face of escalating congressional opposition, the
Air Force is defending the B-2 by emphasizing what it claims
would be a nearly $4 billion penalty for canceling proposed
production plans. In a letter earlier this month, Air Force
Secretary Donald Rice warned members of the House
Appropriations Committee that the government would have to
bear the high cost of closing facilities, compensating
contractors and disposing of tools, parts and other
materials. Temporarily shutting down production for just one
year, Mr. Rice maintained, would increase those costs to $4.6
billion.
   Members of the House committee, however, have challenged
the termination cost estimates released by the Air Force.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Quarterly Earnings Surprises
</HL>
<DATE>
07/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B7
</SO>
<CO>
   TLAB BOW RAL AGC KMAG SFFD SLB PD VC WEST FBT RCM APS HAS
SNPX PCAR PRI IAD GMT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Companies listed below reported quarterly profit
substantially different from the average of analysts'
estimates. The companies are followed by at least three
analysts. Results in parentheses are losses.
   The percent difference compares actual profit with the
30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues
forecasts in the past 30 days. Otherwise, actual profit is
compared with the 120-day estimate.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

                                  (# of analysts)
                         ACTUAL   ---------------       %
  COMPANY NAME            EPS    30-DAY    120-DAY     DIFF.
                                                                                                       

    POSITIVE
                                                                                                       

  Tellabs               $ .17  $ .13 (3)  $ .13  (3)   30.77
  Bowater Inc             .61    .53 (3)    .54  (6)   15.09
  Ralston Purina         1.55   1.42 (4)   1.39 (14)    9.15
  Amer General           1.65    ...        .87  (8)   89.66
  Komag                   .18    ...        .14  (4)   28.57
  SFFed Corp              .60    ...        .51  (4)   17.65
  Schlumbger              .61    ...        .53  (7)   15.09
  Phelps Dodge           3.30    ...       2.88  (8)   14.58
  Vista Chemical         1.93    ...       1.69  (8)   14.20
  West One Bancorp        .82    ...        .74  (3)   10.81
                                                                                                       

    NEGATIVE
                                                                                                       

  First City Bancorp    $ .76  $ .89 (3)  $ .97  (4)   14.61
  Aro Chemical           1.06   1.13 (3)    ...         6.19
  Amer President         (.01)   ...        .02  (5)    ...
  Hasbro                  .15    ...        .28  (6)   46.43
  SynOptics Comm          .34    ...        .57  (8)   40.35
  Paccar                  .54    ...        .89  (5)   39.33
  Promus                  .33    ...        .48  (5)   31.25
  Microcom               (.46)   ...       (.36) (3)    ...
  Inland Steel Ind        .42    ...        .54  (4)   22.22
  GATX                    .75    ...        .95  (3)   21.05

   Source: Zacks Investment Research
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SYNOPTICS COMMUNICATIONS Inc. reported second-quarter
earnings of 34 cents a share, which was 19% greater than the
average estimate of analysts as compiled by Zacks Investment
Research. Because of a database error, SynOptics' earnings
were mistakenly listed as a negative surprise in the
Quarterly Earnings Surprises table in Friday's edition.
   (WSJ July 23, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900723-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900723-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
07/20/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUDGET NEGOTIATORS are considering proposals to curb
itemized tax deductions, including those for
mortgage-interest payments, charitable giving and state and
local tax payments. The idea of restricting itemized
deductions has emerged because of Democratic demands that any
tax package hit the wealthy harder than other groups.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T's profit slipped 6% in the second quarter, reflecting
lower longdistance revenue and sluggish equipment sales. But
the company said it still expects record 1990 earnings.
   ---
   Fujitsu is discussing buying control of International
Computers Ltd., Britain's biggest computer maker. It would be
the first big move by a Japanese computer firm into Europe.
   ---
   PPG Industries agreed to pay New Jersey $80 million to
clean up toxic chromium wastes, as well as a $2.5 million
fine. PPG had been threatened with lawsuits over the wastes.
   ---
   American Express earnings rose only 1.1% in the second
quarter, weighed down by results at its Shearson brokerage
unit. Shearson's revenue slumped 20% in the quarter.
   ---
   The Resolution Trust Corp. said it holds 483 junk-bond
issues in the portfolio it inherited in the S&amp;L crisis.
Analysts said the portfolio may be worth only 50 cents on the
dollar.
   ---
   Grumman said its top executive, John O'Brien, 60, resigned
unexpectedly for personal reasons.
   ---
   Iraq's aggressive stance is raising new questions about
next week's OPEC meeting in Geneva, and about the
organization's future leadership.
   ---
   Unisys' net income plunged 78% in the second quarter, as
its international growth slowed while domestic computer sales
remained depressed.
   ---
   U.S. Shoe said falling sales at its Lenscrafters unit will
result in lower second-quarter earnings. U.S. Shoe's stock
fell $4.25, closing at $18.
   ---
   A bill to shift power to the SEC from commodities
regulators is in trouble, and backers in the Senate are
scrambling to find a compromise.
   ---
   Short interest fell 2.8% on the Big Board in the month
ended July 13, but rose 4.2% on the American Exchange.
   ---
   Three Baby Bell companies,  Nynex, BellSouth and
Ameritech, reported solid gains in second-quarter profits.
But Southwestern Bell said its earnings were flat, and
Pacific Telesis posted an 8.9% decline.
   ---
   Alan Bond said he will resign as chairman of his flagship
company if investors approve a restructuring aimed at saving
the Australian entrepreneur's debt-heavy corporate empire.
   ---
   Two big waste-hauling firms reported higher profits for
the June quarter. Waste Management's net income increased
26%, while Browning-Ferris posted a 16% gain.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 161,990,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2993.81, up 12.13; transportation 1172.63, up 1.10; utilities
203.53, unchanged.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3424.90, off
1.06.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 131.15, up 0.02; spot
index 131.99, off 0.31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
