<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Theater: Al Fresco `Richard III'
   ----
   By Melanie Kirkpatrick
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   New York -- Denzel Washington is a screen actor of some
emotional breadth. He won an Oscar for his portrayal of a
Union soldier in "Glory" and currently is starring as a
single-minded jazz musician in Spike Lee's "Mo' Better
Blues."
   Starring in Shakespeare's "Richard III" (at Central Park's
open-air Delacorte Theater), however, Mr. Washington makes a
tepid villain. His performance is curiously lackluster, as if
his film roles have spoiled him for the more expansive acting
required on stage. There's little hint of the frenzied
ambition that drives Richard to murder after murder. Nor of
the sexual power that sweeps up two women who despise him.
Nor of the clear-minded calculation that directs his
evil-doing. Mr. Washington's rapid-fire delivery suggests
little emotion other than a wish to be home before midnight.
Richard usually is given a hump, but here Mr. Washington
suggests the king's deformity by slumping his shoulders and
keeping his left arm limp and his right leg straight. I kept
my eye on that right leg and am happy to report that during
the evening I was scrutinizing it, it fell out of character
and bent its knee only once.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With a few exceptions, no one else in the cast deserves
more attention than that leg. Joseph Ziegler makes a
stirring, anguished Duke of Clarence, the brother Richard
arranges to have murdered in the Tower of London. Unhappily,
Clarence is dispatched in Act I. There's a long, dry spell
before Armand Schultz makes his appearance in Act V as the
stalwart Richmond, later Henry VII, who defeats the unhorsed
Richard on the battlefield. The women are uniformly dull,
especially Mary Alice as the dowager Queen Margaret, who
delivers her curses with about as much venom as the Queen Mum
declines a second cup of tea.
   This lusterless production is surprising, given that the
director is Robin Phillips, former artistic director of the
Stratford (Ontario) Shakespeare Festival. There must be
better ways to benefit from the U.S.-Canada Free Trade
Agreement.
   ---
   It was with some trepidation that I entered the Ballroom's
tiny theater the other night to see "The Mask, Myth and Magic
of McBride." Jeff McBride is a master magician -- the
youngest recipient of the International Brotherhood of
Magicians' Star of Magic and winner of the Grand Prix Magique
de Monte Carlo. If your everyday, garden-variety stage wizard
can invoke a simple abracadabra to pull a rabbit from a hat,
I thought, there was no telling what was within Mr. McBride's
powers. At the very least, I prayed my notebook would spare
me from any audience-participation stunts. Clearly, a
critic's judgment would be impaired if she was subjected to
the indignity of having a Ping-Pong ball extracted from her
ear.
   I needn't have feared. Mr. McBride, who bills himself as a
"magical artist" or "magical visionary," isn't much
interested in ordinary magic. It's a shame, because when he
is, he produces stunning results. His opening card tricks are
dazzling, partly because he's a skillful illusionist but also
because, without uttering a word, he conjures up an
atmosphere that's eerie and elegant. Dressed in black and
wearing a skeleton-white mask borrowed from Japan's classic
Noh drama, he moves with reptilian grace to the accompaniment
of discordant electronic music. Mr. McBride is a splendid
stylist, often incorporating flamboyant elements from the
Japanese Kabuki theater -- a floor-length red lion's mane,
for instance. His trademark is masks, and a skit in which he
keeps removing one to reveal another is spooky and droll.
   The problems begin when he takes off his final mask and
launches into nutty New Age musings on the magic within us
all. A sampling: "Magic is the power that strips even the
masks that separate us," he intones in a thin voice that's
not suited for pomposity. Or, "Today's world needs magic, and
to heal this world we need as many magicians as possible."
   This New Age section clogs more than half of the show, and
Mr. McBride cheats a bit when it comes to the magic, letting
technology take over. His "temple of astral light," for
instance, owes its construction not to the skills of an
illusionist but to those of a lighting designer. In the
course of his solemn pieties, Mr. McBride manages to ply a
few of the ordinary tricks of the magician's trade -- he eats
some fire, makes a white dove appear from nowhere,
intertwines some metal rings -- but the stylish mood of the
opening scenes is gone, and the temptation to giggle is
great. For my part, I kept imagining what Shirley MacLaine
would look like sawed in two. Which half would be Shirley and
which of her previous incarnations would inhabit the other
half? I'd vote for the infant flown by an eagle to Africa.
   ---
   If I escaped being sawed in two in Mr. McBride's magic
show, it was only to be cut into little pieces by "Light Up
the Sky" (Roundabout), Moss Hart's hilarious savaging of
theater critics. Maybe I'm a masochist, but I found it an
entirely pleasurable experience.
   The plot takes place in an actress's hotel suite on the
opening night of a new play, just before the curtain rises,
just after it falls, and just after the first reviews come
in. The performances are all more than a bit outlandish,
which suits this zany play just fine. Notable are Charles
Keating, an accomplished Shavian actor, as the play's
histrionic director, and Bill McCutcheon in a cameo as a
drunk, stagestruck Shriner.
   Moss Hart was a virtuoso of the American theater; his
career as director and playwright encompasses some of the
greatest musicals, comedies and plays of this century. To
name just a few of his successes, he directed "My Fair Lady"
and "Camelot" and, with collaborator George S. Kaufman, wrote
nine plays, including "The Man Who Came to Dinner" and "You
Can't Take It With You." "Light Up the Sky," a solo effort by
Hart in 1948, is only half as witty and half as wacky as his
collaborations with Kaufman, but half of wonderful is still
pretty terrific.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Thanks to Saddam
   The Arabs
   Outgrow Arabism
   ----
   By Abdulaziz H. Fahad
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   RIYADH -- One of the prime casualties of the Gulf crisis
is the ideal and illusion of Arabism. Although the "end" of
Arabism was proclaimed by some scholars a long time ago, it
took today's events in the sands of Arabia to confirm what
had been only an intellectual insight. In crises past the
governing elites in the Arab world shuddered at the prospect
of testing the loyalty of their citizens to what was
perceived to be fragile nation-states. But today the most
impressive manifestation of the Gulf crisis is the resilience
of these modern creations and their immediate and successful
claim to the loyalty of their citizens.
   Ever since the end of World War I and the emergence of the
modern Arab state system, Arab intellectuals (and presumably
the Arab masses) have challenged the new arrangements as the
unacceptable schemes of outside powers designed to fragment
the Arab nation. The creation of Israel and its dominance
over its Arab neighbors only confirmed that suspicion. Hence
the pressure to keep the facade of Arab unity and its
impressive manipulation by genuine Arab nationalists and
dangerous demagogues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ruled by the Ottoman Empire for several centuries, the
Arabs seized the opportunity during World War I and struggled
to liberate themselves; thus the famed Arab Revolt and
Lawrence of Arabia. The revolt sought to unite the Arab lands
east of the Suez in a kingdom with the Sharif of Mecca at the
helm. The colonial powers had other plans and these lands
were divided into the existing states.
   But the dream lived on. During the 1940s Arab
intellectuals elaborated the theory of Arabism and several
Arabist movements and parties emerged, with Arab unity as
their legitimating ideology. Nasser's ascension to power in
Egypt in 1952 gave Arabism and Arab unity a powerful voice.
By direct appeal to the Arab masses through Cairo Radio,
Nasser terrorized other Arab leaders and threatened their
very existence, especially those who dared to be associated
with foreign powers (e.g., the Baghdad Pact).
   Other adherents to Arabism, namely the Baath Party,
eventually managed to achieve power in Syria and Iraq with
the conspicuous slogan of Arab "unity, freedom and
socialism." While they were exhorting the Arabs to unite,
they spent their energies scheming against each other.
   The 1950s witnessed the first concrete attempt to unite
the Arab states with union between Egypt and Syria, and other
efforts followed. All failed. But the illusion of Arab unity
still gripped the Arab imagination and few challenged its
premise, at least in public. The recent events in the Gulf
effectively buried this pretense.
   Saddam Hussein has resorted to the venerable cliches of
Arab unity to justify his grab of Kuwait, not an exceptional
matter in contemporary Arab history. What is surprising is
the reaction of those targeted for this forced union. As Arab
"nationalists," the Kuwaitis should have been only glad to
unite their land with another Arab country as one step toward
the ultimate unification of the Arab states.
   More significant are the events taking place in Saudi
Arabia. Every leader in the modern history of the Arab world
dreaded the time when he would have to ally himself openly
with a foreign power against another Arab country, let alone
cast his lot with the U.S., and the Saudis were no exception.
This fear was justifiable. The perceived fragility of most
Arab states ("tribes with flags" as they are contemptuously
dismissed) was an obvious factor, but probably not the
decisive one. Most Arab leaders very likely had to question
and fear the loyalty of their citizens to these "artificial"
states.
   The rhetoric of Arabism governed the general discourse in
intellectual, popular and governmental pronouncements and
therefore any conflict with an Arab country, especially one
that is carrying the mantle of Arab unity, became
problematic. Resort to overt Western military assistance was
beyond the pale. It was a sure way for a leader to be
devoured by his own rising masses in the cause of Arabism.
   It is clear today that this is not the case. Saudi Arabia
has openly asked for military help from the U.S. and there is
very little fear of internal dissent on this issue.
Surprisingly, there has actually emerged a solid consensus in
Saudi Arabia supporting the leadership's decision to invite
American troops. This is of fundamental historical
importance. For in the past some Arab countries did ask for
Western military support (e.g., Lebanon and Jordan in the
1950s), but the assistance was aimed, to a large extent, at
internal dissent fomented by the dreams and aspirations of
Arabism.
   Now thanks to Saddam Hussein, the dream (or nightmare) of
Arab unity is over. When the real test came, the peoples of
the Gulf and other Arabs opted for the continuation of their
states and spurned the embrace of Arabism. Even those
supporting Saddam's occupation of Kuwait seem somehow to be
enthusiastic for Kuwait's inclusion in Iraq but careful
enough not to press for the unification of their own
countries with Iraq, a point not lost to those on Saddam's
hit list.
   Regardless of what else we might learn from the Gulf
crisis, one lesson is already clear. Gone are the days when a
demagogue over Cairo Radio could arouse the Arab masses
against their own governments. Maybe Saddam's resort to
Islamic slogans is a recognition on his part of the
bankruptcy of the idea of Arabism, Palestinian demonstrations
notwithstanding.
   More important, the resilience of the Gulf states may
finally provide the needed assurance for the Arab world to
join the democratic revolutions of the 1980s. Secure in the
knowledge that their people's loyalty could not be
manipulated by outside forces in the name of Arabism, one
hopes that the perennially insecure Arab regimes may turn
inward and start the process of democratization. With such a
result many an Arab might actually be grateful for Iraq's
blunder in Kuwait.
   ---
   Mr. Fahad is a Saudi attorney.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   NBC to Cut Pay
   To Affiliates 10%
   As Ratings Decline
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   GE CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The NBC television network is cutting annual
payments to its 200-plus affiliated stations by 10%, or about
$15 million, blaming the cutback on declining ratings.
   The severity of the reduction in so-called affiliate
compensation was unexpected, given the past five years of
prime-time dominance by National Broadcasting Co., a General
Electric Co. unit and the most profitable network by far. "We
expected a reduction of about 5%," said Eric Bremner,
president of the NBC affiliate board.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The cuts are to begin in January 1991 and are a result of
the network's continuing shortfall in delivering the key
demographic group of viewers ages 18 to 49, a primary target
for advertisers. Moreover, some broadcast executives predict
the cuts could be increased if NBC's ratings decline further
when the new television season starts in mid-September.
   NBC has said it faces a $200 million shortfall in
projected ad revenue because of declining ratings this year.
In March, NBC added about 14 30-second commercials in prime
time to compensate advertisers for failing to deliver as many
viewers as the network had guaranteed.
   NBC pays about $146 million annually to its affiliated
stations in return for their airing network shows and
providing NBC with a national audience that can be sold to
advertisers. The compensation system dates back more than 50
years and began with radio.
   Compensation has been a key element -- and in recent years
a major point of dissension -- in the network-affiliate
relationship. For instance, when a local station contemplates
switching network affiliation, the threatened network will
generally increase the compensation payment as incentive to
forgo the switch.
   Some NBC affiliates will see decreases of 15%. NBC
wouldn't elaborate.
   According to Mr. Bremner of the affiliate board, NBC
wanted to eliminate compensation entirely about two years
ago. But NBC met resistance from the affiliates and later
devised a formula to determine the amount of compensation to
be paid. The amount of compensation was to be based on the
average for the network's ratings performance during
February, May and November.
   NBC's ratings declined 3% in November, dropped 2% in
February -- and plunged a surprising 25% in May. "The network
admitted it screwed up" by airing too many repeats of
prime-time shows, Mr. Bremner said. The overall decline in
NBC's prime-time ratings for the three months came to 10%,
and so affiliates' compensation will fall by a like amount.
   "Compensation is still a vital part of the
network-affiliate partnership," said John Damiano, NBC's
senior vice president of affiliate relations, who confirmed
the plan to roll back affiliate payments, "and we see it as
an investment."
   Mr. Damiano said compensation had increased annually until
1989 and that "some stations could actually be in for an
increase, although they'll be the exception."
   To make up for lost revenue from NBC, some affiliates
might forgo airing some NBC programs in favor of syndicated
shows that let the stations keep more of the advertising
revenue instead of having to share spots with NBC. For
example, KYW, the NBC affiliate in Philadelphia, won't
broadcast "Hull Street High," a new NBC series airing Sundays
at 7 p.m., and will instead air syndicated repeats of "21
Jump Street."
   "Pre-emptions are a danger here," said Mr. Bremner, "and I
regret it. It hurts the whole network-affiliate
relationship."
   Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s television network, now No. 2
and gaining on NBC in prime time, particularly among young
adults, isn't planning to reduce or change its compensation
payments.
   Nor is CBS Inc.'s network, in third place, reducing
compensation. But CBS is asking its affiliates to broadcast
its two-hour morning news program and its lackluster
late-night programming if the stations are to avoid a
decrease in the annual payments.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Saudi, Iraqi Pilots
   Play a Daily Game
   Of Cat and Mouse
   ---
   Meanwhile, Desert Kingdom
   Is Bracing for the Worst
   And Paying a Hefty Price
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   AN AIR FORCE BASE, Saudi Arabia -- Saudi and Iraqi pilots
are probing each other's defenses, coming within fighting
range of each other near the Kuwaiti border.
   Brig. Gen. Turki bin Nasser, commander of a large Royal
Saudi Air Force base (which cannot be named under press
censorship rules here) calls it a game of electronic "cat and
mouse that goes on almost every day."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We see them. We lock on them and they turn around and
go," he told a group of reporters. "Locking on," in pilots'
jargon, is the first step in preparing radar-guided missiles
to fire at an enemy plane.
   Gen. Nasser's remarks came during a tour of this base,
where reporters saw chemical-weapons detectors positioned in
doorways and U.S.-built F-15 fighters in massive, bunker-like
hangars built to withstand bombings and chemical-weapons
attacks.
   As an unprecedented armada of U.S. forces continues to
arrive here, tension in the Saudi government is palpable. A
Saudi civilian official said the government has begun buying
gas masks and other gear to protect people who live in the
Eastern Province near major oil fields from a
chemical-weapons attack. "We are basically preparing for the
worst possibilities," he said.
   Gen. Nasser said that one result of the Persian Gulf
crisis will be a permanent enlargement of the Saudi military.
While some officials are talking about a draft, Gen. Nasser
said he felt the enlargement could be carried out with
volunteers. "We don't really need to go to a draft. If we
call, they will come."
   King Fahd, the ruler of this desert kingdom, already has
called for the opening of recruitment centers for volunteers
who want to join the Saudi armed forces.
   Unofficial estimates of the cost of the crisis to the
Saudi government range as high as $9 billion to $11 billion,
counting extra costs of weaponry, logistics support, housing
for some 100,000 Kuwaiti refugees being put up in hotels at
government expense, and the projected effect on the Saudi
economy over the next three months.
   Prince Abdullah A. al-Assaf, a pipe-smoking engineer who
heads the government-owned Saudi Petrochemical Co., said he
had no precise estimates. "Nobody sat down to figure out how
much this is costing," he said, explaining that the kingdom
is prepared to do what needs to be done to protect its people
and the large expatriate community here.
   "This has hurt the whole world. Our economy has been hurt
tremendously also," he said. The prince, who oversees the
development of Yanbu and Jubail, two new industrial port
cities, worries that foreign businessmen who had agreed to
undertake joint ventures there with the Saudis may pull out
if the country seems unsafe.
   Recently, the prince said, he had scheduled 12 meetings to
discuss joint ventures and 10 of them were canceled.
   He and other Saudi officials say Iraq's President Saddam
Hussein is forcing the kingdom to refocus its spending on
defense. Saddam Hussein, they assert, spent as much as $120
billion over the last 10 years on his military, while the
Saudi government has spent much of its oil wealth on social
programs and non-military development.
   Another "cost" to the Saudi government has been an
invasion of the kingdom by a multinational force of more than
200 reporters, photographers and television crewmen. The
media circus is new to the privacy-loving Saudis, who have
refused to allow foreign news organizations to have a
permanent base here.
   Late yesterday, Saudi officials said they were considering
revoking many of the visas they have issued to reporters
during the crisis and were discussing the resumption of a
much smaller pool of news organizations that would operate
under tight rules imposed by the Pentagon.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stock Markets Plunge as Gulf Tension Rises
   ---
   World Stock Markets:
   German Market
   Leads Tumble
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP FREST CANDA JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   European stock markets tumbled as rumors crackled across
telephone and Telex lines that hostilities had broken out
between the U.S. and Iraqi air forces and that freed-up
Kuwaiti investment funds had begun dumping European shares.
   Leading the decline was the German stock market, whose DAX
Index of 30 blue chips plummeted 85.73 points, or 5.2%, to
1549.96. The Paris Bourse's CAC 40 Index fell 4.1% to
1546.51, the Zurich Stock Exchange's Credit Suisse Index
declined 3.7% to 547.7, and London's Financial TimesStock
Exchange 100 Share Index retreated 2.3% to 2108.1.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even Mexico's stock market, which normally responds
positively to higher oil prices, sank 2.8% yesterday.
   Meanwhile the Nikkei Index of 225 issues on the first
section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange closed at 26297.84, off
0.7%.
   In Tokyo Wednesday, the Nikkei index sank another 1018.87
points to close the morning session at 25278.97.
   Peter Davies, vice president at Nomura Securities Co. in
New York, predicted that the downturn will spread to Tokyo
today, if only because on Tuesday Japanese stock-index
futures closed at a discount to the cash market in Tokyo
trading. "The implication is that this may induce selling
pressure at the market opening in Tokyo on Wednesday," he
   Several markets opened higher in Europe, only to come
tumbling down on a rumor -- later denied by the U.S. -- that
Iraq had shot down an American fighter plane. Stocks --
especially in Germany -- also fell on unconfirmed rumors that
the London-based Kuwait Investment Office, which reports to
and manages about $30 billion for the Kuwait Investment
Authority, had its funds unfrozen and that Kuwait Investment
Office was unloading some of its large stock holdings in such
companies as Metallgesellschaft AG, Daimler-Benz AG and
Hoechst AG.
   In addition, equity markets throughout Europe were
undermined by a statement by the editor of Jane's Soviet
Intelligence Review that Iraq had moved Russian-designed
ballistic missiles into Kuwait where they could threaten
Saudi oil fields and cities as well as U.S. troops. These
reports, which circulated earlier this month, largely were
disclosed yesterday, after Far Eastern markets closed.
   "These things become self-feeding," said Dennis Elliott,
head of U.K. institutional equity sales at UBS Phillips &amp;
Drew Ltd. in London. "Sellers make sellers; the man in the
street reacts to headlines."
   So edgy are world stock markets currently, that "any rumor
is good at the moment," said John Wilson, head of corporate
dealing at James Capel &amp; Co. in London. When word spread that
a U.S. fighter plane had been downed, the London market
plunged 40 points, or nearly 2%, "in a couple of minutes," he
said. "And it never recovered. It tried to in the afternoon,
but because of the fact that Wall Street was going down in a
pretty straight line, it was never able to."
   Rosalind Altman, chief international strategist and
director of European equities at N.M. Rothschild
International Asset Management Ltd. in London, predicted:
"Markets will be volatile around a declining trend; it's too
early to call the bottom to any of these markets."
   With the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the world-wide
response to it, she said: "Things have changed, and they
haven't changed for the better. There will come a time soon
that there are very good bargains, but now is not a good time
to go piling in."
   The specter of rising oil prices, rising inflation and
higher interest rates have taken a steep toll on global stock
markets since Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's army invaded
Kuwait on Aug. 2.
   "Investor sentiment focuses on the fear of the unknown,
and the big unknown is oil prices due to the geopolitical
situation in the Middle East," said Gilles Bazy-Sire, a first
vice president at Delahaye-Ripault S.A., the brokerage
subsidiary of Societe Generale in Paris.
   From the day before the attack through yesterday, the
German market has fallen 18.1%, Japan's 14.7%, Britain's
9.9%, France's 21.1%, Switzerland's 16.5%, and Italy's 18.3%.
Among smaller markets, Austria's is off 24.1%, Singapore's
19.8%, Belgium's 14.7%, Mexico's 14%, and Hong Kong's 12.4%.
   "The global stock village is under pressure," said Mr.
Elliott of UBS.
   With the 40% rise in oil prices in the past three weeks,
many analysts are now predicting higher interest rates in
many countries and a floor on how far rates can recede in
others, such as the U.S., where economies were already weak.
Higher interest rates squeeze corporate profits and raise
production costs.
   They also increase the attraction of fixed-income
investments. For instance, three-month Euromark deposits
currently yield 8.44%, while German shares yield about 3.5%.
"You're going to need a lot of persuasion to stay in equities
over bonds," said Mr. Elliott.
   Traders, analysts and investors in Europe keep telling
themselves that some recovery -- at least a mini-bounce --
must occur at some stage. "But," said Mr. Wilson of James
Capel, "everyone is waiting with baited breadth to see what
{President Bush} will do. The feeling in the market is that
the sooner he strikes the better." Mr. Wilson added that what
traders and investors fear most is "that it will turn into a
three, six, nine month period of attrition."
   "Good quality stocks appear to be getting cheaper by the
day," added Mr. Wilson. "People were saying the {London}
market was unlikely to fall below 2380 10 days ago; then the
feeling a week ago was that there'll be good resistance at
2200. Now the market's on the verge of breaking 2100."
   Mr. Bazy-Sire of Delahaye-Ripault said that the difference
between current market conditions and those of the global
stock market crash in October 1987 was that "there is no
feeling of panic." Yet he conceded that "we've been losing up
to 4% or 5% nearly every day."
   Not all problems can be traced to the Middle East crisis
and higher oil prices. Germany's stock market, for instance,
has been plagued by the speed and scope of East Germany's
economic disintegration and the high cost it spells for West
Germany.
   In addition, political rifts in East Germany are adding to
the economic nightmare that has seen unemployment there rise
by 25,000 people a week and July retail sales collapse by 44%
from a year earlier. Analysts now predict that Bonn may have
to come up with nearly double the 30 billion German marks
($19.2 billion) originally allocated to cover East Germany's
budget deficit in the year's second half.
   "This isn't what the market wants to hear; it keeps up
interest rates and reduces confidence in the government,"
said Heino Roland, a stock market analyst at Bank Julius Baer
in Frankfurt.
   George Gabriel, head of foreign-equity trading at ABD
Securities, a unit of Dresdner Bank AG in New York, noted
that at 1549.96, the DAX Index is fast approaching the level
at which it stood just before the Berlin Wall came down in
November: 1441.79. "One more day like this {and} we'll be
there," he said.
   "We've passed through 1600, meaning that we are breaking
through support levels we thought could be held," said Nigel
Longley, a broker for Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. "There are
no buyers, and traders won't take any positions on their
books," he said.
   Some of this puzzles analysts. Mr. Gabriel, for instance,
points out that prospects for economic growth in West Germany
are good. "We are forecasting a 10% increase in earnings for
BMW, yet the stock is now at a five-year low," he said. "It's
absolutely insane."
   Similarly, Mr. Bazy-Sire of Delahaye-Ripault noted that
France consumes 30% less oil now than it did at the time of
the first oil crisis in 1973 and that 75% of the country's
electricity is currently supplied by nuclear power. In
addition, he noted that the government has stated that
everyone -- not just industry -- will share the pain of
higher oil prices this time.
   Traders said the steepness of the decline in Continental
European markets yesterday was exacerbated by low trading
volume and foreign investors -- particularly American and
British institutions -- dumping German, Swiss, French and
Austrian shares. German brokers said Japanese institutions
also were selling German stocks.
   "A lot of the selling is cross-border; it's rather
reminiscent of the days immediately after the October 1987
crash," said Mr. Elliott of UBS. "You are seeing U.S. fund
managers look at their portfolios and question why they own
certain stocks." Moreover, by selling British and German
stocks now, U.S. fund managers can lock in currency gains
from the dollar's fall.
   Investors are especially dumping stocks of European
companies that do a lot of business in the U.S. because the
falling dollar is expected to damage their profits.
   "These decisions aren't so much to repatriate money, but
they are sales based on a lack of logic to own. And the
locals aren't buying," said Mr. Elliott. A German broker
added that German banks weren't buying either. "When they
don't come in and buy for their own book and you have heavy
selling, you're going to have an ugly {West German} market,"
said one.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                    % This
                                 Aug 20    Aug 17     Year
                                                                                                       

 U.S. .........................  303.2      302.7   -  6.7
 Britain ......................  640.8      647.1   - 11.1
 Canada .......................  385.4      385.6   - 10.9
 Japan ........................ 1120.9     1124.5   - 32.3
 France .......................  453.3      467.8   - 20.0
 Germany ......................  264.5      269.2   -  7.3
 Hong Kong .................... 2236.0     2290.8   +  6.6
 Switzerland ..................  191.0      194.0   - 13.5
 Australia ....................  313.9      315.2   -  5.2
 World index ..................  478.1      480.2   - 15.7
   (See related story: "Tuesday's Markets: DJIA off 52.48;
Bond Prices Sag" -- WSJ Aug. 22, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   Law May Soon Ease Access
   To Captioned TV for Deaf
   ----
   By Rodney Ferguson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   ZE TCSFY SANYY ITT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- In a political victory for the deaf and
hard-of-hearing, a law putting captioned television in reach
of far more Americans is nearing reality.
   The Senate last month passed the Television Decoder
Circuitry Act, which would require that all TV sets sold
after July 1, 1993, be equipped with a built-in chip allowing
the sets to be activated to decode and display closed
captioning.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Though some economists and industry experts question the
need to have all televisions equipped with the chips, House
approval is expected after Congress's August recess.
   The chip also represents a technological advance.
Currently, a small decoder box similar to a TV cable-system
box is necessary to decode the captioning signal, which
accompanies 400 hours of cable-system programming a week, at
the most.
   With decoding capability, words appear on the bottom of
the television screen, letting viewers read the narrative or
dialogue as they watch the pictures.
   Although more than 15 million Americans have some degree
of hearing loss, only about 300,000 of the decoding boxes are
currently in use, according to the National Captioning
Institute in Leesburg, Va. Advocates for the deaf say the
cost of the decoders -- each sells for about $160 or more --
and the stigma of using them have held down purchases.
   So has a lack of full captioning programming, especially
for breaking news stories. Last October, when ABC-TV already
had its equipment in San Francisco to cover the World Series,
its coverage of the Bay Area earthquake also provided the
first simultaneous or "real-time" captioned coverage of a
breaking news event that many hard-of-hearing Americans had
ever experienced.
   "It was the first time in 25 years that I had watched an
emergency situation unfold on TV and be able to understand
what was happening," says King Jordan, the deaf president of
Gallaudet University here, the nation's only university for
the deaf.
   Requiring that the captioning capability be built right
into the TV set is expected to widen the demand for
closed-captioning. "Those people who might never have bought
a decoder are more likely to give it a shot now," says Larry
Goldberg, director of the Caption Center of WGBH public TV in
Boston.
   "Because the sheer number of users will increase the
number of hours and programs that are closed-captioned, it'll
make sense both cost-wise and program-wise," adds Dr. Roslyn
Rosen, president of the National Association of the Deaf in
Silver Spring, Md. "Many hearing non-English speaking people
will also come to depend on captioning as a means for
acquiring English skills," she says.
   Even though the chips won't be required until 1993, some
companies are pushing to get such TV sets on the market
before then. One of them is Zenith Electronics Corp.,
Glenview, Ill., the only remaining independent U.S.
manufacturer of television sets. "There is a whole new market
out there," says Bruce Huber, Zenith's vice president of
marketing. Zenith hopes to reach that market first.
   Thomson Consumer Electronics Inc., a subsidiary of
French-based Thomson S.A., says it is working on its own
version of the decoder chip. A unit of Sanyo Electric Co.,
which also is reported to be working on its version of the
chip, declined to answer inquiries.
   Specifications for the chip proved a sticking point in the
original legislative draft. The industry claimed that the
language would virtually mandate purchase of a chip that the
National Captioning Institute paid ITT Corp. $1 million to
develop. The institute, a nonprofit organization, hopes to
recoup its investment through a 5% royalty from the sale of
each ITT chip to TV manufacturers. The bill was revised to
let companies buy their chips from anyone or develop them on
their own.
   The legislation seems headed for sure approval, partly
because interest groups are putting legislators under more
pressure to answer the needs of those with physical
impairments, as reflected in recent passage of the
far-reaching Americans with Disabilities Act.
   An official of the Electronic Industries Association, a
Washington-based trade group, angered some senators on the
subcommittee responsible for the decoder bill when he
complained that the new chip would hurt poor TV buyers by
making sets more costly; estimates of price-tag rises range
from $5 to $25. The senators criticized the industry for
putting profits before concerns about access for the
handicapped.
   After negotiating to delay the date for requiring the
chip, the EIA signed on to the legislation.
   Some economists question the idea of including the chip in
every TV set, regardless of whether the buyer wants access to
captioning. Kenneth Flam, an economist at the Brookings
Institution, says the current legislation imposes a hidden
tax on both the consumer and the producer. "It doesn't look
like a tax, but it is nonetheless -- people are paying. The
goal is laudable, but perhaps it's not the most efficient
mechanism."
   Mr. Flam says it would be more efficient to place a small
surcharge on every TV set, with the proceeds going toward
purchases of the external decoding box. Another option would
be for the federal government to subsidize the purchase of
the box decoders. But advocates of the legislation argue that
without the economies of scale derived by mass-producing the
chip, the costs would be prohibitive.
   Marketing analysts are unsure about what impact the
chip-equipped TV sets will have on sales. Consumers are very
cost-conscious when choosing a TV set, says Julian Menear,
senior vice president of Young Capital Group of Chicago, but
the higher production costs could be offset by increased
demand. "There are many different markets and uses for
televisions with subtitles -- translation, maybe a ticker,
maybe advertising," he says.
   Adds Gallaudet's Mr. Jordan, "TV is a sound-based medium
with nice visuals to make it pleasant. Captioning gives us
access to the information."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rule of Law:
   Jogger Case Shows Confession
   Is Good for More Than the Soul
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   For once, the Rev. Al Sharpton has it right. The three
young men who raped and nearly pummeled to death the jogger
in Central Park almost certainly should have gotten off.
Should have, that is, in the sense that without their
confessions there would have been almost no hard evidence
against them. Should have, because under the rules of our
Mirandaized justice system, it is amazing that there were
actual confessions, to police, on videotape.
   The twin set of 23-inch Sony Trinitron monitors transfixed
the jurors during the trial. One juror signaled the
importance of the videotapes when he said that if it weren't
for the time stamps on the tapes to help locate important
parts of the confessions, the jury may never have reached a
verdict. As it was, jurors watched one of the confessions
five times during deliberations. "We knew we couldn't give
up," another juror said, "even if we had to watch the tapes
10 times."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The jurors were understandably persuaded by the
confessions. "We charged her. We got her on the ground.
Everybody started hitting her and stuff," Antron McCray said.
"Everybody stomping and everything . . . I grabbed one arm,
some other kid grabbed her legs and stuff. Then we all took
turns getting on top of her." Raymond Santana's tape
described the attack in even more horrifying detail.
   Lawyers for the defendants claimed the defendants had
somehow been coerced into confessing. One said a confession
should be suppressed because no lawyer was present as
juvenile rules require; the defendant had given the police a
fake ID saying he was 16. One argued that his grandmother
didn't understand the Miranda warning even though it was
given in Spanish. One said he was coerced "by the promise to
go home." The judge denied these claims, which could reappear
in any appeal.
   The Central Park trio might well have walked free if the
jury hadn't heard the confessions. The case against them was
remarkable for the near total absence of any physical
evidence individually linking them to the jogger. No weapon,
semen, blood, hair or footprints gave clear evidence. This
crime may have been so gruesome and committed by so many that
laboratory wizardry failed.
   The jogger trial is a reminder that forensic tools cannot
replace confession as the single best way of getting at the
truth. This is especially true in serious crimes where, as
here, no witnesses are left to testify except the criminals
themselves.
   Despite Miranda, the Constitution says nothing about
chilling voluntary confessions, and there is Judge Benjamin
Cardozo's famous rebuke of the idea that "the criminal is to
go free because the constable blundered." Other countries
protect rights against self-incrimination and unreasonable
searches while still allowing juries to consider truthful
evidence. This is why the revolution in the federal and state
courts during the past 30 years to suppress evidence,
including voluntary confessions, has been a dangerous
judicial conceit.
   It's pure luck that these three fell through the tight
netting of case law that makes voluntary confessions so hard
for the police to get. Recidivists in New York avoid any
temptation to confess under People v. Rogers (1979), which
prohibits police from even questioning a suspect if they know
he has a lawyer in another case.
   When Sen. Arlen Specter (R., Pa.) was a prosecutor in the
1960s, he estimated that 90% of people arrested for crimes in
Philadelphia made statements to the police before Miranda and
similar cases. Afterward, he estimated, the number fell to
about 40%. (As a senator, Mr. Specter has opposed reforming
Miranda.) Another study at the University of Pittsburgh Law
School found that the proportion of suspected killers and
robbers who confessed fell to 30% from 60% after Miranda.
   Interestingly, these court-ordered procedures have become
so ingrained that an American Bar Association study in 1988
found that a "strong majority of those surveyed --
prosecutors, judges, and police officers -- agree that
compliance with Miranda does not present serious problems for
law enforcement." There may be few cases that go to trial
only to be defeated by court rulings to suppress evidence,
but prosecutors aren't idiots. There is a huge number of
cases they settle or drop because they know key evidence will
be suppressed. When prosecutors decide not to bring felony
drug cases, one study found, 30% of the time it was because
of search-and-seizure problems.
   The great secret about the exclusionary rule is that it
has been overturned by legislation. The 1968 Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act responded to Miranda, which was
decided in 1966, by instead telling federal judges to apply a
five-point test to see if a confession was voluntary or
coerced. If it was ruled voluntary, then the jury would get a
special instruction to give the confession the weight "it
deserves under all the circumstances."
   This legislative reversal of Miranda, however, has been a
dead letter. President Johnson refused to enforce the law
because then-Attorney General Ramsey Clark preferred the
judge-made rules. This is a costly lost opportunity.
Wisconsin Court of Appeals Judge Ralph Adam Fine argues in
his book, "Escape of the Guilty," that this voluntariness
test makes a lot more sense than blunt technicalities barring
evidence. "Law enforcement throughout this country has
changed" since the 1960s, he says. "We are generations away
from the age when, in some jurisdictions, the `third degree'
was tolerated or even encouraged."
   Robert Morgenthau, the veteran Manhattan district attorney
whose office recorded the confessions and won the Central
Park jogger case, makes another point about videotaping,
which he calls the "most significant advance in law
enforcement in 20 years." This is that Miranda makes even
less sense now that jurors "can see the defendants themselves
and draw their own conclusions about whether or not a
confession was coerced."
   Former Attorney General Clark offers a freeze frame of the
liberal mind-set that dismissed an increase in crime because
of the exclusionary rule. In his 1970 book, "Crime in
America," Mr. Clark begins a chapter on confessions with
these words: "The history of confessions is full of torture,
treachery and lies." So much so, he says, that confessions
should be avoided. "Confessions also contain the same
psychological satisfactions that derive from punishment," he
wrote. "Such an impulse does not derive from a desire for
truth. It demeans human dignity. . . . Human dignity is the
central issue of our time."
   Here's a debate topic: Did the convictions of the Central
Park thugs add to or subtract from "human dignity"? All those
who think the verdict serves justice need to understand that
until the exclusionary rule is abolished, convictions through
confessions will be rare victories.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Waxman Industries
   Says Net Income Fell
   36% in 4th Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WAX
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   BEDFORD HEIGHTS, Ohio -- Waxman Industries Inc. expects to
report that fiscal fourth-quarter net income fell 36% to $1.4
million, or 14 cents a share, largely as a result of higher
interest expenses, said Armond Waxman, president and co-chief
executive.
   However, operating profit for the quarter ended June 30
rose to $9 million from $7.8 million. In the year-earlier
period, the wholesaler of plumbing, electrical and hardware
products for the do-it-yourself home repair market had net
income of $2.2 million, or 24 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fourth-quarter revenue rose to $111 million from $94.6
million, following the May 1989 acquisition of Ideal Group of
Cos., a Canadian company that now accounts for 55% of Waxman
sales. The acquisition also boosted the company's interest
expense to $6.7 million from $4.6 million last year.
   Fourth-quarter results were also hurt by Canada's 14 3/4
prime rate -- the highest since 1972. Moreover, about 10,000
members of the construction trade were on strike in Ontario,
one of Waxman's major profit centers, for two months during
the fourth quarter.
   "The strike came at a very bad time for us," Waxman said
in an interview. "That, coupled with the high interest rates,
really slowed down renovation, remodeling and construction."
He said he's optimistic interest rates will go down,
following a recent half-point drop in the prime.
   In the current fiscal year, Waxman said the company will
concentrate on reducing debt, and consolidating operations.
He said he expects to retire about 10% of the existing $220
million in debt.
   One debt-reduction approach will be to sell and lease back
about 12 facilities in Canada to generate cash to retire
debt. In the U.S., Waxman will concentrate on tightening
inventories and receivables, reducing working capital and
consolidating warehouse operations.
   "Our strategy is to pay down debt and be more efficient in
operations by doing more rationalization of our business,"
Waxman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Edisto Resources Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EDS WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   EDISTO RESOURCES Corp. (Dallas) -- Debbie J. Branch was
named a director of this energy concern, increasing board
membership to seven. Ms. Branch is executive vice president
of ESCO Energy Inc., a Tulsa, Okla., company acquired by
Edisto two months ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commercial Paper Rates
   Rise at Citicorp Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The average interest rate rose to 8.0099% at
Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial
paper, or corporate IOUs, from 7.861% at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $415.6 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.005% to 8.01%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Citicorp also said the average rate rose to 8.039% at its
$50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.764%
at last week's sale.
   Bids totaling $380 million were submitted. Accepted bids
ranged from 8.03% to 8.04%.
   The bank holding company will auction another $50 million
in each maturity next Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodity Funds' Performance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The average value of investments in managed
commodity funds rose 5.7% for July, according to Norwood
Securities, which tracks the performance of 133 publicly
traded commodity funds.
   For the first seven months of 1990, the average gain was
12.1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Student Loan Marketing Association
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SLM WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   STUDENT LOAN MARKETING ASSOCIATION (Washington) -- Robert
A. Estrada, chairman of Estrada Securities Inc., Dallas, and
a former special assistant to President Bush, was appointed a
director of this financial intermediary, known as Sallie Mae.
He succeeds Irby Clifford Simpkins Jr., who was a board
member for nine years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   FRE FNM SNC EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Delaware Transportation Authority -- $130 million of
transportion system senior revenue bonds, 1990 Series, due
July 1, 1991-2004 and 2010, tentatively priced by a Dillon
Read &amp; Co. group to yield from 5.90% in 1991 to 7.40% in
2010. Current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from
5.90% in 1991 to 7.25% in 2004. There is $58.2 million of 6
3/4% term bonds priced to yield 7.40% in 2010. The bonds are
rated single-A-1/double-A-minus.
   State of New York Mortgage Agency -- $123 million of
homeowner mortgage revenue bonds, Series RR, due Oct. 1, 2010
and 2017, and Series SS, due April 1 and Oct. 1, 1992-2000,
and Oct. 1, 2019 and 2022, tentatively priced by a Bear
Stearns &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.20% in 1992 to 7.95% in
2022. Series RR consists of $28.5 million of 7.65% term bonds
priced at par due in 2010. There also is $36.4 million of 7
3/4% term bonds priced at par due in 2017. Series SS current
interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.20%
in 1992 to 7.20% in 2000. There are $15.7 million of 7 1/2%
term bonds priced par due in 2019 and $28.2 million of 7.95%
term bonds priced at par due in 2022. Interest on the Series
SS bonds will be treated as a preference item in calculating
the federal alternative minimum tax that may be imposed on
certain investors. Series RR bonds are not subject to the
tax. The bonds are rated double-A/double-A.
   Clark County, Nev. -- $53.8 million of transportation
improvement limited tax bonds, Series 1990, due March 1 and
Sept. 1, 1991-2000, via a Clayton Brown &amp; Associates Inc.
group. The bonds, which are insured and triple-A-rated, were
priced for reoffering to yield from 5.90% for bonds due March
1, 1991, to 6.95% for bonds due March 1 and Sept. 1, 1999.
Bonds due in 2000 were not formally reoffered.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $501 million of
floating-rate and inverse floating-rate funding note
pass-through certificates issue, Series 195, via Lehman
Brothers. The offering is backed by 9% Freddie Mac giant
mortgage participation certificates provided by Structured
Asset Securities Corp., a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers. The
offering consists of four recombinable inverse floater
classes and one floating-rate class, each representing
ownership interests in one of five individual funding notes.
The coupon rate of each recombinable inverse floater class
resets quarterly based on changes in the three-month London
interbank offered rate and a multiplier formula. All classes
pay principal and interest quarterly.
   Federal National Mortgage Association -- $500 million of
Remic mortgage securities offered in 12 classes by Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co. The offering, Series 1990-116, was priced Aug.
16. It is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities with a weighted
average coupon rate of 9% and weighted average remaining term
to maturity of 29.58 years.
   Shawmut National Remic Trust 1990-A -- $218 million of
home equity loan pass-through certificates, via Morgan
Stanley &amp; Co. The securities have a coupon rate of 9.15% and
are priced at 99 25/32 to yield 9.26%, or 100 basis points
above the interpolated two-year and three-year Treasury notes
yield. The seller of the underlying home equity loans is
Shawmut Bank, and the servicer of the loans is Connecticut
National Bank. The securities have an expected average life
of 2.5 years based on an annual prepayment rate of 20%.
Expected final maturity is July 15, 1997. Legal final
maturity is Nov. 15, 2005. Connecticut National Bank and
Shawmut Bank are units of Shawmut National Corp., Hartford,
Conn.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Interfinance Credit National (France) -- Six billion yen
of 10% Eurobonds due Sept. 13, 1991, priced at 101 1/8, via
New Japan Securities Ltd. Redemption linked to Nikkei Stock
Index. Credit National guarantor. Fees 1 1/8.
   Council of Europe (agency) -- 200 million marks of bonds
due Sept. 14, 2000, at par, via Trinkaus &amp; Burkhardt. Coupon
10% for first three years, payable annually, and 16% less
six-month London interbank offered rate for final seven
years, payable semiannually. Fees 0.20.
   West German Post -- Two billion marks of 9% bonds due
Sept. 1, 2000, at 100.70, yielding 8.89%, via Deutsche
Bundesbank. Fees 7/8.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Energy Agency Sees No Need to Use
   Petroleum Reserve Until Mid-September
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Deputy Energy Secretary Henson Moore said
his department doesn't expect an oil-supply disruption that
would require use of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until
mid-September, at the earliest.
   Even then, a disruption -- and use of the reserve -- could
be averted by an increased draw-down of commercial domestic
stocks and higher production from such countries as Saudi
Arabia and Venezuela, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some lawmakers and oil-industry officials have been urging
the Bush administration to sell oil from the reserve to help
calm oil markets and bring down prices. Bush administration
officials, however, have said they don't want the government
to get involved in influencing oil prices and fear that
dipping into the reserves would take pressure off Saudi
Arabia and other oil-producing countries to pump additional
crude. However, an outbreak of fighting in the region could
force the U.S. to tap the reserve.
   In an interview, Mr. Moore said his view on the timing of
any disruption is consistent with the views of officials from
other countries in the 21-nation International Energy Agency
and with the U.S. experience during the oil shock of 1973.
"The level of stocks world-wide is high," he said. "The loss
of crude really hasn't been felt yet. It's been handled by
the drawdown in private stocks."
   Since Iraq invaded Kuwait, the world oil markets have lost
the two countries' production of about four million barrels a
day. Mr. Moore said domestic stocks of crude oil and fuel oil
remain higher than usual, while supplies of gasoline are
lower than usual. The Strategic Petroleum Reserve holds about
590 million barrels of crude oil, which equals about 800 days
of U.S. imports from Iraq and Kuwait.
   In addition, Mr. Moore said the Energy Department is
working to come up with additional ways of boosting domestic
production, increasing conservation and encouraging industry
to use fuels other than oil. Mr. Moore said the department is
considering steps that would be longer-term and more
controversial than its first package, though he wouldn't
elaborate.
   As part of the first plan, the administration announced
that oil companies have agreed to boost production from the
North Slope of Alaska; urged Americans to put more air in
automobile tires and increase car-pooling; and said it would
mediate a California dispute that is blocking production of
200 million to 300 million barrels of oil.
   Mr. Moore said the department is working with the White
House on ways to get the conservation message out through a
public-information campaign.
   The Bush administration does plan to renew its push for
tax incentives to encourage domestic oil and gas production,
including changes that would reduce the burden of the
alternative minimum tax on producers. In the administration's
budget proposal last January, the various tax changes aimed
at the industry were estimated to cost $300 million in the
fiscal year starting Oct. 1.
   Mr. Moore was hopeful that the Mideast crisis might prompt
environmentalists and other opponents of drilling in the
Alaska National Wildlife Refuge to reconsider the situation.
   The department doesn't plan to recommend a reversal of
President Bush's decision to delay oil drilling in
environmentally sensitive areas off the California and
Florida coasts. "Even if we withdrew the decision tomorrow,
there would still be two to five years of environmental work"
and other preparation before drilling could start, he said,
so it would be of little use in the current crisis.
   Similarly, the department isn't planning to push the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to speed up its
consideration of a proposed Iroquois pipeline to bring
Canadian natural gas to the Northeastern U.S.
   Mr. Moore predicted that Congress will return from its
August recess "flush with legislative ideas to solve the
crisis." Among those will be a push to require auto makers to
improve significantly the fuel economy of their fleets. While
he said the administration would have to take a look at this
and other proposals, he gave no indication that the White
House will reverse its opposition to the measure, pushed by
Sen. Richard Bryan (D., Nev.).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AIG's Sliding Stock Price May Force It
   To Sweeten Bid for International Lease
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AIG ILFC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   American International Group Inc.'s stock price has fallen
steadily for several days, raising the prospect that the
insurer might have to sweeten its bid for International Lease
Finance Corp. in order to salvage the $1.3 billion
transaction.
   Since June 25, when the cash-and-stock agreement was
announced, American International's stock has dropped about
12.5% from its closing price that day of $75.20 a share,
adjusted for a recent 4-for-3 stock split. The shares closed
yesterday at $65.75, down $1, in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms of the agreement, if American International's
stock is trading below $68.80 a share on Aug. 30, the day
before shareholders are scheduled to vote on the acquisition,
American International could be forced to issue more stock to
maintain the tax-free status of the transaction. And if the
stock drops below $66.40, which it did during yesterday's
session, then either side could walk away from the agreement.
   The stock's weakness reflects concerns about the
acquisition, as well as the stock market's general decline.
   Maurice Greenberg, American International's chairman and
chief executive officer, said in a brief interview late
yesterday, "We hope the {stock} price will rise. We hope the
terms will go through {as they are} and we hope everyone will
benefit" from this transaction.
   He declined to speculate about whether terms might have to
be changed.
   Louis Gonda, International Lease Finance's executive vice
president, said that "it's premature to discuss these
alternatives because it's not the fundamentals of either
company that's affecting the stock prices . . . We'll revisit
the issue a little closer to the closing date. Both companies
are as interested as ever to proceed with the merger."
   Separately, International Lease Finance announced that
third-quarter pretax operating profit will nearly double from
the $17.3 million posted a year earlier. Total revenue for
the period, which will end Aug. 31, is expected to climb
almost 40% to $113 million from $81 million in the
year-earlier period. The results will be reported officially
in mid-September.
   Steven Udvar-Hazy, president of the Beverly Hills,
Calif.-based jet-leasing company, said in an interview that
International Lease's strategy of building a portfolio of
newer, fuel-efficient planes will ultimately prove to be
sound, particularly as companies in the aviation industry
continue to face rising energy costs in the wake of the Iraqi
invasion of Kuwait.
   International Lease Finance's stock fell $1.50 a share
yesterday to close at $27.50 in national over-the-counter
trading.
   Herbert Goodfriend, an analyst with Prudential-Bache
Securities in New York, said he believes both companies want
the agreement to go through, but American International can't
control the price of its stock in a generally declining
market. "They might have to amend the terms," he said.
   A collapse of the transaction actually could help American
International's stock, said Udayan Ghose at Shearson Lehman
in New York, because many investors have been lukewarm about
the agreement from the start. He said they have feared the
big multinational insurer might be buying the company at the
top of a big growth cycle in the airline industry.
   Along with other insurance stocks, American International
shares have been hurt by concerns about the Persian Gulf
crisis and attendant worries of rising inflation. Insurance
stock generally underperform the market during inflationary
times because their big bond portfolios suffer as bond prices
fall and claims usually rise.
   Terms of the agreement call for International Lease
Finance holders to receive either $32.50 in cash or 50 cents
in cash plus 0.3 common share of American International for
each International Lease Finance share outstanding, subject
to a maximum number of shares and certain other adjustments.
   Leslie Gonda, International Lease Finance's chairman,
Udvar-Hazy and Louis Gonda collectively control more than 50%
of the company's 36 million shares outstanding. They have
opted to take stakes in American International.
   ---
   Rick Wartzman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Bond Auction
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government reported an average
yield of 10.865% at an auction of 1.2 billion Canadian
dollars (US$1.05 billion) of two-year bonds maturing Sept. 5,
1992.
   Proceeds of the sales will be used to redeem C$650 million
of government bonds maturing Sept. 5, 1990, and for general
government purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Numerica Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   NUME WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NUMERICA FINANCIAL Corp. (Manchester, N.H.) -- David A.
Heaberlin, 41 years old, was named executive vice president
and chief financial officer of this savings and loan holding
company. Mr. Heaberlin, most recently chief financial officer
of Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, Calif.,
succeeds Richard Ducharme, 46, who resigned in April for
personal reasons.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Parkvale Financial Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PVSA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONROEVILLE, Pa. -- Parkvale Financial Corp. said its
board authorized the buy-back of as many as 85,300 shares, or
5% of the company's common shares outstanding.
   The repurchases will be made over the next six months in
the open market. Robert J. McCarthy Jr., president and chief
executive officer, said the current stock price "does not
adequately reflect the company's long-term business and
earnings prospects."
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dionex Stock Repurchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DNEX
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   SUNNYVALE, Calif. -- Dionex Corp. said its board approved
the repurchase of as many as one million common shares in the
open market.
   The repurchase program is in additon to a
one-million-share buy-back plan approved last year. Under
that plan, Dionex, a maker of chemical analysis equipment,
has purchased 913,500 shares. Dionex has 8.9 million shares
outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Dionex closed at
$18.875, down 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   American Precision Industries Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   APR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   AMERICAN PRECISION INDUSTRIES Inc. (Buffalo, N.Y.) --
Thomas R. Horton was elected a director. Mr. Horton, 64 years
old, is chairman and chief executive officer of American
Management Association, a management information organization
in New York. He will take the seat vacated by William A.
Donovan, 63, the company's former general counsel, who
retired in April. American Precision Industries makes heat
transfer equipment and electronic products.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Ohio Edison
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   OEC
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   OHIO EDISON, Akron, said it cut its dividend after the
Public Utilities Commission of Ohio cut its rate increase
request of $218 million to $142 million. The rate increase
was intended to recover costs associated with its share of
Beaver Valley 2, a generating unit. The commission's decision
requires that the utility take immediate action to preserve
its financial health and protect the long-term interests of
all stockholders by setting the dividend at a sustainable
level.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Nursing in the Pit
   ----
   By Susan Hauser
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Portland, Ore. -- I was glad I'd had the experience of
nursing babies before I joined a pit crew at the CART/PPG
Indy Car World Series, when one of the series' 16 races was
staged here. Tips I gleaned at La Leche League meetings
served me well when I had to give nourishment to driver Scott
Goodyear each time he hurtled in for a pit stop.
   "He'll be helpless as a baby," warned Bob Hancher, manager
of the Canadian-sponsored Mackenzie Financial Corp. racing
team. "All he wants is his bottle, and believe me, when he
doesn't get it, he's mad."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   I imagined stroking his brow or cooing, which always
worked with my children, until I learned that I would be
nurturing Goodyear from the end of a pole. I was to slip the
water bottle into a little basket at the end of an eight-foot
metal pole, and plop it right in front of his face.
   This I was to do in the frantic first moments of the
12-second pit stop without striking other members of the
crew, without knocking the rear-view mirrors off the car, and
without bonking the driver's head.
   That was a lot to think about, but I also had to remember
what to do in the event of fire. "Run]" was the general
advice, but I was assured that being at the end of an
eight-foot pole, rather than directly next to the car on the
other side of the concrete wall, would give me a head start.
Because burning methanol fuel isn't visible, I was told to
look for certain clues, such as people diving into coolers,
throwing water on each other, and the like.
   After I donned my protective fire suit, I joined the crew
for a pre-race practice. The sleek blue car, which soon would
be moving around the track at nearly 200 mph, was just
sitting there. Hancher timed us with a stopwatch as the crew
changed all four tires and simulated a fillup with an empty
fuel hose, while I artfully lowered and raised my pole.
   Once the race began, I could relax. The car wasn't
scheduled for a first pit stop until after 35 laps on the
two-mile course. But the mechanics who'd be going over the
wall to fuel the car and change tires stood at the ready, in
fire suits and fireproof, head-to-toe underwear that covered
all but their eyes.
   Most of the crew wore headsets with which they could
communicate with the driver, thus learning, for example, if
he required an unscheduled pit stop. Otherwise, there would
be plenty of warning, with someone calling out, "Pit and two
laps . . . pit and one lap," as the time drew near. Hancher,
on the opposite side of the pit lane, next to the track,
would hold up a large sign reading "PIT."
   Suddenly, without warning, someone yelled, "He's coming
in]" I grabbed the water bottle, jammed it in the basket,
raised the pole . . . and catapulted the bottle clear across
the pit. Nobody noticed me scrambling for it on the ground.
Lucky for me, it was a false alarm. Goodyear thought one of
his tires was bad, but changed his mind. It had given me the
precious opportunity to learn proper pole handling.
   I felt more confident when the first pit stop actually
occurred. My pole ready, I held it at a 45-degree angle, but
well over the heads of the waiting crew. I glanced around the
fuel tank to watch the approaching blur of blue grow larger
and louder.
   At such high speeds, it's likely that a driver could
overrun his stop. But Goodyear knew to look for a neon pink
cap worn by one of the crew, plus a neon green Mackenzie sign
on the end of a pole held by Molly Shierson, the 20-year-old
daughter of the car's owner. Ms. Shierson and I were careful
not to tangle poles.
   Suddenly, the car was in front of me and the driver was
looking straight ahead, waiting for his water to appear. I
was not aware of the flurry of activity around me. At that
moment, the world contained only me and Goodyear. I lowered
my pole and we were linked.
   His arms, cramped in the womb-like driver's compartment,
reached forward to take the bottle. I raised the pole, with
its empty basket, and stood back. I had been told to move
back quickly, in case of fire, but it was important for me to
see that he enjoyed his drink. He slipped the bent, hard
plastic straw through an eyehole in his fireproof underwear,
pulled it down to his mouth and drank.
   Of course, it's an ancient maternal tradition to then ask
the recipient of one's benevolence, "Did you like it? Was it
good? Would you like me to serve it again sometime?" But
Goodyear kept his engine running and wouldn't have heard me
anyway over the din.
   When he was done he threw his bottle. I'd had plenty of
previous experience with this behavior, so I was not
dismayed. I fetched the bottle and noticed teeth marks on the
straw, showing that he bit while drinking. They taught us
about that, too, at La Leche League. Goodyear roared back
into the fray, and for a while it looked like his brief
refreshment had done wonders. He zoomed from 12th place to
10th. Then things began to sour.
   First his steering started to stick, then the engine made
odd noises. After his third pit stop, he didn't even make it
to the end of pit row before the engine gave out completely.
   After 49 laps out of 104, our race had been run. Goodyear
stepped out of the car, took off his helmet, and to a gaggle
of television cameras, said things like, "You win some, you
lose some," and "Tomorrow is another day."
   I got a tear in my eye watching him stand there alone. By
then the car had been rolled away and most of the crew had
skulked off to the team trailer. Meanwhile, our neighbors on
pit row, Michael and Mario Andretti, went on to win first and
second place.
   Back at the trailer, away from the TV cameras, Goodyear
explained to us what really happened:
   "The engine went pu-too, pu-too, pu-too, and then it
hiccupped," he said.
   (Oh my gosh] Was I supposed to burp the car after the
bottle?)
   Then, I just had to ask him . . . How'd I do at giving him
his bottle? He told me I'd done a great job.
   Naturally. As only a mother can.
   ---
   Ms. Hauser is a free-lance journalist based in Portland,
Ore.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Yemen Leaves Oil
   Aboard Iraq Ships,
   Stalling U.N. Vote
   ----
   By Geraldine Brooks
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANAA, Yemen -- By deciding not to unload Iraqi oil from
ships arriving at its Aden port, this small country may have
stalled the outbreak of a shooting war in the Persian Gulf.
   "The U.S. wanted to pick a fight on this," but Yemen was
determined to avoid offering a pretext for conflict, says
Yemen Foreign Minister Abdul Karim al-Iryani.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yemen abstained in the United Nations Security Council on
the resolution calling for sanctions against Iraq. Now it has
shown that in practice it intends to observe sanctions.
   "Everyone is taking it for granted that Yemen supports
Iraq," Mr. al-Iryani says, when in fact the country's
position opposes both the invasion of Kuwait and foreign
intervention to reverse it. "We support Iraq in confronting
this almost-crusade from the entire world. We feel that the
problem had other solutions than going to war."
   He says foreign forces "are coming to destroy Iraq to get
it out of Kuwait. As Arabs, it is impossible to condone the
destruction of Iraq and the killing of hundreds of times more
Kuwaitis in the process than Iraq has done."
   Yesterday, Yemen forestalled a U.S. push to have the
Security Council approve the use of force to prevent
sanctions-busting when it said it would refuse to accept a
shipload of Iraqi crude. U.S. warships had fired warning
shots at two ships and tracked one of them as it sailed on
toward Aden. There had been a sense of urgency yesterday to
the U.S. request that the U.N. Security Council approve
military interdiction as the Iraqi tanker approached Yemen,
but Yemen's statement that it would adhere to the sanctions
cooled the atmosphere and no agreement was reached.
   Yemen officials said that two ships carrying Iraqi crude
oil had been allowed to dock in Aden, but said they wouldn't
be allowed to unload. Yemen's stand is already proving costly
for this poorest of Arabian lands. Kuwaiti officials in
exile, seething over Yemen's abstentions in the U.N. and at
Arab meetings in Cairo, have canceled $10 million in annual
aid to Yemen's university and major hospital, Yemeni Foreign
Ministry sources said.
   Now, it seems that Yemen also will have to close its Aden
oil refinery, which is supplied by Kuwaiti, Iraqi and some
Soviet crude. It has a capacity of 165,000 barrels a day, but
because it is about 33 years old, it generally runs at only
50% capacity.
   "We weren't so lucky as the U.S.," says Mr. al-Iryani,
noting that Iraqi crude bound for the U.S. before sanctions
were imposed is permitted to unload. "Our ships were a little
bit late." Yemen, he says, would like to be considered for
compensation under U.N. provisions, "but we aren't blue-eyed
boys right now with the U.S., so they probably will do very
little to compensate us."
   The foreign minister believes Yemen is suffering from a
crisis mentality among Gulf countries and the U.S. that says
"either you are with us or against us." In fact, he believes,
"with war or without war, the U.S. alone can't solve this
problem. Even if Iraq raises the white flag, the U.S. will
need uncommitted Arabs to help her."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Advanced Medical Technologies Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AMA WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   ADVANCED MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES Inc. (San Francisco) -- Hank
Green, 47 years old, previously a vice president of Johnson &amp;
Johnson's International unit, was named to the newly created
posts of president and chief operating officer of this
medical products company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Kelly Services Sets Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<CO>
   KELYA
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   TROY, Mich. -- Kelly Services Inc. said it will buy back
as many as 1.5 million Class A or Class B common shares to
use for general corporate purposes.
   There are 29 million shares of Class A common stock and
three million shares of Class B common stock outstanding, the
temporary-help company said. The purchases will be made from
time to time in the national over-the-counter market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Sad Pall Hangs
   Over the Social Hub
   Of Nantucket Island
   ---
   A Historic Place to Gossip
   And Shoot a Few Rats Is
   Now About to Be Dumped
   ----
   By Cynthia Crossen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NANTUCKET, Mass. -- It's a great place to bring the kids.
Around election time, politicians hand out leaflets here.
It's got the best antique deals around, and the view is as
pretty as any you'll find on this resort island. As deer
nibble serenely on the hillsides, a thousand seagulls rise up
as one, then fall back in harmonious waves.
   Greetings from the Nantucket dump.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For about 60 years, this town dump has served as community
center, trading post and party hall. Although many Nantucket
residents pay commercial haulers to collect their trash,
others do as their forebears did: toss their own eggshells
and milk cartons onto the rank slopes of garbage mountain.
Then they pick through their neighbors' rubble --
"antiquing," as they say -- and swap some gossip.
   Now this dump's days are numbered. Like many others across
the country, Nantucket's dump is dangerously old and nearly
full. Within the next few years, it will close its gates,
supplanted by the modern technology of solid waste
management. Many residents will be sorry to see the old dump
go.
   "The average working guy just wants to go in there with
his chain saw and pick up a few things, try to save a buck,"
says Harry "Bud" Clute, the county sheriff.
   Nantucket is hardly alone in having a garbage problem. But
it feels its predicament more acutely than most. Little more
than a large sandbar 30 miles east of Cape Cod, Nantucket
can't cheaply truck its garbage to another site. With its
land selling for an average of $110,000 an acre, the tiny
island is loath to eat up property for a new landfill.
Incineration, which needs a steady flow of garbage, is
impractical for a place where the summer population is almost
six times the year-round population of 6,900. Worst of all,
the island sits atop its own drinking water, making any
leakage from the dump a very serious affair.
   "It's a ticking timebomb," says Jeff Willett,
superintendent of the town's department of public works.
   No one knows what's at the bottom of the Nantucket dump,
which opened in a tarpit sometime around 1930. Ever since the
island's whale-based economy crashed in the mid-19th century,
Nantucket has depended on tourists and fish for its survival,
thus generating almost no industrial waste. But until the
mid-1960s, when the dump was reorganized, separating scrap
metal, tires and hazardous substances from other kinds of
garbage, everything was lobbed into the pit -- car batteries,
dry cleaning fluid, photo lab chemicals and lead. "A chemical
stew," Mr. Willett calls it.
   Monitoring wells set up around the dump show some leakage
into the ground water. But so far the contamination hasn't
spread.
   In the early days of the Nantucket dump, no kitchen
garbage was accepted; that was picked up at people's homes by
trash collectors, who cooked it and fed it to their pigs.
Everything else was scavenged or burned. Andrew Lewis, who
ran the dump from 1945 until the mid-1960s, said he only
needed two things to do his job: a pitchfork and a pack of
matches. Later, he added a wheelbarrow.
   Before he put match to trash, however, Mr. Lewis, known
around town as "Mr. Dump" and his wife as "Mrs. Dump,"
separated the copper, brass, rags and newspaper. He sold some
of it to a New Bedford, Mass., junk dealer he knew from his
rumrunning days. He decorated his home with some of the rest.
   "I'd give hell to people who tried to take my copper or
brass," says Mr. Lewis, now 78 years old. "If anyone bothered
me -- well, I was my own boss." Mr. Lewis still visits the
dump every morning when it opens. "It's beautiful scenery,"
he says. He proudly displays an oil painting of the Nantucket
dump, done by local artists while he was caretaker. "I think
they just painted those flowers in," he says. "But they
captured the shed pretty good."
   During winters past, after the dump was closed and the
caretaker had gone home, Nantucket men would gather to shoot
rats with .22 rifles. The men would sit in their cars with
their lights out. Suddenly they would all flash on their
headlights and blast away.
   The caretaker of the dump has always occupied a position
of some prominence around Nantucket. Before Mr. Lewis was one
"Dumpy" Ray, who, with his long beard, stovepipe hat and
floor-length coat, cut a bizarre figure around town before
World War I. Mr. Ray came to a bad end, or so the story goes,
when an inebriated bully shouted at him, "If I catch sight of
you again, I'm goin' to kill you." Supposedly, Dumpy Ray fled
to his attic, where he spent the next 15 years quaking in
terror.
   Today it takes three full-time employees and an impressive
array of heavy machinery to care for the growing dump 00 now
seven acres, and 45-feet tall. Honey Seidler runs the Rex
Steel-Wheeled Trash Masher, 12-foot blades on wheels. "I love
my Rex," Ms. Seidler says. Ms. Seidler and Jim Hastings, who
operates the Wheeled Trojan Bucket Loader, perform a garbage
pas de deux with their machines, turning mounds of loose
garbage into a tight-packed floor. Even so, the garbage
mountain has grown so tall that it is within a few feet of
becoming the island's highest point.
   Compared to most dumps, Nantucket has a relatively clean
"waste stream," the new name for garbage. Although the resort
island's dump receives a disproportionate number of junked
bicycles, patio chairs and outboard motors, there's little
medical waste, few hazardous substances and, because of the
island's 60 or so restaurants, lots of food. A fledging
recycling program has begun sending glass, plastic, metal and
paper off the island.
   Despite all this, the dump is technically not sanitary.
Although the dump is officially called a landfill, it doesn't
have an impervious lining nor is it covered daily -- two
things a dump needs to become a sanitary landfill. Like many
dumps, Nantucket's is technically operating in violation of
state law, but it can't shut until the island has found
another site. For the past several years, town officials have
been studying garbage alternatives, hiring consultants,
forming and disbanding committees. In 1987, the town finally
settled on the idea of building a composting plant, a
disposal method that, though popular in Europe, has had a
troubled history in the U.S.
   Composting is costly, and the market for the product is
small. Building and operating Nantucket's plant will cost
more than shipping the island's garbage to a landfill "in
America," as the natives call the mainland, but few on the
island could stomach the idea of putting their junk in
someone else's backyard. "On an island, you can't just walk
over the next hill," says Mr. Willett. "People realize this
is a finite area, and they have to protect it."
   For now, it's still open season at the dump. "I'm doing
the inside of my house, and all of the wood came from here,"
says Neville Richen, a town employee and occasional dump
picker. "My gutters and my downspouts came from here." Ms.
Seidler claims she has picked up "half a dozen fur coats" at
the dump. Mr. Clute salvages old bedsprings and turns them
into angle irons. Mr. Lewis once dug a restaurant's cash
receipts out of an old washing machine, returned the bills
and pocketed the silver.
   There's not much a person can't find at the Nantucket
dump. "On Nantucket," says Ms. Seidler, "everything that
doesn't go to the graveyard comes to the dump."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Economy:
   U.S. Auto Makers Cut Production Plans
   For 3rd Period; More Reductions Possible
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C HMC NSANY J.MZD J.MOT TOYOY SBRU J.IZM
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Just a few weeks ago U.S. auto makers were
hoping for a second-half sales rebound that, however modest,
would help erase the gloom of a sluggish first half. But no
more.
   The 10 companies that build cars in the U.S. have shaved
more than 53,000 vehicles from their third-quarter production
plans in just the past month. What's more, say persons
familiar with the planning process, more cuts could come this
week when some companies hold another round of planning
meetings.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The reason for this shift: The Mideast crisis appears to
have added new uncertainty to an economic outlook already
clouded by declining consumer confidence.
   Big Three stocks have taken a beating recently as a result
of the depressed auto market and concerns over the Persian
Gulf crisis. Chrysler Corp.'s shares, which were trading at
$15 on Aug. 1, closed yesterday at $12.125, down 37.5 cents
in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. That
dropped the market value of Chrysler, the nation's
eighth-largest industrial company, to about $2.7 billion.
   Ford Motor Co. shares fell $1 yesterday to close at $35,
down from $41.125 Aug. 1, and General Motors Corp. fell $1.25
yesterday to $36.375, down from $45.375 Aug. 1.
   "What we've seen in the past several months is a consumer
that has become more concerned about the outlook of the
economy and more cautious of spending plans," said Richard
Curtin, who runs the University of Michigan's well-known
consumer-confidence survey. "The problems in the Middle East
come at a time when consumers already are in a cautious mood.
The Persian Gulf crisis might accelerate that."
   Indeed, total car and truck sales dropped 2.7% in July
from a year earlier, and in early August, sales of domestic
vehicles (imports aren't reported until the end of the month)
plunged 18.5%. Thus auto makers are "being very cautious"
with their production plans, said John Qualls, analyst at
Hill &amp; Knowlton Inc. "We are sort of on a cusp, if you will.
The economy could go either way."
   There is some good news for auto makers and the economy:
The production cuts come when inventory levels are at their
lowest since September 1986, Mr. Qualls said. As of July 31,
new-car inventories stood at a 50-day supply, well below the
60-to-65-day supply considered an ideal inventory level in
the industry.
   Thus, third-quarter production still is slated to increase
from last year, when inventories were far higher. But the
rise won't be as big as previously thought. U.S. auto makers
plan to build 1,522,512 cars in the third quarter, an
increase of nearly 9% from a year ago. Earlier plans had been
to increase car production by 11.6%.
   The situation with trucks and vans is much the same. The
companies expect to boost production 6.5% from last year, to
892,260 vehicles. A month ago, they had planned to increase
production by 8.3%.
   The new third-quarter production schedules are
"appropriate" and reflect softened demand, said analyst John
Casesa of Wertheim Schroder &amp; Co. "Fourth-quarter schedules
are at risk. If the Mideast crisis causes consumer confidence
to drop and consumers delay purchases, we could see an
overall softening in demand."
   The biggest adjustment in third-quarter car output from
July estimates came from Ford. Citing slow sales and material
trim shortage, Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford temporarily closed
this week two assembly plants and extended the shutdown of
another plant, idling it for a total of two weeks.
   Sources say the shutdowns reduced earlier third-quarter
car plans by more than 20,000 cars to 354,200 cars. So far,
Ford's truck production plans remain unchanged at 355,000
vehicles.
   GM reduced its third-quarter production plans by some
3,800 cars and 16,000 trucks so far, but the final reduction
may be steeper. GM's cuts don't reflect the recent strike at
a parts plant in Flint, Mich., which caused several assembly
plants to shut down temporarily. It's still unclear how much
of that lost production Detroit-based GM will seek to make up
in this quarter.
   Chrysler trimmed its earlier production schedules by 3,000
cars to a combined 271,000 vehicles. The Highland Park,
Mich.-based concern earlier made allowances for the shutdown
of its two minivan plants for a month each to retool for the
redesigned 1991 Chrysler minivan.
   All of the Japanese auto makers with U.S. operations are
planning to increase car production in the current quarter,
except Nissan Motor Corp. Nissan's third-quarter output is
expected to drop 54% to 12,662 cars because of retooling for
the redesigned 1991 Sentra subcompact model at the Smyrna,
Tenn., assembly plant.
   Here's a look at the latest third-quarter production
schedules:
                                                                                                       

                             CARS
                                                                                                       

                             1990       1989       %Chg.

 GM .........             672,185    599,684      + 12.1
 Ford .......             354,200    337,400      +  5.0
 Chrysler ...             172,000    185,531      -  7.3
 Honda ......             103,403     81,324      + 27.1
 Mazda ......              55,788     46,624      + 19.7
 Nissan .....              12,662     27,710      - 54.3
 Toyota .....              53,502     45,142      + 18.5
 Nummi ......              50,479     47,441      +  6.4
 DiamStar ...              38,768     27,793      + 39.5
 Suba-Isu ...               9,525          0         ...
 Total ......           1,522,512  1,398,649      +  8.9
                                                                                                       

                             TRUCKS
                                                                                                       

 GM .........             398,586    396,914      +  0.4
 Ford .......             355,000    283,400      + 25.3
 Chrysler ...              99,000    131,827      - 24.9
 Nissan .....              27,371     25,965      +  5.4
 Suba-Isu ...              12,303          0         ...
 Total ......             892,260    838,106      +  6.5
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Philadelphia Note Issue
   Backing Still Uncertain
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- No decision has been reached on whether a
planned Philadelphia note issue totaling about $400 million
will be backed by a letter of credit.
   "It's probably more likely it will be several" banks each
backing a portion of the issue, said Sheila Connolly, vice
president of P.G. Corbin &amp; Co., the city's financial adviser.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Philadelphia has solicited a number of banks to provide
credit enhancement for the deal, Ms. Connolly said. A
decision is expected within the next day or so, she added,
but declined to say which banks are involved.
   An official with the lead underwriter, Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets, said a decision was expected today.
   At least one bank appears interested in backing at least
25% of the issue, according to a Philadelphia official who
asked to remain anonymous.
   The notes, which would mature in May 1991, are expected to
be sold within the next few weeks. Proceeds will be used to
help the city buy time to solve its fiscal problems.
   Philadelphia officials declined to comment on the sale.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Bankruptcies Increase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian bankruptcies in July rose 60% to 4,116
from 2,573 a year earlier, the Canadian Consumer and
Corporate Affairs Department said.
   Individual bankruptcies in July totaled 3,301, and
business bankruptcies 815.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the first seven months of this year, Canadian
bankruptcies rose 34% to 27,836 from 20,747 a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Neiman Marcus Group Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NMG WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP Inc. (Chestnut Hill, Mass.) -- Michael
F. Panutich, previously assistant controller, was named vice
president of accounting, and Craig B. Sawain, previously
director of financial planning, budgeting and analysis, was
named vice president of planning and analysis. The two were
promoted to new positions of the specialty retailer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Working With Japan:
   When Japanese Partners Fail, U.S. Firms Face a Mess
   ---
   Automated Storage Barely Survived
   After Its Supplier Went Out of Business
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   {Part of a Series}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   NEW YORK -- When Richard B. Farrell arrived at his office
one Monday morning three years ago, he noticed a single sheet
of paper on his facsimile machine.
   In three sentences of broken English, Elecompack Co.'s
owner Han Ichiro Naito conveyed the alarming news: It had
gone out of business. Mr. Farrell's company, which counted on
the Japanese firm as the sole supplier of the storage systems
it sold, never heard from Mr. Naito again. "We were dead,"
Mr. Farrell says.
   Over the next nine months, Mr. Farrell and his associates
scrambled to save their company. They secured a temporary
alternative supplier and persuaded customers to accept the
new brand. Then they ventured into Japan's legal system,
bought Elecompack's patents from a court receiver and moved
manufacturing to the U.S.
   Mr. Farrell, 50 years old, wound up saving his company,
Automated Storage &amp; Retrieval Systems of America Inc. But his
experience is a warning to entrepreneurs who think joining
forces with Japan guarantees success. Growing numbers of
American small businesses are indeed profiting handsomely
from their associations with prospering Japanese investors
and business partners. But when a Japanese concern runs into
financial problems, the resulting mess can mean endless
trouble for the U.S. partner.
   "There are countless business failures in Japan,
especially among medium-sized and small companies," says
Carol Lyttle, a partner at Whitman &amp; Ransom, a law firm here
that represents foreign companies, including now-defunct
Elecompack.
   If the Japanese firm folds, the risk is greater that
principals such as Mr. Naito won't be around to help their
American partners deal with the fallout, Mr. Lyttle says. "A
declaration of bankruptcy in Japan is a far more serious
disgrace than it is in this country, not only in the business
community, but socially also," Mr. Lyttle says. "You're more
likely to find that a person will become as inconspicuous as
possible for a long time."
   Tamotsu Hatasawa, a partner at Miyake, Hatasawa &amp;
Yamazaki, a Tokyo law firm that represented Automated
Storage, adds, "In general terms, if the president is a
guarantor of its obligations when a Japanese company goes
bankrupt, it is not unusual for him to disappear." Mr. Naito
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Elecompack seemed sound enough when Mr. Farrell started
Automated Storage. He already had been selling Elecompack's
space-saving storage systems for two different U.S.
distributors for more than a decade. When his employer
dropped Elecompack in the early 1980s to make its own storage
system, Mr. Farrell decided to pick up the product line and
distribute it independently. "I was nobody," Mr. Farrell
says, "but I'd spent too many years selling this, and it was
too good a product." After months of talks, Mr. Naito named
Mr. Farrell's new company his exclusive distributor in North
America.
   In its first year, Automated Storage sold $1.3 million of
Elecompack storage systems -- basically rows of shelving,
with no aisles in between, that part at the push of a button
when files are needed. As sales doubled annually for the next
two years, Mr. Farrell occasionally flew to Japan to solidify
relations. When Mr. Naito came to New York, he and his wife
went sailing on Long Island Sound in Mr. Farrell's boat.
"Everything was going along beautifully," Mr. Farrell says.
   By 1986, however, problems were developing at Elecompack.
For one thing, to save money, some Elecompack distributors
had started buying directly from the company's subcontractors
and completing the assembly themselves. Consequently, even
though his systems were selling well, Mr. Naito profited less
from them.
   At the same time, Mr. Naito had begun spending on the
development of a new fully automated storage system for
warehouses instead of offices. Mr. Naito pursued the project
even after a potential financial partner declined to help him
raise money.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Farrell says, he had hardly expected Mr.
Naito's alarming fax three years ago. He picked it up and
read: "Dear Gentlemen, please excuse this sudden notice.
Unfortunately, Elecompack Co. Ltd. every activity {c}eased
today on April 13, 1987. We are all so thankfull for long
years friendship of all of yours. Best regards. Finally, Hank
Naito."
   Says Mr. Farrell: "I was dumbfounded. I had struggled for
years, gone to Japan, created a dealer network. My life was
passing before me." Mr. Lyttle, who had known Mr. Naito for
10 years, but also received nothing more than the same
one-page notice, adds, "It completely surprised me."
   With only one supplier, Mr. Farrell knew that his company
would have to scramble to stay in business. When Mr. Farrell
failed to locate Mr. Naito, his partner, Robert Gum, flew to
Tokyo. After confirming Elecompack's failure, Mr. Gum
arranged for one of its competitors to serve as a temporary
supplier until a permanent one was found.
   Next, Mr. Gum visited a Japanese freight forwarder that
was holding about a half-dozen shipments until it collected
overdue bills. "They attempted to get me to pay for them,"
says Mr. Gum. He refused and threatened to abandon the goods.
In the end, he says, he freed the machines at a price
slightly less than what Automated Storage normally paid.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Farrell began approaching the 25 customers
who had ordered Elecompack machines that he couldn't deliver.
Even though the equipment from the new supplier cost 10% to
15% more than Elecompack's, Mr. Farrell agreed to sell it for
the same price and take a loss. Twenty customers accepted the
offer.
   Lastly, Mr. Farrell set out to move manufacturing to the
U.S. With the help of Mr. Hatasawa, the Tokyo lawyer, he
decided to buy Elecompack's patent from the court trustee.
"At the outset, I was not optimistic at all," Mr. Hatasawa
recalls of Mr. Farrell's plan. "It's very difficult to
negotiate with a receiver." But several months of bargaining
later, Automated Storage was able to purchase the patents for
about $18,000.
   With the patents in hand, Mr. Farrell found a U.S.
company, Patz Sales Inc., to make his storage systems to
Elecompack's specifications. Mr. Farrell spent the next eight
months with Patz, a maker of agricultural machinery, helping
prepare its Wisconsin factory for the task. In the process,
Mr. Farrell's company sank $250,000 into machine tools for
the venture.
   By now, Automated Storage has recovered from the Japanese
disaster, Mr. Farrell says. The company is making a profit
and should sell about $6 million of systems in the U.S.,
Canada and the U.K. in its fiscal year ended June 30, 1991,
he adds. Earlier this year, the company beat a dozen
competitors to supply Paramount Pictures Corp. with more than
$1 million worth of storage systems to hold master copies of
the studio's films, Mr. Farrell says.
   "We were talking about some fairly big numbers for a
couple of guys who had just about gone out of business," he
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chip Firm Plans
   Big Cutbacks,
   Reorganization
   ---
   National Semiconductor Set
   To Scrap Some Products,
   Lay Off 6.2% of Workers
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   NSM
</CO>
<IN>
SEMICONDUCTORS, INTEGRATED CHIPS (SEM)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Semiconductor Corp., in an effort to reverse
years of poor performance, said it will eliminate several
product groups, lay off 6.2% of its employees and incur a
$140 million charge.
   As part of the cutbacks, National will close two assembly
lines and reorganize its product groups. National's move is
an attempt to reduce its dependence on so-called "commodity"
chips -- standard semiconductors that have come under
competitive pressure from other companies that make them --
and to focus on developing more specialized chips that offer
higher profit margins.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Commodity-chip makers such as National and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. have been battered by low-priced chips from
Japanese and other makers, while companies such as Intel
Corp. enjoy fat profits from more specialized chips.
   "National Semi is the stereotypical commodity company"
that hasn't adapted to changes in the chip market, said
analyst Drew Peck of Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette. "They're
now making concessions they probably should have made five
years ago."
   The Santa Clara, Calif., company said it will stop making
high-density versions of chips called static random-access
memories, or SRAMs. National will shut down a brand-new line
in its Puyallup, Wash., factory that it set up just this year
to make SRAM chips that can hold more than a million pieces,
or one megabit, of computer information.
   Over the next 18 months, National said, it also will shut
down a Tucson, Ariz., plant that assembles chips for the
military, which are suffering from lower demand because of
Pentagon budget cutbacks. And the company will slow
production of chips called CMOS gate arrays. The high-density
SRAM market hasn't developed as well as expected and profit
margins in the gate arrays are too low, said Charles E.
Sporck, president and chief executive officer.
   National also said it will reorganize its six product
divisions into four. As part of the closures and
reorganization, National said it will fire about 2,000
employees world-wide over the next few months and will incur
a one-time charge of about $140 million in the quarter ending
Aug. 26.
   The cutbacks come after a year of trimming and a string of
disastrous quarters. The company laid off 2,000 employees in
January 1989 and later closed plants in South Korea and
Singapore, taking charges of about $54 million in the year
for the cutbacks.
   The company had a net loss in five of its past eight
quarters. Although it eked out net income of $4.7 million in
its last quarter, the chip maker is expected to incur a large
net loss in its current quarter because of the one-time
charge. And National expects operating profit for the quarter
to be below analysts' expectations. Analysts had expected the
company to break even on operating profit.
   National's stock, which has fallen about 38% since early
June, closed at $5 a share, up 12.5 cents, in composite
trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Y&amp;A Group Withdraws Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   YGRP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ST. LOUIS -- Y&amp;A Group Inc., citing current market
conditions, said its board has withdrawn the company's recent
registration statement relating to a proposed offering of 1.6
million common shares.
   The provider of engineering services to the electric
utility industry said increased bank credit facilities,
working capital and a possible private placement of its
securities will provide it with sufficient resources to
maintain its current business objectives.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Health:
   Doctors Chafe at Changes in Medicare,
   Expecting More Paper Work, Less Money
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
INSURANCE (INS)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<GV>
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Medicare changes will reduce costs and paper
work for many patients, but doctors are fuming that the
reductions will be at their expense.
   Beginning Sept. 1, doctors and suppliers of medical
equipment will be required to file all Medicare insurance
claims for their patients at no charge. And on Jan. 1,
Medicare will impose new limits on doctors' fees, a change
designed to protect patients from excessive charges.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The American Medical Association opposes both measures as
burdensome to doctors. "Physicians spend more time responding
to rules, regulations and paper work than I sometimes think
they spend caring for patients," complains James Todd, the
executive director of the AMA.
   But there's little chance the AMA will succeed in its
efforts to derail the changes. The provisions are part of a
physician payment reform plan that Congress passed last year
with the hope of slowing the double-digit growth of doctors'
bills paid by Medicare, the federal health insurance program
for 33 million elderly and disabled beneficiaries. Under the
law, a new, nationwide payment formula will be phased in
between 1992 and 1996.
   Although the law applies mainly to doctors, several
provisions are designed to reduce burdens on Medicare
beneficiaries. In addition, the Health Care Financing
Administration, which runs the $100 billion Medicare program,
is studying other improvements for beneficiaries. One
anticipated change is a new version of the so-called
Explanation of Medicare Benefits form.
   Several hundred million of these forms are sent out each
year, making it one of the most common communications between
the government and the public. Yet many senior citizens
complain that the benefit notices are confusing,
uninformative and difficult to read. Congress's General
Accounting Office recently rapped the HCFA for not making the
forms easier to understand.
   The Sept. 1 change will relieve beneficiaries of filing
Medicare claims. Officials at the HCFA and the AMA estimate
that doctors already file between 90% and 95% of the more
than 400 million claims submitted each year under Medicare
Part B, which covers services from doctors. Nevertheless, the
AMA has asked Congress to repeal the physician-filing
requirement, complaining that it "will add increased
administrative costs to the physician practice."
   But the measure has strong support from senior citizen
groups. The American Association of Retired Persons has
organized 3,200 volunteers in 37 states to help people deal
with Medicare; 14% of the people served need help filing
Medicare claims. "One of our big problems is helping people
file their initial claims with Medicare," says Bob Jackson,
who runs the assistance program.
   Some elderly patients find Medicare so complex that they
don't bother to file claims. The Physician Payment Review
Commission, a federal agency, estimates that about one
million people a year don't seek reimbursement because filing
"is too complicated or too time-consuming." Physician-filing
will increase benefits to such people by about $100 million
annually, the agency calculates.
   In addition, the AARP reports that many seniors complain
that doctors levy charges for filing Medicare forms. Such
filing fees, which range up to $10 a claim, will be banned as
of Oct. 1.
   One reason Congress imposed the new requirement was to
improve efficiency by reducing the number of errors in
Medicare filings, which are processed for HCFA by 34
insurance companies. The GAO estimates that last year 45
million claims -- 11% of all those filed -- lacked
information needed to process them. Most of these claims were
filed by physicians and other providers, rather than by the
beneficiaries themselves. The HCFA is currently working with
insurance companies to improve error-reduction programs, an
area in which the GAO said the agency has been deficient.
   The other major change will place uniform new limits on
what physicians can charge Medicare patients, starting Jan.
1. When doctors deal with Medicare patients, they can choose
between two basic billing procedures. They can accept the
patient "on assignment," which means that they will charge
the patient only what Medicare allows for the procedure, send
their bill to the insurance company that handles Medicare
claims in their area and receive reimbursement. About 80% of
Medicare's claims are submitted on assignment.
   Doctors using the second method, called balance billing,
charge more than the Medicare reimbursement rate, meaning
that the patient must pay the difference between what
Medicare pays and the higher amount the doctor charges. (In
both cases, Medicare pays 80% of approved doctors' bills,
requiring the patient to pay a 20% co-payment; many seniors
have private supplemental insurance, called Medigap, that
pays the co-payment.)
   Last year, balance billing charges paid by patients and
insurers totaled $2.2 billion.
   Starting Jan. 1, the maximum doctors can charge under
balance billing will be 125% of the Medicare reimbursement
rate. That cap will fall to 115% by 1993. The new limits will
replace a complex system that HCFA officials admit almost
nobody understands.
   The AMA opposes the limits. "We don't believe that
physicians should be subject to arbitrary billing limits,"
the organization told Congress last month. "The 1991 balance
billing cap could cause serious reductions in the fees
physicians would otherwise be allowed to charge,"
particularly in rural areas.
   But senior citizens groups strongly support the new caps,
which will reduce balance billing payments for some patients.
In addition, the change will make it easier for patients to
protect themselves from excessive charges. The combination of
the evolving nationwide fee schedule and the cap will enable
insurance companies to tell patients subject to balance
billing the maximum their doctors can charge. This
information isn't currently included on the Explanation of
Medicare Benefits form because each doctor has a different
maximum for each procedure.
   The National Committee to Preserve Social Security and
Medicare, which represents senior citizens, has asked the
HCFA to include the maximum allowed charges on benefit forms,
along with a note that beneficiaries subject to balance
billing don't have to pay any more.
   It has also urged the HCFA to take other steps "to help
demystify Medicare reimbursements." One proposal is that the
HCFA adopt a standard nationwide form. Currently, the
insurance companies that process Medicare claims issue
different forms, and seniors who travel sometimes find it
difficult to match them up.
   In its report, the GAO called the current forms confusing
because they don't clearly describe benefit decisions or the
medical services for which reimbursement is being made.
Beneficiaries made about 19 million inquiries to their
carriers last year, in part because of "confusion about the
information presented on the notices," the GAO said.
   The HCFA is launching an effort to redesign the benefit
form for use starting Jan. 1, 1992. "I would think if they
really chose, they could get it out sooner," says Martha
McSteen, president of the National Committee.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Consider the Source
   Of Bias Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your Aug. 6 editorial "Metzenbaum and Keating" declares,
without qualification or amplification, "Employees of Senator
Cranston's {voter registration} groups have since revealed
that they were routinely pressured to register only
Democrats." The allegation is completely false.
   In 1987 and 1988, I helped raise funds for a number of
nonpartisan voter-registration groups in California and
elsewhere. One of the California groups was the Center for
Participation in Democracy. The center had 535 employees and
scores of volunteers. Two of those employees, who worked out
of an office in Oakland, were reported in the press in August
1989 as having made the allegations you cite. I am aware of
no other such incidents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The center was scrupulous in instructing its people to
register everyone eligible, regardless of party preference,
and to avoid influencing the choice of party. As the law
permitted, the center concentrated much of its efforts in
minority areas, where voter registration is low and where
registrars have to "reach out" energetically if voter
interest is to be stimulated.
   The center's nonpartisan performance cannot be faulted.
After the 1988 elections, a check with the secretary of state
and the county clerks of the most populous counties showed
that 67% of the voters processed by the center in those
minority areas registered Democratic; 33% registered
Republican, with other parties, or they declined to state.
   That's hardly evidence of bias, and it compares favorably
with two other nonpartisan groups that also conducted
registration drives in minority communities. One of those
groups had 61% Democratic registrants; the other, 87%.
   Bias can more legitimately be charged to the two
disgruntled employees who made the false accusations. The
press identified them as Lawrence Ross and Dino Blackburn.
Both had quit the center shortly before they were due to be
fired; Mr. Blackburn for, among other things, refusing to
register minority voters, and Mr. Ross for filing fraudulent
voter-registration affidavits.
   Sen. Alan Cranston (D., Calif.)
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan Denounces Curb
   On U.S. Log Shipments
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PULP, PAPER, PACKAGING (ALL TYPES) (PUL)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's Foreign Ministry denounced a new U.S. law
curtailing U.S. shipments of unprocessed logs, and warned
that the measure raises broader questions about the
reliability of the U.S. as a supplier of goods.
   In a sharply worded statement issued in response to
President Bush's signing Monday of the 1990 Customs and Trade
Act, the ministry called the act a betrayal of previous U.S.
commitments to expand trade in forest products with Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A provision that has caused the stir makes permanent a ban
on the export of unprocessed logs taken from federal forests
in the Western U.S. and restricts the export of logs taken
from state lands in the area. While this was promoted as a
conservation measure to protect owls, it would also protect
some lumber mills in the Northwest that have been losing jobs
to Japanese mills.
   U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Clayton Yeutter, who is in
Tokyo couldn't be reached for comment.
   The ministry said that the move would raise uncertainties
about the Japanese lumber industry's pricing and availability
of certain kinds of lumber. The ministry expressed doubt
about U.S. assertions regarding the move's environmental
reasoning since export of processed forestry products wasn't
curtailed and questioned the law's compatability with the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT.
   The U.S. is the largest supplier of unprocessed timber to
Japan, followed by Malaysia and the Soviet Union, officials
said. Most of Japan's imports of forestry products from the
U.S. are in the form of raw logs.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   East Germany to Be Part
   Of EC Upon Unification
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- Most European Community laws and policies will
become directly applicable in East Germany as soon as the
country merges with West Germany, the EC Commission said.
   The decision to integrate the country rapidly into the EC
is likely to be approved by the 12 EC member governments.
This means East Germans will reap EC aid and subsidies -- and
a dose of economic shock.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission said EC policies would be implemented in
East Germany as soon as Oct. 15, the date favored for
unification by most German political forces. But the call
yesterday for the earlier date prompted a split in East
Germany's Social Democratic Party.
   Upon unification, East German "citizens . . . will have
all the rights and obligations of the citizens of the EC,"
Commission President Jacques Delors said, referring to the
free movement of people, goods and services throughout the
community, as well as EC policies on agriculture, energy,
transport and competition. Among exceptions, environmental
norms won't have to be implemented before 1996, and East
German industry will have until 1993 to bring its chemical,
pharmaceutical and food products up to EC standards. But the
commission made clear it wants few exceptions. For example,
EC standards on the safety of nuclear power plants will apply
upon unification, effectively forcing all five of East
Germany's nuclear power plants to close.
   Mr. Delors also sought to dispel fears that the cost of
rescuing the East German economy will deprive poor regions in
Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece or Ireland of EC subsidies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TRACKING TRAVEL
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES GM UAL NWA
</CO>
<IN>
MASS TRANSIT, BUS LINES, SUBWAYS, HIGHWAYS (TRA)
AIRLINES (AIR)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   New Devices on Line
   To Slow Down Speeders
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   SPEED-DEMONS beware: The police are working up an arsenal
of new weapons to nab you.
   New radar-detector detectors have made their national
debut along Virginia's Interstate 95. The devices, pioneered
by Ontario police, pick up microwave signals emitted by radar
detectors. Besides Virginia, fuzz-busters are illegal in
Connecticut and the District of Columbia. A New York ban on
detectors in big trucks took effect Sunday. And the federal
government is considering a nationwide ban on detectors in
trucks.
   Meanwhile, a laser speed-tracking device is being
perfected. More precise than conventional radar, it can't be
sniffed out by radar detectors. Such new enforcement weapons
raise hopes that the "era of the radar detector is coming to
an end," says Chuck Hurley, a spokesman for the Insurance
Institute for Highway Safety.
   Another new technology is photo-radar, which snaps
pictures of speeding cars' license plates. Officials in
Paradise Valley, Ariz., where the system is being used, say
that crashes have declined. The system is also being used in
Pasadena, Calif. Photo-radar will be tested on Washington's
Capital Beltway this fall, despite some grumbling about its
Big Brother overtones.
   The anti-speed offensive comes amid rising worries over a
steadily accelerating populace. "Speeds are increasing every
year," frets Clayton Hall, director of the Office of
Enforcement and Emergency Services, National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration. "Compliance has gone downhill."
   Evidence mounts that speed kills: A new insurance
institute study concludes that raising the speed limit to 65
miles per hour on rural interstate highways resulted in 33%
more deaths last year than the average for 1982-1986, when
the limit was 55 mph.
                                                                                                       

   Air-Travel Taxes Head
   For the Stratosphere
                                                                                                       

   AS IF AIRLINE fuel surcharges aren't bad enough, Uncle Sam
wants to attach an array of taxes and "user fees" to airline
tickets.
   Travelers on international flights already shell out $16
in U.S. departure taxes, customs and immigration-service fees
and an additional $10 in airline-security surcharges.
   Recently, the Senate approved a Bush administration
proposal to slap an additional $1 to $3 on arriving
international passengers to pay for inspections of plants and
animals brought into the U.S. The House passed legislation to
allow airports to impose long-banned departure taxes that
could add up to $9 on round-trip international tickets and
$12 on domestic ones. Domestic travelers face a proposed
ticket-tax increase to 10% from 8%. Some of these fees appear
doomed politically, but others may be adopted to ease the
budget crisis.
   The airlines gripe that passengers are being used as a
cash cow and that the $7 billion aviation trust-fund surplus
should be spent before new fees are imposed. But they are
pushing a plan that probably would result in a new $3
surcharge on international tickets sold in the U.S. to help
pay for higher compensation to victims of international air
disasters. The plan would implement the Montreal Protocols, a
pact pending before the Senate.
                                                                                                       

   Pilots Are Encouraged
   To Sleep on the Job
                                                                                                       

   SO YOU'VE caught a glimpse of the captain snoozing in the
cockpit. Relax, catnaps during long flights enhance safety.
   The Federal Aviation Administration is using a new study
to encourage United and Northwest airlines to institute
"controlled napping" on trans-Pacific flights with three crew
members. "Clearly it can be very effective," says Anthony
Broderick, an FAA associate administrator.
   The action is prompted by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration's Ames Research Center, which found that
naps leave pilots refreshed and ready to juggle the tricky
tasks involved in descent and landing.
   Unplanned sleeping hasn't been blamed for any U.S. airline
accident. But pilot drowsiness, caused by boredom and
frequent time changes, appears to be a significant safety
hazard, says Mark Rosekind, a scientist at NASA Ames.
   Exhausted pilots, in reports to Ames's confidential
air-safety hot line, have confessed to flying at the wrong
altitude, landing on the wrong runway and slapping their
faces during landings to avoid nodding off. There are even
occasional reports of all three pilots falling asleep, says
H. Clayton Foushee, a top FAA scientist.
   The problem is so severe, experts say, that some flight
crews currently take turns sleeping, even though they could
be accused of recklessness under FAA rules.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MEMBERS of National Car Rental's Emerald Club, which
offers free-rental coupons to frequent customers, may have a
tough time redeeming their coupons in Manhattan until after
Labor Day. The company, which has a disclaimer on the
coupons, has imposed "capacity controls" for the area similar
to those on airline frequent flyer programs. . . . The
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reports that
some emergency workers have been alarmed by the dust emitted
by air bags in crashes and have used elaborate rescue
procedures for hazardous-materials accidents. "Such measures
are unnecessary and can endanger crash victims if they lead
to a delay in medical assistance," warns NHTSA chief Jerry
Curry. The dust is cornstarch or talcum powder, used to keep
the air bag's fabric from sticking to itself during
deployment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Tuesday, August 21, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 8% high, 7 3/4% low, 7 7/8% near closing
bid, 8% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.925% 5 to 44 days; 7.875% 45 to 59 days;
7.80% 60 to 89 days; 7.75% 90 to 119 days; 7.675% 120 to 149
days; 7.60% 150 to 179 days; 7.45% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 8.06%
30 days; 8% 60 days; 7.94% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.91% six months; 8.05% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 8.05% one month; 8.05% three months;
8.05% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.95% 30 days; 7.89% 60 days; 7.84%
90 days; 7.79% 120 days; 7.79% 150 days; 7.74% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8 3/16% - 8 1/16% one month; 8
3/16% - 8 1/16% two months; 8 3/16% - 8 1/ 16% three months;
8 3/16% - 8 1/16% four months; 8 1/4% 8 1/8% five months; 8
1/4% - 8 1/8% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8 3/16% one month;
8 3/16% three months; 8 1/4% six months; 8 5/16% one year.
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in
the London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14.75%; Germany 10.50%; Japan
7.13%; Switzerland 10.88; Britain 15%. These rate indications
aren't directly comparable; lending practices vary widely by
location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Monday, August 20, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.55% 13 weeks; 7.45% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.27%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.125%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.15%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.55%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.63%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada's June Retail Sales Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canadian retail sales rose 0.8% in June from
May, Statistics Canada, a federal agency, said.
   In May, retail sales fell 1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The June gain was the largest monthly increase since
January, when retail sales rose 1.4%. It was partly
attributed to a rise in sales of automobiles and other
vehicles.
   Retail sales fell 1.7% in the second quarter despite the
June rise, Statistics Canada said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Final Blueprint
   On Currency Tie
   Unveiled by EC
   ----
   By Martin Du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRUSSELS -- The European Community's executive commission
unveiled its final blueprint for monetary union.
   Among other things, the plan calls for setting up an EC
central bank by Jan. 1, 1993, which would mark the start of
"intensive preparations" for establishing a common monetary
policy and designating the European Currency Unit, or ECU, as
a single currency in the 12-nation bloc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The commission's plan is intended to form the basis for an
in-depth discussion of monetary union by EC finance ministers
Sept. 7 and 8 in Rome. In December, EC countries are to open
negotiations on amending the EC's founding Treaty of Rome for
monetary union.
   But the debate is far from over. The government of British
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is challenging the
commission's single-currency plan with proposals for a "hard
ECU" to be used as a 13th currency alongside the national
currencies. Only over a long period would the hard ECU evolve
into a single currency.
   There's little support for the United Kingdom's plan in
the commission's latest proposals. Commission President
Jacques Delors of France said he is worried that the hard ECU
plan is only a delaying tactic and questioned whether the
U.K. is ready to go all the way toward EC economic and
monetary union.
   But if the U.K. makes an unequivocal commitment to
economic and monetary union, then the hard ECU plan would
deserve serious consideration, Mr. Delors said. "If the
answer is yes, then the discussion becomes interesting," he
said.
   A key element in the commission's plan is promoting the
use of the ECU by companies, central banks and borrowers. EC
officials say that if the ECU doesn't come into wider use in
the next few years, it will become increasingly difficult to
replace the dominating German mark with a new currency. The
U.K. proposals for a hard ECU could be a useful way to
promote wider use of the ECU, Mr. Delors said.
   Although the ECU is used as the unit of account for most
official EC business, its private use remains marginal.
According to Price Waterhouse, the ECU currently accounts for
only 1% to 2% of all EC bank lending, and only 2% of EC trade
is denominated in ECUs, while 5% of all Eurobonds are
denominated in ECUs.
   Among other points in the commission's blueprint for
monetary union:
   -- The future EC treaty should explicitly designate the
ECU as the single currency.
   -- The future EC central bank, dubbed "EuroFed," should
have price stability as its prime objective. The bank should
be independent from national governments and EC institutions,
and its task would be to implement monetary policy and
intervene in foreign-exchange markets. But "the choice of the
exchange-rate regime and the negotiation of international
monetary agreements should continue to be a matter for the
political authorities, assisted by the EuroFed," according to
the commission document.
   -- The treaty should prohibit member states from financing
their budget deficits by printing money or through easy
credit. "Governments will have normal access to credit
through the market and will have to pay for it," said Henning
Christophersen, EC commissioner for economic and financial
affairs.
   -- Contrary to the idea defended by many EC central
bankers, there would be no binding rules on the maximum size
of national budget deficits. Mr. Delors said political
pressure by member states, combined with market pressure,
would be enough to discourage any government from threatening
EC financial stability by engaging in reckless borrowing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   T&amp;N's $187 Million Offer Set
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.TN JPI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- T&amp;N PLC of Britain said it completed its $187
million, or $17.30-a-share tender offer for J.P. Industries
Inc. The offer also includes the assumption of $185 million
of J.P. Industries' debt.
   The companies said about 10.8 million shares, or 99.5%, of
J.P. Industries common stock outstanding were accepted Monday
for payment. The merger is expected to be completed this
month.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The tender offer was the first step in the previously
announced agreement to merge T&amp;N's subsidiary, T&amp;N Automotive
Components, with J.P. Industries, an Ann Arbor, Mich.-based
automotive engine parts maker. T&amp;N is an equipment
manufacturer based in Manchester, England.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Western Union Extends Offer
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<CO>
   WU
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   UPPER SADDLE RIVER, N.J. -- Western Union Corp. said it
extended to midnight Tuesday from midnight Monday its offer
to exchange common stock for secured notes.
   Under the offer, the company wants to issue new notes and
common shares in exchange for up to $500 million in
outstanding 19 1/4% senior secured notes and $30 million of
16% notes. The company has said it is seeking at least 95% of
the $500 million and 80% of the $30 million as part of its
recapitalization plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   As of midnight Monday, $305.2 million of the 19 1/4% notes
and $1.2 million of 16% notes had been tendered, the
telecommunications company said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   San Juan Basin Royalty Trust
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SJT
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN JUAN BASIN ROYALTY TRUST, Fort Worth, Texas, said it
won't make a monthly cash distribution to units of record
Aug. 31. The oil and gas trust didn't make a distribution to
units of record July 31. It last paid a distribution of 23
cents a unit on July 16.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Coopers &amp; Lybrand
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   COOPERS &amp; LYBRAND (New York) -- Stephen W. McKessy was
named deputy chairman for operations, succeeding William J.
Holland, who is retiring. Succeeding Mr. McKessy, who was
previously managing partner of this accounting and consulting
firm's New York office, is Harvey J. Bazaar, previously
chairman of its financial services unit. Both changes are
effective Sept. 1. Mr. McKessy, who also serves on the firm's
executive committee, will maintain his role as vice chairman
of the firm's New York metro region.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Report Provides Support for the Critics
   Of Using Big Satellites to Study Climate
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A National Research Council study gave a
boost to proponents of small satellites, who have criticized
plans to spend as much as $50 billion over 25 years on a
series of huge satellites to study the earth's climate.
   The National Aeronautics and Space Administration plans to
launch two $3 billion satellites near the end of the decade
to study the changing global environment. Each of the
satellites, called Earth Observing Systems, or EOS-A and
EOS-B, would be replaced at five-year intervals to get a
15-year environmental record of Earth.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Critics say the satellites are too expensive and too
risky. If an EOS satellite should fail during launch or in
orbit it could wreck climate research because, the critics
contend, so many instruments are concentrated on a single
satellite.
   The National Space Council, headed by Vice President Dan
Quayle, has said it shares the concerns of the critics and is
considering whether to restructure the project. The White
House turned to the National Research Council, a part of the
National Academy of Sciences, to get an appraisal of EOS
before deciding whether to make any changes.
   The research council's report supports EOS generally, but
says that a series of smaller satellites, which are scheduled
for launch before EOS, should take precedence over the larger
ones. Those satellites are intended to continue studies of
the ocean and atmosphere. "If budget constraints arise, it
would be more desirable to delay the launch of EOS spacecraft
than to forgo or diminish the effectiveness" of the smaller
satellites, the report said.
   For the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1, the Bush
administration is asking Congress for $235 million for the
EOS program and $25 million for the smaller satellites.
   NASA has proposed putting as many as 16 different
instruments on each EOS-A and EOS-B. The report said NASA has
demonstrated that its plan makes sense for EOS-A, but hasn't
yet shown a need to put all the EOS-B instruments on one
satellite. The space agency could carve EOS-B into a number
of "smaller, independent satellites," the study said. EOS
critics have urged such a move to simplify EOS design and to
reduce the harm to the climate research program if one of the
satellites should fail.
   The study also warned that the biggest technical challenge
to EOS lies in building a computer system on the ground
capable of handling, storing and disseminating the vast
amounts of data the satellites will relay from space. The
ground-based computer system must be powerful enough to
handle a Library of Congress worth of information every month
or so.
   "While the importance and challenge of {the computer
system} are understood, it is not equally clear that the
route to achieving such a system and the resources and
advance planning required are fully appreciated," the report
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
 Unilever Acquisitions
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   UN UL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROTTERDAM, the Netherlands -- The Anglo-Dutch food and
consumer products manufacturer Unilever N.V. said it would
seek to acquire a 49% stake in a group made up of two
frozen-food businesses, Mora B.V. of the Netherlands and
Saltos N.V. of Belgium.
   Under the terms of the agreement currently being
discussed, Unilever would also be granted an option to
acquire the remaining 51% of the Mora/Saltos group over a
period of five years. Financial details of the transaction
weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PepsiCo Expects
   $5 Million Net Gain
   In Third Quarter
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   PEP J.MIB
</CO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   PepsiCo Inc., following a successful offering of Kentucky
Fried Chicken stock in Japan, said it expects to take several
gains and charges in the third quarter that will result in a
net gain of $5 million.
   The snack food, soft drink and restaurant company, which
is based in Purchase, N.Y., expects to report a one-time gain
of $50 million after tax from the sale of stock in an initial
offering of its Kentucky Fried Chicken joint venture in
Japan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At the same time, Pepsi will record several charges that
will total about $45 million after taxes. Among other things,
the charges cover the planned closings of certain
underperforming restaurants, and a provision for potentially
uncollectible receivables from certain retail customers.
   In the year-earlier third quarter, Pepsi had net income of
$269.3 million, or $1.02 a share.
   Under the offering of Kentucky Fried Chicken Japan stock,
Pepsi said it would report a pretax $86 million gain from the
sale of the 2.25 million shares and a $24 million equity gain
from the sale of two million new shares by the joint venture.
The Japanese business is a joint venture of Mitsubishi Corp.
and Pepsi.
   Under the offering, which took advantage of high prices
provided by Japan's still-inflated stock market, each partner
will retain a 30.5% interest in the company. The shares were
sold at a price of 8,470 yen a share, or about $57 -- the
maximum offering price of the range set by the Japanese
Ministry of Finance, Pepsi said. The stock sale was the
largest initial public offering in Japan this year.
   Partly because of its down-home Southern American image --
personified by the goateed Colonel Sanders -- Kentucky Fried
Chicken has been popular in Japan. Its first outlet opened 20
years ago, and with some 900 restaurants in the densely
populated country now, Kentucky Fried Chicken has grown to an
$800-million-a-year enterprise. Japan is the chain's largest
international market.
   Leonard Schutzman, a Pepsi senior vice president, said
Kentucky Fried Chicken Japan plans to use the new capital to
expand operations in the Japanese market. Despite already
being Japan's biggest foreign fast-food chain, the company
has ambitious goals for the future. Management thinks the
Japanese market can sustain as many as 2,000 additional
Kentucky Fried Chicken outlets, according to a spokesman at
Kentucky Fried Chicken Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Allegheny Ludlum Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   ALS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- Allegheny Ludlum Corp. said it completed its
previously announced acquisition of the assets of Thinsheet
Metals Co., Waterbury, Conn.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but a spokesman for the specialty
steel concern said the company expects the acquisition to
produce annual revenue of $40 million. Thinsheet Metals makes
precision rolled steel for high-technology applications.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Egyptian Refugees Say They Fled
   Brutality and Robbery in Kuwait
   ----
   By Jane Mayer
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   NUWEIBA, Egypt -- Thousands of Egyptian migrant workers
fleeing Kuwait struggled off overcrowded ferries at this port
on the Gulf of Aqaba, bringing a few possessions and tales of
what they left behind.
   In the 105-degree heat, the Egyptian refugees, some of
whom have been trying to reach their homeland for more than a
week, give accounts of pillaging and brutality by Iraqi
soldiers in Kuwait.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Waddih Nagib said he tried to leave three times before
making it to the Jordanian port of Aqaba, 40 miles northeast
of Nuweiba at the northern end of the Gulf of Aqaba where the
borders of Egypt, Israel and Jordan meet. He came with his
two brothers and two friends, all in the front seat of a tiny
truck.
   In his first attempt a week ago, he and four Americans
were turned back in the desert by Iraqi soldiers. Mr. Nagib
said the soldiers took away the Americans.
   "There was a lot of shooting, but I don't know what
happened to them," he said.
   The desert, according to Mr. Nagib and others, was studded
with land mines. He and his companions said they saw rockets
and missiles being deployed along the Persian Gulf in Kuwait
by Iraqi troops. The editor of Jane's Soviet Intelligence
Review in London said yesterday that Iraq has moved 36
missile launchers and 800 Soviet-built or Iraqi-modified
ballistic missiles into Kuwait.
   Mr. Nagib said Iraqi soldiers "robbed us of everything we
had -- our money, a television set, a radio and a vacuum
cleaner." He added, "We hate them. They have attacked
everyone and robbed everyone."
   Mahmoud Alweh, an Egyptian teller in Kuwait City's
International Bank, left a week ago with his wife and two
small sons in a Chevrolet.
   "We lost everything," he said. "Our house, our money, 12
years' worth of savings. You could lose your mind."
   On the morning after Iraq's Aug. 2 raid on Kuwait City,
Mr. Alweh said he went to the supermarket for provisions: "It
was incredibly crowded. People were buying everything they
could get their hands on, whether they needed it or not."
   When he got back to his house, he said, soldiers filled
his street. "By nightime bombs were falling and there was
shooting all night. My son was shaking. In the morning, the
streets were filled with blood and bloody clothes, shoes,
shirts and soldiers' caps."
   The streets in Kuwait City were littered with "thousands"
of cars, Mr. Alweh said, many of which had burned. Many cars
were "just stolen," said Mr. Alweh.
   The banker's wife said "they raped many." She said
soldiers also stole jewelry. Mr. Alweh said soldiers robbed
jewelry stores and electrical appliance stores.
   "Where will I go now?" asked Mr. Alweh. "Anywhere would be
better. We have been driving eight days. We have been hungry
and thirsty."
   Mohammed Hussein, an Egyptian air-conditioner salesman who
left with his brother and two small daughters, said Kuwaiti
soldiers and civilians offered scattered resistance. He said
one Kuwaiti loaded his car with explosives and charged a
hospital near the town of Shouera where Iraq's military had
set up a command post.
   Drinking water and orange soda at the Ali Baba restaurant
here, Mr. Hussein complained of crowds and delays in Aqaba.
He said he waited four days there before being able to catch
a ferry to Egypt. Egyptian officials say 5,000 to 8,000
people are traveling from Aqaba to Nuweiba each day. They say
as many as 20,000 Egyptians and 800 Sudanese are waiting in
Aqaba. The Egyptian consulate provided free food to the
refugees.
   Jordanian officials have asked Iraq to try to slow the
flow of refugees. A senior Israeli official said Jordan also
asked Israel to open its border to refugees so they could
travel to Egypt. Diplomatic sources in Washington told the
Associated Press that Israel has offered to facilitate the
return home of Egyptian civilians.
   Mr. Hussein said refugees in Aqaba found their Kuwaiti
currency almost worthless. "The Jordanians wouldn't take our
money," he said. He also reported long lines at gasoline
stations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sharon Steel Resolves Dispute
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   SSH
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   FARRELL, Pa. -- Sharon Steel Corp. said that it resolved a
dispute with the U.S. government about cleanup of hazardous
materials, and that the agreement potentially "cleared a
major hurdle" in the reorganization of the nation's
18th-largest steel company, which is in Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law proceedings.
   The settlement regarding two sites fixes Sharon Steel's
maximum liability and provides payment options of either a
$22 million lump sum or an unsecured claim of $70 million and
cash payments of $12 million over six years. The agreement
requires bankruptcy court approval.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Prime Computer-MIPS Project
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PRM MIPS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   NATICK, Mass. -- Prime Computer Inc., a computer maker,
said it will adopt MIPS Computer Systems Inc.'s reduced
instruction-set computing, or RISC, microprocessor technology
in a new line of computers, as part of a technology
partnership with the Sunnyvale, Calif., microprocessor
designer and computer systems maker. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The RISC chips will be at the heart of Prime's EXL 7000
system, based on a version of the industry standard Unix
software operating system, Prime said. Separately, Prime said
it introduced transaction-processing software for its
Unix-based computer systems.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   What the Founding Fathers Really Wanted
   ----
   By Thomas P. Griesa
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A7
</SO>
<LP>
   Readers should not be put off by the title, "Why Blacks,
Women, and Jews Are Not Mentioned in the Constitution, and
Other Unorthodox Views" (American Enterprise Institute,
Washington, D.C., 182 pages, $16.95), by Robert A. Goldwin.
The book is not racist, sexist, anti-Semitic, flippant or
strident. Mr. Goldwin was the primary organizer of the
decade-long Constitution Project of the American Enterprise
Institute, where he is a resident scholar. He is basically a
philosopher with a deep interest in what he calls the
"American founding principles." This book is a collection of
his articles and addresses dealing with a variety of
subjects, including the Constitution, American education and
the proposed Law of the Sea Treaty. His ideas are
venturesome, and inevitably of the kind to provoke debate.
Many points are of enormous value, but in the debate about
some, I would be on the opposing team.
   The essay from which the book's title is drawn deals in
part with the ever-recurring attack on the authors of the
Constitution for not immediately putting an end to slavery.
During the recent 200th anniversary, some commentators spoke
with particular bitterness of the provision (Art. I, Sec. 2)
that a state's allotment of members in the House shall be
determined by the number of "free Persons" plus "three-fifths
of all other Persons" (meaning slaves). The Founding Fathers,
it is said, viewed the Negro slave as less than human and
expressed this in cold arithmetic.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Goldwin's thesis is sharply different. He argues that
the three-fifths clause had nothing to do with characterizing
blacks in demeaning terms. The issue was not the relative
worth of individuals but the relative power of Northern and
Southern states in Congress. The Southern states were the
ones who argued for counting the full number of slaves on an
equal basis with the whites. It was the delegates from the
Northern states who wanted to count the slaves as less than
the whites, and indeed urged that they should not be counted
at all. A compromise was reached in the three-fifths
provision.
   Although the subject of slavery was dealt with in the
Constitution, the word "slave" or "slavery" was never
actually used. There was nothing in the Constitution that
perpetuated slavery, and when abolition finally came, it was
the laws and practices of certain states that needed to be
changed, not the Constitution.
   A number of other interesting themes are pursued in the
author's remaining essays on the Constitution. He contrasts
the extravagant catalog of "human rights" appearing in many
modern constitutions with the brief list of basics in our
Bill of Rights. The current tendency is to guarantee such
things as adequate diet, housing, health care, recreation and
culture. But these "guarantees" are usually fraud or folly.
For people dying of malnutrition, the question is not whether
they have the right, but how to get food to them.
   Mr. Goldwin ponders with great insight the reasons for the
American Constitution's success and longevity. By now about
160 other countries have such governing instruments, but
their replacement rate is very high. The American
Constitution (capital "C") was drafted to correspond with the
American constitution (small "c"), meaning the people's
character, habits and institutions. Americans had accumulated
considerable experience in selfgovernment going back to the
creation of the Virginia House of Burgesses in 1619. Thus our
Constitution, unlike so many documents of the present era,
established a system that the people were ready -- and were
resolved -- to put into practice.
   In essays equally trenchant regarding the modern political
scene, Mr. Goldwin constructs the arguments that formed his
advice to the Reagan administration on the proposed Law of
the Sea Treaty -- intellectual underpinning that helped to
forestall the creation of a large and wasteful international
bureaucracy dealing with minerals in the deep seabed.
   There is, however, one aspect of the book in which Mr.
Goldwin carries his unorthodoxy too far. The problem is
epitomized by his statement that James Madison, whose
writings in The Federalist are an important guide to
interpreting the Constitution, did "not rely on discipline or
education or religion or any form of good motives to control
government officials." The author repeatedly cites Madison's
Federalist 51 to support the proposition that the only
reliable device for keeping government within proper bounds
is self-interest combating self-interest. "Ambition must be
made to counteract ambition." But Mr. Goldwin's thesis has
been developed at the expense of a fair use of the sources.
Madison and the other Founders were not Chicago-school
economists. They knew about self interest, but The Federalist
resounds with the basic moral necessities for government: the
need for "patriotism and love of justice," and for the
sacrifice of "partial interests to the public good." There
must be a "sacred reverence . . . in the breast of the rulers
towards the Constitution." In Madison's view, "Republican
government presupposes the existence of these qualities in a
higher degree than any other form." Platitudes? Not to the
Founders, nor to those who respect them.
   ---
   Judge Griesa sits on the U.S. District Court in New York
City.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Everybody Sing Along: Bailing,
   Bailing, Over the Bounding Main
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The Trump Princess is definitely not invited
to this regatta. But there is sure to be a vessel in the
tradition of the good ship "Warthog."
   It's Manhattan's Instant Boat Contest, commonly known by
participants as "Glue It, Screw It and Row It." The contest
is to take place this Saturday and Sunday at Pier 26 on the
Hudson River.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The idea is to build a boat in a day using three sheets of
plywood, four two-by-fours, three pounds of nails and lots of
black glue made by Sika Corp., which originally sponsored the
race to promote its adhesive. Builders must bring their own
specified list of tools.
   Todd Greeno, a former Navy figher pilot, and Don
O'Donoghue, a bartender, built an eight-foot replica of the
aircraft carrier USS Enterprise last year. It came complete
with a flight deck and a battery-powered toy F-4 Phantom
figher jet that circled the carrier as it was launched.
   "We designed it on the back of a bar napkin," Mr. Greeno
said of the carrier, which won first prize for best creative
design but finished eighth in the sea trials. "This year's
boat is going to be more streamlined."
   The new sponsors of the contest are two nonprofit groups,
the River Project, an oceanographic research organization,
and B.O.A.T.S. (Boat Owners Association to Survive). The
idea, the groups say, is to promote boating on the Hudson
River and demonstrate that you don't have to be a millionaire
to go boating.
   The rules are simple: Contestants must build a boat in one
day. On the next day, they must row or paddle it -- along
shore -- from one pier to another and back, a distance of
about 2,000 feet.
   Steven Tiebout, a retired magazine writer, won for being
the fastest boat builder last year. (The category has been
eliminated.) His vessel was the aptly named Warthog. "I
wanted to build a boat that would take the least amount of
time, so I knew it wasn't going to be good looking," he says.
   Of course, the boats don't always log much time on the
water once the race is run. One entry has been converted into
a flower planter, says Cathy Drew, director of the River
Project. Another became a wading pool.
   Judging will be based on creativity of design,
functionality and results of the sea trials. But, sponsors
warn, the judges' decision "should be expected to be
arbitrary and capricious."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Firms Get China Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MHI J.TMN FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and the trading
house Toyo Menka Kaisha Ltd. said they received an order for
a coal-handling facility valued at about 12 billion yen
($81.9 million) from National Technical Import &amp; Export Corp.
of China.
   The plant will be installed at Qingdao Port in Shantung
Province by the end of 1993, company officials said. The
order is part of a package of Japanese economic assistance to
China, awarded in 1984. The new plant will have loading and
unloading equipment capable of handling 15 million metric
tons of coal annually, of which 10 million tons will be
exported; a metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Home Beneficial Buy-Back Deal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   HBENB
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   RICHMOND, Va. -- Home Beneficial Corp., an insurance
holding company, said it purchased 417,900 of its nonvoting
Class B common shares, or 6.9% of the 6,015,060 outstanding
as of yesterday, in a private transaction for $33.50 each, or
$14 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Siemens Gets Indonesian Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   G.SIE FREST J.MHI
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   BONN, West Germany -- Siemens AG, an electrical and
electronics giant, said it obtained a contract valued at
several hundred million marks to deliver electro-technical
equipment for the Gresik gas and steam turbine energy plant
in Indonesia, as part of a 1.1 billion-mark ($702.5 million)
order granted by Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, the
Indonesian state-owned energy works, to a consortium led by
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. of Japan.
   Siemens said the contract calls for delivery of 12
generators, high-voltage switch gear and 18 transformers.
Siemens plants in Muelheim, Berlin and Nuremberg will
complete the order.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Susquehanna Accord
   For Acquisition Ended
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   SUSQ EFSB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   LITITZ, Pa. -- Susquehanna Bancshares Inc. said an
agreement to purchase Elmwood Federal Savings Bank for about
$24 million in stock was ended because of "recent changes in
market conditions."
   The decision to call off the purchase was made by mutual
consent, the banks said. In May, Susquehanna lowered its
previous $27 million offer for Elmwood, based in Media, Pa.,
because of weak conditions in the banking market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said that "the door was left open" for
future discussions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japan's Wholesale Prices Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Japan's wholesale prices rose 0.2% in the first
10 days of August from the previous 10-day period, and
increased 0.9% from the previous year, the Bank of Japan
reported.
   The wholesale price index stood at 90.5 at the end of the
ten days. The index's base of 1985 prices equals 100.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Domestic prices climbed 0.1% from the previous ten days
and rose 0.4% from a year earlier.
   In July, wholesale prices rose 0.4% from the previous
month and 0.5% from a year earlier, the central bank reported
last week.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Keeping the Bomb From Iraq
   ----
   By Richard Perle
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST LATAM EUROP FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
CONGRESS (CNG)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Nine years ago Israeli aircraft destroyed the Baghdad
facility from which Saddam Hussein expected to obtain the
plutonium for a nuclear weapon. The breathtaking accuracy of
the Israeli air force was admired privately in defense
ministries around the world. But most governments denounced
the Israeli action.
   Had Israel not sent its planes against the Osirak reactor,
our world would be a different and far more dangerous one
today. Saddam could have marched into Kuwait with the "try
and stop me" swagger that would come from nuclear weapons
added to his already formidable arsenal of nerve gas and
hostages. Nuclear weapons, once thought of as the "great
equalizer," must now be seen differently. They are one thing
in the hands of governments animated by rational policies to
protect national interests and a normal regard for human
life. They are quite another in the hands of a brutal
megalomaniac like Saddam who wouldn't blink at the mass
destruction of his "enemies."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So nine years later we -- this time it's our turn -- had
better be prepared to do it again. The destruction of Iraq's
nascent nuclear capability together with its capacity to
build chemical weapons should be the first priority of
American policy in the current crisis. The restoration of
Kuwaiti sovereignty and the total withdrawal of Iraqi forces
from Kuwait are important. But stopping Saddam from obtaining
nuclear weapons is more important still. If this crisis ends
with Iraq's nascent nuclear capabilities and chemical-weapons
production facilities and stockpiles intact, the Western
world will have made a mistake of historic proportions.
   It took the U.S. four days to decide that Iraq's brutal
invasion of Kuwait was unacceptable. How long would it have
taken the American president to respond -- and who would have
joined us -- if Saddam had nuclear weapons? Would the U.S.
have sent 100,000 troops within range of Iraqi nuclear
missiles? With nuclear weapons Saddam would rule the Gulf and
control the world's supply of oil.
   In the years since Israel acted to enforce the nuclear
non-proliferation treaty in the only way Saddam respects,
Iraq, with help from America's allies, has rebuilt its
nuclear facilities, burrowing deep underground and deploying
massive air defenses to protect them. Meanwhile, Iraq is
trying to obtain the ballistic missile technology that would
enable a nuclear weapon to be delivered over great distances.
One would think that there would be a concerted effort by
Iraq's potential victims to thwart these nuclear missile
ambitions.
   Yet less than a month ago, at the last minute and over the
strenuous objections of the Commerce Department (which had
previously approved the deal), the U.S. stopped the shipment
to Iraq of a $15 million sophisticated metallurgical furnace
said to be for the manufacture of titanium alloy prosthetic
devices. The furnace was actually intended to advance
Saddam's nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
   Ariane, the French-led European space consortium, is now
assisting Brazil in the development of a ballistic missile
"for civilian space purposes." Brazil, in turn, has been
supplying Saddam with missiles derived from earlier
European-supported "civilian" programs. The U.S. is on the
verge of authorizing the sale to a Brazilian company involved
in missile development of a largely unsafeguarded
supercomputer. It will almost certainly be put at the service
of its missile development program. (At the same time, we
have, for more than two years, refused licenses for Israeli
universities to purchase supercomputers that they are willing
to place under any set of restrictive safeguards the U.S.
desires.)
   Even the chemical weapons with which Saddam now threatens
to destroy Israel, American forces in the Gulf or anyone else
who stands in his way are derived, in large part, from
Western suppliers of technology and precursor chemicals. The
West Germans' lax regime of export controls and deliberately
anemic enforcement has been most egregious. But they are not
alone.
   If American troops come under attack from Iraqi chemical
weapons in 1990 (or Iraqi nuclear weapons later), myopic
Western greed, nurtured by policy confusion and bureaucratic
incompetence, will bear much of the blame.
   When the current crisis is over, it should be a priority
American policy to strengthen significantly controls over the
export of sensitive technology to Iraq and to insist that our
allies do the same. But even a strictly enforced,
comprehensive export control regime would be unlikely to stop
Iraq's nuclear and chemical programs at this late stage in
their development. That is why an air attack on the
facilities is an essential first step to putting the Iraqi
genie back in the bottle. The cork of export controls should
follow.
   If we are to destroy Iraq's nuclear and chemical weapons
potential through military action and export controls, we
need to organize our allies accordingly.
   The NATO allies (with the Soviet Union, Iraq's principal
suppliers of military equipment and technology) have long
insisted that the Gulf is outside NATO's "area" and thus not
subject to coordinated NATO policies or actions. As the dire
threat to the European economies of war and turbulence in the
Gulf has long been obvious, the U.S. has long encouraged NATO
to think about, and plan for, contingencies in the Gulf like
the war and occupation now under way.
   Until the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, the American effort to
broaden NATO's horizon had largely failed. Even as Iraqi
occupation forces round up hostages and Saddam instigates a
holy war against Western interests, West German Foreign
Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, whose country is dependent
on Middle East oil, cowers behind an interpretation of the
German constitution that would preclude Germany joining its
allies in the Gulf. And the French, whose cynical alliance
with Iraq has helped to make Saddam a military power, were
openly critical of the American blockade until joining it
this week. (President Francois Mitterrand said yesterday that
France would send ground forces to the United Arab Emirates
in response to the Persian Gulf crisis.)
   Britain, however, has behaved admirably in the current
crisis. So have some others. Turkey gets half its oil through
the Iraqi pipeline it closed in support of the U.N. sanctions
and it trades extensively with Iraq. Although it has a great
deal to lose, Turkey has courageously stood with the U.S.,
doing more for the security of the European Community than
many of the community's own members.
   The silver lining in the cloud of Saddam's invasion of
Kuwait may be a long-overdue realization on the part of some
NATO allies that they have important interests outside
central Europe whose protection may require the exertion of
military power. Defense Secretary Richard Cheney has been
arguing this theme persuasively within NATO councils. He can
now do so with the credibility that comes from demonstrated
prescience.
   The cohesion of the advanced industrial powers is
essential to any effective administration of export controls.
This can be obtained only through a combination of argument
and, where necessary, the sort of pressure that the world's
largest market and principal supplier of technology can apply
-- when it has a mind to. What has been lacking is clarity
and will on the part of the U.S. American ambivalence has
been evident in the continuing differences between the
departments of Commerce and Defense and the action of the
Congress in pressuring a pliable and divided administration
to decimate controls on the export of sensitive technologies
to countries where they will be used for military purposes.
In this situation it is hardly surprising that venal German
and craven French exporters have elicited commercial envy at
the Commerce Department and met acquiescence at the State
Department.
   For the more immediate task, the destruction of Iraq's
present -- as opposed to its future -- weapons programs, the
support of America's allies, while desirable, is not
essential. The U.S. has the air power to do the job alone.
While some logistic support, like the use of European bases
from which to stage air strikes, would be helpful, we should
not be deterred by reluctance on the part of countries that,
having been part of the problem, now wish to escape becoming
part of the solution.
   As for diplomatic support, it would be nice if we could
get it -- but not if we have to pay for it by ending the
current crisis with a face-saving tactical retreat by Saddam
that would enable him to fight another day. The opinion of
Hans-Dietrich Genscher is a fly speck alongside the Western
interests that are at stake in toppling Saddam by destroying
his military potential and, in so doing, making it plain that
we will not allow nuclear weapons to fall into the hands of
international thugs.
   Saddam will not be the last menace to Western interests,
and he is certainly not the most formidable. The most
formidable threat to our well-being would be a Saddam in
possession of true weapons of mass destruction and prepared
to use them to extort power and wealth from those unable to
defend against them or deter their use. In any contest in
which one side is bound by the norms of civilized behavior
and the other is not, history is, alas, on the side of the
barbarians. This is a lesson to remember before we cancel the
B-2 bomber and thereby give up the capability to destroy
targets safely anywhere in the world without requiring
foreign bases.
   An attack on Iraq's nuclear and chemical facilities will
not be cost-free. But in the long run, sparing them will
prove even more costly. President Bush deserves to know that
he will have bipartisan support for a policy that recognizes
this.
   We have a narrow choice: Fly now or pay later.
   ---
   Mr. Perle, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington, served as assistant secretary of
defense in the Reagan administration.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Scor S.A.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SUR WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   SCOR S.A. -- William K. Lowry Jr., 38 years old,
previously chief financial officer at Phoenix Re Corp., a
reinsurer, was named chief financial officer and senior vice
president at Scor U.S. Corp., filling a vacancy at the New
York-based unit of this Paris-based insurance and reinsurance
holding company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<LP>
   Adjectivitis
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   May I ask, in this
   Innocent letter,
   Why do things have to
   Get worse before
   They get better?
   If one's interrupted,
   Even though shrewdly,
   Why must it always
   Be "rudely"?
   And why are some books,
   Though overrated,
   Referred to as "Long-awaited"?
   What baffles this bard
   Is why must the look
   Be "long and hard"?
   Finally, I've always
   Been mystified
   That something that's cut
   Must also be dried.
   -- Dow Richardson.
   ---
   Wait Control
                                                                                                       

   "Patience is a virtue"
   And I admire the aforesaid --
   In the driver behind me,
   Not in the one ahead.
   -- Gail Cooke.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First American Plans Staff Cuts
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<CO>
   FATN
</CO>
<LP>
   NASHVILLE, Tenn. -- First American Corp. said it plans to
reduce its 3,800-employee work force by 8% to 10%, by the end
of next year.
   Struggling with problem loans and falling earnings in
recent quarters, the bank said that a significant portion of
the reduction would be acheived through normal employee
turnover. A spokeswoman said some jobs would be eliminated,
but said she couldn't say how many.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Celgene Receives
   Patent for Process
   To Purify Drugs
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CELG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   WARREN, N.J. -- Celgene Corp. said it received a patent on
an unusual technique for boosting the safety and efficacy of
a broad category of drugs and chemicals.
   The little biotechnology company, formerly part of
Celanese Corp., said it had developed processes for purifying
an amine compound so that all its molecules are of the same
shape, or "handedness." Amines are compounds that are
basically derived from the ammonia molecule. They include the
amino acids that compose all proteins as well as a wide
variety of heart drugs, antibiotics, anti-depressants as well
as farm chemicals.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many amines come in two molecular shapes that, like the
right and left hands, are mirror images of each other. The
Celgene processes can ensure that all of a product's amine
molecules are either the left-handed version or the
right-handed version, whichever is desirable, the company
said.
   The handedness of an amine can affect the chemical's
effectiveness and its safety, Sol J. Barer, Celgene vice
president for technology, said. For example, the synthetic
sweetener aspartame, sold as NutraSweet by a subsidiary of
Monsanto Co., is composed only of the left-handed versions of
two amino acids. Only the left-handed versions taste sweet;
the right-handed versions of the same two amino acids taste
bitter, a Nutra-Sweet spokesman confirmed.
   Many medicines and chemicals are a mixture of the
left-handed and right-handed forms of amines and this may
account for some drugs having both beneficial as well as
adverse effects, the company explained. A prevailing theory,
for example, holds that thalidomide was both a highly
effective sleeping pill and a drug that produced severe birth
defects because it was a mixture of both the right-handed and
left-handed versions of the same molecule, Mr. Barer noted.
   Similarly, the potency of some medicines is diluted by the
presence of the inactive version of the molecule. Potency can
be boosted and the dosage of the drug reduced by purifying it
to the active version of the molecule, the company said.
   Celgene said its new patent covers the use of special
bacterial enzymes to separate the left-handed versions of
amines from the right-handed versions. The enzymes also can
be used to produce only one version of an amine from a
chemical raw material. Thus, Mr. Barer explained, once an
undesirable version of an amine is culled out of the
compound, it can be recycled into the more desirable version.
   The company said it had identified more than 500
pharmaceutical compounds that are candidates for the new
process.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Flightsafety Gets Contract
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FSI RLM
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Flightsafety Services Corp., a unit of
Flightsafety International Inc., got a $19.1 million Air
Force contract for a C-5B aircraft system trainer.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Reynolds Metals Co. was given a $12.5 million Army
contract for pipeline equipment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   DS Bancor Chairman's Stake
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DSBC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DERBY, Conn. -- DS Bancor Inc., the holding company for
Derby Savings Bank, said Chairman Eugene D. Micci boosted his
stake in the company to 8% of the outstanding common stock.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Micci said he may increase his holdings to 9.9% and will
continue with management and the board to explore "all viable
options for maximizing shareholder value" including the
possible sale of the company.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman for the bank noted that Mr. Micci has been
increasing his holdings over the past few years. At June 30,
Derby Savings Bank had assets of $627 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Trump Bailout
   Wins Approval
   Of Casino Panel
   ---
   But Commission Chairman
   Says Plan Won't Resolve
   All of Developer's Woes
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   X.TMP BT
</CO>
<IN>
CASINOS AND GAMBLING (CNO)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
BANKS (BNK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The New Jersey Casino Control Commission unanimously
approved Donald J. Trump's $65 million bank bailout, though
the commission chairman cautioned that the plan wouldn't
resolve all of the developer's financial troubles.
   The approval caps three months of arduous negotiations
that led to the agreement that restructured about $2 billion
of Mr. Trump's $3.2 billion of casino and bank debt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition to lending him $65 million, the banks will
suspend about $850 million in interest payments for the next
three to five years. In return, Mr. Trump gave the banks
second mortgages on almost all his assets, including his
three Atlantic City casinos. He also agreed to stringent
financial controls, including limits on his personal
spending.
   On Monday night, Mr. Trump reached an agreement with a
group of subcontractors that is owed about $70 million for
its work on Mr. Trump's Taj Mahal casino. Persons close to
the negotiations said the contractors accepted 20%, or about
$14 million, now with the rest of the payments deferred over
five years.
   Mr. Trump's next step is expected to be a restructuring of
the remaining $1.2 billion in casino debt. As part of its
approval, the commission set a relicensing hearing within
three weeks to evaluate the financial stability of Mr.
Trump's three casinos.
   "I do not view this restructuring as the total solution to
the problem," Valerie Armstrong, the acting commission
chairwoman, said.
   In preparation for Mr. Trump's bond restructuring
proposal, Taj Mahal bondholders yesterday retained Rothschild
Inc. as their investment adviser.
   Because they hold first-mortgage bonds, the Taj
bondholders believe they are in a stronger position than Mr.
Trump.
   "At the end of the day, we think Mr. Trump is a pragmatist
and at the end of the day the banks are pragmatic too," said
Wilbur Ross, a debt restructuring specialist with Rothschild.
In the past, Mr. Trump has said that if the Taj is forced to
file for bankruptcy-court protection, bondholders won't
receive interest or equity for three years.
   Mr. Trump said he was happy with the commission's
decision. "It was a wonderful victory. I'm very happy with
the decision," he said.
   Essentially, Mr. Trump's advisers said, the commission's
approval is a sign it believes many of the developer's
problems may be solved if he is given breathing room.
   "After balancing the issues, the commission felt it was
better for the bank deal to go forward and give Mr. Trump the
opportunity to deal with his Atlantic City situation," said
Nicholas Ribis, Mr. Trump's New Jersey attorney who argued
Mr. Trump's case before the commission.
   Many of the bankers and lawyers involved said the bailout
was one of the most complex corporate restructurings they
ever worked on. Close to 90 lending institutions were party
to the bailout, and about 1,000 lawyers, bankers and
accountants participated in the talks. Over the past week,
Mr. Trump spent much of his time in the Manhattan law offices
of Wachtell Lipton Rosen &amp; Katz, where he personally signed
close to 2,000 documents.
   Wachtell represents Bankers Trust Corp. which, in addition
to being one of Mr. Trump's most exposed creditors, is acting
as agent for the other banks.
   Wachtell is also one of about a dozen law firms which have
run up a total of about $10 million in legal fees, according
to persons involved in the negotiations. In a debt
restructuring, legal fees are traditionally paid for by the
debtor, although recently released financial documents show
Mr. Trump may not have the funds to pay the banks' lawyers.
   The banks attorneys are believed to be working on a
payment schedule that mirrors somewhat the arrangement
reached last night with Mr. Trump's unpaid subcontractors.
   According to persons familiar with the arrangement, Mr.
Trump will give the bank attorneys one-third of their fees
now, another third in April and the remainder in June. Should
Mr. Trump not be able to pay the fees, the attorneys will
still most likely be paid by the banks, said a person
familiar with the negotiations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Ends Lower as Afternoon Rally
   Fails to Offset Early Morning Plunge
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   Even a rebound from a steep morning decline couldn't
inspire much positive comment about the over-the-counter
stock market yesterday.
   Traders noted that the OTC's major index regained about
25% of its first-hour loss, but found little reason for
optimism in the face of the crisis in the Persian Gulf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 8.91, or 2.3% and closed
at 379.68, its third consecutive loss. The index had fallen
about 13 points before a late morning rally.
   At the opening bell, OTC stocks followed the Big Board
lower, recording major losses in the first hour of trading.
Both rallied at midday. But while the listed stocks fell in
the afternoon, OTC stocks eased higher.
   The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index closed 1.9%
lower. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 52.48, a 2%
loss.
   Traders are at a loss to explain the upward creep of the
OTC market in the afternoon while Big Board stocks languished
lower.
   John Schraff, an equities trader for Daiwa Securities
America, suggests it may be merely a matter of timing.
   "Secondary issues were beat up a lot worse," Mr. Schraff
says. "They may be seeing their bottoms at different times."
   At Alex. Brown &amp; Sons, William Rothe, managing director of
equity trading, saw some short-covering in OTC issues and a
few investors picking up a rare bargain.
   "The mood still remains cautious," Mr. Rothe says. "It
will take good news out of the Middle East to get some form
of technical rally."
   Volume increased dramatically to 166.4 million shares from
Monday's paltry 115.5 million shares. Decliners led advancing
issues 1,747 to 458.
   MCI Communications was by far the most active OTC issue.
MCI traded 3.7 million shares, nearly double its daily
average of 2.1 million shares.
   Much of the interest in MCI began with its morning
announcement that it might write off about $500 million in
the third quarter to convert its analog systems to digital.
MCI also said it would spend about $1.1 billion in 1991 on
the conversion.
   The market sent MCI about two points lower at the outset.
By afternoon, investors began buying and nearly cut MCI's
decline in half. It finished the day at 33 5/8, down 1 1/8.
   Gaining issues weren't easy to find on the closing tape.
But late shopping in some technology issues pushed Novell 1
5/8 higher to 22 3/4 and Oracle Systems 1/8 higher to 13 5/8.
Sun Microsystems reversed early losses to end unchanged at
26.
   Alex. Brown's Mr. Rothe suggests that investors looking
for selective opportunities may be scouring the roles of the
battered technology issues for a bargain or two.
   Of course, not all technology stocks avoided declines.
Intel lost 1 to 32 1/4. Apple Computer fell 1/2 to 36 1/4.
Microsoft also rebounded from early lows but still closed 1
1/4 lower at 54 1/4.
   Cellular stocks suffered too. McCaw Cellular declined 1/2
to 18 3/4. LIN Broadcasting fell 1 5/8 to 57. Contel Cellular
was down 1 3/4 to 14. Nationwide Cellular Service stumbled 1
to close at 4 3/4.
   Big losses were abundant in virtually every OTC sector.
Two athletic-shoe makers fell drastically. Nike was off 5 7/8
to 67 3/8 while K-Swiss lost 1 3/4 to 18 1/2. The British
information and trading systems giant, Reuters, gave up
ground again, dropping another 2 points to close at 44 3/4.
And International Lease Finance dropped 1 1/2 to 27 1/2.
   Brand was down 1 1/2 to 13 1/4. Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report said the company told analysts its third
quarter earnings might be lower than expected.
   Cetus fell 1 1/8 to 7 1/2. The New York Times reported the
company is in trouble following management changes, layoffs
and Food and Drug Administration questions about its most
important product, interleukin-2.
   Stuart Hall reported it was negotiating with an investor
group to sell a 7% stake in the company. Stuart Hall said the
investor group might be interested in acquiring the entire
company eventually. Stuart Hall shares rose 5/8 to 10 5/8.
   Prospect Group traded more than 10 times its average daily
volume as the company began distribution of its assets as it
liquidates. Prospect Group shareholders will receive both
cash and the stock of subsidiaries. The company's shares fell
5/8 to 2 1/8 on 1.6 million shares.
   Buy-backs brought disparate responses.
   Dionex shares were 1/8 lower at 18 7/8 despite the
company's announcement that it would buy back as many as one
million of its 8.9 million common shares.
   Andrew added 3/4 to close at 18 on news the company would
repurchase one million of its 10.2 million common shares
outstanding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inside Track:
   These Insiders Put
   Cash Where Others
   Fear to Invest
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   UT GBI DRM JML
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Call them bad-news bulls, investors who rush
in to snap up shares that have been depressed by lousy
earnings, lawsuits or other bad news.
   It's a risky stock-picking strategy, but one that may be
especially worth looking into if the buyers snapping up the
shares are also the ones running the company -- officers,
directors and other "insiders."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "From our standpoint, insider buying is a good indication
that this {bad news} was a one-time situation," said Ron
Rohe, chief operating officer of Baxter Financial Corp., a
Boca Raton, Fla., money-management firm. "While the Street
may get surprised, there's a pretty strong pattern of the
stock coming back after you see insiders buy."
   So where are the insiders bullish despite bad news?
   Consider four firms where Securities and Exchange
Commission filings show recent clusters of insiders buying
just as Wall Street was selling: United Telecommunications
Inc., a Westwood, Kan., communications company, Granada
BioSciences Inc., a Houston biotechnology concern, Diamond
Shamrock Inc., a Houston oil refiner, and James Madison Ltd.,
a Washington, D.C., bank-holding company. At three of the
four companies, the top purchaser was the chairman or
president.
   United Telecommunications, parent of US Sprint, reported a
55% earnings plunge on July 17, triggering a 23% drop in the
price of its stock and prompting several shareholder
lawsuits. But two days later, Chairman William Esrey
purchased $138,150 of stock, SEC filings show. He bought
5,000 shares at $27.63 a share, increasing his total holdings
by 6%.
   Five other United Telecommunications insiders followed his
lead with modest purchases later in the month, buying between
250 and 2,000 shares. The purchases increased their total
holdings by between 18% and 190%, SEC filings show.
   Mr. Esrey was out of the country and couldn't be reached.
But Art Krause, the company's chief financial officer, summed
up the insiders' view: "We all feel that the market probably
overreacted, and we're very bullish." Mr. Krause increased
his own holdings in the company 31% with a 2,000-share
purchase on July 20.
   The United Telecommunications insiders paid between $24.63
and $29.50 a share. In New York Stock Exchange trading
yesterday, the stock closed at $26, up 12 1/2 cents.
   Similarly, four insiders at Diamond Shamrock bought shares
after the company reported July 18 that its second-quarter
earnings fell sharply. Net income skidded to 45 cents a
share, after write-downs, from $1.02 a year earlier, it said.
   On July 23 and July 30, the company's chairman, Roger R.
Hemminghaus, purchased 1,250 shares, SEC filings show. He
said he "got them at bargain prices" of $22 a share or less.
That compares with the stock's $25 level as recently as June.
   Mr. Hemminghaus said he also purchased 1,500 shares
earlier this month that he hasn't yet reported to the SEC. In
total, the shares cost about $60,000 and brought his holdings
to 55,828 shares.
   Much of the company's earnings drop, according to Mr.
Hemminghaus, was due to a devaluation of its oil inventories
in light of falling crude-oil prices at the time. But the
value of those inventories could be raised this quarter, he
said.
   The three other insiders at Diamond Shamrock bought 500 or
1,000 shares each, SEC filings show. All of them paid prices
ranging from $20 to $22 a share. In New York Stock Exchange
composite trading yesterday, Diamond Shamrock closed at
$20.50, up 25 cents.
   Granada BioSciences went public early this year. Insiders
have been on a buying spree ever since, SEC filings show,
even though the company has been losing money and its Granada
Corp. affiliate is embroiled in lawsuits. Altogether, six
insiders have purchased 89,900 shares since January at prices
ranging from $4.88 to $7, according to the filings. And, at
least on paper, they've all made money.
   Darold McCalla, the company's president, has spent about
$200,000 on Granada BioSciences stock. "The initial offering
of the stock {at $7} was very close to its book value, so we
thought there was value the Street hasn't recognized," he
said.
   Now, it "looks like the Street agrees with us," added
Kevin Gannon, the company's finance director, who has
purchased 26,700 shares this year. In American Stock Exchange
trading yesterday, Granada BioSciences closed at $10.25, down
25 cents.
   Granada BioSciences reported a second-quarter loss of 26
cents a share, although that was an improvement over the
year-earlier loss of 73 cents a share. As for the lawsuits,
nearly 300 investors have sued Granada Corp. in connection
with 11 limited partnerships. Late last year, Granada Corp.
rolled those partnerships into two publicly held
corporations, one of which is Granada BioSciences. The
transaction made the former limited partners the holders of
about 45% of Granada BioSciences stock.
   Mr. Gannon said Granada BioSciences has no liability for
the partnerships. Mr. McCalla declined comment on the suits.
   Insiders have also been buying at James Madison, parent of
Madison National Bank. According to SEC filings, seven
company insiders made open-market purchases in May through
July, buying a total of 153,958 shares.
   On July 19, the company reported that second-quarter per
share earnings dropped to seven cents from 10 cents a year
earlier. The company also suspended its 15-cent semi-annual
dividend.
   The largest purchase was made by Ulysses Auger, a
director, who bought 87,258 shares in May and July. The
purchase brought his total holdings to 880,397 shares, SEC
filings show. He paid an average share price of $3.96, or a
total of $354,541, according to the filings. Mr. Auger
couldn't be reached for comment.
   The six other insiders bought between 200 and 25,000
shares at share prices ranging from $2.75 to $6. Of those,
three increased their holdings by more than 50%, SEC filings
show.
   In American Stock Exchange trading yesterday, James
Madison closed at $2.50, down 12 1/2 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   King Broadcasting
   Is Put Up for Sale
   By Major Holders
   ---
   Bullitt Sisters' Plan Is to Use
   Proceeds for Environment
   In the Pacific Northwest
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- King Broadcasting Co. said majority
shareholders put the closely held radio and television
company up for sale, adding that proceeds will be used to
help the environment.
   King owns six television stations in the Northwest and
Hawaii, six radio stations in Seattle, Portland, Ore., and
San Francisco, and 13 cable television systems in Washington,
Idaho, California and Minnesota. Analysts placed the market
value of the company at about $400 million. The company has
annual revenue estimated at about $150 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Priscilla Bullitt Collins, board chairwoman, and her
sister Harriet Stimson Bullitt, chairwoman of the executive
committee, said they intend to concentrate on preserving the
environment in the Northwest through projects funded by the
family's Bullitt Foundation.
   The two women said that, including stock owned by their
late mother, they own 70% of King's shares. The women said
that the company is financially healthy and that they chose
to sell now partly because of their age. Both women are more
than 65 years old.
   "We prefer to sell at a time of our own choosing rather
than wait until a sale would be required by our deaths," the
sisters said in a statement.
   They said they have retained Dillon, Read &amp; Co. and
Sterling Payot Co. to advise them on the sale.
   The Bullitt family is one of the most prominent and
wealthy in the Seattle area. The sisters' grandparents built
a lumber and real estate empire and founded hospitals,
schools and Seattle's symphony and yacht club. The sisters'
mother, Dorothy, who died last year at the age of 97, founded
King in 1946 by buying a radio station so she could fulfill
her dream of broadcasting classical music. In 1948, she
acquired a TV station that later became KING-TV, now King's
flagship station.
   Dorothy Bullitt also founded the Bullitt Foundation, which
has long contributed to civic projects and to preserving the
Pacific Northwest. The sisters said they planned to "build a
program second to none" to protect the region's environment.
They said they intend to set up or support programs to reduce
air pollution, to preserve estuaries and wetland, and to
protect wild salmon habitat, Puget Sound and the area's
spectacular mountain and coastal scenery.
   "Caring for these treasures is our purpose," the sisters
said in the statement. ". . . Enhancing this foundation
through the sale of the company will fulfill many of {Dorothy
Bullitt's} and our dreams."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Businessland Charged
   In Suits With Violating
   U.S. Securities Laws
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   BLI
</CO>
<LP>
   SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Businessland Inc. said investors have
filed two class action lawsuits against the company, alleging
violations of federal securities laws.
   The company said the suits, filed in federal court here,
were filed in connection with the announcement two weeks ago
of Businessland's fiscal 1990 loss of $21.5 million, or 73
cents a share. News of the loss hammered Businessland stock,
which plunged 58% to $2.875 the day it was reported. In New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Businessland
shares closed at $2.75, down 37.5 cents.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Businessland didn't elaborate on the complaints, but it
would appear that the charges are related to disclosure
requirements in the period leading up to the announcement of
the company's earnings. The computer retailer said the
lawsuits were "completely without merit" and said it would
contest them vigorously.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   Smith Corona Reduces
   Payout to Five Cents,
   A Cut of Two-Thirds
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   HAN SCO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW CANAAN, CONN. -- Smith Corona Corp., as expected, cut
its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 15 cents.
The reduced dividend is payable Oct. 5 to shareholders of
record Sept. 21.
   The maker of typewriters and personal word processors has
had a series of setbacks in the year since Hanson PLC, the
company's British owner, sold 50% of Smith Corona's stock to
the public.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the fiscal fourth quarter ended June 30, the company
reported a loss of $1.5 million, or five cents a share, on
sales of $79.8 million. In fiscal 1990, it earned $32.9
million, or $1.09 a share, on sales of $471.4 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Lesson of Vietnam
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   The lesson of Vietnam is, don't get involved in any wars
you don't intend to win. The goal of the U.S. and its
supporting forces in the Persian Gulf should be just that --
to win. Settling for a lesser goal is a recipe for
catastrophe on the ground and political recrimination later.
Vietnam took years to teach us that truth.
   Military doctrine has always been to deploy force
decisively. According to a World War II military adage on
keeping casualties down, if you need a squad for a mission,
then send in a battalion, and if you need a battalion, send
in a division. In Vietnam, we found that bombing Hanoi was
the only way we could make progress even in negotiations. In
the pre-nuclear age, any military man would have seen the
answer in Vietnam as a massive invasion of the north. We
didn't invade because of the danger of superpower
intervention; MacArthur had done it in North Korea, but the
Chinese intervened. "Superpower," of course, has been a
codeword in the postwar period for massive nuclear
capability.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Now, however, Iraq has no superpower protector. With
Moscow subtracted from Saddam's calculations, his network of
support has shriveled. Even Libya's Gadhafi has just called
in reporters to issue a condemnation of Iraq's
hostage-taking, which suggests that these nasty folks are
increasingly being left on their own.
   Iraq does not have the reserves for a long war; many of
the reserves it does possess have already been absorbed into
the army. The fact that Saddam has somewhat artificially
pumped up his army's strength in this manner may account for
the growing doubts about Iraqi military morale; two pilots
have defected, and there have been reports, though difficult
to confirm, of defections by some tank commanders.
   The point of thinking seriously about Iraq's military and
political position is not that it will tell us whether we can
move against Saddam's army. The more relevant calculation is
when and how we will do so. (Though we would also have to
take some precautions against an Iranian invasion of Kuwait.)
   Using our amassed force decisively is not only the proper
military way, but once the necessity of force has been made
clear, it becomes the moral way. It will get the war over and
keep down casualties.
   It is of course necessary to consider the troubling factor
that has become a given of politics in the Middle East:
hostages. Up to this point, the Middle East terrorists'
willingness to seize and sacrifice the innocent has greatly
circumscribed the West's ability to respond. Now, however, we
have the spectacle of Saddam Hussein moving civilians to
positions around his military installations as a "human
shield" against attack.
   Two important points need to be made about this ultimate
escalation of the hostage strategy. Saddam's threat is the
final evidence that he is nothing more than an international
thug who needs to be removed if there is to be any peace in
the Middle East now or in the foreseeable future. Negotiating
with him, which many in the West surely would support, would
leave his military machine intact. That would leave the Gulf
at his mercy and the world at the mercy of any future pirate
who can lay hands on some Americans.
   Indeed, our second point is that the foreigners now at
risk in Kuwait are already victims of the American
preoccupation with hostages in Iran and Lebanon. The
terrorists long ago learned the lesson that with hostages in
hand, the U.S. political culture will reflexively stand
strategy on its head by making any judgments about military
engagement subordinate to the hostage issue. Thus in 1984 the
U.S. sent to Beirut a military force one-tenth of what
President Eisenhower dispatched to Lebanon in 1958. The
Eisenhower intervention (9,000 troops, 70 warships, 400
planes) got its job done cleanly; the Beirut fiasco still
lives in public memory.
   Times have changed. Within the space of several weeks,
whatever illusions remained about the nature of Middle
Eastern politics have fallen away. President Bush has
assembled a large U.S. military force in the Persian Gulf,
and it has been joined by supporting forces from the
international community. Saddam Hussein will likely continue
to play the hostage card, the one ploy that has worked for
his kind in the recent past.
   Accordingly, the formula now ought to be that we will give
every consideration for the hostages, and for that matter
other noncombatants, consistent with achieving our military
and political purposes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Morrison Knudsen Gets Job
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   MRN BA
</CO>
<IN>
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION; INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL (CON)
</IN>
<LP>
   BOISE, Idaho -- Morrison Knudsen Corp. said a unit
received a $140 million contract from Seattle-based Boeing
Co., an aerospace concern, to build a wing parts
manufacturing facility outside Tacoma, Wash.
   Construction will begin immediately and the project is to
be finished in August 1992, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Integra Hires Firm
   To Manage Properties
   In Effort to Cut Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ITG
</CO>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Integra-A Hotel &amp; Restaurant Co., severely
strapped for cash, said it hired out the management of 24
properties in an attempt to cut costs and avoid a more
drastic step, such as bankruptcy.
   By hiring Westbrooke Services Corp. to manage 24 of the 31
hotels owned and/or operated by Integra, the company said it
will realize "a major reduction in overhead costs." David
Steadman, chief executive officer, said that such a reduction
was needed to help the company stay afloat.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The company does have liquidity problems, and one of the
first things we have to do is achieve some reduction in
costs," said Mr. Steadman. With the Westbrooke agreement, "we
have done that," he said. He declined to specify the cost
reductions expected to result from the Westbrooke agreement.
   "As to the future, there are a variety of ways of
restructuring a company, and one is through a bankruptcy
filing," he said. "We would prefer not to do that, but we
would if we had to." Other possible solutions to Integra's
liquidity problems include mergers, divestitures and joint
ventures, the company said.
   In the year ended Dec. 29, Integra posted a loss of $12.7
million, or $1.48 a share, on revenue of $91.3 million. In
the first six months of this year, the company posted a net
loss of $3.2 million, or 38 cents a share, on revenue of
about $44 million.
   Under their agreement, Westbrooke will provide management,
accounting and consulting services at the 24 Integra
properties, which are currently experiencing an "aggregate
break-even cash flow." The agreement is structured so that
Westbrooke's fees will rise with cash-flow improvements.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Any Recommendations?
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC
</CO>
<LP>
   The streets outside the South African embassies are empty.
The Western anti-apartheid groups are quiet. Meanwhile, blood
flows by the bucketful in South Africa.
   Somehow, the struggle isn't very romantic anymore. Over
the weekend, Zulus with AK-47s raided a Xhosa hostel and
killed at least 21 people. Many were shot while they slept.
The Xhosa-dominated ANC gangs have been equally brutal.
They've also continued their campaign of liquidating
moderates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On Sunday, Soweto town councilor T.A. Nkina was deemed
insufficiently radical by some ANC soldiers, who surrounded
his house. He called police but by the time they arrived, he
was dead, his throat slit. More than 4,000 people have died
in tribal warfare over the past three years, 363 alone last
week.
   We have suggested in the past that the anti-apartheid
struggle isn't merely a U.S.-style civil-rights campaign on
different shores. In a July 1985 editorial, we argued that
Lebanon is a more accurate model for understanding South
Africa: "South Africa is less a cohesive nation than a
landscape of many rival factions living under an uneasy
truce. Despite the evil of apartheid, the lines of division
do not fall neatly between white and black. Rather, the
divisions run like cuts in a huge jigsaw puzzle."
   South Africa, we pointed out, has four major and 23 minor
languages. The largest group, the Zulus, consists of about
200 tribes. There are 11 other black ethnic groups. The
second largest is the Xhosa. Nelson Mandela and his wife,
Winnie, come from aristocratic Xhosa families.
   We kept repeating these facts because the sanctions and
divestment groups refused to acknowledge them. Western
anti-apartheid activism became fixated with the moral
superiority of their stance. The activists were drawn to the
most romantic and radical of the anti-apartheid groups, the
ANC.
   Meanwhile, the activists heaped scorn upon the Zulu-led
Inkatha movement, with 1.7 million members. Inkatha is
equally fervent in its opposition to apartheid, but it favors
free markets and opposes sanctions. The ANC strategy is to
isolate and discredit Chief Buthelezi, before he can turn
Inkatha into a nationwide political party. Last month, three
ANC guerrillas were arrested and accused of plotting to
assassinate senior Inkatha leaders.
   Mr. Buthelezi is not the only black leader who worries
that the ANC wants to completely dominate black politics.
Major black nationalist groups, including the Pan-Africanist
Congress, Azapo and the National Council of Trade Unions,
recently opposed an ANC-called strike.
   Last month, Sam Mabe, an editor of South Africa's largest
black newspaper, the Sowetan, was gunned down. Nothing was
stolen, and his friends say the murder was political. Mr.
Mabe was a leader in the Nation Building Campaign, which
wants blacks to build up their economic power and not focus
solely on gaining political power. On a visit to the U.S.
last year, Mr. Mabe, a former leader of the Black Media
Workers Association, told us many ANC members opposed a black
free press and had often tried to intimidate him.
   So far, the ANC has successfully excluded Inkatha and
other black groups from the negotiations with the white
government. The ANC's friends in the West never encouraged
the group to acknowledge Inkatha's legitimacy. Western
supporters of the ANC thus became opponents of political
pluralism. Instead, they loaded up the entire outcome of the
complex South African equation on the fortunes of one group,
the ANC.
   Civil war was the predictable (and predicted) result. Now
there are voices on the South African left calling for talks
between Inkatha and the ANC. But far away, in the U.S. and in
Europe, South Africa no longer fits into domestic political
agendas. To those who had so many blunt solutions for South
Africa, it seems fair to ask, what now? Any recommendations?
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Daiei to Raise Cattle in Kansas
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DAIEY
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- Daiei Inc. will link up with Excel Corp., the
livestock division of Cargill Inc. of the U.S., to raise
cattle in Kansas, an official of the Japanese supermarket
chain operator said.
   Daiei, which imports about 13,000 metric tons of beef
annually, predicts growing demand for beef when Japan's beef
import regulations are liberalized in April.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The link with Excel will help Daiei secure a supply of
low-cost U.S. beef. Daiei is planning to import 3,000 head of
cattle in the first year and 5,000 in the second.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Official Reserve Assets
   Rose by $608 Million
   In July to $77.91 Billion
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C19
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- U.S. official reserve assets rose $608
million in July to $77.91 billion, the Treasury Department
said.
   Last month's gain compared with a $270 million rise in
reserve assets in June to $77.30 billion, the department
said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   U.S. reserve assets consist of foreign currencies, gold,
Special Drawing Rights at the International Monetary Fund and
the U.S. reserve position -- its ability to draw foreign
currencies -- at the IMF.
   The nation's holdings of foreign currencies increased $163
million in July to $47.46 billion, while its gold reserves
decreased $1 million to $11.064 billion.
   U.S. holdings of IMF Special Drawing Rights last month
rose $209 million to $10.70 billion, and its reserve position
at the IMF increased $237 million to $8.69 billion.
   The Washington-based IMF supervises a supply of money
supported by subscriptions from member nations for the
purpose of stabilizing international exchange and promoting
orderly and balanced trade. Member nations may obtain foreign
currency when needed, making it possible to correct temporary
maladjustments in their balance of payments without currency
depreciation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Treasury Plans to Sell
   $18.4 Billion of Bills
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Treasury plans to raise $1.95 billion in
new cash with the sale Monday of about $18.4 billion in
short-term bills to redeem $16.46 billion in maturing bills.
   The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and
26-week bills maturing on Nov. 29, 1990, and Feb. 28, 1991,
respectively.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Tenders for the bills, available in minimum $10,000
denominations, must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the
Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Looking for the `Points of Light'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS, MEDICINE, DENTISTRY (HEA)
</IN>
<LP>
   In regard to the Rev. J. Douglas Ousley's Aug. 3
editorial-page piece, "Free to Enjoy the Cruelty of the
Streets," on mentally ill homeless people: While his approach
is thoughtful, much of it is based on a false premise. He
assumes the only choices are to allow mentally ill people the
"freedom" to live on the streets or to institutionalize them.
But there are other options.
   As Mr. Ousley notes, the original plan behind the
"deinstitutionalization" was to provide community
mental-health clinics for released patients. The idea was
that many of the mentally ill could function in the community
provided they were given adequate support. The Federal
Community Mental Health Act of 1963 was to provide this
support in the form of federally funded, but community-based,
clinics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the second step was never implemented: Of the planned
2,000 clinics, fewer than 800 were funded. And because of lax
oversight, many of those did not serve the poor. As a result,
most deinstitutionalized patients were abandoned to the
streets.
   However, the choice is not only between the streets and
reinstitutionalization. A third, much more effective approach
would be the community clinics originally promised. And with
them, the housing essential to any effective treatment.
Currently, small, nonprofit models successfully provide
supervised housing and mental-health services to the mentally
ill homeless. But leadership from Washington is needed.
Without it, such isolated "points of light" cannot possibly
meet the enormous need.
   Yet the Bush administration is all rhetoric and no action,
stating recently that it opposes a legislative initiative --
led by the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty --
that would help the mentally ill homeless get disability
benefits to which they are already legally entitled. Such
benefits could be used, with supervision provided for in the
law, to allow them to get both housing and treatment.
   Maria Foscarinis
   Director
   National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty
   Washington
   ---
   As a survivor of forcible psychiatric procedures, I must
challenge the benevolence of Mr. Ousley when he argues for
incarceration as a humane way "to get the mentally ill
homeless off the streets."
   Many of us with psychiatric labels vote with our feet to
avoid traditional services, often just heavy dosages of
chemical straitjackets. Psychiatry must now compete with
other options for emotional support, including none at all.
The profession, and Mr. Ousley, seems surprised when we
prefer the gutter to psychiatry's degrading diagnoses,
coercive techniques, solitary confinement, restraints and
electroshock.
   Mr. Ousley may discount my suggestions, coming from
someone with a diagnosis of "psychotic." However, a few model
services, such as community centers run by homeless people,
are attracting customers. These services respect human
rights, and even encourage consumer-ownership for those who
are ready. The person's real life needs are addressed.
Isolation, for example, is met with mutual support groups.
Also, money and homes are provided, to the extent that
shamefully limited resources are available.
   It is easier for Mr. Ousley to attack the civil liberties
of psychiatric survivors, rather than the pocketbooks of
upper-income Americans, whose average annual income
skyrocketed during the "greed decade." His approach comforts
emotional distress all right: the guilty consciences of the
rich as they step over the homeless on the streets. If this
is Christian benevolence, I prefer to just say "No]"
   David Oaks
   Coordinator
   Clearinghouse on Human Rights and Psychiatry
   Eugene, Ore
   ---
   Mr. Ousley holds the commonly held erroneous belief that
the severely mentally ill are homeless because " . . . the
community-based outpatient clinics that were supposed to have
replaced {the state hospitals} have never materialized."
   No objective evidence supports the contention that most of
the chronically mentally ill population can be successfully
managed in outpatient settings. The 1963 Community Mental
Health Act mandating community care was imposed without a
single long-term study of its efficacy.
   The only proven way to ensure that the chronically
mentally ill can be safely housed, fed, clothed and treated
is long-term hospitalization. Anything else is wishful
thinking.
   Mark I. Klein, M.D.
   Board Certified in Psychiatry
   American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology
   Berkeley, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   American Brands Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   AMB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   OLD GREENWICH, Conn. -- American Brands Inc. said it
completed the acquisition of Moen Group Inc. for $975
million.
   American Brands' wholly owned subsidiary, MasterBrand
Industries Inc., bought the Elyria, Ohio-based manufacturer
of kitchen and bathroom faucets from Forstmann, Little &amp; Co.
The acquisition was first announced on July 20.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts said the purchase is part of American Brands'
attempt to sharpen its hardware and home-improvement
business. That is one of the areas where the company is
trying to diversify in order to reduce its dependence on
tobacco, which still generates a major portion of its sales
and operating profit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   NVR Posts Loss
   For Quarter, Cites
   Restructuring Costs
   ----
   By Beatrice E. Garcia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   NVR
</CO>
<IN>
HOME CONSTRUCTION (HOM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   NVR Limited Partnership posted a $53.3 million, or
$1.90-a-share, second-quarter loss, due mostly to the
restructuring program the company began in recent months.
   The McLean, Va., company also said that it wouldn't make a
second-quarter distribution to unit holders and it wasn't
certain whether it would be able to make interest payments on
its subordinated debt securities due later this year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A year earlier, the company earned $9 million, or 34 cents
a share.
   The residential homebuilder and land developer said that
restructuring provisions totaled $58.5 million. The company
attributed about $12.2 million of the restructuring charges
to costs it will incur to carry out its previously announced
plans to phase out home building operations from its Florida
and Midwestern markets. About $46.3 million is related to the
company's write-down of certain land and real estate
partnership interests to reflect more accurately their
current market value.
   NVR has been hurt by the slump in the real estate market
and the drop in demand for new housing. In documents filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission Monday, the
company said that as part of its restructuring, it will
re-evaluate all of its markets and businesses. The company
said "additional losses are likely" but said it couldn't
estimate them at this time.
   NVR expects that its banks will extend the company's
working capital line of credit through Feb. 15. It's
currently in place through next Wednesday. A $50 million
mortgage warehouse credit line previously was extended
through Dec. 31.
   NVR cited its second-quarter loss and certain bank
restrictions as the reason for omitting its second-quarter
distribution. In the first quarter, it had paid unit holders
one cent per unit, after distributing 67 cents per unit last
year.
   The company said its board will meet after year end to
review taxable income and determine how much, if any,
distribution would be appropriate for 1990.
   The company said that its senior subordinated note holders
were previously notified by the indenture trustee of a
covenant default. NVR expects that the trustee will notify
the bondholders of another covenant default arising from the
previously announced nonpayment of certain debts by its
limited recourse land development subsidiary, NVR
Development, which is in the process of restructuring its
debt.
   NVR closed yesterday at 93.75 cents, off 6.25 cents, in
American Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Southdown to Post a Charge
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SDW ML
</CO>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Southdown Inc. said an arbitrator's ruling
calling for the company to pay Martin Marietta Corp. $10
million, plus interest in settlement of a contract dispute,
will result in a third-quarter charge.
   The amount of the charge wasn't disclosed and a
spokeswoman for the company wasn't available for comment. In
the year-ago third quarter ended Sept. 30, Southdown had net
income of $13.4 million, or 70 cents a share, on revenue of
$162 million. Results for the period included $3.7 million
from discontinued operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The dispute centered on the lease of a cement plant in
Utah. Southdown said it had previously placed $10 million in
escrow, pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Airline Pilots Craft Ads to Improve Image
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR SQD OMC AXP
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
AIRLINES (AIR)
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Airline pilots, worried about their image, are taking to
the airwaves.
   This week's news that three former Northwest Airlines
pilots were found guilty of drunken flying was another blow
to the reputation of commercial aviators. In recent years,
pilots have also been blamed for several crashes; in one
instance the crew was caught gossiping about flight
attendants just before the accident.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   To counteract this, the Air Line Pilots Association has
created a 30-second television advertisement and six
60-second radio spots to promote the image of pilots as cool
professionals who don't crumble under pressure.
   The television ad flips between an airline cabin, where a
little girl in blond pigtails plays with a teddy bear and
then naps serenely, and the cockpit, where pilots busily
perform their duties, professional even while flying through
fog. The ad ends with the girl running up to the captain and
showing him the fake wings she was given on the flight.
   "Look, daddy]" she says to the captain. "I have wings,
too."
   The image is in stark contrast to the one the public has
been receiving lately. Monday, a federal jury found the
former Northwest pilots guilty of flying a jetliner while
under the influence of alcohol -- the first drunken-flying
conviction of professional pilots.
   In fact, the public image of pilots took a nose dive after
the March arrest of the Northwest cockpit crew. While
boarding, some passengers would poke their heads into
cockpits and ask pilots, "Do you mind if I smell your
breath?" Comedians Jay Leno and David Letterman sprinkled
their monologues with one-liners about the arrests. TV
talk-show host Pat Sajak remarked: "We had sleet and hail in
Los Angeles last night. Either that or a Northwest Airlines
cockpit crew was having frozen Margaritas."
   There was even a joke making the rounds at Northwest's
headquarters: "How many Northwest pilots does it take to fly
a plane? Three and one-fifth." (The one-fifth refers to a
standard-size liquor bottle.)
   The pilots union acknowledges that many people think of
pilots as greedy, complacent and irresponsible. Pilots even
have a bad image among their own co-workers, who view them as
fat cats who earn higher salaries.
   "We would get pilots calling up, saying we need to do
something," says John Mazor, a spokesman for the pilots
union, which represents pilots at most of the country's
airlines. The first ads are expected to air in November or
December, at the earliest.
   This venture -- the first of its kind by an airline union
-- lacks Madison Avenue glitz. The union drew upon the
expertise of the AFL-CIO, known most recently for its "Union
Yes" ad campaign. Production costs were only $150,000. The
pilots union is relying on member donations totaling between
$1 million and $5 million to air the ads. Its board won't
finance the ads from membership dues.
   Other unions have turned to advertising to get their
messages out. The United Auto Workers ran several ads during
its latest round of contract negotiations with the big car
companies. But perhaps the most famous union ad is the
television advertisment in which members of the International
Ladies' Garment Worker's Union sing about looking for the
union label.
   "All unions feel that if the public can see the real
people rather than the faceless group, then they'll be more
sympathetic," says Susan Cowell, vice president of the
garment workers' union, which spent $4.2 million running the
ad nationwide from 1975 to 1977.
   The biggest hurdle unions face in creating ad campaigns is
money. The garment workers' union has sharply cut down on its
chorus ads in recent years because of budget cuts.
   Still, Ms. Cowell says the pilots union is making the
right move. She adds: "People know who our members are now.
They're 45 years old and look like your mother; they don't
sing terribly well, and they don't dress terribly well."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SQUARE D: Square D Co., Palatine, Ill., named Creswell,
Munsell, Fultz &amp; Zirbel, a Young &amp; Rubicam unit in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, to administer its estimated $30 million
world-wide account. Young &amp; Rubicam offices in Europe, Latin
America and the Far East will also work on the business.
Square D, a maker of electrical equipment, previously had its
ad assignments spread over nine agencies.
                                                                                                       

   CRUISE FINALISTS: Royal Caribbean Cruise Line, Miami, said
it selected four finalists in the review of its $30
million-to-$35 million ad account: Geer, DuBois; Rosenfeld,
Sirowitz, Humphrey & Strauss; Martin Agency; and the
incumbent, Chiat/Day/Mojo. A decision is expected in early
October.
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN EXPRESS: Retaliating against Visa's ad campaign
prompting merchants to persuade consumers to use only Visa
cards, American Express yesterday ran a newspaper ad
reminding merchants of the benefits of offering its card.
"When you consider the profits the American Express card
delivers to your business, you'll realize Visa's just
spinning their wheels," the ad said, making fun of a gimmicky
profit "wheel" Visa offered to merchants.
                                                                                                       

   GREEN AD: Marcal Paper Mills next month begins airing a TV
ad pitching its new paper towels made from 100% recycled
paper. The commercial, created by Berenter Greenhouse &amp;
Webster, plays on the strategies other paper-towel makers use
to win consumers, like lint-free claims, color variety or
sweepstakes offers. "If you care about the environment . . .
we've just made your decision a lot easier," the ad says.
"Think of what you can save."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   PacifiCare Health Systems
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHSY
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   CYPRESS, Calif. -- PacifiCare Health Systems Inc. said it
may purchase on the open market as many as 500,000 shares, or
about 4%, of its 11.5 million common shares outstanding.
   "With the recent significant decline in the market . . .
and PacifiCare's stock price in particular, there may be
attractive opportunities . . . to acquire shares," said Terry
Hartshorn, president and chief executive officer of the
health maintenance organization. The purchases will be made
when market and business conditions are favorable, he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Carolco Withdraws Offering
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   CRC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Carolco Pictures Inc. said it is
withdrawing its $100 million convertible subordinated
debenture offering, which was filed just last week.
   "While we believe that as structured, the convertible
debenture offering could be sold successfully in the
marketplace," said Carolco's president and chief executive
officer, Peter Hoffman, "the company isn't prepared to sell
stock at these current levels."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman emphasized that the withdrawal wouldn't have
any effect on the entertainment company's operations or
production plans.
   Carolco's stock closed yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at $8.375 a share, up 12.5 cents.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Stock Markets Plunge as Gulf Tension Rises
   ---
   Tuesday's Markets:
   DJIA off 52.48;
   Bond Prices Sag
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A sell-off in overseas stock markets sparked
by Mideast war rumors spilled over into U.S. stocks.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 50 points in the
first half hour of trading and ended 52.48 points lower at
2603.96 in hectic trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Adding fuel to the decline early in the day was a sharp
drop in bond prices, caused by rising oil prices and news
reports that suggested hostilities were about to break out in
the Mideast. Long-term Treasury bond prices later recovered
to end just slightly lower. The dollar was mixed.
   Ted Eggert, equity research manager at Yamaichi
International, said the selling of stocks was indiscriminate.
"They took them out across the board," he said, citing big
declines in such stalwarts as Merck and Philip Morris. And
though Boeing and PepsiCo had positive news, their stocks
fell.
   The stock market was poised for heavy selling even without
the influence of big drops in European markets, said Paul
Hennessey, head of stock trading at Boston Co. "The market
looked better than it actually was" at the end of Monday's
session, he said, referring to the modest rise in the Dow on
thin volume with broader market indexes not performing as
well.
   Christopher Pedersen, director of trading at Twenty-First
Securities, attributed the early, sharp slide to a 5.2%
decline in the West German stock market. The sell-off was
sparked by an unsubstantiated rumor that Iraq had shot down a
U.S. war plane. Further heightening the market's fear that
Mideast fighting was imminent were renewed reports that Iraq
had moved missiles into southern Kuwait.
   "The foreign markets created the down draft," Mr. Pedersen
said. He added that Monday's rebound in the Dow industrials
failed to deliver the gains that some traders had expected
after the Dow resisted closing below 2640, a "support level,"
on Friday. Mr. Pedersen sees the Dow falling to around 2500
before the current slide ends.
   Swings in oil prices contributed to big moves in the bond
market. "Treasurys rode a roller coaster driven by the oil
market," said Raymond Stone, managing director at Stone &amp;
Mccarthy Research Associates, Princeton, N.J. As oil prices
rose early in the day, bonds fell, losing three quarters of a
point, or $7.50 for each $1,000 face amount. But in the late
morning, oil prices fell and bonds rebounded on an apparent
indication that Iraq wanted to talk peace.
   Though the perception of peace overtures faded as the day
wore on, bonds didn't resume their decline because investors
who had sold bonds before the peace news hit were busily
buying them back.
   The muddled interpretation of Mideast developments left
many bond traders on the losing side for the day, said
Roberta D. Olson, fixed-income portfolio manager at Bance One
Asset Management, Columbus, Ohio. "Once again, it's a crap
shoot," she said.
   "A lot of the volatility in the stock and bond markets
transferred into foreign exchange," said Robert White,
manager of corporate foreign-exchange trading at First
Interstate Bank, Los Angeles. The declines in stocks and
bonds helped drag the dollar lower, but it later recovered
and closed mixed against major currencies. Currencies of
countries with high interest rates, such as Canada and
Australia, continued attracting traders. But activity overall
was very light, Mr. White said, because many players in Asia
and Europe are on holiday.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell on volume of 194.6 million shares in
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, where declining
issues overwhelmed advancers by 1,441 to 243.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell slightly. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year bond rose to 8.94%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5645 marks, down from 1.5650 late
Monday, and at 146.65 yen, up from 146.44 yen Monday.
   (See related story: "World Stock Markets: German Market
Leads Tumble" -- WSJ Aug. 22, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Short Interest
   Rises to High
   On Big Board
   ---
   Alcan Aluminum Figure
   Surges to Top of List;
   Amex Total Down a Bit
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
SHORT SALES AND SHORT INTEREST (SHO)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Short interest for the month ended Aug. 15
rose 4.1% to a record volume on the New York Stock Exchange
but declined slightly on the American Stock Exchange.
   Alcan Aluminium Ltd. of Montreal was the short position
leader among Big Board companies, at 16,256,029 shares, up
from only 103,241 shares in the prior period. Analysts said
it was probably attributable to dividend-capture trading. The
record date for payment of Alcan's quarterly dividend was
Monday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New York exchange short interest rose at the Aug. 15
settlement date to 668,964,125 shares from 642,585,339 at
mid-July. The previous record was in mid-June, at
661,212,877. On the Amex, short interest sank to 77,127,804
shares from an adjusted 77,421,899 shares, a record short
volume. The month included the 23 trading days through Aug.
8.
   At mid-August 1989, short volume was 554,537,766 shares on
the Big Board, indicating a 20.6% advance, and 51,844,137
shares on the Amex, indicating a 48.8% rise.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio fell to 3.62 from mid-July's 4.53. The
ratio is the number of trading days at the exchange's average
daily trading volume that would be required to convert the
total short interest position. Average daily New York
exchange volume for the 23 trading days was 184,992,718
shares. Some analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has
weakened in value as an indicator because options and other
products can be used to hedge short positions.
   Among bellwether issues, International Business Machines
Corp. saw its short interest volume drop 37% to 2,662,507
shares; Philip Morris Cos. dropped 47% to 1,601,275 shares,
and General Motors Corp. fell 40% to 1,644,364 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Robert L. Muller
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST MDEST J.IBJ MITSY SNE
</CO>
<IN>
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
PETROLEUM (PET)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   BOG MINDING
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Conservationists are wading in to try to save the bogs of
Ireland.
   Forestation, mechanical cutting of peat turf and drainage
are fast eating away the age-old sanctuaries for plants,
insects and birds. Peter Foss, of the Irish Peatland
Conservation Council, said: "Industrial peat cutting leaves a
vast brown desert. The whole thing is destroyed."
   But Bord na Mona, Ireland's state-run turf board, which
sells about four million tons of peat a year, rejects its
critics: "Nobody else works the land of Ireland on a 50-year
time scale like we do and supplies indigenous energy and
employment in remote rural areas." Peat is used as fuel for
homes and electricity generators and to improve garden soil.
   Peatlands once covered more than 2.5 million acres, or 17%
of the land surface of Ireland. "Today less than half of the
original peatland area remains in a relatively intact
condition," Mr. Foss said.
   Tourist authorities have joined the fight with a brochure
on the boglands that says: "Ireland without her bogs would be
as unimaginable as Germany without its forests or Switzerland
without snow."
                                                                                                       

   LEBANON REFORMS CONSTITUTION
                                                                                                       

   Lebanon's parliament approved constitutional reforms that
give the country's Moslem majority more say in the
Christian-dominated political system, helping to end one of
the main Moslem grievances in the 15-year civil war that has
claimed the lives of more than 130,000 people, wounded a
quarter of a million and devastated much of the country and
its infrastructure. Political sources said the move, although
strongly opposed by Christian rightists, was a breakthrough
in the political stalemate and presented a "real chance to
end the civil war."
                                                                                                       

   BIG LOAN FOR INDONESIA
                                                                                                       

   Japanese trading houses agreed to lend $2.8 billion to
Indonesia's state-run petroleum company for the construction
of an oil refinery at Balongan, central Java. A joint-venture
of six major Japanese trading houses, will obtain the money
for the loan from a group of 21 Japanese banks led by
Industrial Bank of Japan, said Mitsui &amp; Co., which is heading
the joint venture.
                                                                                                       

   `TIGHT' AUSTRALIAN BUDGET
                                                                                                       

   Australian Treasurer Paul Keating presented what he termed
a "tight" federal budget designed to keep Australia on an
even economic keel and enable it to dig out from under its
massive foreign debt. He announced the government would post
a budget surplus of 8.11 billion Australian dollars (US$6.56
billion) for the financial year ending June 30, 1991. The
latest projection follows an A$8.04 billion surplus a year
earlier.
                                                                                                       

   SPIT AND POLISH PATROL
                                                                                                       

   About 76,000 health inspectors are fanning out across
Beijing to enforce higher fines against spitting and
littering and to clean up the Chinese capital before next
month's Asian Games. In one five-hour span near the city's
main railway station, 230 people were fined, the China Daily
said. Beijing is undergoing a frenzied facelift, repaving
roads, painting fading facades and even hiding urban blight
behind newly built walls. The games are expected to attract
athletes from more than 30 countries.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREAN ARMS ORDERS
                                                                                                       

   South Korean manufacturers have been flooded with orders
from Middle East nations for combat boots, uniforms and other
military supplies, an official said. South Korean newspapers
have reported that the U.S. has pressured South Korea to
furnish military supplies to Saudi Arabia and other countries
who are committed to an alliance against Iraq.
                                                                                                       

   U.S.-VIETNAMESE RELATIONS
                                                                                                       

   Two U.S. legislators said Vietnam's economic improvements
and its willingness to hold direct talks with Washington
justify U.S. efforts to normalize relations between the
countries.
   Sen. Richard Lugar (R., Ind.) and Rep. David Dreier (R.,
Calif.), who met Vietnamese leaders in Hanoi last weekend,
told a news conference in Hong Kong that a recent U.S. policy
shift had offered a new impetus to talks between high-ranking
U.S. and Vietnamese officials.
   In July, the U.S. withdrew recognition of the Khmer
Rouge-dominated opponents to Cambodia's Vietnamese-backed
government.
   Sen. Lugar, a member of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee and one of the highest-ranking U.S. legislators to
visit Vietnam since 1975, said he and Rep. Dreier, a member
of the House Banking and Small Business committees, would
tell Washington "that Vietnam has made considerable progress
in moving toward a market economy, that there are clearly
opportunities there for American businessmen, and that the
U.S. should carefully consider whether this is an opportunity
to progress (toward closer economic ties)."
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Sony Corp. said it plans to send a team of senior managers
to Eastern Europe to teach management skills to corporate
executives. The team, from Sony's financial, personnel
management and research and development divisions, will hold
seminars in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia and
Bulgaria starting in late October. . . . Laos and China have
begun talks in Vientiane on delineating their 285-mile common
border, the official Laotian radio reported.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Anchor Wars
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Persian Gulf anchorman war now faces the threat of a
mind-boggling escalation. Under orders from Iraqi authorities
ABC's Ted Koppel and CBS's Dan Rather have left Iraq. Now
comes word that Jesse Jackson is heading for Baghdad, in his
role as host for "The Jesse Jackson Show," soon to be
syndicated by Time-Warner Inc. "It would not be appropriate
to go there as a diplomat," said Mr. Jackson, a former
free-lance negotiator. No word yet on whether Larry King,
Geraldo, Donahue, Oprah or Regis will be flying in.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hasbro Reshuffles
   Top Management;
   Schwartz Resigns
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   HAS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hasbro Inc., seeking to pull out of a sales slump,
announced a series of management changes, including the
surprise resignation of Stephen Schwartz, president of the
toy maker's Playskool division.
   Playskool, which makes mostly preschool toys, has helped
the company's overall performance with estimated sales of
$347 million last year, as the company's Hasbro division,
which makes toys like G.I. Joe, has suffered from a lack of
hits. In 1989 the Pawtucket, R.I., company had net income of
$92.2 million, or $1.56 a share, on revenue of $1.4 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts say they are baffled by the reshuffling. Though
the company has been in a slump, the announcement comes at a
time when initial reports on sales of a number of new Hasbro
toys, like New Kids on the Block dolls and WWF wrestling
figures, have been good. Mr. Schwartz's resignation was
particularly surprising.
   "Steve Schwartz was one of the best marketing people I've
ever seen," said Alison Shinners, a former marketing
executive director now working at Ertl Co., a toy maker in
Dyersville, Iowa. "He knew what was out on the market and had
an uncanny ability to take a toy and make it better."
   The announcement was made after the market closed. By
then, Mr. Schwartz had left for the day and wasn't available
for comment, a secretary said.
   "My speculation is that Schwartz, who was tremendously
valuable to Hasbro, was upset that he didn't get the top post
{in the reshuffling} and left," said Sean McGowan, analyst
for Gerard, Klauer, Mattison &amp; Co. in New York. "I don't
think this should be viewed as being Stephen was forced out.
I think he was certainly doing a good job. I think there's
regret on the part of the company that this couldn't be done
without losing Shwartz," he said.
   Under the new management changes, Alfred J. Verrecchia,
currently co-chief operating officer and president of the
Manufacturing Services Division, will become chief operating
officer of the company's domestic toy operations. In that
role, Mr. Verrecchia, will have responsiblity for the Hasbro,
Playskool and Playskool Baby divisions.
   George R. Ditomassi will become chief operating officer,
games and international. He continues to be responsible for
the Milton Bradley division, of which he has been president.
   Among other changes, Barry J. Alperin, co-chief operating
officer, will become vice chairman.
   Messrs. Alperin, Ditomassi, Verrecchia and chief financial
officer John T. O'Neill will report to Alan G. Hassenfeld,
who remains chairman and chief executive officer.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   MCI Speeds
   Conversion
   To Digital
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   MCIC UT T WMB GTE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- MCI Communications Corp. is speeding up
conversion of its network to digital technology, a move that
will help it compete in the tight three-way long-distance
phone race and help it keep costs down.
   MCI said its network will be fully digital by the end of
1991, two years ahead of schedule. Currently about 70% of the
carrier's network is digital, with most of the older analog
technology in the West and Northwest. Now, that equipment
will have to be written down.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Marketing is what this decision is about," said Edward
Greenberg, a telecommunications analyst with Morgan Stanley &amp;
Co. "Now they can claim they are all digital -- and they can
convert at attractive prices."
   Unlike US Sprint Communications, which boasts an all
fiber-optics network, the MCI network will retain some
digital microwave facilities, primarily in the Rocky
Mountains. Digitalization will help MCI compete against
Sprint's marketing, which has focused on the greater
reliability and clarity of its fiber-optics network,
completed in 1988. Sprint is a unit of United
Telecommunications Inc.
   At the same time, American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. has
moved aggressively to upgrade its network. At the end of
1988, the phone giant took a $6.7 billion write-down for
older technology and accelerated its plans for a network that
carries voice and data traffic digitally -- that is, in the
computer language of ones and zeros. Currently, AT&amp;T's
network carries all but a tiny amount of its switched traffic
digitally, and by 1992, all private lines will be digital as
well.
   "This removes the question of quality completely," said O.
Gene Gabbard, executive vice president and chief financial
officer of MCI, about the plan announced yesterday. "It is
the right thing to do and the right time to do it." In
addition to strengthening MCI's marketing position, he said
the conversion to a fully digital network will result in some
savings, as the older analog equipment is more expensive to
operate and maintain.
   Mr. Gabbard, former chief executive officer of Telecom
USA, which merged into MCI earlier this month in a $1.25
billion transaction, said the conversion is "highly likely"
to result in a write-down of analog equipment in the third
quarter. The company said the write-down could total between
$500 million and $550 million.
   "The big question is the final amount," Mr. Gabbard said.
The write-down, he said, "is not a final decision at this
point in time, but we're working diligently on it."
   In response to the announcement about the possible
write-down yesterday morning, MCI stock fell about $2 a share
in active national over-the-counter trading, but later in the
day recouped most of the decline to close at $33.625 a share,
down $1.125.
   As part of the digital-conversion plan, MCI is integrating
3,000 miles of optical fiber that belonged to Telecom USA and
has signed a long-term agreement with Williams
Telecommunications Group, a Williams Cos. unit, that gives
the companies access to each other's fiber networks. Terms of
the agreement, which replaces many contracts between WilTel
and MCI as well as Telecom USA, weren't disclosed.
   For telephone users, digital technology delivers clearer
voice connections and more accurate data transmission than
analog technology. The benefits, however, aren't as
noticeable to residential consumers, who must make
connections through analog local telephone networks.
   The long-distance carriers have an extra incentive to
upgrade as telecommunications increasingly becomes a global
business and U.S. companies try to maintain the technological
edge.
   Frank Governali, an analyst with First Boston Corp., said
MCI needs to become fully digital for competitive purposes,
and "will be getting there two years early at no incremental
cost." MCI said it expects to complete its upgrade without
significantly increasing capital expenditures. The company
said it plans to spend about $1.1 billion on its network next
year.
   For Williams, Tulsa, Okla., the new alliance with MCI
provides long-term benefits. Its WilTel unit is the nation's
fourth-largest long-distance carrier -- with an 11,000-mile
fiber optic network connecting most big cities. Over the
short term, the unit's 1991 revenue could shrink 10% to 15%
over 1989 levels, WilTel said.
   That's still better than many analysts had predicted when
the MCI-Telecom USA merger was proposed in April. The two
companies have been WilTel's biggest customers, and that
business was expected to decrease drastically as Telecom USA
traffic migrated to the MCI network. Over the long haul,
however, MCI's renegotiated contract sets revenue minimums
that exceed the amounts in the earlier agreements.
   "Instead of worrying about losing its biggest customers,
WilTel can sleep at night knowing they've got a positive
strategic partnership with MCI," said Jack Grubman, a
telecommunications analyst with PaineWebber Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speaking of Business:
   It May Be Too Late for the Fed to Ease
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Reserve System almost always finds itself in
some sort of box. Some people will want the central bank to
ease money while others will urge it to tighten up. Usually,
the Fed finds a way to work itself out of such trouble. This
time, however, it may have waited too long.
   Until March, things seemed to be going fairly well. The
economy had slowed, but recession forecasts were few. The
Shadow Open Market Committee, a group of academic and
business economists often critical of the Fed, said at its
semiannual meeting, "Monetary policy remains consistent with
moderate recovery and declining inflation." That's about as
nice a comment as it ever makes about the Fed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But things soon began to change, and not really for the
better. Nearly everyone realized that the 8.2% spurt of the
consumer price index in the first quarter, on an annual-rate
basis, was a temporary phenomenon, produced by cold-weather
increases in food and energy costs. These factors faded in
the second quarter, but new price difficulties arose. Labor
costs, which had been unusually quiet through the long
business expansion, were climbing. Even before the Mideast
crisis sent oil prices soaring, analysts were predicting
rising inflation the rest of this year.
   So far, that looks like a good forecast. As the real
Federal Open Market Committee met yesterday, it had to ponder
that consumer prices rose at an annual rate of close to 5% in
July -- when energy prices were falling. That compared with a
3.8% rise for the full second quarter.
   Ordinarily, the Fed's next move would seem automatic.
Inflationary pressures are growing, so the inflation-hating
Fed tightens up, right? Not necessarily.
   Administration officials for weeks have been reminding the
Federal Reserve that it has some responsibility for the
health of the economy. The rise in the inflation-adjusted
gross national product slowed to an annual rate of 1.2%, and
the Mideast oil shock has increased talk of recession.
Treasury Secretary Brady and other officials argue that the
Fed should cut the federal funds rate, the fee charged on
short-term loans of bank reserves.
   The Fed had been expected to reward the administration and
Congress for a budget-deficit cut by reducing the funds rate.
But the deficit cut, never anything like a sure thing, now
seems even more unlikely in the wake of the Mideast military
buildup. So the funds rate has been allowed to edge downward
by only a quarter-point in the face of the weakening economy.
   It was a difficult exercise, not without its ridiculous
aspects. The Federal Reserve uses the funds rate to signal
its monetary policy. The funds rate does have some influence
on other short-term rates, but its influence on long rates is
limited. But as the economy has weakened in recent weeks,
short-term rates have tended to decline. To keep the funds
rate from declining more than the Fed wanted, the central
bank has had to pull reserves out of the banking system.
   Got that? The Fed has not only been resisting pressures to
ease by reducing the funds rate, but it has moved in the
opposite direction by tightening bank reserves.
   That leads to the Federal Reserve's current unhappy
situation. The central bank can't move against the increased
inflationary pressures without, in all probability,
triggering a recession. If the Fed, instead, moves
significantly to spur the sagging economy, the bond market
and analysts generally will assume the Federal Reserve has
caved in to administration pressure and inflation will take
off.
   Is there anything the Fed could have done to avert this
debacle? It could have paid more attention to bank reserves.
Reserves have been flat-to-declining all this year. Talk
about credit crunches; without reserves, banks don't make
loans. The Fed should have permitted reserves to grow
steadily at a modest rate, accepting cheerfully any federal
funds rate declines that went along with such a policy.
   What should the Fed do now? If it chooses to ease, the
inflationary pressures increase. If it chooses to tighten,
the recessionary pressures increase.
   Easing, of course, offers no guarantee of avoiding
recession. It may merely ensure that inflation will rise so
high that everyone will find it intolerable. The result could
be a deep recession like 1981-82.
   Similarly, tightening is not a perfect solution. The
Federal Reserve presumably would prefer to move gradually,
with the result that the recession's anti-inflation benefits
will be delayed. In 1981 gradualism was urged on Paul
Volcker, then chairman of the Fed, as a cure for double-digit
inflation. Mr. Volcker decided gradualism wouldn't work and
moved quickly. History could repeat itself.
   The best bet is that the Fed will mark time, hoping for
some development in the domestic economy that will make the
appropriate action more readily visible. Monetary policy in
the next few weeks is likely to be shaped by events, not by
new Fed policy. There are times when nothing is the best
thing a government agency can do.
   There's no telling what those events might be. Real war in
the Mideast might make the recession worries disappear in an
inflationary blur. Congress might return from vacation,
notice that the Fed hadn't moved, and take a small step
toward budget control, even in the midst of the Mideast
situation.
   One thing is certain. As a Federal Reserve economist said
privately last week, "We should keep a closer watch on bank
reserves." It would have been nice if that thought had
occurred to someone three or four months ago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tired Mammoth:
   Soviet Oil Industry,
   Mismanaged for Years,
   Can't Fill Iraq Gap
   ---
   It's Producing Less, Not More,
   And Looks West for Help;
   Big Fields Are Overtaxed
   ---
   To U.S. Firms, a New Frontier
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel and James Tanner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST EUROP F.AQU CHV HAL DD RD SC AN
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEFTEYUGANSK, U.S.S.R. -- The Mammoth oil field on the
edge of this Siberian town is aptly named: Beneath the swampy
surface lie some of the biggest oil reserves in the world.
But even mammoths grow old and sick.
   Oil production at the 20-year-old field has dropped almost
25% since hitting its peak in 1988. Alexander Gusev, the
chief engineer, says raising production is out of the
question. Even slowing the decline is proving troublesome
because of chronic shortages of such basic equipment as pipes
and valves.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Supplies of those things have dried up because of ethnic
unrest in Azerbaijan, where most of them are made. "We've had
problems every day," Mr. Gusev sighs. "Using old equipment
means more accidents and higher repair costs."
   The oil patch of Western Siberia, the source of almost
two-thirds of Soviet output, is in trouble. As the world's
largest oil producer and a major exporter, the U.S.S.R.
stands to profit handsomely from the rise in prices following
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Every $1 increase in a barrel of
crude oil means as much as $1 billion a year in additional
Soviet export revenue.
   But don't count on Moscow's pumping more to capitalize on
the Middle East crisis, as it did during the oil shocks of
the 1970s. Although Soviet oil reserves total more than 60
billion barrels, more than double America's, many of the
overtaxed Soviet fields have fallen into irreversible
decline.
   The reasons range from big fields reaching maturity, to
inefficient extraction methods and problems with equipment.
Much of the gear is outdated. A lot of money has been spent
for Western equipment, but some of it sits idle, Western
analysts say. Pipelines and other parts of the
oil-transportation system aren't adequate, and accidents and
spills are frequent.
   At the same time, the cost of pumping oil from new wells
is soaring, straining already strapped Soviet finances. The
Kremlin, reversing its investment policy of the past 20
years, is actually cutting back capital spending on the oil
industry.
   While such problems mean Soviet oil won't be able to make
up for the lost Iraqi and Kuwaiti supply, they do present the
West with a big opportunity. The Kremlin has long insisted on
developing its oil resources alone, guarding industry details
like military secrets. That is starting to change as Mikhail
Gorbachev opens the economy to the West. For beleaguered
Siberian oil officials, the prospect of cooperation with
Western companies is one bright spot on an otherwise dark
horizon.
   How dark? Last year, total Soviet energy output declined
for the first time since the 1940s. Western analysts believe
oil output fell 2.5%, to an average 12.1 million barrels a
day.
   Soviet experts say it may soon drop below 12 million
barrels, to its lowest level in over a decade. But Western
experts say it's already below that, and see a slippage to
less than 11 million barrels a day before 1995. An even more
pessimistic projection comes from a senior Estonian
scientist, Mikhail B. Korchemkin, who sees daily Soviet
output falling to just over 10 million barrels by 1995, and
then, by 2010, to nine million.
   The Soviet Union is trying to give priority to exports,
which account for about a third of production and bring in
much of the nation's hard currency. But it has recently cut
sales to Eastern Europe to keep supplies flowing to its own
energy-hungry economy and the West.
   Even though Moscow has drawn down domestic inventories to
try to maintain exports, those exports have fallen from the
1988 peak of 4.1 million barrels a day to an estimated 3.7
million a day last year. Of this, about 1.7 million barrels a
day went to the West and two million to Eastern Europe. This
year, the Soviets have cut East Europe deliveries 140,000
barrels a day.
   Robert Ebel, an Ensearch Corp. executive and former U.S.
intelligence expert on Soviet energy, sees Soviet oil exports
falling another 400,000 barrels a day in 1990.
   Although no cure-all, the Soviets' hopes for joint
ventures with Western oil companies offer promise. Such
ventures could give them both the technology and the capital
they need.
   "Tell the Americans and anyone else that they should come
to us. They're welcome," says Anatoly Tyukalov, deputy head
of Glavtyumenneftegaz, the body that oversees Western
Siberia's oil and gas industry. "We need new technology and
new equipment to get oil out more cheaply. That means we want
your capital, your technology, your credits."
   Western oil companies have been quick to respond. This
month, 15 officials from Mr. Tyukalov's organization were
flown to the U.S. by Du Pont Co.'s Conoco unit. Oil giants
such as Royal Dutch/Shell Group and Amoco Corp. and
oil-service firms such as Halliburton Co. are trekking to
Siberia in hopes of getting access to Soviet oil through
joint ventures.
   So far, however, there is little to show for the flurry of
activity. The talks are often laborious, Westerners complain,
and many Soviet oil officials continue to harbor deep-rooted
suspicion of Western motives. Rather than giving the
foreigners free rein, officials want them to work on fields
that are tricky and expensive to exploit.
   It doesn't help that the Soviet bureaucracy in charge of
oil is in a chaotic state because of the government's
attempts to restructure the economy. The Oil Ministry last
year merged with the Gas Ministry, its longtime rival. But
the super-agency that emerged may not have long to live
itself; officials say one option is to replace it with a
government committee.
   Moreover, since Boris Yeltsin became president of the
Russian Republic in May, the question of who controls
Siberian oil has been thrown into doubt. The republic's
parliament recently stipulated that it must approve any
natural-resources ventures negotiated by Soviet authorities.
And this week, Russian officials even held out the prospect
that they would be interested in joining the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   This confusion is hard on foreign oil companies trying to
get a Soviet foothold. Do they need separate agreements with
separate republics? If they sign an agreement with the
Ministry of Geology, as Texaco Inc. did recently, will it
hold with the other ministries? (Texaco's agreement is to
explore areas of the Timan-Pechora region, straddling the
Arctic Circle, where Texaco estimates oil reserves could be
more than five billion barrels.)
   With perseverance, some Westerners have managed to
navigate this maze. One of them is Canadian Fracmaster Ltd.,
a Calgary-based oil-services company with a technique to
recover oil from wells damaged during drilling.
   In March 1989, the company set up a joint venture with the
oil-production enterprise here. The Canadian company provides
most of the equipment and several oil specialists to oversee
the process.
   Unlike in the West, where it would normally be paid for
its services on a contract basis, Fracmaster is paid
according to the amount of additional oil that flows from the
wells it has treated. The joint venture has treated about 100
wells and recovered about 300,000 tons of additional oil, but
it is not yet profitable.
   Monty Meikle, chief of technology for the venture, says
work tends to be slower than in the West, with jobs that
could be done in one week taking two to three. One of the
biggest problems is long waits for Soviet equipment that the
venture uses, such as trucks, surface rigs and fluid tanks.
Still, Mr. Meikle says, "as we get to know each other, things
improve and move more to our standards."
   The Soviets are in dire need of such sophisticated
drilling and recovery methods. For years, the government and
oil workers paid scant attention to the efficiency of
extraction techniques; oil was so abundant they didn't need
to bother.
   In the rush to pump as fast as possible, drilling was
often slapdash and led to frequent damage of the wells.
Poor-quality pipes often corrode or are damaged by careless
workers, leading to an estimated seven million barrels of oil
being spilled on Siberian soil every year.
   The Soviet oil-equipment industry, too, ignored the needs
of smaller fields, concentrating on providing for huge
fields. Now, as some big fields reach maturity and new ones
become harder to find, such neglect is returning to haunt the
industry.
   "Most of our sources were wrongly exploited," says
Alexander Arbatov, an oil expert at the Soviet Academy of
Sciences. "We have a very low technical level, and haven't
improved our standards." As a result, he says, "production is
falling faster than we expected."
   For Prof. Arbatov and some other Soviet experts, such
technical problems are merely the tip of the iceberg. They
contend that the Kremlin's entire energy strategy over the
past 20 years has been flawed.
   Since oil was first exploited in Western Siberia in the
mid-1960s, the government has poured billions of dollars into
the region in order to pump as much as possible. The
resulting revenues from exports, particularly following the
oil price surges of the 1970s, kept the economy afloat.
   Economics is dictating a drastic change of policy. When
oil prices started falling in the mid-1980s, the newly
appointed Mr. Gorbachev initially chose traditional methods
to offset the shortfall in revenue: more money to pump more
oil.
   But that policy proved prohibitively expensive. According
to internal government figures, the cost of extracting Soviet
oil -- now mostly from smaller fields, which are harder to
exploit -- has almost tripled since 1985. Last year, the
Kremlin slammed on the brakes. Investment in the oil sector,
along with capital outlays to other industries, was pared
back heavily.
   Critics say the move came too late. Over the years, they
say, some of the huge amount invested in oil would have been
better spent on other sectors of the economy, especially
production of consumer goods. At the same time, heavy
subsidies on energy allowed the nation's industry to get
hooked on cheap oil.
   As a result, consumption surged. In all energy, the Soviet
Union consumes the equivalent of nearly 28 million barrels of
oil a day, more than all of Western Europe and second only to
the U.S.
   Alexei Makarov, director of the Institute of Energy
Research at the Academy of Sciences, says the government
needs to triple domestic energy prices just to bring them
into line with actual costs. But such a move is politically
tricky at a time of growing social unrest.
   Here in Nefteyugansk, a town of 140,000 whose name means
"Oil South," local officials are equally critical of past
policy. Government spending in the area doubled between 1980
and 1988, but most of it went to the oil industry, not the
pressing social needs of residents.
   One tenth of the town's population is on the waiting list
for better housing. There is a dire shortage of hospitals and
schools. Oil workers here and throughout Western Siberia
threatened to strike earlier this year to protest poor living
conditions. They backed off after the government gave them
some hard currency from oil revenues to buy imported meat.
   Vladimir Solomin, deputy director of the town's
oil-producing enterprise, would like his company to become
independent both of Moscow and of the oil authorities in
Tyumen, 600 miles to the south. "We must use the oil we
extract to improve social conditions," he says. "Cooperation
with foreign partners is thus very important."
   Foreign oil companies are eager. With prospects rapidly
shrinking elsewhere, they see the U.S.S.R. as a new frontier.
   France's state-owned Elf Aquitaine announced the first
major exploration and production agreement with the Soviets
-- although, like most agreements, it's not in Siberia, where
the oil is easiest to exploit. It was to give Elf the right
to drill on 13,500 square miles of territory north of the
Caspian Sea near the Volga River. Or so it seemed. Elf's
president said later that many details still had to be worked
out.
   Then, last June 2, while Mr. Gorbachev was in the U.S.,
Chevron Corp. signed a declaration of intent to explore and
develop regions including the giant Tengiz field -- the
biggest discovered in the world in the past 10 years,
according to Soviet authorities. Its potential reserves are
estimated at 25 billion barrels, almost equal to all the
proven reserves of the U.S.
   Chevron can provide the equipment and the management
skills the Soviets lack, says Edward B. Scott II, vice
president of Chevron Overseas Petroleum Inc., who calls
Soviet equipment "30 years behind us." But he says developing
the field will be difficult. The Soviets have invested $1
billion so far, he says, and much more will be necessary. The
field itself has high pressure, and there is a high
concentration of hydrogen sulfide in the gas -- a dangerous
substance in an oil field if not handled correctly.
   Mr. Scott says Chevron has been in "intense negotiations"
for more than a year. It has brought groups of Soviet
authorities, including the top official of the province, to
the U.S. and taken them on tours of facilities. It brought
the minister of petroleum to the U.S. But it still doesn't
have a final agreement with the Soviets.
   Some smaller oil companies and oil-service concerns are
succeeding in carving out niches. Anglo-Suisse Inc. of
Houston has formed a joint venture company with the Soviets
called White Knight. It drills horizontal wells -- extremely
helpful in reviving oil fields thought to be worn out. It is
studying the feasibility of drilling as many as 450
horizontal wells. It will share in the oil recovered.
   Under a recent agreement between Texas-based Halliburton
and the Soviet Ministry of Oil and Gas, a Soviet ship is
sailing the Chukchi Sea collecting seismic data for future
oil exploration. The data will be packaged for sale to
Western oil companies.
   But until more foreign oil companies come to the region,
officials here admit their daily struggle with the
uncertainties of the Soviet economy will continue.
   One morning, Mr. Solomin drives out to the Mammoth oil
field with a visitor and Mr. Gusev, the field's chief
engineer. On the way, they stop to inspect a well.
   The Romanian-made rig isn't moving.
   "Why isn't it working?" Mr. Solomin asks.
   "Repairs," Mr. Gusev replies.
   Mr. Solomin, embarrassed to show off something that isn't
functioning, turns to his visitor and tries to shrug it off.
   "They'll be here tomorrow to fix it," he says, hopefully.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TLMD REL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   TV: Telemundo Group Inc. completed the purchase of 85% of
the stock of KDVA/Channel 60, San Antonio, Texas. The Spanish
language TV network bought the stock from certain holders for
an undisclosed amount. Telemundo is 74%-owned by Reliance
Capital Group L.P., an affiliate of Reliance Group Holdings
Inc.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Tom Herman
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<GV>
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   IN TAKEOVER BATTLES, what costs are deductible?
   The IRS recently issued a "technical advice memorandum" on
the subject to an unidentified insurance company. The memo,
to be made public in October, says the company can deduct as
ordinary business expenses all its legal, investment-banking
and other fees relating directly to fighting an unfriendly
takeover bid by a real-estate holding company. But it can't
deduct as current expenses the costs of arranging a takeover
by a friendly buyer, or "white knight."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling "is very important because the stakes are very
high" and because some people feared the IRS might not have
allowed any costs, says Robert Willens of Lehman Brothers.
But it still raises complex questions, such as how to
separate costs of hostile and friendly takeovers. "It may be
difficult to determine when resisting a takeover ends
{deductible} and arranging for a white knight
{nondeductible}" begins, says Gilbert Bloom of Peat Marwick.
   Further guidelines may emerge when an appeals court rules
in a case involving the friendly takeover of National Starch
by Unilever in 1978.
                                                                                                       

   REWARDS FOR INFORMATION tempt more tattletales to tell the
IRS.
   Many more people are trying to take advantage of the IRS's
longstanding offer to pay for information that leads to
collection of additional taxes. A record 11,754 claims for
rewards poured into the IRS in the year ended Sept. 30. That
was up 50% from three years ago. Ex-spouses and disgruntled
employees are among the typical informants. The maximum
reward is $100,000. IRS officials say informants' tips
enabled them to collect about $72 million last year.
   But the IRS says few tips are good enough to merit
rewards. Since 1967, it has received about 134,000 reward
claims. It paid rewards to only about 12,000, or 9%. Total
payments: $15.2 million. The reward size depends on how
valuable the IRS considers the tip to be, and is based on a
sliding scale. Last year, the IRS paid about $1.5 million on
519 tips, or an average of $2,931 apiece. Tipsters are
guaranteed anonymity. Rewards, naturally, are taxable.
                                                                                                       

   TAXPAYER GRIPES reach trial more quickly as court's
backlog shrinks.
   The number of pending Tax Court cases fell 38% to 52,332
at the end of July from more than 84,000 about four years
ago. "We are getting cases to trial considerably faster in
most cities," says Tax Court Judge Mary Ann Cohen. Many
taxpayers now have their day in court within nine months of
filing their petition, and "most" cases are scheduled for
trial "within a year," says Charles Casazza, the court's
clerk.
   Four years ago, taxpayers in major cities often had to
wait more than a year for a trial. Changes in tax laws and
streamlined court procedures have helped cut the caseload. So
have tougher penalties against frivolous cases, some lawyers
say. Tax-shelter cases have fallen due to consolidations and
key test-case rulings. Although many shelter cases still clog
the courts and IRS, most major questions have been "resolved
conceptually," says Bill Raby, a senior lecturer in taxation
at Arizona State University.
   "The court's backlog is getting under control, and
tax-shelter issues are no longer a big factor," Mr. Raby
says.
                                                                                                       

   TAX AMNESTY programs have generated about $1.5 billion in
31 states and the District of Columbia since 1982, says a
report by the Federation of Tax Administrators. Connecticut
hopes to raise $10 million with a three-month amnesty
starting Sept. 1. It will allow payment of back taxes and
interest without penalty or prosecution.
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK accuses 81 antiques dealers of failing to comply
with state sales-tax laws. Agents swooped down on merchants
at an antiques show last weekend. They were charged with
misdemeanors punishable by up to a year in jail and a fine of
up to $10,000. Cases will be heard Sept. 10.
                                                                                                       

   REGULATION WRITERS at the IRS needn't fear running out of
work. At midyear, they faced 426 regulations to be completed.
A few projects date back to the 1976 tax law. But their
workload is down from 428 at the end of May and 543 as of
Dec. 31.
                                                                                                       

   THE GOVERNMENT WINS more cases against tax protesters
filing phony forms.
   Government officials are fighting back against protesters
and others who mail false forms to the IRS. In typical cases,
protesters send in bogus 1099 forms showing fictitious
payments to their enemies, such as prosecutors, tax
officials, or bankers. Prosecutors say protesters are trying
to use the tax system to harass foes and create needless,
costly work for the IRS. Some people also filed phony tax
returns seeking huge refunds linked to bogus 1099 forms.
   Convictions for false statements recently were handed down
in Albuquerque, N.M., against Peggy R. Williams, Graigory
David Olson and Jean R. Canon, the Justice Department says.
Sentencing is set for late September and October. Among Peggy
Williams's targets: U.S. Judge Juan Burciaga and William
Lutz, the U.S. Attorney in New Mexico. Mr. Lutz received a
phony form claiming she had paid him $16,167,005.29.
   Several other people in other states were convicted
earlier this year of filing false documents.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The Millionaires Club grows. IRS statistics show
about 941,000 individuals with a net worth of $1 million or
more in 1986, nearly twice the 475,000 in 1982. . . . Tax
"Humor": The Fordham Law Review contains an opus entitled "A
Grave Injustice: The Uncharitable Federal Tax Treatment of
Bequests to Public Cemeteries."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   SEC and CFTC
   Bring Charges
   Against Stotler
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   SG
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Securities and commodities regulators filed
charges against Stotler &amp; Co., adding to the troubles of the
closed futures brokerage firm and its part-owner, former
Chicago Board of Trade Chairman Karsten Mahlmann.
   In administrative proceedings, the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
charged the firm with failing to maintain sufficient capital
since December. In addition, the CFTC charged Stotler with
overstating the amount of capital held by the firm. The SEC
also said the firm failed to file documents and kept outdated
and improper records of capital levels and of positions in
the government-securities markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The firm, which last month closed its doors because of a
lack of capital, settled the CFTC charges, agreeing to have
its license revoked and promising the agency it would
cooperate with a continuing CFTC investigation, the
commodities regulator said. But Stotler didn't settle the SEC
charges, and the case is scheduled to be heard by an SEC
administrative law judge. The SEC also regulates the
commodities broker because the firm trades government bonds.
Stotler officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   CFTC enforcement director Dennis Klejna said the agencies
knew of each other's charges, and that "as far as we're
concerned this is an ongoing investigation." William Hegan,
the SEC's deputy regional administrator in Chicago, said that
the agency "regards net capital as a serious violation. It
goes to the heart of the business."
   The charges are the latest in a series of setbacks for Mr.
Mahlmann, Stotler and its parent Stotler Group Inc. Mr.
Mahlmann, who has said that he hasn't been involved in the
firms' daily operations, hasn't been charged with any
wrongdoing by either regulatory agency. But he recently
resigned as head of the CBOT in the wake of charges against
commodity pool operations run by a Stotler unit.
   In those charges, the CFTC said the pool operator, Stotler
Funds, violated anti-fraud laws by effectively making $5.5
million in loans from two pools to parent Stotler Group. That
money represented customer funds that investors were told
would be invested in commodities, the CFTC said. Mr. Mahlmann
recently resigned as a director of Stotler Funds and chairman
of Stotler Group.
   Early this month, Stotler Group was forced into
involuntary bankruptcy proceedings by the commodity funds it
managed, which said that the group owed them more than $5
million.
   More disciplinary steps against Stotler Group, its units
and possibly its officers are expected in the next few months
as details become known surrounding the collapse of what had
been one of the country's biggest futures brokerage firms.
Futures regulators have said they may also refer certain
aspects of Stotler Group's collapse to the U.S. attorney for
possible criminal prosecution.
   Mr. Mahlmann, 52 years old, has asserted that he knew
nothing of the loans made by the funds and hasn't been
involved in the day-to-day management of Stotler Group for
two years. But he became the first CBOT chairman in 130 years
to resign from the nation's largest futures exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Rakes in Petro Profits,
   As Street Feels Mideast Turmoil
   ----
   By William Power and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   SB AXP MER
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
PETROLEUM (PET)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Soaring oil prices have been a blessing for
some parts of Wall Street, particularly the trading house
Salomon Inc.
   Down the road, the Mideast crisis could undermine the
Street's bread-and-butter businesses of securities trading
and underwriting. But for now, an explosion of stock and
futures trading volume is helping various firms on the
Street. And the really big winner is Salomon, with its
thriving Phibro Energy Inc. unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Not only does Salomon trade in the oil markets for its own
account and for customers, but it is one of the nation's
biggest petroleum refiners and has managed to keep profit
margins strong in that business, despite soaring prices for
crude oil, the raw material. Yesterday, Salomon said it
expects "unusually strong results" from its energy and
securities units in the third quarter.
   Salomon said it expects a "profitable" third quarter, even
after an anticipated $200 million charge from a stumbling
commodities unit. And Salomon's bond operations are believed
to be thriving in the wake of the Mideast crisis.
   Securities firms, already pinched by Wall Street's
recession, could eventually get pounded by fallout from the
Iraqi assault. The stock market has fallen nearly 10% since
the Arab nation's Aug. 2 march into Kuwait. Merrill Lynch &amp;
Co. and the Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. unit of American
Express Co. are among the firms that will be vulnerable if
stocks keep going down, prompting individual investors to buy
fewer shares and slackening the pace of new underwritings,
analysts said.
   Though several firms such as Morgan Stanley Group Inc.
make money helping clients reduce their exposure to oil-price
swings, "the only firm with a really direct part in oil
trading is Salomon," James Hanbury, an analyst for Wertheim
Schroder &amp; Co., said. By contrast, many other securities
firms "will lose an edge off nearly every business -- retail,
dealmaking and underwriting," he said.
   Michael Goldstein, a Sanford C. Bernstein &amp; Co. analyst,
said Salomon should have the best earnings on Wall Street
this year. Yesterday, he raised his estimate of Salomon's
yearly operating earnings to $3.60 a share from $3.30, before
an expected one-time charge of about $1 to pare back the
company's struggling business in non-oil commodities, Philipp
Brothers Inc.
   The Mideast crisis "has been bad for the bond market, bad
for the stock market," Mr. Goldstein said. "It has created
quite a bit of activity in some markets. But overall, it's
hard to view it as a positive, except in certain instances
like {Salomon}, where it's a very clear positive."
   Crude-oil prices are zigzagging more sharply than usual.
Yesterday, they gyrated from $27.60 a barrel to $29.09,
finishing at $28.41 in heavy trading at the New York
Mercantile Exchange. Such volatility can cause some problems
for energy-futures brokers, but at the same time, it
generates more business for them.
   Options trading activity is picking up. Brokers said
options are increasingly popular, because the oil market has
become so "emotional," with big price swings on the slimmest
of news. Investors are well aware that the potential losses
on an option are confined to the amount of money invested,
while a futures-contract investor can lose much more. In
recent days, the activity in the gasoline market has picked
up, while natural-gas volumes remain surprisingly slim.
   After Salomon, a lesser beneficiary of the oil gyrations
appears to be Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. The private partnership
trades oil and petroleum products for its own account through
its J. Aron commodities division, and for customers through a
separate futures brokerage within Goldman Sachs. Brokers
familiar with Goldman Sachs say it is clear that customers of
the futures-brokerage operation have been much more active in
recent weeks.
   National brokerage firms that serve small investors also
have seen a pickup in oil-related trading, though probably
not enough to cause a significant improvement in
third-quarter earnings. One of those firms is Shearson
Lehman, which is among the largest Street brokers of energy
futures -- contracts to buy or sell a commodity at a certain
price by a specified date.
   Shearson Chairman Howard L. Clark Jr. recently said the
firm has "seen a big increase in the volume of {commodities}
business for customers" over the past month. The increase has
been felt in Shearson's London operations, as well. But
Shearson doesn't take big positions for its own account, so
analysts said it won't have the big profits that a Salomon or
Goldman Sachs might.
   Wall Street doesn't mind chaos, which usually is
profitable. Even as stock prices have plummeted on recession
fears augmented by the oil-price surge, volume on the New
York Stock Exchange has soared. After lumbering along with
fewer than 160 million shares traded on an average day, the
Big Board has enjoyed a string of 200 million-share days
(yesterday's volume was nearly 195 million.)
   "I don't think it's been a bad quarter," Lawrence
Eckenfelder, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.,
said. "The mere fact the market dropped doesn't necessarily
spell trading losses. You've had some pretty good volume
days."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   As Decaying East German Economy Collapses,
   New Privatization Chief Is Struggling to Dig Out
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   EAST BERLIN -- Even before he assumed the presidency of
the agency charged with privatizing East Germany's collapsing
economy, West German businessman Detlev Rohwedder was daunted
by its problems.
   "Most of the letters I receive here with my name on them I
simply cannot answer," said Mr. Rohwedder, surveying a stack
of correspondence last week.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While Mr. Rohwedder struggles to find answers, East
Germany is coming apart at the seams. Production is spiraling
downward as unemployment soars. Most investors remain on the
sidelines, and companies can't sell their products to
consumers, who prefer Western goods. Thousands of angry
farmers drove here in tractors and reapers last week to pelt
East German government ministers with eggs and tomatoes they
couldn't sell.
   Mr. Rohwedder was interviewed a few days before he became
president of the trust company set up to safeguard East
Germany's 8,000 companies -- and to liquidate those that
can't survive in the capitalist atmosphere that will prevail
when Germany unifies later this year. Until Monday, he was
the administrative supervisor of the agency, called the
Treuhandanstalt, but then succeeded Reiner Maria Gohlke, who
resigned. Industry sources say that Mr. Gohlke was
overwhelmed by the task and that Bonn was frustrated by his
poor results.
   Mr. Rohwedder says his staff is already overwhelmed by
petitions from people demanding help -- dubious investors
entangled in legal webs, desperate company managers and angry
workers.
   Now, East Germany's governing coalition has collapsed.
Prime Minister Lothar de Maiziere, more in an act of economic
capitulation than political triumph, yesterday announced an
agreement with most East German political parties to set Oct.
14 as the date for unification, six weeks ahead of the
originally planned Dec. 2 date. But within hours, the Social
Democrats rebelled and said they would push for even earlier
unification -- on Sept. 15 -- because of the speed of East
Germany's economic collapse.
   Meanwhile, all that is keeping East Germany alive is West
German largesse -- grants, subsidies and loans from a
government that must fear the electoral consequences of
economic chaos in East Germany when it faces all-German
elections in December. Heiner Flassbeck of the German
Economic Research Institute in Berlin already is raising his
estimate for the two Germanys' budget deficit for this year
by 10 billion marks ($6.39 billion) to 66 billion marks,
almost all of that due to the cost of unification. West
Germany's budget deficit was only 4.5 billion marks last
year.
   Yet at the Treuhandanstalt, Mr. Rohwedder still hasn't
enough information on East German companies to properly pass
out some 22.5 billion marks in emergency lending that has
already been approved for East German companies.
   "We do not even yet know whether we are giving the cash to
the right people," says Mr. Rohwedder, who adds that the
company's books are in such chaos that the Treuhandanstalt
won't know their true status until their first, Western-style
profit-and-loss statements arrive Sept. 30. "We can't even
tell yet which companies don't need help at all and which
others don't deserve it."
   The sheer size of the task not only challenges West German
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who is campaigning to lead the
reunited Germany, but it also raises profound worries about
the prospects for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Soviet
leader Mikhail Gorbachev has told West German officials that
he needs success in East Germany to sway skeptics in his own
country, a senior Bonn official says.
   "We are still far away from collapse," says Mr. Rohwedder.
"But if the transitional problems are so complex and
difficult in East Germany, with its strong partner in the
West, it is difficult to see how the Russians would ever copy
the situation unless someone {with lots of money} takes them
by the hand and leads them. Against this background, I am
gloomy about the potential of Russians recovering or changing
their economic system. . . . This thing has never been done
before, and it is very complicated."
   Visits to East German companies and farms show an economy
dangerously adrift. Industrial companies lack liquidity and
investors, farms don't have customers or competitive
products, and consumers are spending little of what money
they earn on East German products.
   Less than one year ago, the chairman of East Germany's
largest and only tire-making company, Norbert Novakowski, was
finishing his studies at the elite Communist Party Central
Committee training institute in Berlin. Yet West German
bankers now consider Mr. Novakowski to be one of the most
skilled converts to capitalism.
   Mr. Novakowski was among the first to begin privatizing
his company. He sold off a retread company that could only be
profitable in an East German economy of tire shortages, and
he closed down a motorcycle and bicycle-tire company that
couldn't compete with Western prices. But now he has run
aground in an economy that lacks paying customers.
   Nervous consumers either are buying Western cars for which
he can't yet make tires or saving their money in expectation
of hard times. His biggest industrial customer, the giant IFA
truck-making factory, is still ordering tires, but it can't
pay its bills. In response, Mr. Novakoski isn't paying for
his synthetic rubber shipments from Buna AG, one of the
country's largest chemical companies. "I can produce as much
as I want, but no one I deliver to in East Germany can pay
me," he says, "And that means I can't pay others."
   "This vicious cycle is repeated almost everywhere in the
East German economy," says Kurt Kasch, a board member at
Deutsche Bank, which Treuhandanstalt officials estimate is
managing nearly half the loans they are distributing. "What
we are witnessing is an economy without cash. The tough
choice for Bonn is either to throw more money into industry
or allow unemployment to spread. If Helmut Kohl, who has been
so successful in foreign policy, is not careful, East German
economic problems could harm his election campaign."
   But if East Germany's industrial picture is bleak, its
agricultural outlook is disastrous. Werner Wuehst, president
of the farmers association, says more than half of the 3,850
agricultural cooperatives are near collapse. Many haven't
paid salaries since July. Their products are poorly packaged,
don't taste as good and cost more to produce due to outmoded
technologies and forced use of relatively unproductive land.
After farmers' protests that included herding pigs to the
Parliament, dumping milk on city council steps and burning
crops that couldn't be sold, Bonn pledged 5.6 billion marks
to support agriculture.
   The chairman of one of East Germany's largest agricultural
cooperatives, Wilfried Klatt, complains that he can't even
sell his goods to the local supermarket, Kaufhalle, in his
farm's home village of Klosterfelde. He offered the store
wholesale beef prices that were 20% below what it was paying,
but the owner declined the deal. The owner explained that his
contract only allowed him to buy from his West German
distributor. Increasingly emotional East Germans suspect a
West German plot to so undermine their companies and farms
that they can be bought cheaply.
   So Mr. Klatt declared war on the supermarket, cutting his
prices even lower and selling them out of a truck at the back
gate of his cooperative. Word has spread that the battle is
against the West German distributor, and local buyers line up
to support the fight.
   Having heard of Mr. Klatt's economic woes, West German
merchants came to town last week to offer to buy 300 of his
cows for half the price they would pay their own farmers. "It
was humiliating. Do you know what I would like to do with
these people?" he says, twisting his thick hands together as
if to break a neck.
   Yet Mr. Klatt is optimistic that he'll survive under
free-market conditions. He's cutting production of potatoes
and grain in half -- the soil is too sandy to grow them
economically. He'll concentrate on livestock, milk cows and
grain. Mr. Klatt has already consulted a Dutch designer to
make his packaging more attractive.
   "None of us wants to go backwards, but we also need time
to become competitive," says Helgard Krowal, who manages
animal production at the cooperative. "Other European
Community countries, such as Spain and Portugal, had years to
adjust their agricultural policies before joining, so why do
they expect us to do it overnight?"
   She can't imagine that the West German government can
allow the cooperative, however inefficient, to go under
overnight. The cooperative consists of 4,000 hectares of land
(9,880 acres), 5,300 head of cattle, 1,600 milk cows and
7,500 pigs. It produces 17 tons of milk a day, and 8,000 tons
of potatoes a year. As Mrs. Krowal walks through a huge barn,
she frowns.
   "You can't just stop milking those cows," she says. She
notes that while fewer than 300 days have passed since the
Berlin Wall was opened, it takes 329 days to breed a pig
before slaughter and more than twice that time for cattle.
   "The problem is that the unification process has taken
less time than the cycle for a pig," she explains.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   TWA Plans to Increase
   Domestic Fares Aug. 30
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TWA
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MT. KISCO, N.Y. -- Trans World Airlines Inc. said it plans
to raise domestic fares Aug. 30 because of rising jet fuel
prices, likely prompting other carriers to delay their fare
increases until then.
   TWA said it will raise fares 5.3%, the same amount that
other airlines had announced last week. Those increases are
scheduled to take effect tomorrow but will now probably be
postponed until Aug. 30.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Carriers, which rarely raise fares without the
participation of their competitors, give advance notice of
the increases to give others time to match them.
   TWA said the cost of jet fuel, one of the industry's
biggest expenses, has risen significantly since Iraq invaded
Kuwait early this month.
   The industry-wide fare increases will affect all tickets
for an indefinite time. Most airlines are still offering
discounts on heavily restricted fares that require at least
one-week advance purchase. The discounts, which range from
15% to 40% on regular prices, also require that tickets be
purchased by Aug. 29, the day before TWA plans to raise its
fares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   IBM Launches
   Three Low-End
   Minicomputers
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- International Business Machines Corp. unveiled
three low-end minicomputers, taking its AS/400 family into
territory occupied by the most powerful personal computers
and workstations.
   In making the announcement, Robert LaBant, the new general
manager of IBM's minicomputer line, rejected the "midrange"
label commonly associated with his strong-selling products.
Some analysts have declared midrange computers, including the
two-year-old AS/400, creatures of the past.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The AS/400 is a full-range system," said Mr. LaBant. To
back up that statement, he promised that yesterday's low-end
introductions will be followed next year by products that
will double the performance of the most powerful AS/400,
extending the family into the territory of mainframe
computers.
   Minicomputers traditionally fall between personal
computers and mainframe computers in terms of power.
   The three new computers include two small models of the
AS/400, which IBM is aiming at small-business users, and a
new model of the AS/Entry, an updated version of an older
minicomputer line, the System/36. By swapping only a few
components, however, this new AS/Entry can become an AS/400.
   IBM also introduced a new, easy-to-use version of the
AS/400's operating system; several new disk and memory
options; new ways to connect with other IBM and non-IBM
computers; and a plethora of AS/400 applications software
from various manufacturers. And the Armonk, N.Y., company
said it would make it easier for software developers to write
programs for the AS/400.
   The new models range in price from $11,000 to $17,500 for
hardware only, and will be available in late September and
October. Mr. LaBant said the AS/400 is now price-competitive
with personal computers and workstations for applications
using a "server" computer and as few as four terminals. A
server acts as a central store of files and programs for
computers on a network.
   In a presentation to consultants, IBM went even further,
making price comparisons between the AS/400 and its own PS/2
personal computers and RS/6000 workstations. That's an
unusual step for IBM, further indicating that its lines of
business are no longer staying off each other's turf.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wang Labs Wins Government Contract
   Valued at $841 Million Over Five Years
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   WANB
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wang Laboratories Inc. won a government computer contract
valued at up to $841 million over five years, the largest in
the company's history.
   The contract to supply computer systems and service to the
U.S. State Department and affiliated agencies represents a
big boost for Wang, which has struggled to reverse huge
losses and declining sales.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In American Stock Exchange trading, Wang's deeply
depressed Class B common stock soared $1.125, to close at
$4.50.
   Analysts applauded the contract, but some cautioned that
big government sales can be fickle sources of profit. "It's
often very difficult to say whether all that money will
actually be spent, and at what level of profit," said John
Levinson of Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co.
   A Wang spokesman said the $841 million contract value is
an estimate by the State Department of what it expects to
spend. Like many federal procurements, however, it is
formally considered an "indefinite delivery, indefinite
quantity" purchase agreement.
   Richard W. Miller, Wang's president, hailed the new
business as a vote of confidence in the company's staying
power. "A single contract, even one of this size, isn't
enough to carry a company. But it's evidence of our
customers' confidence in Wang," he said.
   Since the former General Electric Co. executive joined
Wang as its president, a year ago this week, the company has
sold off assets to slash bank debt from $575 million to $12
million, and reduced the work force from 28,000 last year to
about 19,500 today.
   In an interview, Mr. Miller repeated that he expects the
company to post a profit in the current year, ending June 30.
He called the State Department contract "a real morale boost.
This has been a rough year, but we're a lot stronger now and
our financial problems are behind us."
   For the year ended June 30, Wang reported a $715.9 million
net loss, or $4.35 a share, including restructuring charges
of $388.3 million and losses from discontinued operations of
$87.3 million. Revenue, restated to reflect the sale of
operations, declined 14% to $2.5 billion. A year earlier,
Wang reported a net loss of $424.3 million, or $2.59 a share,
including restructuring charges of $142 million and losses
from discontinued operations of $100.1 million.
   Under the contract, the Lowell, Mass.-based computer maker
will supply its flagship VS line of minicomputers, personal
computers and related equipment, software and training
support over the next five years, with extension options for
a total of 11 years. Included in the contract are such
applications as word processing, image processing, electronic
mail and messaging and database management.
   Wang said one of the factors that worked in its favor in
landing the contract was its experience in building "secure"
computer systems that resist electronic eavesdropping. Wang
historically has had a big presence in the so-called Tempest
or secure system market.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken:
   New Share Issue to 3 Allies
   In Nordic Banking Cleared
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   S.SEB K.UNI C.UBF Y.DNC
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Directors of Stockholm-based Skandinaviska Enskilda
Banken, or SE Banken, approved a 577 million Swedish kronor
($100.1 million) issue of new shares to three Nordic banking
allies, a long-awaited move allowed by the recent abolition
of a ban on foreign ownership in Swedish banks.
   The action puts the final touch on Scandinavian Banking
Partners, a six year-old alliance of SE Banken, Unibank
Denmark, Union Bank of Finland and Den Norske Banken, which
extend customers access to one another's branch networks,
operate a joint cross-border payments system and join forces
in Scandinavian corporate finance activities. The partners
agreed in 1984 to swap stakes in one another.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SE Banken's offering represents a 2.5% stake, with Union
Bank to get a 1.1% holding and Unibank and Den Norske Banken
0.7% each. SE Banken said the newly issued shares equal the
combined value of its 3.2% stake in Union Bank, 3.7% in Den
Norske Banken and 1.4% in Unibank. The banks will pay 88.42
kronor for each new SE Banken A-free share, which has 1/10th
of a vote. Each SE Banken A-restricted share has one vote.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Many Americans Trapped in Kuwait
   Apparently Have Escaped Detection
   ----
   By Chip Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   There may be close to 2,500 U.S. citizens trapped in
Kuwait, but a number of the Americans appear to have stayed
out of the hands of the Iraqis so far, many with the help of
a friendly populace.
   The State Department, which has estimated that there are
about 11,000 Westerners in Iraq and Kuwait, said yesterday
that one more American and eight British citizens were seized
by Iraqi soldiers in Kuwait, reportedly after a Kuwaiti man
was forced at gunpoint to identify homes of Westerners. That
action increased the number of Americans held hostage by Iraq
to 54, according to the department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   While it is difficult to confirm the whereabouts of the
foreigners caught up in the crisis, several American
companies said their employees haven't been seized.
   Asea Brown Boveri Inc., an engineering firm based in
Stamford, Conn., said it has about a half dozen American
employees in Kuwait and Iraq. None have left, and a
spokeswoman said the company is in "regular communication"
with them. Lockheed Corp., of Los Angeles, said it has three
American employees still safe, at least as of earlier this
week, when the company received a fax transmission that said
they were safe and still in Kuwait.
   Chevron Corp. said two of its chemical engineers were
trapped in Kuwait while working on a refinery near Kuwait
City. They haven't been heard from since the Aug. 2 Iraqi
invasion. The State Department told Chevron that the two
weren't among 28 Americans transported to Baghdad.
   Turner International Inc., an international general
contractor based in New York, has several employees at large
in Kuwait, and the company was indirectly in contact with
them as late as Saturday. "We heard that they were OK and
they were laying low," said Nick Billotti, the company's
director of international business. "They are keeping a very
low profile."
   It is hard to estimate how many Americans remain in
Kuwait, partly because the State Department seems to be
advising most American companies to make no public
acknowledgment of any operations or employees in that
country. For instance, Raytheon Co., Lexington, Mass., won't
even confirm the existence of its Raytheon Gulf Systems Co.
of Kuwait.
   "With the turbulent situation in the Middle East, we're
not going to talk about it," said Walter Palmer, head of
Raytheon's public relations.
   Bechtel Group Inc., the giant San Francisco general
contractor, is believed to be the largest American employer
in the Middle East. While Bechtel won't say exactly how many
Americans it employs in the region, it had 1,200 people of
all nationalities -- including dependents -- before the
invasion; that number has been reduced to about 900
currently. The company hasn't had offices in either Iraq or
Kuwait for at least a year, but it declined to say whether
any of its workers were in the two countries when the
invasion took place. A spokesman would only say: "We're in
contact with all of our people."
   Another big contractor, Ralph M. Parsons Co., Pasadena,
Calif., has 12 employees and eight of their relatives in
Kuwait. They were working on a waste-water treatment plant, a
power plant and highways. As of last week, they were believed
to be safely out of Iraqi hands.
   So far, the company with the largest contingent held by
Iraq is Santa Fe International Inc., the big oil drilling and
rig equipment operator. Eight of its oil field workers were
taken to Baghdad from Kuwait after the invasion, and the
company hasn't had contact with them since.
   Relatives of the Americans in Kuwait, while all anguished,
are divided over whether their predicament should deter
military action by the U.S. "Providing the Americans are out,
I would be for it, but my son is in Kuwait City," said Emily
Abramson of Southbury, Conn., whose son is an architect
working for a private Kuwaiti firm. She opposes military
action until all Americans are out of Kuwait. The State
Department told her that as of Aug. 16 her son was still
free.
   The Rev. Edwin Davis of Koran, La., whose daughter and two
grandchildren were trapped in Kuwait while visiting in-laws,
said, "I'd hate for {the U.S.} to start something and I don't
think they will." He hasn't heard from his daughter since
Aug. 2. If the Americans could be evacuated, "I wouldn't
care, let 'em fight. Let 'em clean that bunch out."
   Betty Seago, whose husband, Guy, maintains radar equipment
for the Kuwaitis, said, "I stand behind the government. Of
course you love your family and all, but I would have to
stand behind it. It's not in my hands." Mr. Seago's
whereabouts are unknown.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Workplace:
   Love at the Workplace, but No Labor's Lost
   ----
   By Jolie Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Good news from the office: Love is in bloom.
   But instead of secret sexual liaisons, this is about
"nonsexual love relationships" or "psychological intimacy,"
according to a new study. It's somewhere in the spectrum of
office connections between mentoring and full-fledged
affairs. Moreover, the study's authors argue, while people
usually think of these male-female bonds as inevitably
wreaking havoc at work and home, these relationships are good
for people, even for productivity. Most of the time.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Three University of Michigan professors say their study
indicates that 23% of men and women in the workplace have
friendships that involve intense feelings of loyalty and
trust. The bond gives a couple support and inspiration at
work, helps them in their jobs, and sometimes enlivens the
atmosphere even for co-workers.
   The authors admit they are venturing into delicate
terrain. "Love, what a closet word it is in organizations]"
they quote Roger Harrison, who has written on leadership in
companies. "Far better to talk openly of those old
shibboleths, sex, money, and power, than to speak of love."
One woman surveyed said: "My 72-year-old mother says that
relationships like this one are unnatural." But she added:
"My husband says that I am lucky. I know that I am."
   Of the 1,044 men and women surveyed, 87% were managers,
569 male and 475 female. They ranged in age from 23 to 69
with a median age of 38, and had incomes ranging from $18,000
to $680,000, with a median of $50,000. The relationships at
work lasted a median of three years and over 88% of
participants were also married or in a "committed"
relationship.
   The study asked respondents to describe the relationship
with "the person of the opposite sex to whom you feel closest
at work." About 23% reported loyalty and affection so intense
that the study rated the friendship a "love relationship."
   Although none were consummated, about half were tagged
"Eros" relationships, characterized by "excitement and
infatuation." The other half, denoted by the Greek term for
spiritual love, were Agape relationships, equally intense and
important, but without the erotic charge.
   Of the balance, 5% reported sexual relationships and the
other 72% described more superficial relationships, from a
man who simply greeted a woman "good morning" and "good
evening," to those citing people whom they enjoyed working
with.
   The workplace, says Sharon Lobel, one of the co-authors,
is "fertile ground" for love, however it manifests itself. On
one hand, "people are always showing their best side." At the
same time, day-to-day pressures make them hungry for support
to "express vulnerability, fears about performance and {give
each other} feedback" on everything from company politics to
how to ask for a raise. "It's the feeling of belonging, of
someone caring," said one study participant, "of not having
to pretend, of being totally yourself."
   Some people wonder whether any intense, cross-gender
relationship can avoid cascading into sex -- and trouble. Hal
Johnson, vice president at Korn/Ferry International Inc., and
a former head of human resources at two major companies,
remembers many times when he called on the carpet someone
whose workplace affair was creating problems. "Every time you
confronted somebody with `this is really getting out of
hand,' the explanation was `Gee, we really were {just}
wonderful friends'" to begin with. On the other hand, he
reflects, intense, nonsexual friendships may just be less
visible.
   More women in the workplace, the professors emphasize,
don't merely mean more opportunity for affairs or such
problems as sexual harassment. Because women are more likely
to develop communal, confessional relationships, they say,
there is a new flavor to collegial friendships. One male
senior manager who worked very closely for three years with a
female subordinate, said: "I trusted her for input and help.
{There was} better understanding without the threat of
vulnerability another man might present."
   The settings most likely to breed Eros or Agape, says
Prof. Lobel, are those where workers put in long intense
hours, are often on deadline or are thrown together in
relative isolation. Start-up firms or those with a
"humanistic" culture that encourage teamwork are also ripe
for such connections, she adds.
   By their very nature, work relationships can be
deliciously intense, says Diane Olmstead, vice president of
USF&amp;G Realty Advisors Inc., who had such a friendship in a
previous job. "Your most energized hours are spent with that
person. You develop a work understanding, you speak the same
jargon, you don't even have to explain things. It's like
being in a club."
   Participants said that they refrained from sex, raising,
the study said, "one of the most obvious . . . questions":
Why? Those in Agape relationships more often cited moral
principles, while those in Eros relationships said they were
fearful about effects at home or at work or on the
relationship itself.
   Most respondents saw the relationships as a boon, making
them more creative, productive and happier at work. And in
some cases, the good feelings spilled over. "Co-workers . . .
seem to vicariously share our love/affection for each other,"
said one man. "The culture {in our company} is usually highly
competitive and secretive. This doesn't exist in our
department."
   Still, there can be trouble. Eros couples tend to arouse
the same suspicions as do office pairs who do have sex. It
went from "gossip and petty insinuations," said one woman,
"into full-blown accusations from upper management. I was
told to stay out of his office and to keep him out of mine."
   Managers do have to be sensitive, says Prof. Lobel, about
whether a close bond between two employees puts others at a
disadvantage. "It did make it harder to evaluate
performance," said a manager who had an intense relationship
with a subordinate.
   If a relationship is creating problems, says Prof. Lobel,
top management may have to intervene. But the prevalence of
these relationships, she adds, suggests that nepotism
policies, which prohibit married employees from working in
the same firm or even limit dating of co-workers, may be
beside the point. "We're saying, it's kind of unavoidable men
and women {will} love each other."
   Of course, not everyone agrees. One respondent sent his
survey form back empty, except for this notation: "I'm sure
I'm not the only one totally disgusted. This idea of
`nonsexual love' in the office is . . . putting ideas in the
minds of people who may have never thought of someone they
worked with as a possible `lover.' I sincerely hope that the
funding you received didn't come out of my tax dollars."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boeing Co.:
   De Havilland Unit Receives
   Commuter Aircraft Order
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   BA F.ASP I.AER
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boeing Co. said its de Havilland unit received an order
for four Dash 8 series 300 commuter airplanes from Worldwide
Resources Ltd., a unit of Canopus Group.
   The value of the order, which includes spare parts, wasn't
disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The twin-engine, turboprop planes will be assigned to
Sea/Air/Ground Leasing Corp., another Canopus unit, to be
marketed to the regional-airline industry, Seattle-based
Boeing said.
   A Boeing spokesman said the company continues to discuss
the possible sale of the unprofitable de Havilland unit with
Aeritalia of Italy and Aerospatiale of France.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Canon Inc.:
   Unconsolidated Pretax Profit
   For First Half Jumped 67%
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANNY
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Canon Inc. of Japan reported that unconsolidated pretax
profit for the first half jumped 67% to 37.65 billion yen
($275.2 million) from 22.53 billion yen a year earlier.
   Net income increased 57% to 20.15 billion yen, or 27.17
yen a share, from 12.8 billion yen, or 20.41 yen a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Supported by strong demand for color copiers, laser
printers and high-quality cameras, sales climbed 22% to
455.49 billion yen from 374.5 billion yen.
   Exports, which accounted for 73% of total sales, increased
24% from a year earlier, as shipments to all destinations
showed healthy growth, a Canon official said. Domestic sales
also did well, rising 16%. Mainline copier sales increased
20% to 147.92 billion yen, the official said.
Computer-related equipment sales grew 27% to 125.79 billion
yen.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- TDK Corp.:
   Pretax Profit Increased 8.2%
   In the Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   TDK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
</IN>
<LP>
   TDK Corp. said its consolidated pretax profit in the first
quarter ended June 30 rose 8.2% to 14.12 billion yen ($96.4
million) from 13.05 billion yen a year earlier.
   The Japanese electronic-part maker's net income climbed
15% to 6.72 billion yen, or 52.32 yen a share, from 5.85
billion yen, or 46.52 yen a share, a year earlier. Sales rose
15% to 128.5 billion yen from 112.16 billion yen.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales in TDK's recording media category, accounting for
31% of total sales, reached 40.37 billion yen, up 9.4% from
36.91 billion yen. In the category, officials noted that
overseas sales, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, were
strong enough to offset sluggish domestic sales.
   TDK said total overseas sales were 68.28 billion yen, a
34% increase from 51 billion yen. Officials cited the yen's
depreciation as a reason for the rise.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Control Data Corp.:
   Approval Received to Sell
   Mainframes to Soviet Union
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   CDA FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
</GV>
<LP>
   Control Data Corp. said the Commerce Department granted an
export license to ship six of the company's largest computers
to the Soviet Union, where they will monitor nuclear power
plant performance.
   The Cyber 960 mainframe machines made by the
Minneapolis-based manufacturer are valued at a total of $32
million and are believed the most powerful exported to the
U.S.S.R. Shipment will begin next month, Control Data said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ordered after the disaster at the Soviets' Chernobyl
reactor, the computers will analyze safety factors at
civilian power-generating plants. The export license followed
assurances that the computers would be limited to safety
analysis.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Charter Medical Corp.:
   SEC to Review Buy-Out
   Led by Managers in 1988
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   CMDA
</CO>
<GV>
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC)
</GV>
<LP>
   Charter Medical Corp., Macon, Ga., said it was advised by
the Securities and Exchange Commission that the agency plans
to review Charter's 1988 management-led leveraged buy-out.
   No Charter executives have been interviewed by the SEC and
no documents have been requested, according to J. Rodney
Laughlin, an executive vice president of the psychiatric and
general hospital concern. "It's so preliminary, I don't know
what they'll be reviewing," he said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   SEC officials couldn't be reached.
   In recent months, Charter has been struggling under $1.6
billion in debt from the buy-out. The company has been
cutting costs, by reducing personnel, among other measures.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Cyanamid Co.:
   Board Clears Buying Back
   Up to 12.5% of Common
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ACY
</CO>
<IN>
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Cyanamid Co., Wayne, N.J., said its board
approved a program for purchasing 10 million to 12 million of
its common shares, or as much as 12.5% of the total
outstanding.
   The biotechnology and chemical company said such buy-backs
will be made in public or private transactions from time to
time, in accordance with federal securities-trading
guidelines "designed to minimize market impact." As of June
30, Cyanamid had 95,792,685 shares outstanding.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company recently agreed to sell its Shulton Group
consumer and personal-care businesses, including lines such
as Old Spice, Breck and Pine-Sol. Aggregate proceeds are
expected to exceed $835 million. The company said the Shulton
divestitures warrant a "corresponding realignment" of
Cyanamid's capital structure. A company spokesman indicated
that proceeds from the Shulton sales would be used to finance
the stock purchases.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   CD Yields Are Flat
   On Small Units, Rise
   On Larger Deposits
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Yields were unchanged on small-denomination
certificates of deposit sold directly by major banks, but
continued to rise on large deposits and broker-sold CDs.
   On a small-denomination one-year CD, for instance, the
average yield remained at 7.52% in the week ended yesterday,
according to Banxquote Money Markets, an information service
based here. The average yield on small six-month CDs slipped
to 7.37% from 7.38%, Banxquote said. Oneyear and six-month
CDs are considered the most popular among individual
investors.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yields on some CDs sold by major brokerage firms, however,
increased about a tenth of a percentage point, as did yields
on large-denomination, "jumbo" CDs sold directly by banks.
The average yield on a one-year broker-sold CD rose to 7.99%
from 7.89%. On a one-year jumbo CD, generally more than
$90,000, the average yield increased to 7.73% from 7.63%.
   Broker-sold CDs and jumbos tend to respond quickly to
interest-rate changes because of competition for
institutional money. The crisis in the Middle East, along
with a weaker dollar and higher interest rates abroad, are
pushing up U.S. rates, said Norberto Mehl, chairman of
Banxquote.
   Yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction rose to
7.80% from 7.66% for three-month bills, and to 7.85% from
7.70% for six-month bills.
   A few of the 18 banks surveyed by Banxquote offer yields
higher than 8% on small deposits for two and five-year
maturities. The highest average yield in the latest Banxquote
survey was 8.53% on five-year CDs sold by broker-dealers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Fall 52.48, Reflecting
   Uncertainty in the Middle East
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices fell sharply as investors
grappled with the uncertainties of the economy and the Middle
East.
   Traders say the selling was heavy by U.S. institutions as
well as some European investors. "The market is seeking its
equilibrium," says Jack Solomon, technical analyst at Bear
Stearns. That's difficult to do, he adds, with so much doubt
plaguing the market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average swung broadly, triggering
program-trading circuit breakers twice during the day. The
index ended down 52.48 at 2603.96.
   Only two of the 30 stocks in the industrial average posted
gains: Union Carbide ended 3/8 higher to 16 3/8, while
Allied-Signal ended 1/8 higher at 31 1/8.
   The broader market also fell, as Standard &amp; Poor's
500-Stock Index lost 6.65 to 321.86, the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index dropped 3.48 to 176.94 and the Dow
Jones Equity Market Index fell 5.98 to 298.02.
   Declining stocks swamped gaining issues on the Big Board,
with only 243 stocks rising while 1,441 stocks fell. Trading
was heavy, with volume reaching 194,630,000 shares, up from
Monday's 129,630,000 shares.
   The New York Stock Exchange's "uptick" rule went into
effect at 9:49 a.m. EDT after the industrial average dropped
50 points, but was lifted at 12:15 p.m. EDT, when the index
recovered 25 points.
   The rule was triggered again at 1:18 p.m. EDT, remaining
in effect for the rest of the day.
   Under the uptick rule, program trades in the stocks of the
S&amp;P 500 Index can only be executed at prices above or equal
to the previous trade. The rule effectively stops
index-arbitrage program selling in the stock market.
   Kenneth P. Ducey, senior vice president of institutional
trading at S.G. Warburg, says he expects the market to find
firmer footing when the industrial average reaches the 2540
level. That's around where the market bottomed after the
minicrash in October 1989 and again in January this year.
   But Bear Stearns's Mr. Solomon says that if the Dow Jones
average breaks below the 2540 level, "all of the stock that
was bought in the past year, when the {average} was between
2500 and 3000, will technically be available for sale."
   That could lead to a deluge of emotional, stop-loss
selling, Mr. Solomon says.
   But not everyone is shunning stocks these days. Mr.
Solomon notes that he has seen an increase in stock buy-backs
by firms who think their stocks are cheap.
   Bear Stearns is one. The securities firm bought back 2.4%
of its stock yesterday in a single 2.37 million-share block
from an institutional investor. Bear Stearns paid $10 a
share, a new 52-week low for the stock. The stock closed at
10 1/2, down 1/4, on volume of more than 2.6 million shares.
   Fredric E. Russell, a Tulsa, Okla.-based money manager,
says that despite the Mideast conflict, he's advising clients
to continue to buy stock -- but only in those companies that
can survive under the worst economic environments.
   Mr. Russell looks for firms that dominate their markets,
are not capital intensive and have little or no debt.
   Such companies are likely to weather a recession, and may
even pick up market share as more debt laden firms falter.
   He points to stocks like H &amp; R Block, which fell 1 1/8 to
38 3/8; Luby's Cafeterias, which lost 1/4 to 19 3/8; and
Ennis Business Forms, which dropped 1/4 to 18. 60830303 065
   Selected energy issues continued to hold fractional gains.
   Harken Energy rose 5/8 to 3, despite reporting a loss of
73 cents a share yesterday for its second quarter, down from
profit of 7 cents a share after a gain a year earlier.
   BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust rose 1 to 31 3/4, while
Plains Petroleum added 1 to 33 1/2. Oil-service company Baker
Hughes added 3/8 to 32 1/4.
   Some defense stocks were higher on the growing threat of
war.
   Raytheon added 1 1/8 to 62 1/2, and Loral gained 1 to 29.
E-Systems gained 1 to 27 1/8.
   Baltimore Bancorp gained 1 to 9. The bank repeatedly
rejected offers from Al lied Irish Banks and its First
Maryland Bancorp unit earlier this year. Allied Irish most
recently offered $17 a share for the bank. Baltimore Bancorp
said it hasn't been approached by Allied Irish or First
Maryland again.
   Casino stocks were among the worst hit groups in the
market. Circus Circus Enter prises fell 2 1/8 to 45 5/8,
while Golden Nugget dropped 2 1/8 to 22 5/8.
   Baroid lost 2 1/2 to 11 3/4 after Merrill Lynch made
negative comments about the company and downgraded its rating
on the stock to neutral. On Monday, Baroid's board approved a
plan to split the company in two. The company intends to spin
off its petroleum services business and its metals businesses
into two publicly traded companies.
   ROC Taiwan Fund tumbled 1 1/4 to 7 1/2 after a sharp drop
in share prices in Taiwan overnight.
   Fluor dropped 2 1/2 to 33 3/8 on volume of more than 1.4
million. Investors may be concerned that Fluor's Saudi
Arabian revenue might suffer from the Mideast conflict. In
June, Fluor won a five-year contract award from Saudi Aramco,
the state-owned Saudi Arabian oil company. The total value of
the contract has not been disclosed. Fluor has said its
business in Saudi Arabia has not been disrupted.
   Salomon edged up 1/8 to 22 3/8. Despite the planned
restructuring of its Philipp Brothers unit, the securities
firm said it expects to report a profit for the third
quarter.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index lost 3.95
to 327.34. Volume totaled 19,650,000 shares.
   Compumat eased 1/8 to 3 1/8. JWP has agreed to acquire the
company for $3.25 a share. JWP fell 1 1/2 to 19 1/2 in Big
Board trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp.:
   Medical Publishing Division
   Of Unit Is Put Up for Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   DNB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dun &amp; Bradstreet Corp., New York, said it is putting up
for sale the medical publishing division of its IMS
International unit, as it continues to divest itself of
nonstrategic businesses.
   The communications division of IMS International publishes
medical journals and provides marketing and consulting
services for the pharmaceutical industry. The division had
revenue of $125 million in 1989.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   D&amp;B said that while the division is profitable, it wants
to focus D&amp;B's investments in IMS International's core market
research business. IMS International was acquired in May 1988
in a transaction valued at $1.6 billion.
   The financial-information services company said it still
expects 1990 earnings to be around $2.80 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Franklin Electronic Publishers Inc.:
   Seiko Agrees to Distribute
   Firm's Products in Japan
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FPUB
</CO>
<LP>
   Franklin Electronic Publishers Inc. said it reached an
agreement with Seiko Instruments Inc. to distribute its
electronic reference products in Japan.
   Franklin, a leading producer of hand-held electronic
dictionaries and thesauruses with voice synthesizers, said it
is the first distribution agreement between the two
companies, although Franklin has long been a big buyer of
Seiko's liquid display crystals. It agreed to join hands with
Seiko after nearly two years of discussions.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Morton E. David, chairman of Franklin, said he decided to
go with a distribution agreement rather than a licensing
agreement because he did not want to give away the company's
advanced software capabilities.
   Although Mr. David said it is too early to set sales
targets for the Japanese market, he is optimistic that the
electronic reference products will become popular learning
tools for Japanese who are determined to learn English. The
devices use speech synthesis to pronounce U.S. English words.
   Mount Holly, N.J.-based Franklin currently sells its
products in 33 countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Caesars World Raises
   Caesars New Jersey
   Bid to $22.25 a Share
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   CJN CAW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- Caesars World Inc. said it agreed in
principle to increase by 25 cents a share, to $22.25 a share,
or $48.4 million, its tender offer for the 13.4% stake it
doesn't already hold in Caesars New Jersey Inc.
   The sweetened offer is part of a settlement of litigation
brought by certain shareholders of Caesars New Jersey. They
charged that, among other things, the company's original
$47.9 million offer was inadequate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Caesars World, an owner and operator of hotels and
casinos, also extended its offer to Sept. 7 from today, and
said it might further extend the offer until final court
approval of the settlement, which isn't expected for at least
two months. Caesars New Jersey owns and operates Caesars
Atlantic City, a hotel and casino.
   Caesars World also agreed to amend its offer to pay
interest on $22 a share if the offer is extended more than 30
days after the mailing of supplemental offer materials
describing the settlement and the amendment. The mailing is
expected this week.
   Caesars World also agreed that if it purchases at least
549,792 Caesars New Jersey shares, giving Caesars World at
least 90% of the outstanding shares, it will merge Caesars
New Jersey with Caesars World or a Caesars World subsidiary.
In the merger, shareholders would receive $22.25 a share,
without interest. Of the 2,175,945 Caesars New Jersey shares
that Caesars World doesn't already own, about 1.5 million had
been tendered as of yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Unilabs Holdings S.A.:
   Unilab Holder Plans to Buy
   Regional Roche Operations
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   ULAB Z.HR
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Unilab Corp., New York, said its majority shareholder
Unilabs Holdings S.A. of Geneva signed a letter of intent to
buy the western regional operations of Roche Biomedical
Laboratories Inc.
   Unilab officials said the decision reflects a long-held
company strategy to concentrate on the West Coast market.
Under the agreement, Unilab will acquire Roche's Sacramento
and Denver operations. The assets include clinical,
anatomical and cytology testing businesses, as well as
facilities and staff. The operations being purchased
represent annual sales of about $40 million. The purchase
price is approximately $41 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Roche, a subsidiary of New Jersey-based Hoffmann-La Roche
Inc., is one of the nation's largest clinical laboratory
networks. Hoffmann-La Roche in turn is a unit of Roche
Holding Ltd., Basel, Switzerland.
   As part of the transaction with Unilab, Roche will
maintain its own specialty testing businesses in such areas
as substance abuse and paternity and bone marrow
identification programs.
   Upon completion of the transaction, Unilab's combined
revenue is expected to be in excess of $170 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Budget Deficit
   Grew Sharply
   During July
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The government said it had a $25.93 billion
deficit for July, more than $7 billion larger than in July
1989.
   Higher spending was to blame. Government outlays were up
more than 16% from July 1989, to $98.29 billion, the Treasury
said, partly from the cost of bailing out failed savings and
loan associations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The spending increase eclipsed a 9.3% gain in receipts, to
$72.36 billion, which largely came from bigger individual
income tax payments.
   With two months to go in fiscal 1990, the government is
already $189.09 billion in the red, and analysts said the
latest figures virtually assure that the gap will exceed $200
billion for the first time since 1986. The White House has
increased its forecast to $218 billion. Though the Treasury
often has a surplus for September because of the quarterly
tax payments due then, it didn't record one last September
and probably won't this year.
   Both higher spending -- necessitated partly by the thrift
rescue -- and a slowdown in the economy have pulverized the
budget process this year, and the Middle East crisis is
compounding the financial difficulties as the fiscal year
ends. Even though tax receipts were up considerably last
month, analysts noted that their pace of increase has been
well behind that of previous years.
   Jerry Zukowski, an economist at PaineWebber, calculates
that tax receipts are running 4.3% ahead of last year
compared with an average increase during the previous two
fiscal years of 7.8%. At the same time, he said government
expenditures are 10.6% higher than they were last fiscal year
at this time, compared with an average rise of 5.6% in the
two previous fiscal years.
   "We're basically getting hit from both sides in terms of
the federal budget deficit this year," Mr. Zukowski said.
   Treasury officials said July is a poor time to look for
trends in individual tax receipts, as there are very few
personal tax payments during that month.
   The 1990 budget is in a sense history. The government
won't meet the deficit limit under the Gramm-Rudman budget
law -- $110 billion, under a formula that excludes much of
the thrift-bailout costs -- but there are no sanctions for
exceeding the target this late in the process.
   Most eyes in this city are turned toward the fiscal 1991
budget, which White House and congressional negotiators have
been trying to draft for several months. If they don't agree
on a deficit-reduction plan, the White House estimated this
week that the 1991 deficit will reach $232 billion. Following
the Gramm-Rudman formula, the gap would come to $149 billion,
the White House said, more than $85 billion larger than the
deficit-reduction law's target. And if negotiators don't
settle on a budget package by Oct. 1, the start of fiscal
1991, the Gramm-Rudman law's automatic spending cuts will
kick in.
   Meanwhile, the deficit probably will swell in the
remaining two months of fiscal 1990, due in part to the
increased military spending from the deployment of U.S.
troops to the Middle East.
   Net spending on the thrift clean-up came to about $4
billion in July. More than $18 billion of government outlays
last month went to pay interest on the federal debt.
   The fiscal 1989 deficit was $151.89 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Abrams Industries Inc.:
   Deficit May Total $300,000
   For the Fiscal First Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ABRI
</CO>
<IN>
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Abrams Industries Inc. expects to report a loss of
$250,000 to $300,000 in the first quarter ended July 31, said
Bernard W. Abrams, chairman and chief executive officer.
   The loss will amount to eight cents to 10 cents a share. A
year ago, the company had net income of $192,320, or six
cents a share. Sales are expected to range from $16.5 million
to $17.5 million, up from $12.9 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Atlanta construction, manufacturing and real estate
concern blamed the loss squarely on lower shipments of store
fixtures. Mr. Abrams said that certain shipments the company
had expected to make in the quarter were delayed and will be
"moved back further" in the year.
   Mr. Abrams stressed, though, that the construction and
real estate businesses were profitable. "We expect all
segments to be profitable in the second quarter {ending Oct.
31}," he said.
   Mr. Abrams conceded that the biggest business --
construction -- has considerable exposure to increasing oil
prices, but said he believes the company is better poised to
handle the effects than it was in the mid-1970s. Contracts
have shorter terms now, typically about six months, which
allow Abrams to make more timely energy-cost estimates when
preparing contracts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- First State Financial Services Inc.:
   Investor Proposes Ending
   Or Easing Firm's Defenses
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FSFI
</CO>
<LP>
   David N. Bolger, a Ridgewood, N.J., investor, submitted to
First State Financial Services Inc. a proposal to ask
shareholders to eliminate or ease certain of the West
Caldwell, N.J., company's anti-takeover provisions.
   Mr. Bolger, who is part of a group holding 9.9% of the
savings and loan holding company, said the provisions
artificially reduce its stock price and insulate management
from market forces. Noting that company insiders control
almost 20% of the stock, Mr. Bolger said he wants to reduce
the shareholder vote required for a takeover to a simple
majority from 80%. First State officials declined to comment
on Mr. Bolger's proposal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In early August, Mr. Bolger said he wanted the board to
take action against officers responsible for what he asserted
was corporate mismanagement, waste of assets, misconduct and
breaches of fiduciary duty.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ford Motor Co.:
   New Escort Model Offered
   For the European Market
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   F EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   Ford Motor Co., fighting to retain its profitable share of
the European car market, is introducing a new model of its
strong-selling Escort today.
   Ford's European subsidiary, U.K.-based Ford of Europe
Inc., said it spent almost $2 billion over the past five
years developing the new Escort, the most it has ever
invested in a new European car. Company officials project
annual sales of 650,000 a year.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "Escort is our largest program ever in Europe," says a
Ford spokesman. "We believe it puts us in a strong position
to face increased competition."
   In recent years, Ford and rival U.S. car maker General
Motors Corp. have counted on record profits from the booming
European car market to cushion their difficulties at home.
European operations accounted for almost 40% of Ford's
world-wide net income on cars last year, and for more than
60% of GM's. Despite the debut of the new models in late
April, Escort's U.S. sales this year are off about 22%.
   The European Escort is targeted at the "small family"
segment of the market, the largest and most fiercely
competitive sector of Europe's car market, accounting for
almost one in three of all new cars sold, Ford says.
   Although the new Escort was redesigned to add interior
space, its boxy styling resembles the older model."It's
evolutionary, not revolutionary," says James Longhurst, an
auto analyst at James Capel &amp; Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Deere's Net Rose 16%
   In 3rd Period on Sales
   Of Farm Equipment
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<CO>
   DE
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FARM EQUIPMENT (FAR)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOLINE, Ill. -- Deere &amp; Co., citing continued strong North
American retail sales of John Deere agricultural equipment,
said earnings for its fiscal third quarter rose 16% to $114.1
million, or $1.50 a share.
   In the same quarter the previous year, the maker of farm
and industrial equipment had net income of $98.2 million, or
$1.30 a share. Sales for the quarter, ended July 31, rose 6%
to $2.06 billion from $1.93 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the nine months, the company earned $336.6 million, or
$4.44 a share, compared with $277 million, or $3.69 a share,
the previous year. Sales rose 11% to $5.82 billion from $5.22
billion.
   Deere said the quarter and year-to-date improvements are
attributable to increased sales, higher production and
improved operating efficiency in its North American farm
equipment operations.
   The company said that despite the strong sales of its
agricultural equipment, declining consumer spending for
durable goods is resulting in lower retail sales of its lawn
and grounds care products.
   "This pattern will likely continue during the remainder of
this year and into early 1991," Deere said. The company added
that it now expects retail sales of lawn and grounds care
products to be "significantly lower" in the fourth quarter.
   Looking ahead, Deere said it is now "less certain" because
of the effects of a weaker economy on consumer confidence and
spending and construction activity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Canadian Imperial Bank:
   Bank, Four Partners Form
   An Investment Company
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.CM H.CKH GE J.MIB J.NKT WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce said it and four
partners have committed $100 million to form a Hong
Kong-based investment company.
   The Toronto-based bank said newly formed CEF New Asia
Partners Ltd. is seeking additional investors to increase its
capital to as much as $250 million over the next six months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It said the other founding partners in CEF New Asia are
Hong Kong's Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd., General Electric
Co.'s GE Capital Corp. subsidiary, and Mitsubishi Corp. and
Nikko Securities Co. of Japan.
   Canadian Imperial said the new concern will make equity
investments and engage in merchant banking in the
Asia-Pacific region.
   It said the new investment company is sponsored by CEF
Holdings Ltd., a financial services concern jointly owned by
the Canadian Imperial and Cheung Kong.
   Robert McBain, group managing director of CEF Holdings,
was named chairman of CEF New Asia. S. Steve Chu, former head
of CEF Holdings' corporate finance division, was named
managing director of CEF New Asia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Gasoline, Oil Futures Prices End Mostly Higher
   In Volatile Session Led by Events in Mideast
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C14
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PETROLEUM (PET)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   Gasoline and crude oil prices swung wildly in heavy
trading to end mostly higher in another session dominated by
activities in the Middle East.
   Market players have been interpreting almost every
pronouncement, every troop movement and every rumor as
bullish in recent weeks. While crude prices have soared,
gasoline futures have risen even more, eclipsing a New York
Mercantile Exchange record.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "You can throw technicals out the window and fundamentals
out the window," said a trader at one large trading house.
"It's become standard procedure this month."
   Gasoline for September delivery ended at $1.0126 a gallon,
up 1.01 cents, on the New York Merc. While the gain was small
compared with some recent days' trading, the session was
volatile. The contract shot up around five cents at the
opening to trade as high as $1.0650.
   Gasoline's gains have exceeded crude's on the belief that
supplies are tight and refining capacity in the U.S. is
limited. "U.S. refiners have `maxed out' on their
production," said one trader. "They have no excess capacity,"
he said, although "there is still crude around."
   After trading finished in New York, the American Petroleum
Institute said U.S. refineries operated at 92.3% of capacity
in the week ended Friday. That's down from the previous week,
but any level above 90% is considered as maximum operations.
   Around the middle of yesterday's session, market
participants were caught by surprise by a speech by Saddam
Hussein that they interpreted as milder in tone. "They felt
it was a softening in the rhetoric, and prices collapsed," an
analyst said. Many traders took advantage of the news to take
profits. September gasoline traded as low as 95.5 cents a
gallon before recovering.
   Crude oil contracts basically moved in tandem with
gasoline, with most contracts ending with small increases. It
was the last day of trading in September crude contracts,
which ended at $28.41 a barrel, down 15 cents.
   Traders were expecting a bullish inventory report from the
American Petroleum Institute yesterday afternoon and didn't
get one. But it's difficult in this kind of market to predict
how much of an effect the actual figures will have.
   The API said crude oil stocks fell 271,000 barrels to
375.7 million; analysts had expected a decline of more than
four million barrels. Gasoline inventories actually
increased, by 1.5 million barrels to 214 million; analysts
had expected them to drop by more than two million barrels.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold futures prices ended lower after
fluctuating in a $15-an-ounce range on Middle Eastern
developments. Silver and platinum also declined. December
delivery gold settled at $416 an ounce, down $2.80. It was as
high as $425 in early trading and then plunged as low as $410
after news services quoted the Iraqi foreign minister as
saying Iraq was willing to talk with the U.S. and put the
Mideast situation before the United Nations. "They may have
read more in the reports than actually was there," one
analyst said. Later, prices partly rebounded when a U.S.
spokesman reiterated the strong U.S. stand on freeing of
foreign hostages held by Baghdad and an Iraqi withdrawal from
Kuwait. Ken Gettinger, precious metals vice president for the
New York branch of the Union Bank of Switzerland, said that
from a technical viewpoint, gold should find support at $400
an ounce and resistance at $425. Yesterday was the fourth
time that the December contract has touched or approached
$425. It traded at $424.80 Aug. 13 and at $425 twice in
March.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices dropped for the third
consecutive session. The September contract ended 1.95 cents
a pound lower at $1.6675. That brought its total decline to
14.2 cents since Thursday, just before Brazil announced a
reduction in export prices. Brazilian processors of frozen
concentrate are engaged in price-cutting competition, an
analyst said. But it isn't likely that Brazil will announce
further significant price reductions, the analyst said,
before the first estimate of the Florida orange crop, which
is expected in October. The crop is expected to show a slight
improvement from the frost-damaged 1989-90 harvest. But
Brazilian processors won't want to cut their prices much
further in case there is a drop in the Florida forecast, the
analyst said. Brazilian concentrate is about to begin
arriving in the U.S., helping to ease concern about supplies,
the analyst said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Traders said ADM Investor Services,
the futures trading unit of grain-processing giant
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co., sold 3,000 soybean oil futures
contracts, diminishing a position large enough to spawn
rumors that ADM was trying to corner the soybean oil market.
The firm was thought to hold more than half of all receipts
for delivery of soybean oil based on July and August futures
contracts, which show ownership of the oil stored in
warehouses. But rumors that ADM may intend to corner the
market eased as analysts said the company may have built up
its large position for legitimate business reasons. Among
those reasons, they said, were expectations that fast-food
restaurants will boost the demand for soybean oil by
switching for health reasons from lard to vegetable oils for
use in frying. In addition, the company may be banking on
speculation that the U.S. will have to offer more credit to
the Soviet Union for grain purchases because of widespread
food shortages in that country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Mitchell Energy &amp; Development:
   Budget for Capital Spending
   In Fiscal 1991 Is Increased
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MND
</CO>
<LP>
   Mitchell Energy &amp; Development Corp., The Woodlands, Texas,
said it increased its capital spending budget for fiscal 1991
ending Jan. 31 by 9.1% to $227 million from $208 million.
   The revised sum represents an increase of about $32
million, or 16%, from year-earlier capital spending of $195
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The largest part of the increase, about $12 million, is
allocated for Mitchell's transmission and processing
division, primarily for the construction of underground
natural gas storage facilities. The division's total spending
budget now stands at $29 million, about the same as a year
earlier.
   The remainder of the increased sum, about $7 million, is
earmarked for Mitchell's real estate division and provides
for, among other things, the purchase of a hotel in
Galveston, Texas. The division's fiscal 1991 expenditures
will total $98 million, compared with $82 million in fiscal
1990.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- MGM/UA Communications Co.:
   Firm Received $50 Million
   In Payments From Pathe
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MGM/UA Communications Co. said it received checks totaling
$50 million from Pathe Communications Corp., the latest in a
series of payments toward Pathe's $1.3 billion acquisition of
MGM/UA.
   After MGM/UA receives payment on the checks, Pathe will
have paid $303 million cash toward the merger and will have
given MGM/UA a $75 million security interest in three films
slated by Pathe. Pathe must make another $50 million payment
Sept. 20, according to terms of the merger agreement.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The agreement calls for MGM/UA shareholders to receive a
total of $21.50 a share, including a $4-a-share payment
distributed on July 20. Payment of the remaining $17.50 a
share and closing of the merger is set to occur on or before
Oct. 23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-Vendor for Unit
   Of Southern Co. Gets
   Fine and Probation
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A5
</SO>
<CO>
   SO
</CO>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)
</GV>
<LP>
   ATLANTA -- A former vendor for a Southern Co. unit who
made illegal political contributions on behalf of the
electric utility was fined $12,000 and sentenced to two years
probation.
   In June, Fred Suttles Jr., president of Outdoor Media
Inc., pleaded guilty in federal court here to filing a false
corporate tax return. He agreed to cooperate with a
continuing federal investigation of the affair.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Outdoor Media, an outdoor advertising firm in Pensacola,
Fla., rented billboard space to the Gulf Power Co. unit of
Southern. According to court papers, Mr. Suttles directed his
employees and several of his vendors to contribute $40,550 to
state and local political candidates designated by Gulf
Power; he then reimbursed the workers and vendors. The
income-tax charge relates to his listing those reimbursements
as legitimate business expenses.
   The Internal Revenue Service asserted that Mr. Suttles
agreed to the scheme to win Gulf Power advertising contracts.
The scheme was intended to circumvent federal law, which bars
utility holding companies from making political
contributions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- U.S. Gold Corp.:
   Denver Company to Form
   Venture With Homestake
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   USGL HM
</CO>
<LP>
   U.S. Gold Corp. said it reached an agreement in principle
with Homestake Mining Co. to form a joint venture at U.S.
Gold's Tonkin Springs gold mining project near Eureka, Nev.
   Terms weren't disclosed. The agreement requires approval
of Denver-based U.S. Gold's senior secured bank lender and
its subordinated debt holders, and requires settlement of
existing liens on the property.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the joint venture, the two companies will continue
to develop the project's bio-oxidation technology for
extracting gold from ore, and they will jointly own the
technology. Homestake of San Francisco will provide funds for
operating the project, which is currently cash-strapped, and
for further exploration at the Tonkin Springs property.
   The Tonkin Springs bio-oxidation project, which uses
bacteria to release gold from sulfidic ores, is the first
commercial application of the technology in the U.S. The
operation has produced about 2,000 ounces of gold, but
revenue has fallen far short of paying for the $31 million
project, which has been plagued by cost overruns and delays.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Oglebay Norton Co.:
   Investor Mactier Lifts Stake
   To 5.1% in Latest Purchase
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   OGLE
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Private investor James A. Mactier increased his stake in
Oglebay Norton Co. to 5.1% of the Cleveland-based raw
materials and shipping concern.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Mr. Mactier said recent purchases of 57,600 shares, added to
his previous holding of 73,200 shares, increase his total
holding to 130,800 shares. The investor said the purchases
were for investment reasons. He declined comment through his
lawyer, John C. Hewitt.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokesman for Oglebay Norton said the company has not
spoken with Mr. Mactier, but it is not concerned about any
takeover possibilities "at this point."
   The spokesman also said that John D. Weil, a private St.
Louis investor, had recently increased his stake to 5.3%. He
noted that there is no known connection between the two
investors.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Circle K Corp.:
   Firm Will Close About 4%
   Of Stores by End of Month
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CKP
</CO>
<IN>
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   Circle K Corp., which is operating under bankruptcy law
protection, said it expects to close 201 stores, or about 4%
of its 4,631 stores, by the end of the month.
   A spokesman said in Phoenix, Ariz., that cost savings
figures related to the closures weren't available but would
be "substantial." More store closings may come later, but
"this appears to be the brunt of it."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Circle K, one of the nation's largest convenience-store
operators, ran into trouble earlier this year after expanding
too quickly and taking on more than $1 billion in
below-investment-grade debt to buy and open additional
stores.
   The stores being closed are in 21 of the 32 states where
Circle K operates. Fortythree of the stores are in Texas and
29 in California. Most of the 1,600 employees affected by the
closures will be moved to other stores, the spokesman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Aura Systems Inc.:
   Firm to Produce Actuators
   For Big U.S. Auto Maker
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AURA
</CO>
<LP>
   Aura Systems Inc. said it has entered into a contract
valued at roughly $34 million with one of Detroit's Big Three
to provide electromagnetic actuators for automobiles.
   An actuator is a device that takes an electrical input and
then generates a force that can move a part. Aura Systems
declined to say precisely what its actuators will be used
for, but said the components will be incorporated into
six-cylinder cars.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "They will have a special application at first, but then
they will become standard at a later point," Harry Kurtzman,
Aura's president, said in an interview. "The details should
all come out in the next few months."
   Mr. Kurtzman said that the auto maker asked not to be
named at this time.
   Pre-production development and testing is scheduled to
begin immediately, Aura Systems said, with initial production
of about 1.7 million units scheduled to start in summer 1991.
That batch of units, priced at about $20 apiece, will take
about a year to build.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Cummins Engine Co.
   Ratings Are Increased
   On $861 Million Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   CUM
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Moody's Investors Service Inc., saying Cummins
Engine Co.'s capital structure and debt protection have
improved because of a recent equity investment by three
friendly corporate holders, raised its ratings on the
company's $861 million in debt.
   Last month, Ford Motor Co., Tenneco Inc. and Japan's
Kubota Ltd. agreed to pay $250 million for a 27% aggregate
stake in the maker of diesel engines. Moody's said it thinks
the Columbus, Ind., concern's "planned use of the proceeds
from the equity infusion to pay down outstanding debt and to
redeem preferred stock will lead to a significant reduction
in the company's leverage and fixed charges." Moody's also
said it feels that the alliances with strategic investors
associated with the buying "offer good opportunities for
profitable new business."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The rating concern said, however, that it "expects
Cummins's earnings and cash flow to remain under pressure
over the intermediate term," because of "soft industry
demand, persistent price discounting and the ongoing need to
invest large sums in capital improvement and product
development programs."
   Moody's raised its ratings on Cummins senior debentures to
Baa-3 from Ba-1, increased its subordinated debentures to Ba1
from Ba-3, and raised its rating on Cummins preferred stock
to "Ba-1" from "Ba-3."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- American Express Co.:
   Acquisition of Epsilon Data
   Management Is Completed
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AXP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   American Express Co. said it completed the acquisition of
Epsilon Data Management Inc., a database management company,
in a stock swap valued at $53 million.
   Epsilon, of Burlington, Mass., provides software and
direct-marketing services for such companies as the Quaker
Oats Co., General Electric Co., Apple Computer Inc. and MCI
Communications Corp., according to American Express
spokeswoman Maureen Bailey.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Travel Related Services subsidiary of New York-based
American Express will use Epsilon software, provide it to the
businesses that accept its charge cards, and market it to
others, said Ms. Bailey.
   Epsilon shareholders, who will receive 0.655 share of
newly issued American Express common stock for each Epsilon
share, approved the transaction at a special meeting Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Crystalate Holdings PLC:
   Vishay Intertechnology Says
   Bid for Company Is `Moot'
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   U.CRY VSH
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Vishay Intertechnology Inc., Malvern, Pa., said its bid to
acquire all of Crystalate Holdings PLC for about $52 million
was "rendered moot," but the company still hopes to buy
Crystalate's U.S. operations.
   Vishay, a maker of resistors, sensors and strain gauges,
made its original offer in April because Crystalate sought
help in trying to thwart a hostile bid by TT Group PLC. But
Vishay said its bid lapsed because of a lengthy delay by
British regulators. In the meantime, about 56% of the target
company's shares were tendered instead to TT Group, which had
bid only about $47 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Despite that setback, Vishay said it intends to negotiate
with TT Group to acquire the two U.S. units of Crystalate, a
U.K.-based maker of resistors and automotive sensors. The
units, with a combined 10.4% share of the U.S. market for
fixed resistors, have combined annual sales of about $60
million.
   Felix Zandman, Vishay's chairman and chief executive, said
TT Group officials have indicated that "they are interested
in selling" the U.S. operations of Crystalate. "We still want
to buy, provided the price is right," he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Rebound From Early Drop to Finish
   Slightly Lower; Rate Moves, Mideast Stir Market
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Robert Sherman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C17
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR X.AST USG ABC EUROP FRE FNM SNC
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Bond prices gyrated in nervous trading,
reacting to changes in interest rates and news reports out of
the Middle East.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell nearly 3/4
point in early trading, but rebounded during midday to end
slightly lower. The yield on the bond ended at 8.94%,
slightly higher than Monday's 8.93% closing yield. Mortgage
and tax-exempt municipals underperformed the Treasury market
and posted modest losses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But junk bonds posted moderate to sharp declines, taking
their cues from the troubled stock market. Most top-tier junk
bonds posted declines of 1/2 to 3/4 point, while prices of
many middle-tier and lower-tier bonds sank one to two points.
   The bond market opened lower on rumors, later denied, that
a U.S. warplane had been shot down over the Persian Gulf. The
prospect of war between the U.S. and Iraq alarmed investors
because it raised the chances that oil prices would rise
further, which in turn, would put more upward pressure on
inflation.
   But as the yield on the benchmark 30-year bond exceeded
the psychologically important 9% level, the market began to
bounce back.
   "The market was getting ahead of itself on the sell side,"
said Steve Ricchuito, economist at Barclays De Zoete Wedd
Securities Inc. "When the yield went above the 9% level, the
market started to attract interest from investors," he said.
   Bonds continued to rebound when Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein hinted that he may be willing to reconcile
differences with the U.S.
   "We had some indications that the Iraqi annexation of
Kuwait might be negotiable," said Lincoln Anderson, economist
at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co. "That contributed to the bond market
rally."
   Oil prices, which lead bond prices in the inverse
direction, fell after Mr. Hussein's remarks, giving the
fixed-income market an added boost.
   A decline in the closely watched federal funds rate also
sparked some modest buying in the Treasury market. The
decline in the rate banks charge each other for overnight
loans occurred shortly after the Federal Reserve executed $2
billion in customer repurchase agreements. The rate fell from
8% to as low as 7 3/4%.
   The intervention came as a surprise to the market.
Although many economists said the Fed action was probably
technical in nature and designed to offset reserve shortages
in the banking system, "many people think there may be a Fed
ease afoot," said an economist at Shearson Lehman Government
Securities Inc.
   One reason investors may have been suspicious is that
members of the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market
Committee met yesterday to discuss monetary policy and
consider whether the time is right to lower short-term rates.
   Adding speed to the upward swing in bond prices was buying
on the part of speculators who had taken short positions by
selling borrowed securities in hopes of buying them back at a
lower price and pocketing the difference. When the market
rose instead, these investors scrambled to unwind their short
positions.
   Dealers said trading dried up in the afternoon, with
government securities drifting at slightly lower levels.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The benchmark 30-year bond ended slightly lower at 97
30/32, compared with 97 31/32 Monday. Short-term securities
also posted small declines. The latest two-year notes ended
at 99 21/32, down from 99 23/32 on Monday. The yield on the
two-year notes rose to 8.17% from 8.14%.
   Treasury bill rates were slightly higher when compared
with Monday's average auction rates. The discount rate on
three-month Treasury bills was 7.58% yesterday for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.82%, while the rate on six-month
bills ended at 7.48% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.86%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Issues
                                                                                                       

   The junk bond market mirrored the stock market, falling
sharply as equity prices plunged.
   Top-quality high-yield names ended 1/2 to 3/4 point lower,
while middle-tier and lower-tier junk bond issues were
battered even more and tumbled more than one point.
Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummeted 52.48
points to end at 2603.96.
   Among the issues that were hard hit yesterday: RJR
Nabisco's 17 3/8% convertible pay-in-kind debentures, which
ended down 2 3/8 points at 108 1/2 after falling as low as
108 on the New York Stock Exchange. RJR's 17% exchangeable
pay-in-kind debentures closed down 2 1/2 points at 84 3/4
after sinking as low as 82 5/8.
   Because equity arbitrage accounts are heavy investors in
RJR's pay-in-kind bonds, the securities tend to plunge
whenever the stock market tumbles, and they surge when equity
prices soar.
   Recession-prone junk bonds continued to take a beating
yesterday. American Standard's 12.875% senior subordinated
debentures, maturing in 2000, skidded 1 3/4 points to 88 1/4
after losing three points Monday.
   In a recent report, Citicorp Securities Markets Inc. said
the company would be negatively affected by higher interest
rates and surging energy costs because it relies heavily on
energy in making plumbing ceramics.
   Junk bonds of another building materials manufacturer,
USG, also sank. The company's 13.25% senior subordinated
debentures closed at 51, down two points.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds of AmBase plummeted after Moody's
Investors Service Inc. said it has changed the direction of
its review of the company's debt ratings to possible
downgrade from uncertain. Ambase's 14.875% senior
subordinated notes lost 8 3/8 points to close at 71 1/8 on
the New York Stock Exchange after plunging nearly 15 points
in active trading last week.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Yields on some West German government bonds exceeded 9% as
international investors continued to dump their holdings.
   Among new issues, West Germany issued 10-year bonds
yesterday for its postal agency that had a coupon rate of 9%.
   That was the highest coupon seen on government or
government agency debt in eight years.
   Although domestic investors were big buyers of the postal
bonds, statistics compiled by the nation's central bank show
that foreign investors have been selling large amounts of
West German bonds this year. The Bundesbank said
international investors sold a net 8.4 billion marks ($5.37
billion) in the first six months of 1990, a sharp reversal
from the 22.5 billion marks of bonds they bought in 1989.
   The selling was sparked by fears stemming from monetary
union between East and West Germany.
   It comes just as West Germany's borrowing needs are
expected to soar because of East German-related expenses.
Private economists see net public sector borrowing around 80
billion marks this year and 120 billion marks in 1991,
significantly above pre-monetary union forecasts of 40
billion marks for this year.
   The last time foreigners were net sellers of West German
bonds was nine years ago, when they sold a comparatively
paltry 1.45 billion marks of bonds.
   In trading, West German bonds ended modestly lower. The
benchmark 8 3/4% bond due in 2000 fell 0.17 point to 98.60 to
yield 8.96%. The 8 1/2% bond due in 2000 fell 0.07 point at
96.70 to yield 9.01%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipals

   Municipal bonds ended as much as 3/4 point lower.
   A rise in Treasury market yields above 9% and oil price
declines pushed tax-exempt issues into a tailspin, traders
said.
   While Treasurys later recovered, municipals were unable to
reverse the downward trend.
   The New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018
was 3/8 point lower at 97 5/8 bid to yield 7.37%.
   "We're just catching up to governments," one trader said.
"We weren't trading off as much as Treasurys had been, and we
just had some people selling because they thought the market
was going to go weaker" because of the Persian Gulf crisis,
he added.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The mortgage securities market posted losses after staging
a considerable rebound from the most depressed levels of the
day in sympathy with the gyrations of the Treasury market.
   After being down as much as 5/8 point, 9 1/2% pass-through
securities for September delivery issued by all three
agencies were down 7/32.
   The volatility has kept many inactive, market players say.
   Meanwhile, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. is
offering $501 million of floating-rate and inverse
floating-rate funding note pass-through certificates through
Lehman Brothers.
   The issue is the agency's third funding note certificate
offering. But it is the first time that a transaction in the
secondary mortgage market has been structured with
recombinable inverse floater classes.
   Also, $218 million of home-equity loan pass-through
certificates, priced to yield 9.26%, are being offered
through Shawmut National Remic Trust 1990-A by Morgan Stanley
&amp; Co.
   Shawmut Bank is the seller of the underlying home equity
loans, and Connecticut National Bank is the servicer. Both
banks are units of Shawmut National, based in Hartford, Conn.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Dayton Hudson Corp.:
   Profit Rise of 7% Posted
   Despite Acquisition Costs
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   DH
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Dayton Hudson Corp. said net income rose 7% in the fiscal
second quarter, despite the negative impact of its recent
acquisition of the Marshall Field's department store chain.
   The Minneapolis-based retailer earned $59.8 million, or 75
cents a share, for the period ended Aug. 4, compared with $56
million, or 72 cents a share, a year earlier. The Field's
acquisition reduced earnings in the quarter by about 15 cents
a share, the company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue for the period rose 3.2% to $3.2 billion from $3.1
billion.
   The company said it expects the Field's acquisition to
reduce earnings in the third and fourth quarters by a total
of five cents a share. The company said interest and
depreciation expenses related to the Field's acquisition
would offset Field's contribution to operating earnings in
1990.
   For the first six months, Dayton Hudson said net income
rose 28% to $123.9 million, or $1.56 a share, from $96.8
million, or $1.23 a share. The latest period includes a net
gain of $6.6 million, or nine cents a share, for accounting
changes.
   Revenue in the six months rose nearly 6% to $6.25 billion
from $5.92 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- General Electric Co.:
   Engine Unit Gets 2 Orders
   With Value of $130 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   GE F.ABI
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   GE Aircraft Engines, a unit of General Electric Co., said
it received two orders for its CF6-80C2 turbofan engine with
a potential value of $130 million.
   The Evendale, Ohio, company said Olympic Airways of Greece
selected the engine for four Airbus Industrie A300-600R
airplanes, two of which are firm orders and two of which are
options. The engine order is valued at $85 million, the
company said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, LACSA, a Costa Rican airline, selected the
engine for two Airbus Industrie A310-300 airplanes, the
company said. The engine order is valued at $45 million.
   General Electric, based in Fairfield, Conn., has
businesses in broadcasting, lighting, industrial products,
plastics, financial services and aircraft engines.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Hoesch AG:
   West German Steel Firm's
   Pretax Profit for Half Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   G.HWK
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Hoesch AG of West Germany, a diversified steel company,
said its first-half pretax profit rose 3.2% to 355 million
marks ($226.7 million) from 344 million marks a year earlier.
   Sales slipped 1% to 5.33 billion marks from 5.39 billion
marks. Sales in the manufacturing and industry technology
division rose 4.1% to 2.73 billion marks, and in its
automation sector climbed 22% to 256 million marks. But sales
in its steel division fell 1.7% to 1.95 billion marks, and in
trading and services declined 9% to 1.89 billion marks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Hoesch said that a slowdown in steel sales in several
countries, particularly the Soviet Union and China, led to
the decline in sales, but that this was partly made up by a
decline in raw materials prices in mark terms, owing to the
weaker dollar.
   For the full year, Hoesch said, it expects earnings to
reach the level for 1989, when profit climbed 31% to 76
million marks on a 28% rise in sales to 10.68 billion marks.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush to Activate Some Reserves,
   Rejects Latest Iraqi Offer on Talks
   ---
   Pentagon Says More Troops
   May Be Needed in Gulf;
   54 Americans in Custody
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   President Bush planned to sign an order today activating
military reserve specialists, as he rejected Saddam Hussein's
latest offer to hold talks on the Persian Gulf standoff.
   But even as the crisis edged closer to armed
confrontation, U.S. military commanders in Washington and the
Mideast expressed reservations about the current level of
U.S. forces -- more than 30,000 troops -- in the region. To
deter a ground attack and launch any kind of major offensive
action, these officials suggested that they need to at least
double, and perhaps quadruple, American troop strength in the
Gulf.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Amid the mounting tensions, the State Department confirmed
that at least 54 Americans now are believed to be in Iraqi
custody. And bolstering the U.S. effort to choke Iraq
economically, nine West European countries authorized their
growing fleet of warships in the Persian Gulf to use force to
back United Nations sanctions imposed on Iraq following its
Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait.
   At Mr. Bush's vacation house in Kennebunkport, Maine,
White House Chief of Staff John Sununu described the planned
reserve call-up as "surgical and specialized." Other
officials said the call-up might be slightly larger than Mr.
Sununu's description suggested, but would be well below
earlier, speculative estimates of 250,000 soldiers. Mr. Bush,
who is scheduled to meet today in Kennebunkport with his top
national security advisers, is expected to initially leave
the number of reservists ambiguous.
   As the U.S. continues to gear up in its confrontation with
Saddam Hussein, there were some indications that the Iraqi
leader may be beginning to feel the squeeze. Yesterday, in an
"open letter to President Bush," he combined his customary
anti-American rhetoric with some surprisingly candid
admissions of vulnerability.
   "You must also realize that scientific and technological
progress, development and prosperity could not be achieved as
Arabs hope without dealing with the West," the Iraqi leader
said, according to a translation of his text provided by
Reuters. "For this to be realized," he added, "they {Arabs}
have to sell oil and the oil market is basically in Europe,
America and Japan."
   Iraq also reiterated its call for talks with the U.S. to
resolve the crisis.
   Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater dismissed
Baghdad's request for negotiations. The U.S. is talking
regularly with Iraq about American citizens being held in
Kuwait and Iraq, but Mr. Fitzwater suggested that Western
nations aren't interested in any broader negotiations until
Baghdad agrees to withdraw from Kuwait.
   "The U.N. has been very clear in demanding a complete and
unconditional withdrawal from Kuwait," Mr. Fitzwater said. He
added that all the nations involved in the multinational
action against Iraq "are willing to talk with Iraq, but only
within the context of compliance with the U.N. resolutions."
   Separately, the U.S. allowed an Iraqi oil tanker to go to
port in Yemen. The tanker was one of two at which U.S.
warships fired warning shots over the weekend. Mr. Fitzwater
said the U.S. allowed the tanker to dock on the basis of an
assurance from Yemen that it "would neither unload nor use
any Iraqi oil." But, he added: "We intend to follow up to
make sure that they comply with the sanctions."
   Senior U.S. military officials claimed that Navy
interdiction efforts have forced many Iraqi vessels to slow
down, stay away from ports or sail empty to avoid a
confrontation. The number of ships calling at the port of
Aqaba, Jordan, has dropped 90%, these officials said, and
other ports in the region also show a significant decline in
shipping activity. These officials added that some Iraqi
ships have steered zigzag courses and changed speeds,
apparently to make it difficult to guess their destinations
and thereby avoid direct confrontation.
   As the U.S. military buildup continues, officials won't
discuss contingency plans. But diversion and surprise are
likely to be important components of any military move.
   The sheer number of Marines and the equipment they're
bringing with them suggests that one of the options the
Pentagon may be weighing is some sort of quick amphibious or
airborne assault against Kuwait. The Seventh Marine
Expeditionary brigade just arrived in northwestern Saudi
Arabia, equipped with heavy artillery and Cobra attack
helicopters. Such units are intended primarily for offensive
missions.
   Some of Iraq's best troops are massed within 40 miles of
the Saudi border, and cutting them off would deal a blow to
Baghdad. Threats of U.S. amphibious assaults, combined with
air attacks launched from carriers steaming in the Red Sea
and Persian Gulf, could force Saddam Hussein to spread out
his crack troops.
   Pentagon officials say the least favorable military option
would be a drawn-out land battle with Iraq's best troops,
which are battle-hardened from nearly 10 years of fighting in
the Iran-Iraq war. But even in that sort of confrontation,
U.S. officials believe American ground troops initially would
have the edge because of their greater mobility and their
ability to fight at night.
   The Gulf effort, the largest U.S. military buildup since
the Vietnam War, is likely to bring more than 100,000
American troops to Saudi Arabia. The Pentagon says it could
take months to build up a force that large. But already, the
U.S. says, the air and naval power assembled in the region
would prevent the Iraqis from overwhelming U.S. troops with a
direct frontal assault.
   Other military strategists say even though the U.S.
doesn't face the threat of retaliation from the Soviet Union
in this crisis, it would make almost no sense for Washington
to contemplate using nuclear weapons to dislodge the Iraqis.
   Albert Wohlstetter, a nuclear strategist, said that the
political cost would be enormous and the military advantage
would be slight. He argued that likely targets for a U.S.
attack on Iraq, such as pumping stations and refineries,
could be destroyed about as well with conventional as nuclear
weapons.
   He said nuclear weapons might be used if U.S. forces were
about to be overwhelmed in a tank battle in the desert. But
even in such a scenario, he argued, there may be alternatives
to using nuclear weapons.
   Meanwhile, Saddam Hussein continued to wield the weapon of
hostage-taking. The State Department said yesterday that
another American and eight more British citizens were rounded
up from their lodgings in Kuwait by the Iraqi military.
   Richard Boucher, a State Department spokesman, said that
"we don't know for sure" where 41 of the 54 Americans in
Iraqi custody are being held. He added that the U.S. has
"credible reports" that some Westerners have been moved to
what he called "Iraqi industrial installations." And an Arab
diplomatic source in Washington said there were reports that
about 30 Westerners were placed at military installations in
Kuwait several days ago, but a State Department spokesman
said he hadn't heard that.
   Saddam Hussein vowed last week to use Westerners as
"shields" at military and research facilities that might be
likely targets for American bombs.
   Mr. Boucher also said that 18 U.S. Embassy personnel in
Baghdad left Iraq and entered Jordan yesterday, leaving about
a dozen U.S. diplomats in Iraq. He said the remaining
personnel would be sufficient to keep the embassy functioning
and "carry out its primary mission -- that is, to see to the
safety and welfare of American citizens in Iraq and Kuwait."
   U.S. officials also said they were making contingency
plans to reduce the number of American diplomats based in
Kuwait City. The officials said no final decision has been
made on whether to reduce the number of diplomats there.
Saddam Hussein has ordered all Western embassies closed by
Friday and threatened to treat diplomats the same way it
treats all other Westerners if they remain after that.
   The nine West European nations meeting yesterday in Paris
echoed President Bush's warning that there would be "grave
consequences" if Western hostages were harmed. The Europeans
also gave full backing to an eventual U.N.-sponsored military
blockade of Iraq.
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib in Kennebunkport, Maine, and Mark M. Nelson
in Paris contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   CF Income Partners Limited Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CFI WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   CF INCOME PARTNERS LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (Los Angeles) --
Jeffrey H. Lynford, 42 years old, was named president and
chief executive officer of CF Management Corp., the general
partner of CF Income. He succeeds R. Craig Overturf, 55, who
resigned. Mr. Lynford was named vice chairman, chief
financial officer and co-chief executive in June. He
continues as chief financial officer until a successor is
named; the vice chairman title will be dropped, a spokeswoman
said. Mr. Lynford is chairman of Wellsford Group Inc., an
affiliate of New York-based Wellsford Capital Partners
Limited Partnership, which acquired 20% of CF Management in
December. CF Partners is a real estate investment concern.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Pakhoed Holding N.V.:
   Merger Talks Being Held
   With Another Dutch Firm
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   N.PAK Y.FUR N.VOM N.KNG N.INM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pakhoed Holding N.V., a Dutch transport and tank storage
concern, said it is holding merger talks with Furness N.V., a
Dutch shipping company.
   Dutch analysts said that if the merger proceeds, as
expected, this would complete a long-term consolidation with
four Dutch companies effectively running stevedoring services
in Rotterdam, Europe's largest port: Pakhoed, Van Ommeren
Ceteco N.V., Koninklijke Nedlloyd Groep N.V. and
Internatio-Muller N.V.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under the terms being discussed, Pakhoed would offer one
share or certificate of share in Pakhoed plus 130 guilders
for two shares or certificates of shares in Furness, which
analysts valued at 140 million guilders ($79.4 million) to
160 million guilders.
   Separately, Pakhoed posted a 64% increase in first-half
profit to 69.2 million guilders, including a gain of 8.7
million guilders from an asset sale, from 42.2 million
guilders a year earlier, when Pakhoed had a net loss from
extraordinary items of 1.2 million guilders. Excluding
extraordinary items, Pakhoed's profit from ordinary
operations rose 39% to 60.5 million guilders from 43.4
million guilders.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   BUSH REJECTED an Iraqi offer to negotiate as he prepared
to call up reserves.
   The president was expected to sign an order today
activating military reserve specialists as the White House
declared that "the world is united" in demanding the
unconditional withdrawal of Saddam Hussein's army from
Kuwait. Amid mounting tensions, the State Department
confirmed that at least 54 Americans are believed to be in
Iraqi custody. Bolstering the U.S. effort to choke Iraq
economically, nine West European nations authorized their
warships in the Persian Gulf to use force to back U.N.
sanctions against Iraq. U.S. officials said that Navy
interdiction efforts have forced many Iraqi vessels to stay
away from ports.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In a speech directed to Bush, Saddam Hussein defended
Iraq's detainment of foreigners and promised "a major
catastrophe" if fighting breaks out.
   ---
   Most East German parties agreed to set an Oct. 14 date to
unify their nation with West Germany. But hours later, the
Social Democrats said they wanted the date set a month
earlier and would challenge the accord signed by their
leader, who said he was resigning as chief of his faction in
Parliament.
   ---
   European Community officials unveiled their final
blueprint for monetary union. The EC executive commission's
plan calls for setting up an EC central bank by Jan. 1, 1993,
in preparation for establishing a common monetary policy and
the European Currency Unit as a single currency in the
12-nation bloc.
   ---
   Government and black leaders made a plea for peace in the
South African townships around Johannesburg as the death toll
from 10 days of tribal violence surpassed 400. The joint plea
was issued by President de Klerk, Zulu leader Buthelezi and
Xhosa leader Holomisa in an effort to halt clashes between
Zulus and Xhosas.
   ---
   The Indian parliament approved presidential rule in the
state of Jammu and Kashmir, and gave the armed forces special
powers there, according to local radio reports. Indian
officials said tanks and troop reinforcements were dispatched
to the frontier with Pakistan, where soldiers from the two
countries clashed this week.
   ---
   Armenia's Parliament debated an independence declaration
and considered setting up an army for protection from
neighboring Azerbaijan, the Soviet news agency Tass said.
Azerbaijan's leader responded by calling for sanctions
against Armenia and warning that his republic might be forced
to take steps to guarantee its security.
   ---
   A federal AIDS panel said the disease is growing at an
alarming rate in rural America, but treatment is complicated
by "fear and bigotry." The National Commission on AIDS also
said that federal clinical trials designed to speed approval
of AIDS drugs were flawed and that many health-care workers
won't treat AIDS patients.
   ---
   A jury in Miami began deciding whether Eugene Hasenfus and
another Contra supply crew member shot down in 1986 in
Nicaragua deserve to be compensated for risking their lives
in the White House-sanctioned operation. Attorneys for
Southern Air Transport and other defendants say Hasenfus was
aware of the covert flight's risks.
   ---
   Leftist guerrillas stepped up attacks on government troops
throughout El Salvador as hopes waned for a cease-fire accord
in the latest round of discussions aimed at ending the
10-year civil war. The rightist Cristiani government and the
insurgents have been holding peace talks in Costa Rica.
   ---
   An African peacekeeping force prepared to board ships in
Sierra Leone bound for Liberia, where the multinational
military group will try to halt an eight-month civil war. The
hundreds of soldiers were expected to depart for Monrovia
today.
   ---
   A National Research Council study gave a boost to
proponents of small satellites, who have criticized plans to
spend as much as $50 billion over 25 years on huge satellites
to study the earth's climate. For the coming fiscal year, the
Bush administration is seeking $235 million for the larger
Earth Observing Systems.
   ---
   Maoist rebels blacked out much of Peru and set off two car
bombs in Lima in support of a one-day national strike called
to protest austerity measures announced Aug. 8 by the new
Fujimori government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USAir to Dismiss
   1,500 Employees;
   More Cuts Expected
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani and Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   U LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   ARLINGTON, Va. -- USAir Group Inc. said it is dismissing
about 1,500 employees in another cutback at the airline
holding company. USAir also lost a bitter union battle.
   The airline said yesterday that the fired "employees were
hired in anticipation of an expansion program that has since
been reduced in light of current economic projections."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A spokeswoman said the 1,500 employees, including pilots,
flight attendants and customer service agents, represent
about 3% of the company's work force. Most of the employees
are considered "probationary," meaning they haven't completed
a probationary period that the company said typically lasts
six months.
   The move follows an earlier cutback. Last week, the
company confirmed that it is furloughing 211 pilots starting
Jan. 1. The company yesterday indicated there is more to
come, saying: "Additional reductions in personnel will be
announced as determined."
   Most U.S. carriers are anticipating that a downturn in the
economy will hurt traffic growth over the next few years, but
none have acted as swiftly as ailing USAir.
   USAir has said it is going through a "detailed review" of
its plans for the next 12 to 24 months. Already the company
said it has dropped plans to start new service to certain
cities, which it refuses to identify.
   The airline is also expected to reduce its fleet. Industry
analysts say the carrier will probably retire older planes
earlier than planned and defer deilvery of options to buy
planes. Earlier this summer, USAir postponed until 1995
delivery of a dozen Boeing Co. 737s that it had planned to
receive in 1991 and 1992.
   The company has been struggling since it merged its newly
acquired Piedmont Aviation unit into USAir last August. In
the first quarter, it suffered heavy losses amid widespread
customer service problems in areas such as on-time
performance and baggage delivery. Second-quarter operating
income of $59 million fell far below year-ago performance of
$201 million.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, USAir
shares dropped 75 cents to close at $16.875.
   Separately, the National Mediation Board ruled that USAir
"tainted the laboratory conditions necessary" for a fair
union representation election. The Teamsters union claimed
that USAir had illegally interfered with the union's campaign
to represent about 8,000 fleet service workers.
   A USAir spokeswoman said, "We regret the decision." She
declined to comment further.
   The board, which governs labor-management relations in the
airline and railroad industries, said the Teamsters could
seek a new election. The Teamsters hailed the decision as a
victory, and said it plans to wage "an all-out campaign" to
represent USAir workers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Ends Mixed, Slowly Recovering
   After Earlier Gains Are Erased Quickly
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP JAPAN FREST CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar ended mixed yesterday, having
slowly recovered after earlier gains were erased in a rush.
   The day's dollar bidding first changed course just as a
second day of gains had pushed the greenback to levels it
hadn't seen in a week. After the quick tumble, the dollar
resumed its slow appreciation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.5645 marks,
slightly below 1.5650 marks late Monday in New York. The U.S.
currency climbed to 146.65 yen from 146.44 yen in New York
late Monday. Sterling fell to $1.9115 from $1.9135 late
Monday. The U.S. unit ended at 1.2917 Swiss francs, down from
1.2964 francs late Monday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was quoted
at 146.53 yen, down a bit from 146.55 yen at the close there
Monday. Meanwhile, the dollar was trading at about 1.5642
marks, down from Tuesday's Tokyo close of 1.5666 marks.
   The session's gyrations Tuesday showed the underlying
weakness of the U.S. unit. Dollar gains in the past month
have been plodding -- except immediately upon Iraq's invasion
of Kuwait -- while declines have been fast.
   Dealers said comments by a Swiss central bank official
that the nation's attractive interest rates would remain firm
encouraged buying of the Swiss franc in the late European
afternoon.
   Demand for the Swiss currency, traders said, made the mark
a bargain in non-dollar cross bidding. Money was moved into
the German currency and out of the dollar, and the
greenback's general descent had begun.
   As dealers sold down the dollar, they found reasons to do
so, turning the correction into a full retreat. The New York
Stock Exchange opened weakly, with the Dow Jones Industrial
Average quickly dropping 75 points.
   Meanwhile, a seemingly conciliatory, open letter from
Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein to President Bush was read on
television. Saddam Hussein said Mr. Bush should look for ways
to achieve peace and not rush into war. He also insisted that
Iraq had no intention of invading Saudi Arabia.
   Speaking at the same time at a news conference in Amman,
Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz offered to "sit and
discuss" the "whole Gulf situation."
   Most currency watchers agree that peace is good in the
long run for the dollar, because a drawn-out military
standoff would further weaken the staggering U.S. economy.
But, in the short run, the dollar would lose if investors
found they had no need for a safe haven.
   By midafternoon, however, "the peace euphoria wore off"
and the dollar stabilized, said Keith Raphael, a Chase
Manhattan vice president for foreign exchange. As did the
White House, financial markets finally rejected Saddam
Hussein's letter as rhetoric at best and, at worst, an
attempt to divide the Western alliance facing Kuwait's
occupiers, said Mr. Raphael.
   The industrial average also recovered, closing down 52.48
points to 2603.96.
   Gold's hard fall from its intraday high of $415.85
heartened dollar buyers, said Joe Sabbagh, chief currency and
metals trader for European American Capital. He suggested the
traditional, inverse relationship between the dollar and gold
reasserted itself toward the end of New York currency trading
yesterday. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for
current delivery settled at $407.40 an ounce, down $2.70.
Estimated volume was a very heavy 7.5 million ounces.
   In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday, gold was quoted
at $406.05 an ounce.
   Rhetoric and rumors can still cause "blips up" by the
dollar, Mr. Raphael said. An unfounded story that a U.S.
warplane has been shot down by Iraq lifted the dollar to its
intraday top of 1.5725 marks. But for sustained dollar moves,
either higher or lower, the market is looking for something
"concrete," said Leslie Puth, a corporate foreign exchange
trader for Banque Indosuez in New York.
   Mrs. Puth said that after the dollar's strong rally on
Monday, when it gained more than a German pfennig, many
market dealers had set their sights on reaching beyond 1.5800
marks yesterday. The rapid turnaround, she said "took a lot
of people by surprise."
   The mark-Swiss franc cross rate was closely monitored
throughout European and North American trading. The German
unit declined to 0.8256 francs by the end of New York trading
from 0.8282 francs late Monday.
   Most dealers around the world attributed the dollar's
strong start against the mark yesterday to nothing more than
a correction from recent declines. But some took note of the
worsening situation in East Germany.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Dividend News:
   American First Corp.
   To Cede Tricon Unit
   To Preferred Holders
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   AFCO
</CO>
<IN>
DIVIDENDS (DIV)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY -- American First Corp., unable to pay
dividends owed to holders of preferred stock, said it is
giving them something else instead -- ownership of the
company's largest subsidiary, Tricon America Corp.
   The holding company wouldn't specify a value for Tricon,
except to say it is "substantially less" than $10 million. It
said Tricon, a concrete building and fiber glass vault maker,
accounted for virtually all of the parent's revenue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   After American First missed a dividend payment totaling
$25,000, holders of its $10 convertible preferred stock
demanded full redemption of the $1 million issue, the company
said, adding that it was unable to comply. At that point,
provisions of the preferred issue called for transfer of all
the common stock of Tricon America to the preferred holders.
American First said most of the preferred is held by a
limited partnership, ML Oklahoma Venture Partners.
   In the nine months ended June 30, American First's loss
widened to $2.9 million, or 56 cents a share, from $1.4
million, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue for the
latest nine months was $7.2 million; the company didn't have
any year-earlier revenue, because it didn't yet own Tricon.
   American First President John W. Cox said, "We did not
have the available resources to continue to fund Tricon's
operations and were unsuccessful in our attempt to raise
capital from outside sources."
   The company also has minor interests in real estate and in
computer leasing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hawaiian Electric
   Says Pratt to Retire
   From Parent, Unit
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HE WNEWS
</CO>
<LP>
   C. Dudley Pratt Jr., president and chief executive of
Hawaiian Electric Industries Inc. and chief executive of its
Hawaiian Electric Co. subsidiary, said he will retire from
those posts at the end of the year.
   Mr. Pratt, 62 years old, advanced his plans by one year
after he was nominated to become one of four trustees of an
estate that is the second-largest landowner in the Hawaiian
Islands.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Pratt will remain a director of the Honolulu-based
holding company, which was formed in 1981.
   Robert F. Clarke, group vice president-diversified
companies, has been named to succeed Mr. Pratt as president
and chief executive of the holding company. Mr. Clarke, 48,
joined the company in 1987 as vice president of strategic
planning and helped to implement the company's successful
diversification strategy.
   Edward J. Blackburn, currently president and chief
executive of Hawaiian Insurance &amp; Guarantee Co., a Hawaiian
Electric Industries unit, will succeed Mr. Clarke as group
vice president-diversified companies.
   Thomas S. Adams, senior vice president of Hawaiian
Insurance &amp; Guarantee, will succeed Mr. Blackburn as the
insurance company's president and chief executive. Harwood D.
Williamson, group vice president-utility companies, who is
also president of Hawaiian Electric Co., assumes the
additional post of chief executive of the utility company
from Mr. Pratt.
   Hawaiian Electric Industries provides electric service to
96% of the residents of the Hawaiian Islands and also has
interests in financial services, maritime transportation and
real estate development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   In Aftermath of Stocks' Sell-Off,
   Some Advocate Closed-End Funds
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   MGC RVT TVF JOF SAF TKF JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Where there's pain, there may be gains.
   That's the word from some investment advisers specializing
in mutual funds who have surveyed the debris left by the
world-wide stock market sell-off.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Since Aug. 2, when Iraq stormed into Kuwait, shareholders
of the large companies that make up the Standard &amp; Poor's 500
stock-index have gotten off relatively lightly. These stocks
are down just 9.5%. Other investors haven't been so lucky.
The Nasdaq Composite Index of small companies is down 12.9%
since the invasion, following a miserable July; the
long-suffering Nikkei index of 225 Japanese companies has
fallen an additional 14.1%.
   So is it time for the small investor to load up on
small-company stocks and Japanese stocks? Maybe so, say some
investment advisers, providing you have an aggressive streak
and a contrarian bent.
   But rather than dabble in regular mutual funds, these
investment advisers suggest buying into downtrodden sectors
by using a peculiar variety of investment fund known as
"closed-end" funds.
   Closed-end funds, which have proliferated in recent years,
trade on a stock exchange just like any other stock. Often,
after brokers abandon their sales drive for a newly launched
closed-end fund, its share price will slip so that the fund
trades for less than the per-share value of the fund's
portfolio. As a result, savvy investors can sometimes buy $1
of stocks for, say, 85 cents.
   For instance, small-company stock funds such as Morgan
Grenfell SmallCap Fund Inc., Royce Value Trust Inc. and
Templeton Value Fund Inc. all trade at intriguing discounts.
Buyers of these funds are, in effect, getting a double
discount. Not only have the stocks in these portfolios been
marked down, but the funds themselves trade at discount
prices.
   These three funds also are managed by highly regarded
stock pickers. According to Lipper Analytical Services,
Morgan Grenfell SmallCap and Royce Value Trust have both
returned just under 5% a year in the three years ended July,
vs. 0.4% a year for the Russell 2000, a small-company index.
Total return is measured by the fund's share-price change
plus dividends and capital gains distributions.
   "Both the funds are well-run," says Kenneth Gregory, a San
Francisco investment adviser who edits the newsletter L/G
No-Load Fund Analyst. "The discounts have widened lately.
That's not surprising at times like this."
   Templeton Value has a shorter track record and trades at a
smaller discount than either Morgan Grenfell or Royce, but
Mr. Gregory reckons it may be the most attractive choice.
This global small-company stock fund, which has two-thirds of
its assets in U.S. stocks, closed yesterday at a 9% discount
to its $9.38-a-share portfolio value.
   In September, shareholders will get to vote on converting
the fund to a regular or "open-end" mutual fund. If the
conversion is approved, it should occur in early 1991. That
will allow investors in Templeton Value to sell out their
shares for the fund's full per-share portfolio value (less a
1% redemption fee payable during the first six months after
conversion), thus giving shareholders an immediate gain.
   "It's an interesting play," says Mr. Gregory. "If you
think the market will bounce back, you've got a double gain
here." But if small-company stocks continue to slide, Mr.
Gregory reckons the closing of the fund's discount should
provide investors with some protection against loss.
   But what about funds that are unlikely to convert to a
regular mutual fund? Are these likely to remain mired at
their current discount? Even if they do, shareholders still
gain. Over the past 12 months, Royce Value Trust paid out
dividends and capital gains totaling 52 cents. Based on its
$9.74 per-share portfolio value, that's a 5.3% yield. But
because the fund's share price is below the fund's portfolio
value, the actual yield is 6.2%.
   For those who want to play a possible rebound in the
Japanese stock market, two options are Japan OTC Equity Fund
and Scudder New Asia Fund Inc., both of which concentrate on
smaller company stocks.
   Richard Barone, chairman of Cleveland's Maxus Investment
Group, looks to buy funds trading at discounts that are
larger than usual. "Scudder New Asia is a definite buy," he
says. Although Japan OTC is also at a large discount, Mr.
Barone says he isn't buying the fund because it is too new
and thus he can't tell whether the current discount is
historically large.
   Scudder New Asia also looks attractive to Charles E.
Johnson, manager of Franklin Balance Sheet Investment Fund, a
mutual fund that can invest as much as two-thirds of its
assets in closed-end funds. "Of course, if the dollar
rallies, these sorts of funds aren't going to do very well,"
he cautions. A rising dollar would shave the value of foreign
stocks for U.S. investors.
   So far, the Japanese stock market rout has hit
large-company stocks the hardest. That fact hasn't stopped
U.S. investors from marking down the share price of Japan OTC
and Scudder New Asia, both of which invest in smaller
Japanese companies. Japan OTC now is trading at a 21%
discount to the portfolio value, and Scudder New Asia is at
25% discount. (Discounts on other publicly traded funds can
be found by looking in this newspaper on Mondays.)
   "People look at {my} fund and say, `the thing is in
Japan,' and they forget about it," says Andrew Economos,
manager of Scudder New Asia, whose fund is 40% invested in
Japan.
   For the true contrarian, there is unfortunately no Kuwait
fund or Iraq fund. But for those who like the longest odds,
there is the Turkish Investment Fund, which in recent weeks
has been hammered as Istanbul's stock market got pummeled
following the Iraqi invasion.
   The Turkish stock market "was already looking pretty
expensive" before the selloff, notes a portfolio manager with
the fund. "At one point, {the market} was down about 30% from
its high." The fund, which is currently 85% in stocks and 15%
in cash, closed yesterday at a 29% discount to its
$15.58-a-share portfolio value.
   Any time you can buy a single-country fund at a 25% or
greater discount, says Ron Olin of Houston's Deep Discount
Advisors, "that's getting interesting. That's probably a
better play than any place in Vegas."
   ---
                 Funds That Fell to Earth
                                                                                                       

   For those with a contrarian bent, these funds offer a
double allure. Not only do they invest in beaten-up areas of
the stock market, but the funds themselves trade at bargain
prices.
                         FOUR WEEK DECLINE*
          SIZE        ------------------------
         (millions    TOTAL       FUND'S SHARE
        of dollars)   RETURN**    PRICE CHANGE    DISCOUNT#
                                                                                                       

 Japan OTC Equity Fund
           $100        - 6.3%        -25%           -21%
                                                                                                       

 Morgan Grenfell SmallCap
             60        -15.9         -19            -13
                                                                                                       

 Royce Value Trust
            140        - 8.4         -12            -14
                                                                                                       

 Scudder New Asia Fund
            131        - 6.1         -20            -25
                                                                                                       

 Templeton Value Fund
            178        -10.8         -14            - 9
                                                                                                       

 Turkish Investment Fund
             97        - 1.5         - 9            -29
                                                                                                       

 S&amp;P 500##

                                                                                                       

   *Ended August 17
   **Performance of the fund's portfolio
   #Difference between fund's share price and its per share
portfolio value
   ##Price change only
                                                                                                       

   Source: Lipper Analytical Services
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   AT&amp;T, Others Develop
   Unix Software Standard
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   T INTC
</CO>
<IN>
SOFTWARE (SOF)
</IN>
<LP>
   SANTA CRUZ, Calif. -- American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s
Unix System Laboratories Inc., Intel Corp. and Santa Cruz
Operation Inc. said they developed a standard that allows
designers to write Unix software for personal computers that
use Intel's 386 and 486 microprocessors.
   As a result, the companies said application developers
following this specification can create a single version of
their software that will run on all 386- or 486-based
operating systems that conform to the specification.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   AT&amp;T and companies that make computers that run the Unix
operating system have been trying to come up with a standard
to challenge Microsoft Corp.'s widely used DOS operating
system.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   STOCK PRICES PLUNGED in a broad sell-off that began in
European markets. The Dow Jones industrials fell 52.48 points
to 2603.96 in hectic trading. Bonds closed slightly lower
after falling sharply early in the day. The dollar rose
against the yen but fell against the mark.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   European stock prices sank on rumors of Mideast fighting.
Germany's blue-chip DAX Index plunged 5.2%. London's FT-SE
100 retreated 2.3%.
   ---
   Gasoline and oil prices swung wildly, ending mostly
higher. Separately, the Energy Department doesn't expect to
tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve until next month at the
earliest, barring more fighting.
                                                                                                       

   Salomon is benefiting from soaring oil prices, through the
Wall Street firm's Phibro Energy unit.
   ---
   U.S. car makers shaved more than 53,000 vehicles from
planned third-quarter output, apparently due to uncertainty
related to the Mideast. More reductions could come this week.
   ---
   MCI is speeding up the conversion of its network to
digital technology, which will result in marketing
advantages, lower operating costs and a likely write-down of
old equipment that could total $550 million.
   ---
   National Semiconductor intends to eliminate several
product groups, lay off 2,000, or 6.2%, of its employees, and
incur a $140 million charge.
   ---
   Wang won a federal computer contract valued at up to $841
million over five years. The deal is a big boost for the
firm, which has been struggling with huge losses and
declining sales.
   ---
   Donald Trump won approval from New Jersey casino
authorities for his $65 million bank bailout.
   ---
   Manville asbestos plaintiffs' attorneys fees were capped
at 20% of claims by a federal judge.
   ---
   USAir is firing about 1,500, or 3%, of its workers, and
indicated more cutbacks are likely. Separately, the carrier
lost a bitter union battle.
   ---
   The U.S. budget gap was $25.93 billion in July, over $7
billion more than in July 1989, the government said. Higher
spending was blamed.
   ---
   Short interest for the month ended Aug. 15 rose 4.1% to a
record volume on the Big Board, but fell slightly on the
American Stock Exchange.
   ---
   American International Group's falling stock price may
force the insurer to sweeten its bid for International Lease
Finance in order to salvage the $1.3 billion transaction.
   ---
   Stotler settled charges with commodities regulators, but
the closed futures brokerage firm still faces a hearing
before securities officials.
   ---
   IBM introduced three low-end minicomputers that could
compete with personal computers and workstations.
   ---
   PepsiCo expects to post a $50 million third-quarter gain
from the sale of Kentucky Fried Chicken stock in Japan, which
will more than offset $45 million in charges in the period.
   ---
   NVR Limited Partnership posted a $53.3 million
second-quarter loss, due mainly to a restructuring. The
homebuilder and developer said it will omit a quarterly
payout to unit holders.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 194,630,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2603.96, off 52.48; transportation 908.58, off 21.71;
utilities 198.50, off 2.96.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Hutton Treasury index 3336.87, off
0.38.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 134.03, off 0.20;
spot index 133.04, off 0.44.
   Dollar: 146.65 yen, up 0.21; 1.5645 marks, off 0.0005.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Time to Launch
   Sports Illustrated
   Spinoff in 1991
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Time Warner Inc., amid a new flurry of
magazine introductions, said it will publish a spinoff of
Sports Illustrated, to be called Sports Illustrated Classic
and focus on sports nostalgia.
   The magazine is scheduled to be published three times in
1991, beginning with an issue in March. It will be delivered
to Sports Illustrated subscribers and distributed on
newsstands nationwide.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sports Illustrated Classic is the latest example of Time
Warner's attempt to build new magazines based on existing
titles, rather than starting from scratch. But even as Time
Warner is extending the Sports Illustrated name, it's unclear
how successful the company has been with similar attempts
recently. Last year, Time launched Sports Illustrated for
Kids, which has built a circulation of 850,000, but it won't
be profitable until 1992, company executives said. Also in
development are Fortune for Students and Time for Kids.
   Donald J. Barr, publisher of Sports Illustrated, said the
sports nostalgia concept tested well among readers. "It's one
of the areas of highest reader satisfaction," he said.
   In a new twist for a Time Warner magazine, advertising in
each issue of Sports Illustrated Classic will be limited to
40 pages. Advertisers also will be offered category
exclusivity if they purchase four pages in each of the 1991
issues. For example, if a toothpaste maker signs up,
competitors won't be able to buy space.
   The magazine joins other new launches at Time Warner.
Despite a rough start for the magazine Entertainment Weekly,
Time Warner said last week it also would try a new woman's
magazine in November with how-to book author Martha Stewart,
to be called Martha Stewart Living.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   `Ideology' Not a Part
   Of My S&amp;L Testimony
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A9
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your reporter, in attaching an account of my recent
appearance before the Senate Banking Committee to an
unrelated story about a former White House aide and the
Senate Judiciary Committee, got my testimony wrong ("Reagan,
Bush Ex-Aide Gets S&amp;L Subpoena," July 30). My subject was an
Office of Management and Budget decision not to authorize a
higher ceiling for the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's hiring
of bank examiners for S&amp;Ls in the mid-1980s. I testified that
the OMB decision not to raise the ceiling stemmed from the
Bank Board's inability, over a period of years, to hire even
as many examiners as its ceiling already afforded. This is
established in detail in the record of the 2 1/2-hour
hearing. In fact, the real reason the board couldn't get more
examiners was that, by statute, not OMB decision, government
pay was not competitive.
   I did not "acknowledge," as your reporter writes, that
"ideology" was the basis for this decision. Once again, as
the hearing record makes plain, I merely explained that given
presidential policy to constrain the growth of the federal
work force, the burden of justification for increases rested
with the agency head. The Bank Board could hardly make a case
for a higher ceiling when it was chronically unable to hire
at the already authorized ceiling. The words "ideology" and
"acknowledge" used by your reporter reveal only his own
ideological preconception and his apparent desire to make a
personal political point -- that, somehow, it was Reagan
policy, not statutory federal pay levels, that made it hard
for the Bank Board to get the examiners it wanted.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Constance Horner
   Undersecretary of Health and Human Services
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   Attorneys' Fees Capped in Asbestos Case
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   MVL F.AQU LABOR MDEST SGP MRK
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   A federal judge capped at 20% the fees that asbestos
plaintiffs' attorneys can currently receive from the Manville
personal-injury trust.
   Judge Jack B. Weinstein of federal court in Brooklyn
limited the fees in an order yesterday. For weeks, he has
hinted that such action might be necessary.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under a spending freeze ordered by Judge Weinstein a few
weeks ago, the trust can pay claims only to seriously ill
asbestos victims who are in "extreme financial hardship as a
result of asbestos-related diseases," and the 20% cap on fees
applies to these payments. The trust is prohibited from
paying all other settlements and judgments until Sept. 6,
when the judge has ordered it to disclose its plans for
refinancing.
   Although the cap on fees applies only to the hardship
cases at this time, the judge's order indicated that such a
limit may be extended to other cases. Previously, Judge
Weinstein has called on asbestos plaintiffs' attorneys to
reduce their fees, which are said to often total more than a
third of the claims.
   In his latest order, Judge Weinstein said: "The matter of
fees is now being considered in connection with a
restructuring of the trust's payment program." He added that
court discussions with plaintiffs' attorneys about the cap on
fees are continuing.
   Judge Weinstein has criticized the trust in recent weeks
because the trust's cash shortfall has prevented it from
paying current asbestos personal-injury claims for at least
20 years.
   The trust was set up as part of Manville Corp.'s 1986
bankruptcy-court reorganization; the reorganization plan
placed no restrictions on attorneys' fees collected from the
trust. The average claim paid by the trust has been $42,000.
   Most of the victims are former construction workers and
shipbuilders who were exposed to asbestos while working.
Asbestos, once widely used, causes cancer and respiratory
illnesses. Currently, more than 100,000 lawsuits are pending
against Manville and other former producers.
   The latest order authorized the Manville trust to decide
without court review which claims may be paid during the
spending freeze. The court also set standards for which
claims can be considered to be hardship cases.
   ---
   RETIREE'S HEALTH BENEFITS can't be cut for now, a judge
rules.
   A federal judge in Connecticut barred Societe Nationale
Elf Aquitaine from reducing a health-benefits plan that
covered a former senior executive of Texasgulf Inc. The U.S.
oil company was acquired by the Paris energy conglomerate in
1981.
   The dispute between Richard D. Mollison, who was the
chairman and chief executive officer of Texasgulf at the time
of the acquisition, and the French parent company is one of a
growing number of cases against companies that attempt to cut
retirees' benefits. Mr. Mollison retired in 1982.
   Similar suits have been filed against Primerica Corp.,
General Motors Corp. and Combustion Engineering Inc., now
part of Asea Brown Boveri AB. But this is believed to be
among the first in which a judge has granted an injunction
before a company reduced benefits. The injunction will remain
in effect pending the final outcome of the case.
   Under Texasgulf's health-benefits coverage, all employees
received 80% reimbursement for medical and health-care
expenses. Under a supplemental plan, senior executives
received 100% reimbursement. Mr. Mollison contended that the
supplemental plan also provided that upon retirement he and
certain other officers would continue to receive full
coverage throughout their lifetimes.
   Mr. Mollison sued Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine and two
subsidiaries, Elf Aquitaine Inc. and Texasgulf, both of
Stamford, Conn., after receiving a letter from the units'
current chief executive officer informing him that the
supplemental plan would be abolished as of May 31, 1990. The
basic 80% coverage would remain.
   In his complaint, Mr. Mollison alleged that as part of the
merger contract Societe Nationale Elf Acquitaine agreed to
maintain all employee benefit plans then in effect. He
contends that terminating the supplemental plan is a breach
of that agreement and violates the federal statute regulating
employee benefits known as the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, or ERISA.
   Richard Klapper of the New York law firm Sullivan &amp;
Cromwell, representing the defendants, said that the plan
applied to fewer than 25 of the top current and retired
executives and that the company decided it would be
"inequitable" to continue higher health benefits for them.
Mr. Klapper said that the company had not violated ERISA and
maintained the right to modify or abolish any benefits.
   In the decision, federal judge T.F. Gilroy Daly of
Bridgeport, Conn., said he was granting the injunction out of
concern that Mr. Mollison, who is 74 years old and has been
treated for cancer, would be harmed if the plan was canceled
before the trial.
   Marilyn J. Ward Ford, a professor of law at the University
of Bridgeport School of Law and a lawyer for Mr. Mollison,
said other former Texasgulf executives may join Mr. Mollison
as plaintiffs in the lawsuit or file their own actions.
   ---
   LAW FIRMS BENEFIT from economic sanctions against Iraq.
   New York's Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen &amp; Hamilton registered
Aug. 13 as a foreign agent for the exiled government of
Kuwait. The firm is dealing with foreign-asset matters and
will represent Kuwait chiefly before the Treasury Department,
according to one partner, who asked not to be named for
reasons of personal safety.
   Several members of the Kuwaiti royal family are being
represented by the Washington office of Jones, Day, Reavis &amp;
Pogue. Partner Norman Vander Clute said the law firm seeks to
sever private assets held by royal family members from any
companies controlled by the Iraqi government.
   Oil companies, investment banks, and other companies
likely to be pinched by the freeze on assets have hired law
firms including Washington's Wilmer, Cutler &amp; Pickering and
Philadelphia's Morgan, Lewis &amp; Bockius.
   Some law firms are marketing their services aggressively.
A news release issued by Ruder Finn, a public relations firm
representing Washington's Shaw, Pittman, Potts &amp; Trowbridge,
"strongly" encourages reporters covering the U.S.
government's asset freeze order to contact Thomas Crocker,
who is of counsel with the firm. A release from Morgan Lewis
urges multinational corporations to develop "legal battle
plans to cope with a potentially conflicting maze" of
sanctions. "We're in the thick of it," says Michael
Calabrese, an associate at Morgan Lewis and co-author of
papers issued by the firm on the trade embargo.
   In many cases, the work amounts to guessing what the
assets control office will do in the future.
   "We try and tell the client where we think {the Treasury}
will come out" on asset questions, says Andrew Vollmer, a
partner with Wilmer Cutler.
   ---
   TWO RESEARCH SCIENTISTS indicted for conspiring to sell
trade secrets.
   The scientists were charged in Newark, N.J., with
participating in a scheme to sell information about the
manufacture of Schering-Plough Corp.'s interferon, a drug
used in cancer research, and Merck &amp; Co.'s ivermectin, an
animal anti-parasitic drug that as Mectizan is used to treat
river blindness in humans. Schering-Plough is based in
Madison, N.J.; Merck is based in Rahway, N.J.
   U.S. Attorney Michael Chertoff said the defendants had
tried to sell secrets about the processing of the
patent-protected drugs for a total of $9.5 million.
   The defendants, Bernard Mayles, who had worked for both
companies, and Mario Miscio, the director of Biopharm
Research Inc. in Hazlet, N. J., pleaded not guilty and are
free on bail.
   Neither Messrs. Mayles and Miscio or their attorneys could
be reached for comment.
   If convicted, each faces a maximum of 30 years in prison
and fines that can be as much as twice the gain to the
defendants or loss to the companies.
   The defendants were arrested this month when they handed
over a folder of documents and an ivermectin specimen to an
undercover agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in
exchange for $1 million in cash and $500,000 in bonds.
   The two defendants had sold the agent documents containing
partial information on how to manufacture ivermectin and had
negotiated a deal to sell information about interferon.
   ---
   NEW ENGLAND JUDGES will get environmental law training.
   The program for state judges is believed to be the first
of its kind and is expected to be a prototype for judicial
environmental education programs elsewhere in the country.
   It is being developed by the Environmental Law Institute,
a Washington, D.C., research and education organization, the
Massachusetts Executive Office of Environmental Affairs and
the Flaschner Judicial Institute.
   The Flaschner institute, the judicial education arm of the
Massachusetts Bar Foundation, received a $46,500 grant from
the Jessie B. Cox Charitable Trust to develop the program.
   "There's a tidal wave of environmental litigation that's
about to break over the courts," said Andrew W. Savitz,
general counsel for Massachusetts' Office of Environmental
Affairs. He said that litigation resulting from an increase
in environmental legislation and recent efforts to enforce
environmental laws is now flooding the courts.
   John A. Pendergrass, a senior attorney with the
Environmental Law Institute said the program was planned so
that it can be adapted to the needs of judges in other
states. He said a judge and law-enforcement personnel in
California, Minnesota and Maryland as well as the American
Bar Association had expressed interest in the program.
   The first seminars will be offered next year.
   ---
   Timothy Noah and Arthur S. Hayes contributed to this
column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   The Yankee Clipper
   Returns to `Pitch'
   In Mr. Coffee Lineup
   ---
   Joe DiMaggio to Be Featured
   In TV Advertisements
   After Five-Year Hiatus
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<CO>
   JAVA
</CO>
<IN>
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
HOME ELECTRONICS, FURNISHINGS, APPLIANCES (HMF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Mr. Coffee Inc. is putting Joe DiMaggio back in its
marketing lineup as the race among automatic coffee makers
heats up.
   The contract comes at a time of increased competition in
the coffee machine business -- and just before the
all-important Christmas advertising season. The company says
it will spend $2 million of its $11 million marketing budget
this year in the fourth quarter for the two television
advertisements that will feature Mr. DiMaggio.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The former Yankee outfielder became Mr. Coffee's spokesman
in 1974, and remained until five years ago, during which the
company dominated the automatic drip coffee maker market. Mr.
DiMaggio left when the company decided to switch its ad
campaigns to more product-specific themes. Peter Howell, Mr.
Coffee's new president and chief executive officer, says such
commercials were never the hit with viewers that Mr.
DiMaggio's were.
   Indeed, since Joltin' Joe went away, the company's market
share declined from 32% to about 28%. Mr. Coffee has set a
goal of 35% by 1995.
   The Cleveland-based company, which sold four million
shares to the public in June as part of a restrucuturing
under new management, wouldn't disclose the value of the two
year contract, with an option for a third year. But Morris
Engelberg, a Florida attorney who represents Mr. DiMaggio,
characterized the deal as "a multimillion dollar contract."
   Mr. DiMaggio had been approached by "several" other coffee
makers, Mr. Engelberg says. He will continue to do his
popular advertisements with Bowery Bank.
   "If you don't advertise, all you've got left is price,"
says Mr. Howell. He complains that many coffee makers are
discounting their machines, hurting Mr. Coffee, the industry
leader.
   The advertisements will be a brief skit featuring Mr.
DiMaggio, and, of course, baseball. Filming will begin within
three weeks in southern Florida, where Mr. DiMaggio now
resides.
   Now, Mr. Coffee is switching back to marketing its whole
line of 40 different machines -- ranging in price from $16 to
$60 -- as one. "It made sense to have {Mr. DiMaggio} back as
a spokesman," says Mr. Howell. "Spokesmen work better for a
whole line of products."
   Particularly this spokesman. Mr. DiMaggio, now 75 years
old, and Mr. Coffee are inseparable even after the five year
hiatus. "A lot of people think Joe DiMaggio owned Mr.
Coffee," says Mr. Howell, who was negotiating with the star
for six months. "We believe, maybe stupidly, that the
connection is stronger than {an appeal to} any age group or
sex.
   "People remember what the Yankees were when he was in his
prime. Even 20 and 30 year olds ask me, `Where's Joe?'"
   As for Mr. DiMaggio, his attorney says "he's happy to be
back." The endorsement is natural: He drinks between seven
and eight cups of coffee a day.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Ratings
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOCKHEED Corp. (Calabasas, Calif.) -- Moody's Investors
Service Inc. said it downgraded about $800 million of this
aerospace concern's senior long-term debt to Baa-1 from
single-A-3. The agency cited the "less favorable
defense-business outlook and the likelihood that the
company's cash-flow protection of debt will decline, while
its borrowings will increase." Lockheed's Prime-2
commercial-paper rating wasn't changed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Black Voters Are More Disapproving Than Whites
   Of the Deployment of U.S. Forces to Middle East
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Most Americans line up solidly behind
President Bush's Middle East policy. But there's a major
exception -- black voters.
   In The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll conducted last
weekend, black and white voters agree on many propositions --
that the nation is heading for a recession, for example. But
they diverge sharply on the question of sending American
military forces to the Middle East. On that point, 74% of
white voters support the military action, but the approval
rate among black voters is only 41%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Why is there such a stunning split?
   Perhaps the most commonly voiced explanation by black
politicians and scholars is that the conflict in the Middle
East may divert desperately needed money for social programs
here at home.
   But there are several other possible explanations. Black
voters, some people suggest, may be concerned that young
black men may be among the first to go into combat -- and
among the first to die. Still another is the fear that if the
situation in the Middle East leads to a recession, blacks may
suffer economically more than whites. And finally, there is
the possibility that some blacks -- like the Rev. Jesse
Jackson, who is seeking permission to fly to Baghdad -- may
feel a cultural affinity with Arabs. Mr. Jackson, who
initially backed Mr. Bush's Middle East moves, has lately
turned more guarded in his support.
   Negative black opinion ranges from mild criticism of the
president's action to furious indignation.
   William Childs of Tuskegee, Ala., a black pilot in World
War II, suggests quietly that "perhaps black voters feel
America is not doing enough here at home."
   Julian Bond, one-time civil-rights activist, worries along
the same lines. "This Middle East venture," he says, "erases
whatever chance we had of a peace dividend. It's gone, and I
think black voters more than most others understand that."
   Wali Muhammad, assistant to Nation of Islam Minister Louis
Farrakhan, is furious. "Our cities are devastated," he says,
"and the Bush administration won't spend any money. We know
all about getting our oil cut off -- it gets cut off in the
winter because we can't pay for it."
   Blacks may worry, too, that if war comes to the Mideast,
black servicemen may pay a heavy price, just as so many of
them did in the later stages of the Vietnam War.
   "Blacks look back at the history of the war in Vietnam,"
says U.S. Rep. Mike Espy (D., Miss.), "and many of them
remember it as a poor soldiers' war, with the rich kids all
winning deferments. Black people fear their sons may be the
first to die." Mr. Espy makes clear, however, that he
supports Mr. Bush's Mideast actions.
   "Blacks are generally less enthusiastic about the use of
force than whites," says Edwin Dorn, an analyst at the
Brookings Institution here. "It's something that's happened
in the last 15 to 20 years since blacks have become so
heavily represented in the armed services. Blacks see their
brothers and sisters becoming involved. With whites, it's
more a question of principles."
   "Neil Bush {the president's son} isn't going to Saudi
Arabia," says Mr. Muhammad. "Poor blacks are the ones who
will do the fighting." Saddest of all, he adds, "is that
blacks still have a better chance of dying in black ghettos
than they do of getting killed on the battlefields in the
Middle East."
   Mr. Bond suggests that there are so many blacks in the
armed services now "that most black people are likely to know
somebody who might have to go."
   In the Journal/NBC poll, blacks and whites show no
disagreement in their assessment of the possibility of a
looming recession; about 57% in both groups expect to see one
in the next 12 months. But blacks may believe bad times will
hit them harder. Another split in the poll between black and
white voters turned up on the specific point of using
military force in the Middle East should gasoline prices
surge to $2 a gallon. Only 25% of white voters thought that
would be a reason to use military force, against 48% for
black voters.
   Randall Kennedy, a Harvard Law School professor, suggests
this result may have as much to do with class as with race.
It's the same explanation, he says, for the sharp divergence
between black voters and white voters on the question of
approving President Bush's vacationing in Maine during the
crisis. The president's holiday plans met with 59% approval
among whites, but only with 21% approval among blacks.
   Congressman Espy also points out that blacks tend to be
suspicious about Republican politicians, and he says some
blacks believe Mr. Bush is intervening in the Middle East to
protect wealthy oil interests here at home. In a Journal/NBC
poll conducted last month, 44% of the black respondents
approved Mr. Bush's overall White House performance, against
71% for white voters.
   There is finally the question of black attitudes toward
Arabs and Arab nations. "Generally speaking," says Mr. Dorn,
"blacks are far more sympathetic to the positions of Arabs
and Muslims than white people. Blacks tend to feel that U.S.
policy is always biased in Israel's favor and is rarely
evenhanded toward Arab nations."
   Harvard's Mr. Kennedy agrees. "Blacks may see the conflict
with Iraq as America aligned against a Third World -- and
partly colored -- people, and blacks may not be so
sympathetic to that," he says.
   ---
   Do you approve or disapprove of the United States' sending
military forces to Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf?
                                                                                                       

   APPROVE
                                                                                                       

     Whites ............................... 74%
     Blacks ............................... 41%
                                                                                                       

   DISAPPROVE
                                                                                                       

     Whites ............................... 17%
     Blacks ............................... 49%
                                                                                                       

   The Wall Street Journal/NBC News Poll
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Stardent Shareholders
   Oust Ex-Chairmen
   Following Lawsuit
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B3
</SO>
<CO>
   KUB WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEWTON, Mass. -- Stardent Computer Inc. said that its
shareholders removed its former co-chairmen from the board
and affirmed a closer relationship with Kubota Corp.,
Stardent's largest investor.
   Allen H. Michels and Matthew H. Sanders III, who had
co-founded one of Stardent's two predecessor companies, sued
Kubota last month alleging that the Japanese tractor maker
was conspiring to steal Stardent's technology for making
graphics supercomputers. Kubota and Stardent have both denied
the allegation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stardent's board had already stripped the two men of their
co-chairmen titles in the wake of the suit. However, they
remained directors under company bylaws.
   "We see this as a direct consequence of actions proposed
by the Japanese-dominated board," said Mr. Michels. "Mr.
Sanders and I are undaunted by such blatant interference and
will continue to press our case vigorously in the courts."
   Meanwhile, lawyers for the pair filed yesterday an
amendment to their original suit, adding Stardent Computer
and Stardent President John Poduska to the list of
defendants. The amendment also adds the charge that Kubota
and the other defendants unlawfully discharged Mr. Michels
and Mr. Sanders.
   Stardent, which is owned by employees and venture capital
investors, said that Kubota will invest as much as $60
million in Stardent over the next 12 months raising its stake
to 28% from 22%. Kubota has already invested about $100
million in Stardent and one of its predecessors.
   Meanwhile, Kubota will take over development of Stardent's
current product line while Stardent will concentrate on new
product development. Kubota remains Stardent's exclusive
manufacturer and retains all Asian distribution rights.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900822-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900822-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Loral Forecasts
   7% Increase in Net
   For Its 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
08/22/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   LOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Loral Corp. Chairman Bernard Schwartz, riding the winds of
war, said the outlook for the defense electronics concern is
bright and will only be improved by its recent acquisition of
Ford Motor Co.'s aerospace unit.
   Speaking with investors during a conference call with
Oppenheimer &amp; Co., and then in a follow-up interview with
this newspaper, Mr. Schwartz said he expects second-quarter
profit to increase by about 7% from the same period last
year, not including any expenses associated with the Ford
Aerospace deal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For the year-earlier second quarter ended Sept. 30, 1989,
Loral had profit of $19.8 million, or 79 cents a share, on
sales of $295.7 million.
   For fiscal 1991, Mr. Schwartz added, he wouldn't take
issue with projections by securities analysts that the
company will earn about $85 million, or $3.45 a share, on
revenue of $1.45 billion. In fiscal 1990, the company had net
income of $78 million, or $3.11 a share, on sales of $1.27
billion. Backlog, he suggested, will climb slightly to more
than $2.2 billion.
   Loral's concentration in high-technology aircraft and ship
warning systems, reconnaissance and surveillance gear;
simulators and training devices; and intelligence and
communications equipment "distinguishes us to some degree"
from the defense contractors that are most affected by
military budget cuts, Mr. Schwartz said.
   "That's true today, and it will be true tomorrow as well,"
he asserted.
   The Persian Gulf crisis has only enhanced the company's
prospects. The Pentagon, according to Mr. Schwartz, already
has stepped up orders for chaff, or tiny strips of metal foil
dropped from aircraft that are used to confuse enemy radar.
He said the situation in the Middle East makes it more likely
that Loral will sell additional ALQ-178 radar warning
receivers and jamming instruments to Turkey.
   Should the U.S. sell more McDonnell Douglas Corp. F-15
jets to Saudi Arabia, as many in the industry believe is
inevitable, that also would help Loral because the planes
would be outfitted with Loral electronics. Observers believe
Israel is also in the market for such components.
   As tensions between the U.S. and Iraq continued to
heighten yesterday, the share prices of a number of
defense-electronics companies rose, even while the market
sank broadly. E-Systems Inc. closed on the New York Stock
Exchange at $27.125, up $1. Raytheon Co. finished on the Big
Board at $62.50, up $1.125, while Loral finished at $29, up
$1.
   "What we have to see is if the fact that the Street has
warmed up to the stock is really sustainable or just a
trading spike," said Lior Bregman, the aerospace and defense
analyst at Oppenheimer.
   Loral has attracted a lot of interest in the investment
community since it won the bid for Ford Aerospace last month.
Mr. Schwartz said yesterday that if the Newport Beach,
Calif., company's financial results were fully integrated
into Loral's, it would ultimately lift sales on an annualized
basis to $3.3 billion, backlog to $4 billion and profit to
nearly $100 million. But it's not clear how much, if any, of
Ford Aerospace's earnings actually will be consolidated on
that basis because the merchant banking partnerships of
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. will hold a 49% stake in the
unit.
   But whatever happens in terms of Loral's profit-and-loss
statement, Mr. Schwartz maintained, Ford Aerospace was a good
buy at $715 million. The company, which had $120 million in
pretax profit last year, only has about $20 million in debt
on its books that Loral will absorb. Even Ford Aerospace's
one traditional money-losing arm, missile systems, should
break even this year, Mr. Schwartz said.
   "This is another example of Loral's acumen, luck, good
fortune or whatever," the chairman declared.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
