<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0161
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0161.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Medicine:
   Diagnostic Equipment Field in Squeeze
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   GE G.SIE J.TOS PHG ELT
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILWAUKEE -- General Electric Co. engineers have been
taking apart competitors' medical imaging machines, looking
for ways to produce their own systems more economically.
   Facing stiff competition from Europe and Japan in a market
that is increasingly under pressure to reduce health-care
spending, GE is focusing on cost-cutting for the first time,
not only on the technical advances that made it the dominant
player in the diagnostic equipment market for a decade.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For patients, the changing market means lower diagnostic
fees, but it may also mean that some major advances will
reach the market more slowly. The average cost to patients
for "magnetic resonance imaging," or MRI, the most advanced
diagnostic technology widely available, is about $850. "I can
see that coming down to $500 within two to three years," says
Gregory Freiherr, a medical consultant in Silver Spring, Md.
   GE, which invented the modern X-ray tube in 1913, has long
garnered the lion's share of the U.S. diagnostic equipment
sales and service market, a $4.2 billion a year field that
includes MRI and Computed Tomography, or CT, scanners.
   In recent years, however, Siemens AG of Germany and the
Netherlands' N.V. Philips have increased their U.S. presence.
Philips, for instance, began manufacturing CT scanners last
year in a joint venture with a unit of Japan's Hitachi Ltd.
in Concord, Mass. But what has shaken up the field even more
is Toshiba Corp.'s purchase last year of the MRI business of
Diasonics Inc. of San Francisco.
   "If there's a new aggressor in the market, it's Toshiba,"
says Bobby Bowen, vice president of advanced technology at GE
Medical.
   Toshiba's U.S. medical systems revenue has grown about 50%
annually for the past three years and accounts for 8% of the
MRI and CT market in the U.S. GE Medical's share is estimated
at 44%. Siemens and Philips together have about 29%.
   GE and Philips concede that in the technological
competition, they lost sight of cost and customer needs.
   MRI uses powerful magnetic fields to "see" inside the
human body positioned in the magnetic field. The complex
components of the MRI machine -- magnets to excite the
hydrogen nuclei in the body, coils to send radio frequency,
and software that turns data into images -- provided a rich
field for both significant and marginal technical
improvements. In the early 1980s, more than a dozen
manufacturers offered MRI machines with a multitude of
imaging capabilities, scanning speeds, and other features.
"The whole industry had a tinker toy syndrome," says Mike
Moakley, president of Philips Medical Systems of North
America.
   The same has been true for CT scanning, in which a
computer uses data from multiple X-ray measurements to
reconstruct images. Since CT was introduced in the early
1970s, so many technologies have been added that customers
aren't sure the benefits are worth the costs. In 1987, for
instance, GE introduced a crystal X-ray "detector," replacing
the xenon gas still used in Siemens and Philips detectors.
   But GE's new crystal adds about $150,000 to a CT scanner's
cost. Both technologies "are good and they don't make a
nickel's worth of difference to me," says James Hoffman,
directory of neurology at Emory University Medical School.
The same goes for MRI; no machine seems to enjoy a clear
technological edge, he says. "The real issue is what does it
cost, and there isn't any difference there either."
   Competition has cut the price of MRI machines to about
$1.8 million, down about 5% annually over the past two years,
and discounts off the list price are common. Phil Drew, a
medical equipment consultant in Concord, Mass., expects
prices to slip below $1.4 million by the end of next year as
Toshiba gears up U.S. production and sales.
   CT scanner prices have dropped, too, from a million
dollars in the early 1980s, when the Japanese introduced
low-cost machines, to about $700,000 currently. Philips, in
the joint venture with Hitachi, is building CT machines in
which a microcomputer has replaced the minicomputer,
eliminating the need for an air-conditioning device and other
components, thereby reducing the scanner's size.
   For the past two years, GE Medical has been farming out
manufacture of printed wiring board, harness, and certain
mechanical parts, reducing its cost for those components by
about 25%. Last year, it restructured engineering and
marketing operations to simplify and speed production and to
free sales people to concentrate on customers. "We're trying
to be more attuned to what's going on in the marketplace. We
haven't always done that," says John Trani, head of GE
Medical.
   Last November, the company introduced an artificial
intelligence program, called InSite, to troubleshoot
customers' CT and MRI machines by telephone from a central
location. "GE has come up with a technology that serves as a
marketing tool: It can provide instantaneous service that
gives the customer a warm and fuzzy feeling about GE. No one
else has it," says Mr. Freiherr, the consultant.
   Other companies are linking with Japanese diagnostic
imaging equipment makers, whose manufacturing costs are
estimated at 20% below GE's. Aside from the Hitachi/Philips
link, GE Medical has a joint venture with Yokogawa Medical
Systems Ltd. that began making a mid-level MRI system in
Japan in 1987. Siemens established a tie with Asahi Chemical
Industry Co. a year ago.
   These ventures have marketing as well as manufacturing
aims. The Japanese, constrained by limited hospital space and
medical reimbursement plans, had concentrated on "low to
mid-field" MRI machines, whose magnetic field strengths are
less than 0.5 tesla, or about 10,000 times the strength of
the Earth's magnetic field.
   Major U.S. makers, on the other hand, had been making only
the high-field MRI machines, with field strength at between
one and 1.5 tesla, exceeding power requirements for many
diagnostic procedures.
   "About 20% of the MRI applications are for orthopedic --
for knees, wrists and ankles. We feel the mid-field machine
does the job adequately," says Philips's Mr. Moakley, who
expects that segment to "double in two years." The smaller
machines are easier to install and take up less space, making
them attractive to the smaller hospitals. But with all the
big manufacturers entering the same market niche at once, it
promises to be quite competitive.
   There are legislative pressures, too. Several bills
recently introduced in Congress to bring down health-care
costs specifically target MRI fees.
   Manufacturers respond that they don't set the fees, but
acknowledge that the current climate isn't propitious for
costly new technologies. GE, for instance, is "pacing" its
development of an emerging technology known as "positron
emission tomography," or PET, which produces
three-dimensional images that reflect the metabolic and
chemical activity of tissue. The technology is in clinical
trial, but the company isn't making the kind of investment it
did to rush CT and MRI to market.
   "The marketplace is affecting the pace of our
technologies," says GE Medical's Mr. Bowen. "The government
is very cautious about approving reimbursement for PET. In
the past, if a technology improved patient care, it would be
approved. Now it must also be cost-effective."
   ---
             Challenges From Europe and Japan
                                                                                                       

   Market share for CT scanners and MRI machines, based on
sales revenue
                                                                                                       

                                          1986         1990
                                                                                                       

   General Electric                        47%          44%
                                                                                                       

   Siemens                                 14%          22%
                                                                                                       

   Picker International                    15%          11%
                                                                                                       

   Toshiba                                  5%           8%
                                                                                                       

   Philips                                  4%           7%
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Others                                  10%           5%
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0160
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0160.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gonzalez Proposes
   Limiting Insurance
   For Bank Accounts
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the House Banking Committee
proposed that deposit insurance be drastically reduced to
perhaps three insured accounts per depositor and said he
would consider lowering the insurance level from the current
$100,000 per account.
   Rep. Henry Gonzalez's plan was the opening salvo of a
debate over the federal deposit insurance system for banks
and thrifts. The debate is expected to reach its zenith early
next year, when the Treasury Department is to make
recommendations of its own. The costs to taxpayers -- at
least $150 billion -- from bailing out the broke S&amp;L
insurance fund has spurred policy makers to look for changes.
Mr. Gonzalez said he was offering his plan, with many
provisions still unsettled, to get the debate under way.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, the nation's top thrift regulator warned that
the tougher S&amp;L accounting rules contained in last year's
thrift-cleanup law still may be insufficient.
   In a suggestion that will probably give the banking
industry fits, Mr. Gonzalez called for giving the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. freedom to increase as much as
necessary the premiums that banks pay for insurance coverage.
The Texas Democrat worries that the bank insurance fund is in
a weak condition after handling the record number of bank
failures in the past few years.
   Mr. Gonzalez also recommended assessing premiums on
deposits held in foreign branches of U.S. banks, an idea that
splits the banking industry between its big banks, which hold
the foreign deposits and don't want to pay the premiums, and
small banks all over the country, which don't have foreign
deposits. Though foreign deposits aren't protected by law,
the small banks argue that regulators usually cover them in
bailouts.
   And to help lessen losses to the insurance fund when a
bank or thrift is bailed out, Rep. Gonzalez proposed that
regulators take over institutions before they reach
insolvency -- when assets are less than liabilities -- and
still have a small amount of net worth. That idea is popular
with regulators but makes the banking industry nervous.
   But the suggestion that may get the most notice from the
general public was Mr. Gonzalez's proposal to limit multiple
insured accounts. He said it "might be reasonable" to give
depositors insurance on a maximum of three accounts: "a
personal account, a separate business account, and a separate
custodial account like an {individual retirement account}."
Currently, an individual can have an almost unlimited number
of insured accounts by placing deposits in different banks or
thrifts.
   Mr. Gonzalez also said he "would consider actually
reducing the $100,000 deposit coverage," noting that the
average account is about $8,700. The banking industry
generally is united in its opposition to lowering the amount,
fearing that it would prompt depositors to withdraw funds.
Mr. Gonzalez said depositors could pay extra for coverage
above the limits.
   Perhaps more significantly, Mr. Gonzalez said he was upset
that regulators had ignored the $100,000 limit in most bank
failures and covered even deposits that exceeded the limit.
Regulators have usually covered all deposits at big banks
because of the feared effects on the financial system if the
depositors were cut off at $100,000. They have covered all
deposits in most small banks and thrifts as well.
   Most experts believe this "too big to fail" policy has to
be tamed before such changes as lowering the deposit
insurance limit will have any effect. Mr. Gonzalez said the
insurance limits should be enforced, even for big
pension-fund deposits that have thousands of beneficiaries.
If the regulators adopted these suggestions, it would be a
radical change in the way bank failures have been handled in
recent decades.
   The American Bankers Association, an industry trade group,
didn't have any immediate comment on the proposal, but the
group has called for maintaining the $100,000 limit and
imposing a loss of about 10% on deposits above the limit. The
plan, the association says, would ensure that the insurance
fund didn't lose money.
   Meanwhile, Timothy Ryan, director of the Office of Thrift
Supervision, said that generally accepted accounting
principles, or GAAP, sometimes gloss over the poor health of
some S&amp;Ls.
   "It is in both our interests to move existing accounting
principles toward economic reality as quickly as possible,"
Mr. Ryan told the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants.
   Unless GAAP rules change to better reflect reality, he
said, "GAAP will become increasingly irrelevant as a
regulatory tool."
   The debate over how to apply accounting rules and whether
they should be revised is expected to continue. Just
yesterday, a federal court ruled in favor of owners of
Franklin Savings Association, Ottawa, Kan., who were
contesting a government takeover earlier this year. The
dispute centered on how the government accounted for
Franklin's losses.
   S&amp;L accounting rules were the subject of intense debate a
year ago, as Congress drafted the S&amp;L cleanup law. Throughout
the 1980s, government S&amp;L regulators allowed sick
institutions to operate under more lenient "regulatory
accounting principles," which permitted thrifts to delay
accounting for losses. Meanwhile, liabilities, backed by the
taxpayer, grew to hundreds of billions of dollars.
   Also yesterday, two of Neil Bush's business associates,
who defaulted on $130 million in loans from Silverado
Banking, Savings &amp; Loan Association, refused to appear before
a congressional panel this week. Rep. Frank Annunzio (D.,
Ill.), chairman of a House subcommittee, said he would seek
subpoenas to compel Denver businessmen Bill Walters and
Kenneth Good to testify about defaulting on the loans while
owning several homes and contributing to the Republican
National Committee.
   Neil Bush, the son of the president, was a board member of
Denver-based Silverado for three years.
   ---
   Paulette Thomas contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0159
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0159.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Funds Hit
   With Withdrawals
   Of Over $2 Billion
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<IN>
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
</IN>
<LP>
   Investors pulled more than $2 billion out of money-market
mutual funds in the latest week as taxable yields continued
to slide.
   Assets of the 433 taxable funds tracked by IBC/Donoghue's
Money Fund Report dropped $2.1 billion, to $398.8 billion,
the Holliston, Mass., newsletter reported. The average
seven-day compound yield, which assumes reinvestment of
dividends, slipped to 7.75% from 7.76% in the week ended
Tuesday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Some of the cash coming out of money funds may have gone
into two-year Treasury notes purchased at last week's
auction, said Martha Wittbrodt, editor of Donoghue's. Also,
she said, some investors "may be getting their feet wet in
the stock and bond markets again."
   Money-fund portfolio managers lengthened the average
maturity of taxable funds' investments to 46 days, the
longest since August 1987, indicating that they expect
short-term interest rates to decline and want to hold onto
current yields for a longer period. The funds invest in such
things as commercial paper (short-term corporate IOUs),
short-term bank certificates of deposit and Treasury bills.
Average maturity had been 45 days for four consecutive weeks.
   The average seven-day simple yield of the taxable funds
fell to 7.47% from 7.48%. The average 30-day simple yield
slipped to 7.49% from 7.50% and the average 30-day compound
yield eased to 7.77% from 7.78%.
   Assets of 230 tax-free funds fell $811.5 million, to $79.9
billion, Donoghue's reported, while the average seven-day
compound yield rose to 5.43% from 5.34%. The latest yield is
equal to a taxable yield of 7.54% for an investor in the 28%
tax bracket and 8.10% for someone paying 33% in taxes.
   The average maturity of the tax-exempt funds lengthened by
two days, to 59 days, indicating that those portfolio
managers, too, expect rates to decline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0158
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0158.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Zapata Sets Offshore Rig Sale
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   ZOS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
OIL EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES (OIE)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Zapata Corp. said it agreed to sell its
offshore drilling rig fleet and related assets to Arethusa
(Offshore) Ltd., a newly formed Bermuda company, for $298
million.
   Zapata previously had said it would sell the 12-rig fleet
as part of a restructuring plan.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Zapata will hold an 8.75% stake in the new company and
will continue to manage the rigs under a management contract.
The sale is expected to close by Oct. 31.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0157
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0157.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing Brief:
   Noted....
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS TMC
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   WHO'S NEWS: Douglas B. Fox was named president of Times
Mirror Co.'s Newsday and New York Newsday newspapers. He was
senior vice president for marketing for both daily papers. He
succeeds Robert M. Johnson, who remains as publisher and
chief executive officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0156
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0156.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Law -- Legal Beat:
   FDA May Face a Raft of Claims
   Over '89 Chilean Fruit Embargo
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM KO CTR HNZ Z.NES IRE
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
CONTAINERS &amp; PACKAGING, BAGS, CANS, BOXES (CTR)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
CONGRESS (CNG)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Food and Drug Administration faces a possible
avalanche of damage claims from Chilean fruit growers and
exporters who argue that the agency erred last year in
finding cyanide in two grapes and then embargoing all fruit
shipments from Chile.
   The anticipated claims will rely heavily on a new report
commissioned by the Chilean Exporters Association, which
concludes that the grapes couldn't have been injected with
cyanide in Chile but were contaminated in the FDA's
Philadelphia laboratory after being picked out of an enormous
shipload of grapes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Yesterday, an agency spokesman dismissed that finding as
"preposterous" and reiterated the agency's position that the
contamination "occurred either in Chile or the hold of the
ship."
   The embargo, imposed March 13, 1989, at the peak of the
fruit-shipping season, cost the Chilean government and
private sector an estimated $333 million, according to the
report. At the same time, losses for U.S. importers and other
businessmen totaled $40 million to $60 million.
   As many as 300 Chilean exporters representing 5,000
growers and 50 U.S. importers are expected to file notices of
claims against the FDA before the statute of limitations runs
out next March. If the government rejects the claim or fails
to respond within six months, the claimants can sue the FDA
under the federal torts claim law.
   "If each entity files, you'll have a mountain of paper,"
said David Holzworth, a Washington attorney for some major
U.S. importers.
   To simplify things, Foster Wollen, a partner in the
Washington office of Shearman &amp; Sterling, said he is looking
into the possibility of a class action. His firm's Chilean
clients include Compania Sud Americana de Vapores S.A., a
major steamship line, and a federation of fruit-grower
groups.
   To many Chileans, the unprecedented U.S. action was an
affront to their national pride. From the outset, the
populace has been highly skeptical of the U.S. version of the
so-called Great Grape Scare. Last week, the president of
Chile appointed a special panel of five lawyers to
investigate the matter as a prelude to a concerted effort to
collect damages.
   The Chilean government would prefer to negotiate a
settlement with the U.S. One possible approach would be to
invoke the bilateral Bryan Treaty of 1914, which provides for
the formation of an international commission to settle
disputes between Washington and Santiago.
   "The mere filing of a notice isn't necessarily an
aggressive, warlike action," said Mr. Wollen. Instead, he
said it puts claimants in a position to take legal action if
diplomatic initiatives fail.
   Any allegations of negligence against the FDA will likely
rest on the new report, which summarized months of research
at the University of California at Davis, underwritten by the
Chilean exporters. One of the key findings is that other
grapes in the crate containing the two contaminated grapes
should have been tainted, too, if somebody in Chile had
indeed injected them with highly volatile cyanide. But the
FDA reported finding no other contaminated grapes.
   Another finding is that none of the grapes injected with
cyanide in the California experiments developed the white
rings that led to the detection of the two suspect grapes.
What's more, additional experiments show that cyanide
dissipates very quickly due to its extreme volatility. For
the two grapes to contain as much cyanide as the FDA reported
finding, they would have had to contain more cyanide than
they could possibly hold at the time of their discovery on
the dock, about nine hours before the FDA lab tests were
finished.
   "The clinical evidence rejects virtually any possibility
of contamination of the grapes in Chile or on the ship or at
the port of Philadelphia," the report said. "On the contrary,
the laboratory results only support the hypothesis that the
grapes were accidentally or intentionally contaminated inside
the FDA laboratory in Philadelphia."
   But a study to be released soon by the General Accounting
Office is expected to conclude that the FDA handled the
affair properly for the most part and that its lab procedures
were adequate. In the past, FDA officials in Philadelphia
have rejected the notion that the grapes could have become
contaminated while in FDA hands.
   ---
   SOFT-DRINK BOTTLERS' cooperatives upheld by federal
appeals court.
   The Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a lower
court's ruling that a cooperative formed by Coca-Cola
bottlers to make their own plastic bottles doesn't violate
federal antitrust law.
   Sewell Plastics Inc., an Atlanta bottlemaker, had filed
suit in Charlotte, N.C., in 1986 against Coca-Cola Co., 34
Coke bottlers and Southeastern Container Inc., a bottlemaking
cooperative, alleging the cooperative engaged in unfair trade
practices.
   The appeals court ruling, which upheld the lower court's
dismissal of the suit, also allowed a counterclaim against
Sewell to proceed. In the countersuit, Sewell, a unit of
Constar International Inc., Chattanooga, Tenn., is accused of
filing its suit for the improper purpose of trying to force
the bottlers to stop buying from the cooperative and return
to purchasing from Sewell. An attorney for Sewell couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Jonathan Jacobson, an attorney for the defendants, said
the appellate ruling is significant in upholding the rights
of bottlers to form cooperatives.
   Noting that soft-drink bottlers form cooperatives for
various purposes such as buying sugar and making cans, Mr.
Jacobson said an adverse decision would have meant "all the
bottling cooperatives would have been in trouble."
   ---
   LEAN CUISINE ADS were lean on facts about Weight Watchers,
judge rules.
   Weight Watchers International Inc., a unit of H.J. Heinz
Co., had filed a lawsuit accusing Stouffer Corp., which makes
Lean Cuisine frozen foods, of running misleading ads. The
ads, which ran in Parade magazine in 1987 and 1988, promoted
Lean Cuisine dishes as substitutes for Weight Watchers' own
line of diet foods.
   In federal court in Manhattan, Judge Michael Mukasey
ordered Stouffer, a Nestle S.A. subsidiary, not to run the
ads again. The judge ruled that the ads could confuse
consumers into believing that Lean Cuisine is either endorsed
by or related to Weight Watchers. He also ruled that a 1989
ad gave false information comparing Lean Cuisine to Weight
Watchers products.
   Although Judge Mukasey barred Stouffer from resurrecting
the ads, he stopped far short of the action sought by Weight
Watchers. The judge ruled against awarding any damages, and
he said Stouffer couldn't be prohibited from accurately
mentioning Weight Watchers in Lean Cuisine ads.
   A spokesman for Stouffers said the company considers the
decision a victory because it allows Stouffers to promote
Lean Cuisine as an alternative to Weight Watchers' own brand
of low-calorie food. He said the ads, which will begin soon,
will comply with Judge Mukasey's order.
   Weight Watchers had claimed that any use of its name in
the ads would be a trademark infringement.
   ---
   CONNECTICUT MUST NEGOTIATE with an Indian tribe seeking to
open a casino, the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
ruled. The court ruled that Connecticut illegally refused to
discuss the request of the Mashantucket Pequot tribe. The
tribe wants to offer "Las Vegas nights" casino gambling on
its reservation in Ledyard, Conn. Under federal law, the
tribe must reach an agreement with the state before adding
such activities. Connecticut refused to discuss the proposal,
claiming that state law prohibits such games of chance. The
federal appeals-court panel, however, ordered the state to
negotiate in good faith on the request.
   ---
   INTEGRATED RESOURCES INC. received a 60-day extension on
its "exclusivity period," the time in which only it can
officially propose a reorganization plan under Chapter 11 of
the federal Bankruptcy Code. The exclusivity period was to
have expired Sept. 11. Integrated, a former real estate
syndicator that has been operating under bankruptcy-law
protection since February, had sought a 120-day extension
from U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Howard C. Buschman III, in
New York.
   ---
   Martha Brannigan and Wade Lambert contributed to this
article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0155
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0155.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Dynamics Launch Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GD GE
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAN DIEGO -- General Dynamics Commercial Launch Services
Inc., a unit of St Louis-based General Dynamics Corp. said it
signed a contract with a unit of General Electric Co. to
launch a Japanese communications satellite.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but General Dynamics usually
charges between $50 million and $60 million for its Atlas I
launch service. The satellite will be built by GE's
Astro-Space division in East Windsor, N.J., and launched in
April from Cape Canaveral, Fla.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0154
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0154.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canadian Bond Auction Yield
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- The Canadian government reported an average
yield of 10.725% at an auction of 850 million Canadian
dollars (US$732.5 million) of 10.5% bonds maturing March 1,
2001. Proceeds of the sales will be used for general
government purposes.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0153
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0153.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   PNC Financial Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PNC WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
</IN>
<LP>
   PNC FINANCIAL Corp. (Pittsburgh) -- Robert L. Haunschild,
a partner at Ernst &amp; Whitney, was named senior vice
president-corporate finance. It is a new post for the bank
holding company and takes effect Sept. 4.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0152
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0152.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wolohan Lumber's Sales Rise
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WLHN
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   SAGINAW, Mich. -- Wolohan Lumber Co., a lumber and
building materials retailer, said its September sales rose
10% to $30 million from $27.2 million a year earlier. Sales
at stores open at least one year decreased 3%.
   Sales for the first eight months of this year rose 11% to
$201 million from $181.9 million a year earlier.
Comparable-store sales increased 4.5%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0151
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0151.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   National Intergroup Extension
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   NII PPA+
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   PITTSBURGH -- National Intergroup Inc., a drug wholesaler,
said it again extended, to next Tuesday from last Tuesday,
its tender offer of $3.85 for each cumulative convertible
preference unit outstanding representing limited partnership
interests in Permian Partners L.P.
   National Intergroup said 8,019,639 preference units had
been tendered as of last Tuesday. The company has said the
tender offer requires 7,875,001 units as a majority of the
publicly held units.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0150
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0150.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Campbell Soup
   Had $238.4 Million
   4th-Period Loss
   ----
   By Frank Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C20
</SO>
<CO>
   CPB
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMDEN, N.J. -- Campbell Soup Co. reported a fiscal
fourth-quarter loss of $238.4 million, or $1.84 a share,
reflecting hefty charges for its expanded program of
divestitures and restructuring.
   In May, the maker of canned soups and other foods put up
for sale some of its least profitable foreign operations,
conceding that those businesses couldn't deliver adequate
returns. At the time, the company said it expected to record
a one-time charge of about $55 million, or 43 cents a share,
against earnings for its fourth quarter, which ended July 29.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In early July, Campbell expanded the restructuring effort,
putting several North American businesses on the block and
targeting three plants for closing. The additional moves
resulted in a charge of $247 million, or about $1.90 a share.
   Yesterday, Campbell said the aggregate after-tax charges
were $301.6 million, or $2.33 a share, matching the amounts
outlined in the earlier announcements.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
Campbell shares closed at $49.25, down 50 cents.
   In the year-earlier fourth quarter, Campbell had a net
loss of $194.7 million, or $1.51 a share, including one-time
restructuring charges of $261 million, or $2.02 a share.
Fourth-quarter sales increased 11% to $1.44 billion from $1.3
billion.
   David W. Johnson, who arrived in January from Gerber
Products Co. to become president and chief executive officer,
praised Campbell's domestic divisions for strong performance.
He said there were "solid volume increases" in frozen
seafood, ready-to-serve soups, frozen breakfast products and
spaghetti sauces.
   But he said overseas operations "continued to be
disappointing." His remarks omitted the fact that Campbell's
international operating earnings in the third quarter
actually rose 45% to $16.7 million. Moreover, even excluding
the one-time charges, the company's fourth-quarter earnings
were down about 4%.
   John M. McMillin, a food-industry analyst at
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., said he suspects Mr.
Johnson is "finding the turnaround more difficult at Campbell
than it was at Gerber." Mr. McMillin said Mr. Johnson has
"sorted out the mess" at Campbell but hasn't "gotten rid of
the mess yet," alluding in particular to overseas businesses
that haven't been sold or revitalized.
   For the year, Campbell said net income was $4.4 million,
or three cents a share. In fiscal 1989, Campbell earned $13.1
million, or 10 cents a share, after restructuring charges.
Excluding the one-time charges for both years, Campbell said,
per-share profit rose 11% in the latest full year. Sales
gained 9.4% to $6.2 billion from $5.67 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0149
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0149.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   Computers in Disguise Try to Achieve
   Wide Acceptance That Still Eludes PCs
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   J.SUT GACC J.NTD GRL CCI T
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lawrence Weiss, one of Citicorp's top technology
executives, works at a desk surrounded by 14 boxes of
"Underoos," kids' underwear cleverly packaged to look like
superhero costumes. Mr. Weiss created Underoos in an earlier
job and keeps them nearby as a reminder of the marketing
principle behind them: The best new products are variations
on comfortable old products.
   Today he is applying that lesson to a lumpy beige gadget
that resembles an ordinary telephone. Citicorp is gambling it
will catch on as a bank-at-home device better than an earlier
system that let customers dial up their accounts via personal
computer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "The trick is to mask the new technology," Mr. Weiss says.
"It's an Underoo."
   This same philosophy is behind a cornucopia of products
sneaking computing power into the home in the guise of more
familiar devices. Other projects in the works use embedded
computer technology to let people trade stocks on a Nintendo
Co. game machine, receive written messages on an American
Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. telephone, search databases of
articles and listings on a television set and program
household appliances with a television's remote control.
   Products such as these are crashing onto the turf of the
personal-computer industry, which has long promised to make
the PC as ubiquitous as a telephone or a TV. Right now, the
PC industry is wooing the home market more aggressively than
ever, led by lavish new products from International Business
Machines Corp. and Tandy Corp. These and other companies
paint pictures of every household using a computer to send
messages, read news, play games, bank and shop. PC makers
scoff at the idea that simpler household gadgets could ever
do these jobs.
   But so far home computers have shaped up as a narrow
market. Only about a quarter of all American households have
PCs. Most use their computers for limited, utilitarian tasks,
such as writing or doing leftover office work.
   Now, instead of home computers becoming household items,
household items are turning into home computers.
   "People said there were going to be two or three computers
in every home like there are two or three telephones," says
A.C. Markkula, an Apple Computer Inc. founder and present
vice chairman. "They're right, but the physical
implementation isn't what they had in mind. Instead of having
three things that look like PCs, people will have many pieces
of equipment that are in essence PC technology but are buried
in refrigerator doors, and lighting systems, and VCRs and TVs
and CD players and telephones."
   Mr. Markkula has founded a new Silicon Valley company
called Echelon Corp., which is working on ways to link all
the hidden microchips in a home or commercial building into
one communications and control network. Echelon won't say
more about its products until it unveils them later this
year.
   Right now the most promising buried PCs are showing up
inside telephones. In a Citicorp pilot program, about 400
customers already are using the home-banking phone, which has
a little screen, a hidden keyboard and microchips that let it
handle all manner of banking tasks. The bank says it wants to
ship hundreds of thousands more of the phones over the next
few years, though it won't dislose a specific timetable.
   The unit lets a user transfer funds, buy certificates of
deposit and send anyone a check. Eventually, the bank plans
to let customers check stock quotes and trade securities.
   AT&amp;T is working on a rival product dubbed SmartPhone,
which it is promoting as the standard telephone of the
future. SmartPhone, slated for a 1992 introduction, has a
small screen and built-in software for adding customized
programs. For instance, AT&amp;T says, a customer could set the
phone so that pressing one button would place an order for
his usual pizza, or his usual seats at a baseball game.
   Personal computers are "wrong for things that occur to us
suddenly and (that) we expect to be able to deal with quickly
and move on," says Michael Grisham, the AT&amp;T strategic
planning executive who conceived the SmartPhone. But if you
took the SmartPhone apart, he says, "you'd find that what's
inside is pretty much the same as what's in a PC."
   Televisions also are starting to converge with computers.
Viewers operate some new digital TVs by clicking a cursor
over windows and menus, just as with a PC and a mouse. Next
week, InSight Telecast Inc., a Palo Alto, Calif., start-up
partly owned by Japan's giant Sumitomo Corp., will introduce
a system that will let viewers call up a week's TV listings
on their screens and push some remote-control buttons to tell
a videocassette recorder which shows to record. The system
will be able to follow the instructions even if a show starts
late or runs long.
   Other companies are turning TV screens into terminals for
information databases. Owners of Zenith Electronics Corp.
digital sets can call up news stories and read them on their
screens. Great American Communications Corp., a Cincinnati
media company, distributes the stories through special
signals that chips inside the TV can read.
   In Montreal, 30,000 cable customers have a broader service
that lets them call up news, recipes, movie schedules,
weather and many other services by punching numbers on a TV
remote control.
   Le Groupe Videotron, the cable company that provides the
service, outfitted its channel boxes with computer chips that
handle the information.
   The largest maker of cable boxes, General Instrument
Corp.'s Jerrold division, has even bigger plans to expand a
TV system's reach. Earlier this year, it demonstrated a cable
remote-control unit that flips over to become a telephone.
It's also working on features that will let the same unit
control any other electrical appliances in the home. Jerrold
expects to begin selling the units next year.
   Another ambitious plunge into the PC's terrain is under
way at Nintendo, the video-game maker. Next year it plans to
introduce a service that will send information and games over
phone lines to televisions with Nintendo sets. The first
features will include a stock-trading service from Fidelity
Investments, the Boston mutual-fund giant. Later, Nintendo
envisions offering electronic mail, shopping and consumer
information, such as comparative prices for car insurance.
   Nintendo runs the considerable risk that people won't feel
comfortable doing their personal finances with the same toy
they use for Cybernoid and Super Mario Brothers. On the other
hand, unlike the PC industry, it has a fast-growing customer
base addicted to its products. By year's end, Nintendo says,
more than 30% of American families will own its machine.
   To consumers who already have to find the neighbor's kid
to help them program their VCR, the prospect of phones and
TVs sprouting strange new functions and commands could be
distressing. Indeed, the danger in all these projects is that
they'll make a home's simplest machines as forbidding as a
personal computer.
   "Taken to its logical extreme you could generate a
backlash from the public," admits Bruce Huber, marketing vice
president of Zenith's consumer-products group.
   For their part, PC makers say the disguised computers are
just feeble imitations of the real thing. "Once you get this
data in on your phone, what do you do with it? Do you write
it down?" asks Robert Amezcua, the product manager for IBM's
two-month-old PS/1 home computer. "If I'm really going to do
stock analysis, I want to be able to run my analysis program
or my financial spreadsheet."
   Tandy Vice President Howard Elias says the PC industry is
just starting to bring out easy-to-use products that will
finally let it break open the home market. Tandy's month-old
1000 RL comes with simple programs for organizing recipes,
creating shopping lists, planning meals and posting messages
for family members.
   Some people say the ultimate home-information appliance
will come out of the blue, rather than evolving from
something familiar. "The big developments of the 20th century
were not extrapolated," says Alan Kay, a pioneer in the
personal computer's development and currently a senior
research fellow at Apple. "Companies rarely come up with
replacement technology for their old technology."
   He rattles off a string of examples: Railroads didn't
invent the airplane, Western Union didn't invent the
telephone, A.B. Dick didn't invent the photocopier, Smith
Corona didn't invent the word processor.
   "A lot of the uninteresting stuff flows smoothly from the
past," Mr. Kay says. "But all the interesting stuff is like
thunderstorms."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0148
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0148.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Justin Industries Inc.
   Challenged by Holders
   Over Change in Bylaws
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JSTN
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- A group of dissident shareholders of
Justin Industries Inc. charged that the company's board
violated federal securities laws by taking too long to
disclose that it had amended Justin's bylaws to make it more
difficult to remove directors.
   The dissident group, which is headed by Perry H.
Sutherland of Kansas City, Mo., and Barry S. Rosenstein of
New York, filed a motion in federal court here seeking
permission to file new allegations in its legal battle with
Justin, a maker of boots, building materials and industrial
equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The group's charges center on Justin's disclosure that its
board voted to raise the number of shareholders' votes needed
to remove directors to 75% of total shares outstanding from
50%. Although the amendment passed in November 1989, the
company failed to make the change public until last month,
the dissidents charged.
   The group, which owns 12% of Justin's common, earlier
offered to pay $18.50 a share, or $140.5 million, for the
shares it didn't own. Justin rebuffed the offer and announced
a plan to acquire Tony Lama Co., an El Paso, Texas, boot
maker.
   According to the proposed charges, the changes would make
it impossible for shareholders to oust directors because
management controls at least 25% of the shares. "Shareholder
democracy is a dead letter at Justin," the filing states.
   The group is seeking to file the allegations as part of
its response to a lawsuit filed against it by Justin charging
it with failing to disclose adequately its intentions to
acquire the company.
   The group is seeking, among other things, for the court to
declare that the proxies obtained by Justin in the March
annual meeting were "ineffective" and that the election of
directors was void; to enjoin the directors from proceeding
with its planned acquisition of Tony Lama; and to order the
company and its directors to pay actual and punitive damages.
   A Justin official didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0147
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0147.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   One Bancorp
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TONE WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<LP>
   ONE BANCORP (Portland, Maine) -- Domenic Restuccia, 40
years old, was named senior vice president and chief
financial officer of this holding company, effective
immediately. He succeeds Francis E. McFarland, 42, who will
leave the company at the end of the month. The company said
Mr. McFarland "has not announced his future plans at this
time," and declined to comment further. Mr. McFarland
couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Mr. Restuccia
was most recently vice president and controller for the
concern and senior vice president and chief financial officer
of Maine Savings Bank, a unit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0146
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0146.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alaska Air's August Traffic Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   ALK
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   SEATTLE -- Alaska Air Group Inc. said its Alaska Airlines
unit's August traffic rose 10% to 515.1 million revenue
passenger miles from 468 million miles a year earlier. A
revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
   The airline's August load factor, or the percentage of
available seats occupied, decreased to 63.6% from 66.3%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   For this year through August, Alaska Airlines' traffic
increased 13% to 3.05 billion revenue passenger miles from
2.69 billion miles a year earlier. The load factor fell to
54% from 55.7%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0145
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0145.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Taiwan's Consumer Price Index
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   TAIPEI, Taiwan -- Taiwan's consumer price index in August
climbed 5.63% from a year earlier, marking the biggest
year-to-year growth since last October, when the index soared
5.94%, the government said.
   The August index, in which 1986 prices equal 100, stood at
112.4, compared with 106.41 a year earlier, and was up 1.65%
from 110.58 in July. The latter was the biggest monthly gain
since September 1989, the agency said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0144
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0144.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Children's Handrail
   Hasn't Found a Home
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   GOOD DESIGN can get you to first base, but
product-liability worries can make it hard to score. Ask John
Gatzemeyer.
   While a student of industrial design at Syracuse
University, Mr. Gatzemeyer, now living in Schenectady, N.Y.,
developed a safety rail to help young children go up and down
stairs. Made of 42-inch plastic poles, the rail clamps or
screws to any existing adult stair rail, bannister or wall.
Height can be adjusted as a child grows.
   Mr. Gatzemeyer's design won a first prize last year from
the Juvenile Products Manufacturers Association, which
sponsors student work at Syracuse, and a gold award from the
Industrial Designers Society of America this year. But it's
winning nervous looks from industry.
   Fisher-Price declined to produce the Gatzemeyer child rail
because, says product designer Ken Morton, the toy company
saw only a "small market opportunity." A second reason was
fear of getting sued if some child got hurt. "We're a little
bit afraid to do anything with a product that has anything to
do with stairs," says Mr. Morton.
   "Product liability is definitely getting worse," says Jim
Stephenson, president of Degree Baby Products, West Hills,
Calif., which is currently considering the Gatzemeyer child
rail. Small companies, unable to obtain liability insurance,
are forced either to "forget the idea or sell it to someone
who's big enough to afford the insurance," Mr. Stephenson
adds.
   Worries about lawsuits are stifling new products, agrees
William MacMillan, chief operating officer of the Juvenile
Products Manufacturers Association. "The threat of massive
product-liability claims is causing a reduction in
innovation," Mr. MacMillan says. "It means fewer products on
the market."
                                                                                                       

   Design Instruction
   May Have a New Look
                                                                                                       

   IN CAMBRIDGE, Mass., a new school is forming that promises
to take a more businesslike approach to teaching graphic
design.
   Students at the New School of Design will gain an
appreciation of both the value that good design adds to
business and the costs of design work, "things not frequently
taught in schools," says president James Davies. The school's
trustees, council of advisers and teachers will be chosen
mostly from the ranks of professional designers. Students
will serve internships in leading design offices.
   The New School hopes to start with 20 graduate students in
the fall of 1992. Meanwhile, it's looking for $2 million in
funding.
                                                                                                       

   Tents and Canopies
   Get Down to Business
                                                                                                       

   THE CIRCUS is coming to town -- and to the office.
   FTL Associates, New York, designs outdoor tents -- most
recently a portable performance pavilion to be shared by the
City of New York, the Metropolitan Opera and the
Philharmonic. But FTL also likes to put tents inside offices.
   There the main purpose of these tensile forms is to act
like a photographer's umbrella, reflecting and diffusing
light and reducing glare on computer screens. What's more, a
canopy over a conference area can serve as a landmark that
helps guide visitors through a maze of desks. And, says FTL
principal Nicholas Goldsmith, office tents "soar and sail and
lift the spirit." He cautions: "The person who wants a
mahogany desk with brass trim won't want to have a tent."
   The Bradford Exchange, which sells limited-edition plates
and other collectibles, asked FTL to hang 15 tents at
different levels over a 30,000-square-foot area in its
offices in Niles, Ill. Chief Executive Richard Tinberg says
the tents help remind Bradford employees of the company's
"commitment to creativity."
   On the negative side, says Mr. Tinberg, the
silicone-coated fiberglass forms haven't been cleaned since
they were installed five years ago. Lowering them would
require "a very, very major effort," he says. The project's
architect, Thomas Hickey, says the tents, which cover 200
desks, probably added 10% to the cost of the building.
   On a smaller scale, working with lighting designer Peter
Barna of New York, FTL has also designed a prototype office
lighting system that uses winglike structures attached to the
tops of partitions to beam light up, overhead canopies to
reflect light down, and backlit desk panels to minimize
computer glare. Designer Goldsmith says the panels are much
less expensive than individual "task" lights at each desk,
and the system as a whole is cost competitive.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0143
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0143.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Coastal Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CGP WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
PIPELINE OPERATORS (PIP)
</IN>
<LP>
   COASTAL Corp. (Houston) -- Jon R. Whitney was named
president and chief executive officer of the Colorado
Interstate Gas Co. unit of this energy holding company. The
46-year-old Mr. Whitney succeeds James F. Cordes in the two
posts. Mr. Cordes continues as executive vice president of
Coastal.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0142
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0142.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Johnson &amp; Higgins
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHNSON &amp; HIGGINS (New York) -- John Howe and Stephen
Ambidge have been named co-heads of a newly formed
professional and financial risk division of Johnson &amp; Higgins
Ltd., the London arm of this insurance brokerage firm.
Messrs. Howe and Ambidge were both affiliated with HJL
Insurance Brokers, a division of Alexander Howden, a
London-based insurance brokerage firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0141
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0141.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Standard Register Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SREG
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   DAYTON, Ohio -- Standard Register Co. said it will buy
back as much as $10 million of common stock. The stock may be
purchased from time to time as market conditions dictate.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0140
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0140.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   GE Unit Gets Contract in Korea
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GE C.KEP
</CO>
<IN>
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   SCHENECTADY, N.Y. -- GE Power Generation, a unit of
General Electric Co. of Fairfield, Conn., said it and
Seoul-based Korea Heavy Industries &amp; Construction Co. agreed
to supply two coal-fired, 550-megawatt steam turbine
generators to Korea Electric Power Corp. of Changwon, in a
contract valued at more than $30 million to the GE unit.
   Last week, GE Power agreed to provide gas and steam
turbine generators to Korea Electric in an order valued at
more than $200 million to GE, which also has aerospace,
broadcasting and financial-services businesses.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0139
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0139.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Casey's General Stores Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CASY
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   ANKENY, Iowa -- Casey's General Stores Inc., a convenience
store chain, said its board approved the purchase of as many
as one million, or 8.8%, of its approximately 11.4 million
common shares outstanding, in open-market or privately
negotiated transactions from time to time, depending on
market conditions.
   Casey's said it will finance the buy-backs with cash from
its working capital.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0138
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0138.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Gottschalks' August Sales Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   GOT
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
</IN>
<LP>
   FRESNO, Calif. -- Gottschalks Inc., a regional department
store chain, said sales for the four weeks ended Aug. 26
totaled $20.2 million, up 26% from a year earlier. Sales at
stores open at least one year increased 11%.
   For the 30 weeks through Aug. 26, sales rose 25% to $134.3
million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0137
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0137.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Walgreen's August Sales Rose
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WAG
</CO>
<IN>
DRUG-BASED RETAILERS AND WHOLESALERS, PHARMACIES (RTD)
</IN>
<LP>
   DEERFIELD, Ill. -- Walgreen Co., a drugstore operator,
said its August sales rose 11% to $506.8 million from $456.8
million a year earlier. Sales in stores open at least a year
rose 7.6%.
   For this year through August, sales rose 12% to $3.98
billion from $3.54 billion a year earlier. As of Aug. 31,
Walgreen operated 1,564 drugstores, up from 1,484 a year
earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0136
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0136.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Retooling Soviet Defense Sector Proves Difficult
   ----
   By Gregory L. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
FACTORY EQUIPMENT (FAC)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   MOSCOW -- At the hush-hush Kompozit military installation
on the edge of the Soviet capital, Arkady Ratnovsky shows off
a high-tech laser device he designed to cut parts for rocket
motors. But the Soviet missile business isn't the growth
industry it once was. So today, Mr. Ratnovsky's computerized
laser carves ornate wooden mouldings for windows instead.
   The engineer doesn't sound too happy about the change, but
orders are orders. "We don't have a choice," he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Ratnovsky is part of the much-heralded Soviet
"conversion" program. As the Cold War winds down, the Kremlin
is hoping to transform its enormous military sector, which
accounts for a fourth of the nation's output of goods and
services, into a powerful machine that produces badly needed
consumer goods. Following Mikhail Gorbachev's December 1988
pledge at the United Nations to slash military spending,
factories that once made rockets and tanks are now supposed
to churn out everything from saucepans to baby carriages.
   But the conversion program isn't turning out to be the
economic panacea that the Kremlin had hoped. Critics contend
that, despite all the optimistic talk, conversion remains
largely windowdressing.
   The government initially thought it would be a handy way
to save money and cut the budget deficit. Instead, officials
are discovering they will have to spend huge sums to switch
military factories to civilian production. A government
program under consideration calls for outlays of 40 billion
rubles (about $64 billion) over the next five years to help
cover the costs.
   Conversion has had some impact. Military plants boosted
their production of consumer goods by 22% in the first half
of this year. And the Soviet aircraft firm Sukhoi is close to
agreement with the U.S.'s Gulfstream Aerospace to develop a
supersonic executive jet. But the program still has far to go
to alleviate the chronic shortages of goods in Soviet stores.
   Critics contend that it is a waste of talent to use highly
skilled defense engineers to mass-produce blenders and
saucepans. The workers, meanwhile, can't get used to keeping
an eye on costs, something they could long ignore. And
because conversion has cut profits, the government has
promised to keep defense workers' salaries from falling. That
will cost it 350 million rubles ($560 million) this year
alone.
   Conversion is also hampered by technical difficulties.
Last year, only 23% of the consumer items made by military
industry were up to world standards, Soviet officials say,
dashing the government's hopes of producing top-quality
goods. Mr. Ratnovsky, for example, first tried to use his
laser contraption to make wooden tennis rackets, but the glue
in the plywood caught fire. Cutting window frames fills the
room with smoke, but he appears to have solved the flame
problem.
   Vladimir Pylnikov, a manager responsible for coordinating
Kompozit's workshops, chides the government for its naive
hope that conversion would be quick and cheap. "It seemed to
them that they handed over the equipment and on that very
equipment we should make new products," he says.
   In fact, the Soviet defense industry has long produced
consumer goods. According to data Soviet officials presented
to a recent U.N.-sponsored conference in Moscow on
conversion, 40% of defense plants also make items for the
civilian economy. Thus defense industries make all Soviet
televisions, video recorders and sewing machines, as well as
most of its vacuum cleaners.
   Officials say they want the estimated 1,000 defense plants
to increase civilian production by 50% in the next five
years. But the question of how the program should be
implemented is contentious. State planning officials want to
issue detailed orders to defense factories about what they
should produce. But as the Kremlin seeks to shift away from
strict central planning to a more market-oriented economy,
some consider such an approach outdated. Vsevolod Avduevsky,
an engineer who runs a conversion committee set up by the
Academy of Sciences, wants planners to get out of the
workshops.
   "You can't have market reform with 25% of civilian
production by state orders," Mr. Avduevsky says.
   As part of the U.N. conference, foreigners were allowed a
rare look inside a defense plant, Kompozit, a 15-minute drive
north of the Soviet capital. In addition to window frames,
Kompozit turns out tubs for gardeners, made with a carbon
composite material once used for the Soviet space shuttle.
But production is hardly high-tech. On the day the foreign
delegation came through, the full shift was four workers
stretching the carbon material over metal frames. Between the
four of them, they manage to make one bin an hour.
   "We're used to just producing samples," shrugs plant
director Stanislav Polovnikov.
   More critical views were hard to come by. Whenever
visitors struck up conversations with workers, managers
quickly stepped in to make sure they got the official story.
But the Soviet press has been more open.
   The weekly New Times reported that the ministry of
aircraft industry, which makes advanced fighters, last year
produced only 21% of the civilian products it was supposed
to. One factory director was quoted as saying that making
electric tea kettles was "too complicated."
   At Kompozit, which is primarily a research and development
plant, there are different problems. Engineers here are
supposed to design products using the advanced materials they
originally developed for the Soviet space program, and to
pass the designs on to civilian factories. But Mr. Polovnikov
says civilian factories are far behind their counterparts in
the West and can't cope. "It turns out that they don't have
the competence or the ability to accept our achievements," he
complains. The government says military researchers came up
with 120 innovations for civilian production in 1989, but
only 23 were actually introduced.
   One result is that researchers are growing restless; some
are moving to better-paying jobs in private-sector
cooperatives. To stanch the flow, Kompozit built a health
club and a clinic for employees. It is also developing knives
and sausage racks for the meat processing industry -- for
which it hopes to be paid in hot dogs and salami, easing a
shortage of meat that affects even defense-industry workers.
   "We can only compete on quality of life," Mr. Pylnikov
says.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0135
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0135.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A Lady Lawyer
   In Laramie Writes
   A Landmark Letter
   ---
   Becky Klemt's Put-Down
   Of High-Priced Colleague
   Brings Her Global Fame
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   LARAMIE, Wyo. -- The pilgrims have begun to arrive.
   Just now passing the WYO Motel and the Suntan Salon are
two New York attorneys, who crossed the prairie in a silver
Lincoln Town Car to meet their heroine, Becky Klemt. They
think she is the funniest lawyer in America.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Awaiting the arrival of her fans, Ms. Klemt has a touch of
the jitters. "It's all a little weird, them coming out here
just to meet me," she says, pacing the office floor at her
four-partner law firm, Pence &amp; MacMillan. "It's become like a
cult. Look, I just wrote one funny letter."
   Yet few landmark Supreme Court decisions seem likely to
evoke the kind of comment that Ms. Klemt's two pages of prose
have. Lawyers have called it "hilarious," "brutal," and "the
best writing on legal stationery."
   Written two years ago in response to a hyped letter from a
high-priced attorney in California, Ms. Klemt's letter,
admirers say, skewers the pretentiousness of big-city
lawyering with incomparable wit. Both letters were copied,
and facsimiles have gone from lawyer to lawyer around the
globe, elevating the 35-year-old Ms. Klemt from small-town
practitioner to legal celebrity.
   She has received hundreds of telephone calls and fan
letters, job offers, legal referrals from places as distant
as London, and marriage proposals. International Creative
Management, the talent agency, wrote to compliment her on the
"most photocopied letter in legal history" and asked her to
sign on as a literary client.
   "Her letter is a masterpiece," says federal Judge Warren
Eginton of Bridgeport, Conn. "Lawyers, lately, have become
pretty full of themselves. They need someone to bring them
back to reality."
   "It's the pot-shot heard round the world," says Jordan
Thaler, associate casting director for the New York
Shakespeare Festival, who got copies of the letters from a
lawyer friend in Paris. "I think Becky Klemt should read her
letters at Carnegie Hall: Joseph Papp presents `Our Lady from
Laramie.'"
   Our lady was quietly toiling in the vineyards of Wyoming
jurisprudence two years ago when she won a $4,240
child-support judgment on behalf of Marcia Broomell, whose
ex-husband had fled to Los Angeles. In attempting to collect
the award -- a tidy sum by Laramie standards but a pittance
in Los Angeles -- Ms. Klemt collided with one of the bitter
realities of practicing law in the supercharged 1980s.
   Searching for a lawyer, any lawyer, to collect the
judgment, she sent scores of requests to Los Angeles law
firms. "It's entirely possible," she pleaded in one, "that a
single letter to Mr. Broomell will be all that's needed."
There were no takers.
   Finally, a response arrived that left Ms. Klemt stunned.
"Without sounding pretentious," wrote Stephen G. Corris, a
solo practitioner in Irvine, Calif., "my current retainer for
cases is a flat $100,000, with an additional charge of $1,000
per hour. Since I specialize in international trade and
geopolitical relations between the Middle East and Europe, my
clientel (sic) is very unique and limited, and I am afraid I
am unable to accept other work at this time."
   Ms. Klemt responded: "Steve, I've got news -- you can't
say you charge a $100,000 retainer fee and an additional
$1,000 an hour without sounding pretentious. . . . Especially
when you're writing to someone in Laramie, Wyoming, where
you're considered pretentious if you wear socks to Court. . .
. Hell, Steve, all the lawyers in Laramie, put together,
don't charge $1,000 an hour."
   Still, Ms. Klemt wrote, Pence &amp; MacMillan had an
international flavor, sort of. People at the firm regularly
ordered Mexican food, and one partner had actually studied a
foreign language, Latin, in high school. Perhaps a merger was
in order?
   "Steve," she wrote, "let us know when we should join you
in California so that we can begin doing whatever it is you
do. In anticipation of our move, we've all been practicing
trying to say we charge $1,000 an hour with a straight face,
but so far, we haven't been able to do it. . . . Anyway,
because I'll be new to the area of international trade and
geopolitical relations, I'm thinking of only charging
$500-$600 an hour to begin with. Will that cover our
overhead?"
   "P.S.: Incidentally, we have advised our client of your
hourly rate. She is willing to pay you $1,000 per hour to
collect this judgment provided it doesn't take you more than
four seconds."
   Debora MacMillan, sister of Pence &amp; MacMillan's senior
partner, Hoke MacMillan, passed copies of the pair of letters
to her boss, Colorado court of appeals Judge John A.
Criswell, who then copied sets for his 15 fellow judges on
the court. Some of them wired out facsimiles to friends. The
rest is legal history.
   Ms. Klemt, a University of Wyoming Law School graduate,
had been spending most of her time representing ranchers and
serving on the state parole board. "My only notable legal
writing at that point was an article I published in the Land
and Water Law Review," she says.
   Reaction to her Dear Steve letter quickly followed. First,
there was a marriage proposal -- actually, more of a
long-distance, speaker-phone group grope by three attorneys
in Chicago. Then came adoring letters from a judge and a
lawschool professor, and job offers from a big San Francisco
law firm and Compaq Computer Corp.
   Robert M. McGreevey, now the second-ranking attorney at
Amoco Corp., calls her letter "a jewel in the desert." He has
recommended that Amoco's regional office in Denver use her as
outside counsel, "solely on the basis of her letter." Toyota
Motor Corp. felt the same, and retained her on a case in
Cheyenne that she has just finished.
   Mary McGuire Voog, associate general counsel of TWA Corp.,
and one of the two visiting lawyers from New York, got the
letters from the No. 2 counsel at Pan Am Corp. Ms. Voog
passed them on as something of a peace offering to Ian
Fagelson, a London solicitor with whom she had just finished
a rather bitter negotiation over his rates. Mr. Fagelson
called Laramie to check that the letters were authentic, and
then called Ms. Voog to say he had reached Ms. Klemt.
   "I told Ian, `Well that must be the first call she's ever
received from London,'" Ms. Voog recalls as she settles into
a leather chair at Pence &amp; MacMillan. "He said, `First call?
It's not even the first call she's gotten today]'"
   Ms. Klemt, accustomed to such tales of far-flung
celebrity, tells the visitors of her idea for Klemtville, a
retreat for stressed-out lawyers; it would offer group
therapy and rides on a horse named Satan. The New York
visitors, who spend a day riding among the deer and the
antelope at a nearby dude ranch and then talk about what's
wrong with lawyering over giant slabs of prime rib, leave
with saddle sores but in touch with their legal souls.
   The obligation to pithily answer scores of calls and
letters -- to give her fans what they want -- has turned Ms.
Klemt into something of a prairie philosopher. Law schooling,
she says, aims "to convince the overconfident that they are
truly superior." Of legal pomposity: "Most lawyers refuse to
itemize it in their bills."
   Meanwhile, her firm has moved into new offices, partly to
match its higher profile and handle the business that her
letter has generated. Some clients have worried that the
firm's rates will rise. Ms. Klemt, who still charges $85 an
hour, says she is considering an increase -- to $90. "That's
plenty of money for what I provide," she says -- an opinion
that might be grounds for disbarment in New York.
   And what of Stephen G. Corris, butt of a thousand faxes?
Mr. Corris, 45 years old, says he is a part-time author of
thrillers, former Orange County prosecutor and veteran of
military intelligence. He is often quoted by news media as a
Middle East specialist. He concedes he overstated his fees to
Ms. Klemt; he says his usual charge is closer to $500 a hour.
"I got calls from one Washington firm and two in New York,"
he says, "basically asking, `How are you pulling this off?'
They wanted a piece of my action. I said get lost."
   Last month, Ms. Klemt wrote off the fees owed her by
Marcia Broomell in the unsuccessful attempt to collect the
$4,240. "I figured I've gotten enough mileage out of this
case," she says.
   "Sure, sure, it's all incredible," says Ms. Broomell, who
has moved to Abilene, Texas. "Now a thousand lawyers know
about my plight, and not one of them can be bothered to
collect my money]"
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0134
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0134.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Archaic Limits on Futures Vex Managers
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (CFT)
</GV>
<LP>
   Dusty old regulations from a bygone era are costing many
futures-market investors big bucks, charge money managers who
are campaigning to get the rules changed.
   Investors attracted by the potentially big profits in
commodity futures are often advised not to trade on their own
but to turn their money over to professional managers, whose
job it is to move nimbly into and out of these fast-moving
markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But those profits are being severely trimmed by
regulations put in place 60 years or so ago, when futures
markets -- and investors' interests -- were vastly different
than they are now.
   At least, that's the contention of commodity trading
advisers, which is what money managers are called in the
futures markets. They argue that rules limiting how many
futures contracts they can hold at any one time cost their
clients untold millions in lost profits or
bigger-than-necessary losses. By no mere coincidence, if
clients' profits were larger, advisers would reap fatter
performance fees.
   So-called position limits set the maximum number of
futures contracts an individual or organization can control
in total and in each contract month. They are set for each
commodity by futures exchanges, under Commodity Futures
Trading Commission guidelines. There are no limits on other
investments, such as stocks and bonds.
   Position limits date from the 1920s and 1930s, when their
purpose was to prevent markets from being "cornered" -- that
is, preventing any one market participant from taking such a
large position that he could dictate the prices at which
other players had to trade. The limits have been increased
from time to time, but not enough to satisfy the large
commodity mutual funds and pool operators -- which didn't
exist 60 years ago.
   Some commodity trading advisers assert these limits force
them into portfolio holdings they consider less than optimal,
which results in forgone profits or increased losses. A few
advisers say position limits are one reason they're deserting
U.S. markets to trade more overseas.
   One large trading adviser tells how position limits hurt
his clients in the 1988 bull market in grains and soybeans.
The firm bought the maximum amount of soybean futures, 2,400
contracts, in December 1987. His trading system, however,
called for the purchase of 4,800 contracts. By the time the
soybean position was sold out in June 1988, drought had
pushed up soybean prices to the extent that his firm made
about $34 million for its clients. While that was a
respectable 5% gain on the fund's assets, "we would have made
twice that if there were no limits," he laments.
   Peter Borish, director of research at Tudor Investment
Corp., Paul Tudor Jones's trading company, which has $475
million under management, says limits are one factor that
influences how much money an adviser can effectively manage.
He says that last December his firm returned $200 million in
profits to its clients, rather than reinvesting it, because
Mr. Jones believed he couldn't achieve big enough returns.
One reason for this decision, Mr. Borish says, was position
limits.
   Many commodity trading advisers say they could live with
overall limits if they were permitted to deal entirely in the
most actively traded contracts. As it is, while the limit on
soybeans is 2,400 contracts, for example, no more than 600
can be in any one contract month.
   One adviser specializing in agricultural commodities
recalls selling wheat futures in May 1989 because, if prices
fell as he expected, he could buy back the contracts for less
than he sold them. Because of the monthly limits he had to
sell some May contracts when his preference was for July and
September. One night, news broke of a Soviet wheat purchase,
and the next day prices shot up.
   Clients who were in the May futures lost $700 a contract
while those in July and September lost only about $325 a
contract. Some customers became aware of the discrepancy when
they saw their friends' quarterly account statements
reflecting lower average losses. "Such differences are not
much fun to try to explain to a client," says this adviser
ruefully.
   Peter Matthews, chief portfolio strategist for Mint
Investment Management Co., with about $1 billion under
management, says that when Mint started nine years ago about
30% of the portfolio was allocated to agricultural
commodities. "Today, that fraction is less than 10%," he
says, "but we would like it to be closer to 20%."
   He says the relatively smaller participation in
agricultural markets has caused a larger fraction of his
firm's funds to be allocated to financial futures, where
limits are very large, or to overseas markets, which have no
limits.
   Financial futures, introduced over the past 20 years, have
large position limits because nobody can corner these
markets: The futures are either based on readily available
securities, such as U.S. Treasury bonds, or are settled in
cash, such as stock-index futures. And U.S. exchanges' share
of global futures and options trading declined to 75% from
91% between 1985 and 1989, according to Molly Bayley, a
former executive director of the CFTC and now a consultant.
   Mr. Matthews advocates the CFTC's allowing trading
advisers higher limits or, ideally, no limits at all. "We
already have so many people looking at us that there is no
way we would not be noticed if we tried to do something
improper," he says.
   But the CFTC doesn't seem to be in a mood to accommodate
the advisers. John Mielke, director of surveillance for the
CFTC, says the Commodity Exchange Act long ago decided that
excessive speculation leads to excessive price volatility and
by definition that is bad. He notes that the largest pool of
speculative capital today is in commodity pools, so it is
"logical to extend the regulatory mandate of position limits
to these pools."
   However, Patricia Gillman, a former staff attorney with
the CFTC and now in practice in Washington, says position
limits are a very crude regulatory tool. "Unlike 50 years
ago, today we have all kinds of computer-based tools to help
regulators monitor market participants," she says.
   Mr. Mielke of the CFTC responds, "There might be better
ways to address concerns (about market concentrations) than
(speculator position) limits but nobody has brought them to
our attention."
   Still, the CFTC isn't unmindful of the need for change. In
October 1988 it adopted a rule that provided, in certain
cases, an exemption from limits for positions that have a
common owner but are independently controlled. On July 24 the
CFTC proposed a rule that would broaden the eligibility for
such exemptions for trading advisers.
   Meanwhile, various committees at the Chicago Board of
Trade are considering rule changes that would increase
current limits in soybeans and grains, says Fred Grede, vice
president for administration. He says these changes are in
response to requests from trading advisers, adding how the
committees are also hearing from hedgers and floor brokers.
"There is some controversy about these proposals," Mr. Grede
observes.
   ---
                    Restraint on Trades
                                                                                                       

   The maximum number of futures contracts that can be
controlled by any one investor for various commodities.
Additional limits permit the holding of option contracts in
the same commodities.
                                                                                                       

                     TOTAL           POSITION
                     LIMIT              LIMIT      TOTAL
 COMMODITY       (Contract            (In any   DOLLAR LIMIT
 (Exchange)          size)         one month)  (In millions)
                                                                                                       

                       AGRICULTURAL
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 Soybeans      2,400 contracts    600 contracts     $ 75
  (Chicago     (5,000 bushels)

   Trade)
                                                                                                       

 Corn          2,400              600                 28
  (Chicago     (5,000 bushels)
   Board of
   Trade)
                                                                                                       

 Live Hogs     2,400              900                 35
  (Chicago     (30,000 pounds)
   Mercantile
   Exchange)
                                                                                                       

                     NON-AGRICULTURAL
                                                                                                       

 Treasury      10,000             10,000             887
 Bonds         ($10,000 face)
  (Chicago
   Board of
   Trade)
                                                                                                       

 S&amp;P 500       5,000              5,000              810
 Stock Index   (500 times index)
  (Chicago
   Mercantile
   Exchange)
                                                                                                       

 Crude Oil     7,500              5,000              217
  (N.Y.        (1,000 barrels)
   Mercantile
   Exchange)
                                                                                                       

 Source: Commodity Futures Trading Commission
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0133
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0133.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Consumer Savings Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>

   Super-NOW Accounts-a           4.97%
   Six-month Certificates-a       7.51%
   One-year Certificates-a        7.61%
   Thirty-month Accounts-a        7.67%
   Five-Year Certificates-a       7.79%
   U.S. Savings Bonds-b           7.01%
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and
thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by
Bank Rate Monitor.
   b-Current annual yield. Guaranteed minimum 6%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0132
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0132.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Immigration Bill
   Is Bad for Business
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   Your Labor Letter regarding the immigration legislation
before Congress (page one, Aug. 14) neglected to mention that
under the Senate proposal, S. 358, many classes of workers no
longer would be able to immigrate legally to the U.S. That
bill eliminates all employer-sponsored immigration of
low-skilled and unskilled workers.
   This will hurt many U.S. businesses and workers.
Restaurants, hotels, poultry-processing plants and other
industries will be hurt. Most severely affected will be
working women, who will find it even harder to find care for
children, elderly and handicapped family members.
Professional women with demanding schedules will be hardest
hit.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Current law is much too restrictive, since employers must
wait more than four years to obtain visas for nonprofessional
employees to fill jobs for which there are no available
American workers. This is hurting American business. The
Senate proposals make the situation worse.
   S. 358 and H.R. 4300 must be amended to ensure that
American businesses can obtain the workers they need to carry
on their work.
   Carolyn Ann Killea
   Immigration Attorney
   Washington
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0131
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0131.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Great American Management &amp; Investment Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   GAMI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   GREAT AMERICAN MANAGEMENT &amp; INVESTMENT Inc. (Chicago) --
F. Warren Hellman and David J. Johnson were elected directors
of this diversified holding company, increasing board
membership to 10. They are general partners of Hellman &amp;
Friedman, an investment banking partnership that recently
acquired an 18% stake in Great American.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0130
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0130.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Kuwait Investment Office Opens
   Credit Window for Exiled Banks
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST EUROP FORGN
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LONDON -- The London-based Kuwait Investment Office has
opened a multibillion-dollar credit window for Kuwaiti banks,
offering short-term credit to help financial institutions
meet as much as $7 billion in unsettled claims.
   The move, disclosed by Kuwaiti Central Bank Governor Sheik
Salem Abdul-Aziz al-Sabah in an interview, marks the first
indication of concrete steps Kuwait is taking to rehabilitate
the financial credibility of its $100 billion overseas
economy. Sheik Salem said the nation's banking system has
suffered a major "liquidity squeeze" in the wake of the Aug.
2 Iraqi invasion and a subsequent world-wide asset freeze.
Such moves have halted billions of dollars in international
financial transactions among Kuwaiti, U.S., European and
Japanese banks.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sheik Salem said Kuwait's main economic objective now is
to restore international credibility to the Kuwaiti financial
system by meeting international obligations.
   Kuwait, thanks to its oil wealth, is a creditor in the
world economy, but the Iraqi invasion and swift asset freeze
blocked accounts, cut credit lines and locked Kuwait into
billions of dollars of short-term liabilities that need to be
unscrambled. "Our priority is to get our banks to meet their
interbank and foreign-exchange obligations," said Sheik
Salem. "We must meet out debts so our counterparties don't
suffer."
   Sheik Salem is among the principal figures behind efforts
to organize a Kuwaiti economy-in-exile in the wake of the
Iraqi invasion. In addition to heading the central bank, he
also sits on the board of the Kuwait Investment Office, the
London-based agency that manages the bulk of Kuwait's
overseas assets. These holdings include plantations in
Malaysia, office buildings in Texas and major strategic
shareholdings in such blue-chip companies as Daimler-Benz AG
and British Petroleum Co.
   Sheik Salem said the Iraqi invasion hasn't prompted
changes in investment strategy or operations at the
investment office. In particular, he rejected traders'
speculation that the office intends to reduce its big
investments in Western markets. "We are still a long-term
investor," he said. "We think there are a lot of good
opportunities in all markets -- including the U.S."
   His comments came only hours after Kuwait's Prime
Minister, Crown Prince Sheik Saad al-Abdallah al-Salem
al-Sabah, told a London news conference that his nation would
consider contributing financially to multinational military
efforts in the Persian Gulf. He also vowed to continue the
fight against Iraq. "We will fight, we will struggle and we
will fight again with all our friends and Arab brothers who
have rejected the Iraqi aggressors," he said.
   In the interview, Sheik Salem shrugged and said, "I don't
know," when asked the total value of unsettled international
claims. (Kuwaiti banking sources estimate them at between $5
billion and $7 billion.) "Our biggest problem has been
information," said Sheik Salem. Many banking records have
been lost in Kuwait. Many Kuwaiti bankers -- outside the
country when the invasion occurred -- are regrouping in
London to try to reconstruct records. Sheik Salem said it may
take another three weeks before enough information is
available to unscramble the claims.
   There are about a dozen financial institutions that could
tap the short-term credit -- ranging from the National Bank
of Kuwait, which has $14 billion in assets, to smaller, local
institutions. Kuwaiti bankers and officials in London say
only a fraction of the available Kuwait Investment Office
resources have been drawn down to meet claims.
   Sheik Salem said that arranging the credit window didn't
require special British government approval. He said
international banking authorities, including the Bank of
England, are helping the Kuwaitis come up with ways of paying
their international debts -- in effect, signaling that the
investment office is being given a quite free hand to manage
Kuwaiti assets.
   Big institutions such as the National Bank of Kuwait have
drawn only $100 million of the $300 million line available,
and have satisfied more than 80% of claims, according to
insiders. "We have not fixed a limit on {investment office}
assets" that could be tapped to meet remaining claims, Sheik
Salem said. "We will provide the necessary funds to meet any
mismatch" of trading positions.
   The Kuwaitis are taking other steps to keep their
financial system ticking. Sheik Salem said eight of the
country's biggest banks have formed a Kuwait Banks
Association in London to serve as a clearinghouse for
information. The group includes the National Bank of Kuwait,
Commercial Bank of Kuwait, Gulf Bank, Alahli Bank of Kuwait,
Bank of Kuwait and the Middle East, Burgan Bank, Industrial
Bank of Kuwait and Kuwait Real Estate Bank.
   The Kuwaiti authorities also are supporting bank efforts
to sell some assets to third parties to raise capital to meet
short-term claims.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0129
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0129.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   Scrap the Deposit Insurance System
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   Peter J. Wallison's call for private deposit insurance is
right on target in citing federal deposit insurance as the
primary source of the S&amp;L debacle (editorial page, Aug. 16).
The institutional arrangement he proposes to replace federal
insurance with, however -- while an improvement on the
current system -- is still a step removed from true market
discipline.
   "Negotiated contractual arrangements" within the banking
system to monitor investment risk and, hence, adjust
private-insurance premiums assume a level of knowledge on the
part of insurers that doesn't exist. The best way to
determine the "risk" in a portfolio is to look at its market
value, which is near impossible to do with cost accounting
and thin-to-nonexistent secondary markets.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Depositor discipline, which Mr. Wallison casually
dismisses, would solve this problem. He argues that
depositors don't consider their money in financial
institutions as "investments." Well, if there were no federal
deposit insurance they'd start looking at those funds as
investments quicker than you could say "incentives matter."
Perhaps they might take their funds out of S&amp;Ls, causing the
industry to disappear. Since the industry itself is a
creature of government, that wouldn't be all bad.
   More likely, however, depositor discipline would be based
on a system in which Consumer Report-type organizations would
provide market valuations of the portfolios of these
institutions, thereby informing depositors of the true level
of capital available to protect deposits.
   Under such a system financial institutions would be
compelled to disclose the nature of their investments, and
they would end up having to mark to market their portfolios.
This in turn would lead to broad secondary markets in these
investments, hence increasing the liquidity of the
institutions and reducing the likelihood that "runs" could
shut down solvent banks. (That runs would shut down poorly
managed banks should be viewed as a positive aspect of
depositor discipline. The market works where government
regulators don't.)
   It is not at all clear that depositors in a true market
system would require insurance at all, federal or private.
They don't in the case of money-market funds, which is what
S&amp;Ls probably would evolve into in any case.
   Edward H. Crane
   President
   Cato Institute
   Washington
   ---
   There currently is no private source of deposit insurance
available; we have looked in the past and even the
prestigious and far-reaching Lloyd's has expressed no
interest. To create such a private structure would be a
monumental task. Then it begs the question of who would
regulate the insurer? What if the insurance industry, already
reeling from the impacts of high-yield bonds and falling
real-estate values, fails? Who will bail it out? Are we not
just creating a future problem rather than a solution to the
current problem?
   I shudder to think of what would happen to small banks if
such a private insurance case would happen. The private
insurers would want to make the underwriting as efficient as
possible. It would be much easier to assess the risk of a few
institutions than many. The small banks would eventually
disappear.
   The idea of a self-insured pool is equally unappealing --
and fallacious. Here Mr. Wallison falls prey to the illusion
presented by big numbers. He cites the 550 largest banks and
thrifts with total capital accounts of $165 billion (I did an
analysis of the 258 largest banks and came up with equity
capital of $121 billion, which means that the thrifts don't
contribute much). What Mr. Wallison doesn't say is that the
seemingly huge capital available (by my analysis of March
1990 data) is only 5.56% of equity, 7.52% primary capital
(includes loan loss reserves) or 8.01% total capital
(includes subordinated debt). Further, the risk capital ratio
is only 8.10%.
   The numbers become less important when one also considers
that the 258 largest banks also have 30% of their capital or
2.29% of assets in nonperforming loans, only 1.89% of which
is reserved. A quick and dirty analysis takes the net
available capital of those 258 banks from 5.56% to 5.16%. The
available capital is hardly a comfort -- only five cents of
every dollar available for growth, exigencies and, for Mr.
Wallison, systemic risk sharing. In contrast most small banks
have capital ratios of well over 8% and risk capital of
nearer to 15% -- even after the adjustment for asset quality.
Being insured by Citicorp would do little to calm sleepless
nights.
   Helge S. Christensen
   President
   Bankers' Bank of Wisconsin
   Madison, Wis.
   ---
   Private insurance, be it banking syndicates or commercial
insurers, should insure deposits; however, the government
should remain as the insurer for, say, up to $25,000 in
deposits per household.
   Remember, the original intent of deposit insurance was to
protect the small depositor from ruin that came with a bank
failure. A combination of commercial insurance and government
insurance (for the small deposits) would allocate risks
efficiently and at a much lower cost to the banking system.
This would make U.S. banks more competitive and remove most
of the expensive bureaucracy and political favoritism
inherent with the current method.
   Gary Millhollon
   Albuquerque, N.M.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0128
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0128.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Singing the Rage of Achilles
   ----
   By Donald Lyons
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   "Never forget -- we all sailed here with God," says a
Greek leader trying to pep up the spirits of the huge armada
beached at Asian Troy for 10 years to repossess Helen. He's
right: Troy is doomed.
   Homer's "Iliad" (c. 700 B.C.) tells of a few decisive but
not final incidents in this 10th year. As the epic opens with
its rousing invocation: "Rage-Goddess, sing the rage of
Peleus's son Achilles," the fierce ace of the Greek army is
leaving the fighting to sulk in his tent. It is Achilles's
tantrum that forms the epic's heart. When he returns, it is
to avenge the death of his friend, Patroclus, killed by
Hector, the noblest of the Trojans. Achilles's rampage
embroils in blood the very elements and highest gods, only to
subside in two astonishingly courteous ceremonies:
</LP>
<TEXT>
   We read how a civil and amused Achilles presides over
Greek funeral athletics in Patroclus's honor. We read with
even more amazement of the meeting between Achilles and
Priam, the father of the murdered Hector, who begs him to
return his son's corpse: "I have endured what no one on earth
has ever done before  -- /I put to my lips the hands of the
man who killed my son." Gently, Achilles consents. He knows
that it is his turn to die next.
   It is the cruelest and the tenderest, the least humane and
the most profound of war stories. "War and Peace" alone has
the scope of the "Iliad," along with its frightening
altitude, as if told from a sheer height above a humanity
that is viewed, to use Eliot's words, as "some infinitely
gentle/infinitely suffering thing."
   Robert Fagles, chairman of comparative literature at
Princeton and distinguished translator of Aeschylus and
Sophocles, now has a go at this greatest of Greek poems
(introduction and notes by Bernard Knox, Viking, 683 pages,
$35). How does he do? Very well indeed. I noted with surprise
that Richmond Lattimore's "Iliad," the first good modern
Englishing, appeared as long ago as 1951. Lattimore stressed
the Greek's alienness and hieratic, formulaic stiffness as he
marched with unsmiling literalness and monotony in a
loose-fitting, six-beat, dactylic armor. Lattimore wrote: "I
put my lips to the hands of the man who has killed my
children." Notice how Mr. Fagles's words, which are in fact
closer to the Greek, have the rhythm of English verse.
   Between Lattimore and Mr. Fagles came Robert Fitzgerald,
who crucially returned to a five-beat, iambic meter, the
natural and native English beat. Mr. Fagles keeps the basic
five-beat iambic line but lets in air and space by often
expanding to six beats (like Alexander Pope before him) and
contracting to three. His verse units breathe and the
reader's eye is not confronted with 700 pages of lock-step
line-lengths.
   His happiest idiom is hard contemporary American: ". . .
look out/a heavy wave of ruin's about to break your neck."
"But night came in too soon. That's what saved them." "You've
only plunged him deeper in his pride." "My comrade's death
has cut me to the quick." "The gods are hard to handle --
/when they come blazing forth in their true power." ". . .
the wild mountain hawk, the quickest thing on wings."
   A lot of the "Iliad" is speech-war conferences, frontline
challenges and ripostes -- Mr. Fagles's purified
colloquialism is ideal here. And he does bloody action
clearly: ". . . ramming the spearhead square between his
teeth so hard/he hooked him by that spearhead over the
chariot-rail/hoisted, dragged the Trojan out as an angler
perched/on a jutting rock ledge drags some fish from the
sea."
   He offers simplicity ("the funeral fires sank low, the
flames died down"). He offers pathos ("the boy goes up to his
father's old companions,/tugging at one man's cloak,
another's tunic,/and some will pity him, true,/and one will
give him a little cup to drink,/enough to wet his lips, not
quench his thirst"). And provides simile's energy ("She
{Athena} put fresh strength in his back, spring in his
knees/and filled his heart with the horsefly's raw
daring-/brush it away from a man's flesh and back it
comes,/biting, attacking, crazed for sweet human blood").
   Compare Mr. Lattimore's unmusical "haul off the body and
give it to the dogs of Troy" with Mr. Fagles's "drag the
trunk away to glut the dogs of Troy." The dance of ds, rs, ts
and gs in the latter shows a poet at work, and at work in a
specifically English-language tradition.
   We can hear Milton in Mr. Fagles's "our great work lies
all before us, still to do," Keats in his "all your deathless
ease," Whitman in his "You are goddesses, you are there, you
know all things," and Shakespeare everywhere. And we also can
hear Ali in the words of the boxer Epeus, "I am the
greatest]" That's as accurate as and livelier than Mr.
Lattimore's "I claim I am the champion" or Mr. Fitzgerald's
"I'm best, I don't mind saying" -- neither of which sounds
like anything a boxer might conceivably utter.
   Pope remains the greatest translator (for one thing, he
can handle the divine comedy in Homer better than anyone
today), but Mr. Fagles can claim to be the 20th-century
champion.
   Hint to first-time readers: Read the "spine" books of the
narrative (1, 9, 16, 18, 22, 24) first; get an overall feel
for the big things; then go back and plunge in with a relaxed
sense of who are the stars and who the extras; play at being
a god.
   ---
   Mr. Lyons writes for Film Comment and the New Criterion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0127
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0127.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Union
   Targets Ford
   In Labor Talks
   ----
   By Lynne Kilpatrick
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA F T.FMC FC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- The Canadian Auto Workers union selected Ford
Motor Co. of Canada as its target for labor negotiations with
the Canadian subsidiaries of the Big Three auto makers.
   Union contracts with the companies and their parent
companies in the U.S. all expire Sept. 14.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In these pattern-setting negotiations, the union targets
one company and the contract reached with that company serves
as a model for the others. The United Auto Workers in the
U.S. has selected General Motors Corp. as its negotiating
target.
   Robert White, president of the CAW, said Ford Canada, a
unit of Ford Motor Co., was chosen because the company trails
General Motors of Canada Ltd. on some benefits and because
the company is in a strong financial position.
   Donald McKenzie, chief negotiator at Ford Canada, said the
company welcomes the CAW's decision. "In this process of
patterned bargaining, a settlement that ultimately is going
to evolve at this table is one that is shaped by the way our
company perceives issues . . . and will ultimately be an
agreement that we can live with, tailored to Ford."
   With the auto industry in decline, the Canadian economy in
a slump and the Canadian dollar at a 10-year high against the
U.S. currency, the talks aren't likely to be easy. Mr. White
said they would be the "most difficult (talks) since the
early 80s." He said it won't be easy to reach an agreement
with Ford Canada without a strike of the company's 12,000
unionized employees.
   A strike at Ford Canada's operations would have a quick
ripple effect on Ford Motor Co. in the U.S. The Canadian
company is the only producer of Ford's Crown Victoria and
Grand Marquis cars in North America and the only source of
V-6 engines used in Thunderbird and Lincoln models, which are
produced in U.S. plants. Parent company officials said it
would take about two weeks before U.S. operations would be
affected by a strike in Canada.
   Mr. McKenzie said the company has made some preparations
in anticipation of a strike, but wouldn't discuss inventory
levels.
   Dennis DesRosiers, an industry analyst, said the tone of
the negotiations will be dictated, to a large degree, by
industry conditions. "Ford's hands are, to a large degree,
tied. They'll have to bargain hard -- they can't give away
the ship," he said.
   Still, industry analysts say the CAW is in a better
bargaining position than the UAW. Labor costs in Canada are
lower than in U.S. plants and, although vehicle sales on both
sides of the border have slowed down, some of the Big Three's
more successful models are built in newer, more efficient
assembly plants in Canada. As a result, there have been
proportionately fewer workers laid off in Canada than in the
U.S.
   So, while job security is the major issue in the U.S.
talks, union demands in Canada are broader. The CAW said it
is seeking higher wages, improved benefits and more time off.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0126
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0126.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Education:
   Earning Power,
   School Spending
   Linked in Study
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   Princeton University researchers have found a strong link
between students' future income and spending on teaching at
the schools they attend.
   The study is the latest contribution to a heated debate
over the relationship between spending and educational
quality, and it challenges the thinking behind many recent
moves to improve schools.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A large body of analysis over the last 20 years has shown
little connection between spending and school quality. But
most of these studies focus on whether students' standardized
test scores rise when money is spent in such areas as hiring
more teachers. Taking a different tack, Princeton's David
Card and Alan Krueger found that public schools with lower
student-teacher ratios and better-paid teachers increased
their students' earning power. Students' future wages were
also boosted by schools with longer academic years.
   For each year of schooling above eighth grade, Messrs.
Card and Krueger say, students gain about 0.4% in annual
income by attending schools with five fewer students per
teacher. Raising teachers' salaries 10% increases students'
future incomes by 0.1%, they maintain. The researchers
studied the education and incomes of a million men born
between 1920 and 1949 who attended public school.
   The gains from five fewer students per teacher were about
1.6% for workers who only finished high school and 3.2% for
the college-educated -- big enough to justify added school
spending "in terms of tax revenues on the added income
alone," Mr. Krueger says.
   In a district of about 3,000 students, he figures, $6
million spent over 12 school years to lower the
student-teacher ratio to 25 to 1 from 30 to 1 will yield
about $29.4 million in lifetime earnings gains to the
students. Based on a 25% tax rate, the added income generates
$7.4 million in federal income taxes. The outlays, income and
taxes are discounted to reflect their current value.
   Although many school reformers have advocated reining in
spending and making educators more accountable for results
instead, "we found that the additional investment in schools
is worth it," Mr. Krueger says. "What this shows is that
small spending increases will generate a pretty big return to
society."
   Messrs. Krueger and Card say their statistical analysis
"controlled" for such factors as race, parental income and
relative regional wealth. That means they found income gains
of the same proportion for whites and blacks, rich and poor,
and even when men worked in a state other than the one where
they went to school.
   Critics of the value of big school budgets remain
skeptical. "It's a very interesting thing they've done, but I
would be extremely dubious of any causal relationship"
between income and high-spending schools, says James S.
Coleman, a professor of sociology and education at the
University of Chicago. In a widely quoted 1966 study, Mr.
Coleman concluded that spending mattered little to how much
students learned.
   Mr. Coleman says that he hasn't seen the Princeton study,
but he contends it would be hard to control for such factors
as family background, which he believes to be one of the the
most important determinants of how much a child gets from
education. What's more, he says, higher income can come about
from a lot besides good education, while higher test results
have a more "proximate" relationship to quality schooling.
When test scores are used, he says, few studies show any
gains from higher expenditures.
   The Princeton researchers acknowledge that their analysis
has limitations. Women weren't included because their
participation in the work force wasn't great enough to
produce reliable results using data from the 1980 census.
   Mr. Card also says it's an open question whether the
income gains will be as strong in the future. During the
school years of the men under study, student-teacher ratios
dropped sharply, to 17 to 1 from as high as 35 to 1 in some
states. This rate of change isn't likely in the future,
though the Princeton pair believes there would be gains even
from small improvements.
   One surprise finding in the study is that students' future
incomes were hurt when they had more male teachers. A 10
percentage point drop in female teachers at a school produced
0.3% less annual income for students for each year of
schooling -- or about 2.4% over the life of a college
graduate. Mr. Krueger says he has no plausible scientific
explanation and was puzzled by the correlation, but he adds
that "my mother, who was a teacher, wasn't surprised at all."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0125
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0125.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heady Wine:
   `Vintage of Century'
   Creates a Buying Panic
   But Some Smell Hype
   ---
   Prices of '89 Bordeaux Soar
   Even Before It's Bottled,
   Stoked by First-Timers
   ---
   A Proliferation of Good Years
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<IN>
BEVERAGES (BVG)
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   Manhattan wine merchant Michael Aaron has been through a
Bordeaux buying frenzy before. But after selling out of
Chateau Petrus -- at $3,000 for a 12-bottle case -- he
declares, "I've never seen anything like this."
   George Schaefer's Skokie, Ill., wine store also ran out of
the coveted 1989 Petrus, at $208 a bottle. Demand was so hot
that the store had to limit sales to three bottles per
customer. Customers begged to pay more if Mr. Schaefer would
let them buy extra bottles.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Few if any of these panting customers have ever tasted the
wine they're buying. It hasn't even been bottled yet. But
with members of the trade calling the 1989 Bordeaux "the
vintage of the century," many wine drinkers are convinced the
wine's cost is only going to grow and bottles will only
become more scarce. So instead of waiting for the new
Bordeaux to reach retailers -- it won't be available until
1992 -- they're buying so-called wine futures that reserve
them a supply at today's prices.
   Trouble is, wines of the century are proliferating. Most
experts agree that technical improvements in wine making
helped Bordeaux produce some excellent wine in the 1980s. But
as some see it, this only led to a feast of hype and
hyperbole.
   In the 1980s, more than ever, vintners leaped to say that
one vintage after another was among the finest. To many
authorities, claims that the 1989 Bordeaux is yet another
vintage of the century are wearing as thin as grape skin.
   "It's been another case of hysteria," says Stephen Tanzer,
editor of the New York Wine Cellar, a wine journal. "They
were trumpeting this vintage before the grapes were picked."
   Adds Paul Gillette, publisher of the Wine Investor, a Los
Angeles newsletter: "It's a shame you can't sell Bordeaux
futures short, because I'd be shorting these."
   Major wine merchants started offering futures in the 1950s
to allow wine drinkers to reserve supplies of Burgundies,
California cabernet sauvignon and even some kinds of port and
Champagne. But the practice is most popular in Bordeaux,
which produces more fine wine than any other region in the
world.
   California wine makers, who say 1989 will be a great year
for them, too, watch the Bordeaux futures market with
undisguised envy. Chuck Wagner, general manager of Caymus
Vineyards in Napa Valley, says his best wine, which sells
wholesale for $50 a bottle, already is expensive by
California standards. But, he adds, "If you're asking me
would I like to sell it for $200, I'd say hell yes."
   How intense is the market for '89 Bordeaux? At the Wine
Merchant in Beverly Hills, Calif., which allowed unlimited
purchases, a customer bought $120,000 worth of futures and
wired the money from a Swiss bank account. Another man
purchased 18 cases, rented storage space from the merchant
for 12 years and left instructions that no one touch the wine
until the 21st birthday of his nine-year-old son. The better
wines, which take years to mature, might be ready to drink by
then.
   Chicago lawyer Tony Ponzio, an experienced collector with
more than 1,000 bottles in his cellar, bought three cases of
'89 when futures were first offered in the spring. Since
then, prices have risen as much as 30%. "I'm unsettled by the
high prices," he says, but he quickly adds: "I'll probably
buy some more right now."
   Headiness over the new Bordeaux began to build last summer
with news that the region was enjoying hot, dry and sunny
weather -- ideal grape-growing conditions. Then in the
spring, following the annual tasting, word started to spread
that the wine was truly great.
   On the cover of its April 30 issue, the Wine Spectator, a
full-color tabloid, asked, "1989 Bordeaux: Vintage of the
Century?" And a respected French magazine, Cuisine and Wine
of France, answered the question by reporting that nine of 22
Bordeaux wine makers agreed in a survey that it was.
   America's most influential wine critic, Robert Parker Jr.,
doesn't go that far. In an interview, he calls the new
Bordeaux "probably one of the three best vintages since the
'61." In his sober-looking newsletter, the Wine Advocate,
wines from 38 chateaux received a score of 90 or higher on a
scale of 100.
   Mr. Parker wrote that the Chateau Haut-Brion, whose
proprietor claimed to have made his best wine since 1959, is
"one of the most profound Haut-Brions I have ever tasted." He
agreed with the owner of Chateau Petrus that his 1989 rivaled
his 1947. He declared the Chateau Le Gay "staggering."
   In a rare recommendation, Mr. Parker advised readers to
buy futures to avoid likely price increases.
   In May, he predicted that the price of first growths --
wine from such premier chateaux as Lafite-Rothschild,
Mouton-Rothschild, Latour and Margaux -- would rise 60% in
two years. Other top 1989s, Mr. Parker wrote, would rise up
to 50% in the next 12 to 18 months.
   Since then, even Mr. Parker has been surprised by the
prices. He calls the current price for Petrus
"reprehensible." At this point, he doesn't expect prices for
first growths to rise more than an additional 20% in the next
two years.
   Mr. Parker had suggested buying futures only once before,
in the spring of 1983, after tasting the 1982 vintage. That
helped set off a Bordeaux frenzy back then. The wine
developed so well that the recommendation helped make Mr.
Parker's career.
   But his prognostication also fostered a battle of
superlatives among wine critics. "Robert Parker made his fame
taking a strong stand on the 1982," says Claude Kolm, owner
of the Fine Wine Review, a San Francisco newsletter. "The
result is that every year now people try to duplicate what he
did."
   At the same time that such reviews took hold, news emerged
that Bordeaux planned to cut allocations to U.S. importers by
a fifth. Never mind that the 1989 harvest was one of the
biggest ever.
   Growing demand among wine drinkers in Europe and Japan
accounted for some of the cutbacks. But wine experts say
chateau owners, who always keep some of their production in
reserve, initially held back more in order to test market
reaction to higher prices -- or, some people speculate, to
help drive prices higher. "The Bordelais, being very
perceptive and shrewd marketers, have really played on this,"
says Mr. Kolm of the Fine Wine Review.
   With shortages of the highly publicized Bordeaux looming,
U.S. distributors scrambled to lock in supplies. Determining
prices was difficult: Various chateau owners released their
prices at various times over a three-month period beginning
in late February.
   Importers say wine from the best properties cost, on
average, about 30% more than 1988, an outstanding year in its
own right. Only about half of the increase resulted from the
falling value of the U.S. dollar.
   In normal years, importers have time to consider offers
when wine brokers known as negociants call. But the new
vintage was going so fast that importers sometimes had only a
day to decide.
   The race among merchants to snap up the new wine was
equally hectic. "With a vintage that's been hyped like this
one, we started getting calls from retailers around the
country before we even knew the prices," says Richard
Carretta, an executive vice president at William Grant &amp;
Sons, an Edison, N.J., wine importer. "I've never had that
happen in my life."
   Mr. Carretta says some major retailers even offered to pay
a 5% premium over the asking price, no matter what the price
turned out to be, to be sure their stores were stocked.
   At the retail level, the price of Bordeaux futures has
soared. In Manhattan, the New York Wine Cellar's Mr. Tanzer
says, first growths that came out in late April at $800 a
case are now selling -- if they haven't sold out -- for up to
$1,000. "I was offered Petrus at $2,200 that I suspect is
close to $4,000 now," he says.
   In some instances, the 1989 Bordeaux is selling for more
than even a proven vintage. The 1989 Chateau La Conseillante,
which Mr. Parker predicted to be "the finest La Conseillante
since the 1949," sold in August for $60 to $70 a bottle. A
bottle of the 1982 vintage, on the shelf and ready to drink,
can be purchased for $50.
   Some retailers have justified the increases with a
now-or-never marketing approach. In a full-page advertisement
in the New York Times, Zachys Wine and Liquor in Scarsdale,
N.Y., touts "The Great Bordeaux of 1989" and says: "First
offerings of '89s are being instantaneously snapped up and in
some of the more sought after Bordeaux there is a frenzy in
the bidding."
   But the store's ad director, Robert Chapman, says, "I
don't think it's a market to buy Bordeaux futures. The '89s
are spotty. They're good wines but they're not that great."
   Other merchants are adamant that the wine is worth it.
"Based on the quality, I think the prices are justified,"
Sherry-Lehmann Inc.'s Mr. Aaron says. "By the way, we are
going to be raising some of these prices in October."
   That probably won't slow demand, much of which seems to be
driven by firsttime buyers. Mark Golodetz, a writer for Wine
Times magazine in Pleasantville, N.Y., estimates that
newcomers account for one-quarter of the demand for Bordeaux
futures. Jim Arsenault, a Washington wine merchant, says,
"We've had first-time buyers spend $20,000 and up."
   Carl Gebuhr, a Michigan cardiologist, read about the new
vintage, talked it over with a local wine merchant and
reserved four cases of less expensive '89s for $1,000 -- the
most he has ever spent on wine at one time. Dr. Gebuhr says
he isn't a wine collector and probably couldn't tell the
difference between '89 and other good vintages, but says: "If
it lives up to the hype, I'm probably going to save some
money."
   The image of unsophisticated buyers pushing wine prices to
unprecedented heights -- in a market already full of a
decade's worth of good wine that often costs less -- has led
inevitably to talk of a Bordeaux futures crash. It has
happened before, in the early 1970s, leaving thousands of
customers losing money when they thought they were saving it.
   Abdallah Simon, chairman of Seagram's Chateau &amp; Estate
Wines Co. in New York, a large Bordeaux importer, says the
market "has absorbed the '89 vintage at the highest level of
prices we've ever experienced." But he adds, "There's got to
be some point at which people will not pay more."
   What's a wine drinker to do in such an environment? Roman
Weil, a wine collector and business professor at the
University of Chicago, says it may depend on whether you are
a "wine drinker," who cares mainly about taste, or a "wine
fondler," who "admires the label and gets a big kick out of
drinking the best."
   "If you're a wine fondler, you're going to want some '89,"
Mr. Weil says. "If you're a wine drinker -- if you just want
wine that tastes good -- my first advice is this: Buy '88
Burgundy."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0124
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0124.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Film: Some Preppies Sitting Around Talking
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   A woman I know in Los Angeles told me recently she'd just
watched the best movie she'd seen in a long time, a picture
called "Metropolitan." Then, in her spacey, friendly L.A. way
she reconsidered, and said, "It wasn't a movie exactly, it
was, well, it was like a movie but really all it was was a
bunch of people having conversations. Really interesting
conversations, and when it was over I didn't want to leave,
the way some parties used to be a long time ago, when I went
to parties."
   In fact, "Metropolitan," a movie that has the intimate
design and feel of an engaging piece of theater, takes place
in a series of parties, debutante parties during Christmas
week in Manhattan. Though the picture's intertitles give the
picture's time as "not long ago," "Metropolitan" is in part
about the timelessness of, well, debutante parties and the
tiny inbred population that keeps such traditions alive. Its
upper-class teenage characters would fit comfortably in a
Noel Coward drawing room, or uncomfortably in one of Woody
Allen's mannered ensemble pieces.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The oddness is even odder considering that this witty,
pristine work is a first-time film. Actually, director and
writer Walt Stillman has started out the way many new
directors do; he has concocted a low-budget, idiosyncratic
bit of street theater. It's just that his action mostly takes
place in expensive living rooms, and his street is Park
Avenue.
   This is not the location usually highlighted on the New
York City map consulted by contemporary, independent film
makers who almost uniformly equate urban with gritty,
dangerous, violent. They generally like to check out the
action in Harlem, the Bronx, Little Italy, Greenwich Village.
   Mr. Stillman preferred to explore the city from the lofty
insularity of the ruling class. He has made his people both
ridiculous and endearing, youthful relics who understand the
silliness of their social routine even as they rigorously
adhere to the rules of ceremony. They have the education and
the leisure time to ponder their place in the universe, while
wearing tuxedos and pearls, or loafers and cashmere sweaters
from Bergdorf's.
   Mr. Stillman apparently knows his subject from experience:
He's a Harvard graduate who then spent years dabbling in this
and that. He was an editor; wrote fiction and nonfiction for
many publications, including this one; he married a woman
from Barcelona and became the sales representative for
Spanish films. He went on to work in a family business,
representing cartoonists and illustrators; nights, he worked
on the script for "Metropolitan," which he wrote between 1984
and 1989.
   Shot in a deliberately artificial style, in part to save
money, Mr. Stillman's film cost less than $500,000. But his
settings are hardly low-budget; his characters live in
buildings where uniformed guards protect the entryways, and
elevators open into the foyers of individual apartments.
   His world might as well be the moon for most of us, and
that is precisely what makes this dotty gabfest so engaging
(or offputting to those who can find nothing redeemable in
the lives of the very rich). There is something warped yet
entirely believable about this group of young friends who
mainly sit around talking. They talk about the existence of
God, about socialism, about divorce, about the decline of the
haute bourgeoisie -- and about romance. They talk a lot about
romance because they are, after all, teenagers.
   Perhaps not surprisingly, "Metropolitan" has been
attracting sellout crowds in Manhattan since it opened a
month ago at the Paris Theater, just off Fifth Avenue and
across the street from the Plaza Hotel. Predictably, too, it
has done very well in East Hampton. But it also has done
respectable business in Los Angeles, Chicago and San
Francisco. Now its distributor, New Line Cinema, plans to see
how this particular kind of well-born weirdness will play in
less obvious markets.
   "Metropolitan" opens next week in 20 more cities,
including Cincinnati, Minneapolis and Dallas. This may seem
like a gamble, yet it is somehow in keeping with New Line's
main successes, which have been with movies whose broad
appeal -- even though they are about teenagers -- has never
been obvious: "Nightmare on Elm Street," the John Waters
film, "Hairspray," and the year's biggest sleeper hit,
"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles."
   Most of the world probably will regard the circle of
friends in "Metropolitan" as teenage mutants. They call
themselves the Sally Fowler Rat Pack; Sally is the pragmatic
blonde who cements the group and then is the most willing to
leave it all behind. She's played by Dylan Hundley, a
graduate of the Lenox School on Manhattan's East Side, who is
undeniably authentic in her film debut.
   The young actors who fill out the requirements for a
well-grounded group are all quite good, especially
Christopher Eigeman as Nick Smith, the acerbic
participant-commentator. They dance (the rhumba and the
cha-cha), they play bridge (and strip poker in a really
risque moment), and they wonder whether the two innocents in
their midst -- Audrey and Tom -- will ever fall in love.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: As the "Metropolitan" characters discuss the
dismal state of the bourgeois class, the earnest intellectual
shows just how smart he is by invoking the name of Luis
Bunuel's "The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie." Dinner has
never been more fun, or more difficult to get on the table,
than in the Spanish director's 1972 French film.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0123
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0123.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Speaking of Business:
   The Cost of Avoiding Another Fed Surprise
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Reserve more or less signals its monetary
policy by moving, or by not moving, the interest rate on
federal funds, the reserves that banks lend one another for
very short periods of time. Over the short term, the Fed can
strongly influence the funds rate by buying or selling
Treasury securities in the open market; these actions either
pump reserves into the banking system or pull them out.
   That sounds simple enough, but the operation has become a
bit complicated in the past several months. With the economy
obviously sluggish, the Fed has wanted to lean a little
toward ease when it can do so without worsening the
also-worrisome inflation outlook. This has encouraged market
participants to watch the central bank's market actions
anxiously for any sign of the occasional move toward monetary
ease.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   On the day before Thanksgiving last year, the funds rate
stood at about 8 3/8%, slightly below the 8 1/2% rate that
the markets thought was the Fed's current target. So what did
the central bank do? It injected more reserves into the
banking system, convincing the markets that it wanted a lower
funds rate -- and thus an easier monetary policy.
   Well, it turned out that the Fed didn't want an easier
policy at all. On the day after Thanksgiving and on the
following Monday the central bank aggressively pulled out
reserves, pushing the funds rate back up to the desired 8
1/2%.
   What happened? No one knows for sure. The market
assumption is that the Thanksgiving surprise stemmed from a
Fed misjudgment of the reserves the banking system wanted or
needed. In any case, the central bank has continued to use
the funds rate as its policy signal, with some unusual
results.
   Presumably the Fed still wanted to give the economy a
friendly little nudge upward, when and if it could be done
without inflationary effects. Since Thanksgiving, in fact,
the funds rate has declined from 8 1/2% to 8%. To keep it
from falling faster, however, the Fed has had to pull
reserves out of the banking system. Since Thanksgiving, bank
reserves, the funds that make it possible for banks to make
loans to businesses and individuals, have actually declined.
So the central bank, which apparently thought it was moving
cautiously toward ease, was actually rather vigorously
tightening money.
   Last month another Thanksgiving-type surprise seemed
possible, but the Fed avoided it. Whether its tactic was
desirable is at least a matter for debate.
   A little explanation may be necessary. Banks hold reserve
balances with the Federal Reserve to meet their reserve
requirements -- on average over a two-week maintenance period
-- and to handle clearing of transactions among banks. Since
the Fed doesn't pay interest on these funds, the banks
naturally try to keep the reserve balances as low as
possible. They can borrow reserves from other banks through
the fed funds market and, in emergencies, they can borrow
directly from the Federal Reserve.
   In the reserve-maintenance period from Aug. 8 to Aug. 22,
Consolidated Edison threw a monkey wrench into the banks'
careful planning: On Aug. 13 it had a massive power outage in
lower Manhattan. There were a lot of news stories about
executives trapped in elevators or sweltering without air
conditioning, but less was said about the fact that wire
transfers of funds among banks and the Fed were fouled up.
   As Paul Kasriel, vice president and monetary economist at
Chicago's Northern Trust Co. recounts the period: "The real
rub came on the last day of the period, Aug. 22, when the
funds rate spiked to 60%. . . . Now we are talking money]"
   Obviously, there was a large reserve deficiency on that
day. Some banks were allowed to borrow from the Fed at the
discount rate of 7%, but many had to pay much higher rates.
As Mr. Kasriel comments, the banks, with their earnings
already sagging, didn't need this.
   The Federal Reserve could have supplied reserves to tide
the banks over what was a short-term problem. But if it had,
a lot of people in the markets and the media might have
concluded that the Fed, despite the Mideast mess, soaring oil
prices and market turmoil, was pushing ahead toward easier
money. The Thanksgiving surprise again. Heaven forbid.
   So the Fed's mission was accomplished. Certainly, with the
funds rate spiking up to 60%, no one assumed the Federal
Reserve was hellbent to ease money. And surely no one thought
the Fed had simply decided to forget about economic growth
and launch all-out war on inflation. But there was a better
way.
   "Wouldn't it be simpler and less costly to society for the
Fed to publicly announce its funds rate target every day?"
Mr. Kasriel asks. Indeed it would. Federal Reserve officials
react with horror at the idea, but I have yet to see what
damage it could do. Even the Fed, with the problems it has
had since last Thanksgiving, must be able to see that the
idea has some virtues.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0122
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0122.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Inco Unit's Smelter Explosion
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   N T.N
</CO>
<IN>
NON-FERROUS METALS (ONF)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Inco Ltd., a nickel producer, said that the
death toll from an explosion last week at its Indonesian
subsidiary's nickel smelter rose to six from a previously
reported two, and that the company was still seeking to
evaluate damage and the effect on production.
   The explosion took place in one of the smelter's three
furnaces, after the first week of a five-week shutdown for
maintenance and expansion. The smelter is operated by Inco's
58%-owned subsidiary, PT International Nickel Indonesia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0121
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0121.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   IBM Unveils Long-Awaited Mainframes
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   IBM
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y. -- International Business Machines
Corp. introduced its long-awaited next generation of
mainframes, in an announcement that stuck pretty close to
expectations.
   The most powerful of the new mainframes, which will cost
as much as $22.8 million, will be available in about a year.
IBM, making the announcement at a mainframe facility here,
said those machines will be 1.7 to 1.9 times as powerful as
its fastest existing machine. IBM executives said they
expected that increase -- to what consultants say is more
than 210 mips, or million instructions per second -- will let
IBM maintain bragging rights as the seller of the fastest
mainframe around.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   With Hitachi Ltd. and Fujitsu Ltd. of Japan planning to
start shipping very powerful new generations of
IBM-compatible mainframes at around the same time, though,
consultants have said that the race will at least be closer
than ever, and that IBM could for the first time find itself
in second or third place in terms of processing power. IBM
has been losing market share in the mainframe area, falling
from its traditional 90% of the IBM-compatible market to
around 80% currently, and any loss of top-gun status for IBM
could help that erosion continue.
   While waiting for the most advanced machines in the new
System 390 family to become available, IBM will sell five
"transition" machines. The machines, though labeled as part
of the new family, will essentially just repackage the guts
of the existing line in the new, refrigerator-sized cabinets.
Those machines, available immediately, also will include
fiber-optic channels, which sharply increase the speed at
which the mainframes can grab data from storage devices and
allow those devices to be located as much as six miles from
the mainframe, compared with a 400-foot limit at the moment.
   Frank Gens, a consultant with International Data Corp.,
said the prices on the transition machines amount to a 16% to
20% price cut off the machines now being sold. That is in
line with the normal annual drop in computer prices.
   George Conrades, an IBM senior vice president, said in
response to a question at a news conference that he thinks
the transition models will let IBM move to the new line
without hurting its revenue or earnings outlook.
   "There's no question that in June and July there has been
some pause, but . . . we see a resumption in demand and
supply . . . and would expect to (meet our projections) both
this year and next," he said.
   Some securities analysts have worried that IBM's mainframe
revenue will plunge in coming quarters, as customers stop
buying the current technology while they wait for the most
powerful of the new machines to become available. Many
customers interviewed in recent weeks have said they plan to
take a wait-and-see approach in deciding whether to buy a
transition machine or whether just to wait a year for the
more powerful machines. "There's really nothing new" in the
transition machines, said Peter J. Daboul, senior vice
president of information systems services at Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co. He added that "we're beginning to
see the mainframe becoming more of a commodity."
   Any disruption in sales would be serious for IBM because
IBM's mainframes -- together with related peripheral devices,
software and maintenance -- account for more than half of its
revenue and earnings. Partly because of such concerns, IBM's
stock has tumbled from more than $122 in recent weeks;
yesterday, it closed at $102.375, down 12.5 cents in
composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
   IBM also announced minicomputers as part of the System 390
family that replace two of its current lines -- the venerable
4381 and the 9370 family. The comparable machines in the new
line run as much as four times as fast as the current 4381s
and twice as fast as the 9370s. The ratio of price to
performance is as much as 50% better on the new machines, IBM
said, and consultants have said they should sell well. Some
of the machines are available right away, and all but one are
available by next March, so these machines could help take up
any slack created by any transition problems for their bigger
brothers.
   The minicomputers will be able to use the same operating
systems that control the basic functions of the mainframes,
making these machines more of a family and less of a
hodgepodge. Using the same operating systems means a customer
could take an application, such as a payroll system, and run
it on any system from the least powerful in the 390 family up
to the most powerful, which is more than 100 times as fast.
   IBM also announced versions of two of its big operating
systems -- VM and VSE -- that will, among other things, let
users write bigger programs and handle larger data bases than
they can now.
   In addition, IBM announced "sysplex" capabilities, which
will let users lash together as many as eight of the new
mainframes in a way that should give them much more
flexibility and access to much more power. At the moment, if
the mainframe handling, say, an automated teller machine is
busy, someone has to wait to get his cash, even if the
mainframe's neighbor is sitting idle. Under "sysplex," the
transaction could automatically be passed to another machine.
The increase in available power will become even more
important as the decade unfolds if IBM is right that the
mainframe is moving away from its traditional work of
handling payroll and accounting and is becoming a "server,"
controlling the vast data bases that companies are trying to
make available to employees instantaneously to speed their
ability to make decisions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0120
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0120.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Horn &amp; Hardart Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   HOR
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Horn &amp; Hardart Co. closed the sale of its
Bojangles chicken-restaurant chain to a group including
Sienna Holdings, a closely held Los Angeles investment firm.
   In return for Bojangles, Horn &amp; Hardart received $20
million of its 14% senior subordinated debentures that the
group held. The group also assumed $4 million of liabilities
and capital leases.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0119
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0119.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   West Germany's Jobless Rate
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP
</CO>
<LP>
   FRANKFURT, West Germany -- West Germany's unemployment
rate fell to 6.9% in August from 7.1% in July, the Federal
Labor Office in Nuremberg said.
   The number of unemployed West Germans declined to
1,812,812 in August from 1,863,670 a month earlier, a decline
of 50,858. The figures are better than expectations of
analysts and economists, who had predicted the jobless rate
would remain flat at 7.1%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Separately, East Germany reported that its unemployment
level rose to 4.1% of the working population in August from a
3.1% level in July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0118
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0118.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Data Switch Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   DASW WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (CPR)
</IN>
<LP>
   DATA SWITCH Corp. (Shelton, Conn.) -- Michael Stashower, a
director, was named chief financial officer, succeeding
Rudolph Morin. Mr. Stashower was most recently executive vice
president of Softstrip Inc. Mr. Morin will remain executive
vice president and a director of Data Switch, a data
processing and communications systems concern, and will
become general manager of the T-Bar division and chief
development officer of the parent, a spokeswoman said. He
succeeds Gerrit Rohner as general manager of the T-Bar
division, a maker of small communications switching systems
and parts. Mr. Rohner died in July.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0117
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0117.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   My Hour of Fame on `Super Jeopardy]'
   ----
   By Eugene Finerman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   In 1987 I won $70,000, a reputation, and probably an
epitaph. "He was on `Jeopardy]'" is how I am often introduced
and frequently recognized. Being on television does have an
unavoidable glamour. People will gather around me, craving to
hear "all about Hollywood," as if nine appearances on a game
show qualifies me as a hot-tub intimate of the stars. I also
am expected to live up to the intellectual image of
"Jeopardy]"; everyone feels entitled to try stumping me with
trivia questions.
   Of course, there is the inevitable interest in how I have
spent my winnings. Despite the many temptations awaiting a
bachelor with money, I have not dissipated my fortune or
myself. The only urge that I gratified was to quit my job in
public relations and pursue a career as a writer. My
"Jeopardy]" windfall spares me from starving while I am
waiting for the New Yorker to appreciate me.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Many people are disappointed, however, that I am not
making a career of being a game-show hustler. Having enjoyed
fame and fortune on "Jeopardy]" how could I possibly resist
the enticements of "Wheel of Fortune" and "Hollywood
Squares"? I am advised to be a professional contestant, and
plunder one game show after another. In fact, the television
networks have a policy against that, and so do I. I would not
want to be on any game but "Jeopardy]"
   On the other shows, the prizes are the attraction; on
"Jeopardy]" the game itself is the appeal. A witty,
stimulating test of knowledge and recall, "Jeopardy]" poses a
tempting challenge: "Are you as smart as you think you are?"
I wanted to know; so I traveled to California at my own
expense, survived the audition's tests and interviews, and
achieved my footnote of fame. Once the dream had been
realized, my adventures on game shows were over. So I
sensibly thought; I forgot that dreams can recur.
   Three years later, a familiar voice from Hollywood
reintroduced himself and "Jeopardy]" to my life. Glenn was
the staff member in charge of the contestants, and now he
extended me a second chance to be one. "Jeopardy]" was
inviting its past champions to compete in what promised to be
the Armageddon of trivia: "Super Jeopardy]" This tournament
would start in three weeks and air as a summer series on
Saturday night on ABC. The greatest players ever on
"Jeopardy]" would vie to prove who was the best, and I was
among the chosen.
   If the honor were not incentive enough, "Super Jeopardy]"
also would provide transportation, hotel accommodations and
$5,000 for each contestant. Of course, there would be
additional inducements for winning. The tournament was
organized as nine quarterfinal matches, three semifinals and
one final match. A winner of a quarterfinal game would
receive $10,000. Victory in a semifinal match would be worth
$25,000. Then, in the final game, the three remaining
contestants would compete for the prize of a quarter million
dollars.
   Although elated by the invitation, I considered my
prospects with reasonable anxiety. The competition would be
more formidable than I had yet faced; worse, I was not as
sharp as I used to be. When still part of the corporate
world, I would read several newspapers and magazines
ostensibly for my work. Since my literary retreat, however, I
had become oblivious to vogues and fads. The celebrities on
the cover of People were increasingly unfamiliar. I had some
studying to do, and but three weeks to do it.
   Part of my regimen included scanning the past 200 issues
of "Time" magazine. I also read the newspaper with more than
usual care. I made a point of reading reviews by pompous
critics, the types who drop as many allusions as punctuation
will allow. My purpose was to look up the references if I did
not already know them. Finally, I would make up and subject
myself to a gauntlet of "Jeopardy]" questions.
   The questions on the show are a mischievous mix of the
profound and the trivial, on any subject under the sun and
past the censors. One could just as easily be asked about
Howdy Doody as the French Revolution. The questions can not
be too esoteric or complicated, since the game requires
succinct responses; but even if a contestant doesn't have to
explain Kierkegaard, he might have to spell it. The most
challenging questions often are about the obvious rather than
the arcane. "For whom was Tuesday named?" That kind of
provoking thought is what makes "Jeopardy]" so confounding
and entertaining.
   I was studying and packing until the very last minute. The
flight to California was routine, and my hotel was pleasant
although nothing the Japanese would buy. I arrived at the
studio no worse for the four hours of sleep that my nerves
begrudged me. There were 12 of us scheduled to compete. If
only as familiar faces, we already knew each other, since we
all were "Jeopardy]" fans as well as veterans. We acted as if
it were a reunion rather than a tournament. That homecoming
spirit pervaded the studio; being a star-struck Midwesterner,
I felt flattered to be remembered by Alex Trebek, the host of
"Jeopardy]"
   (What is he really like? Even when the cameras are off,
Alex is suave, clever and sly. In his astute manner, Alex
reminds me of a Jesuit, not the benevolent activist of today,
but the intriguing charmer of history and Dumas novels.)
   The one exception to this homecoming familiarity was
"Jeopardy]" itself. A number of changes had occurred to make
the game more "exciting" for prime time. Everything was
bigger but not necessarily brighter. One attempt at theatrics
incited a mutiny by the contestants.
   During the final "Jeopardy]" question, smoke props were to
be set off, cloaking the contestants in a dramatic mist. In
fact, it was choking us, and we prevailed upon the studio to
drop that gimmick. Since this also was the first day of
taping, everything was entitled to go wrong: short circuits,
jammed mechanisms and miscalculating score boards. We endured
more than three hours of delays.
   So how did I do? In the quarterfinal game, I played with
embarrassing recklessness, often trying to answer questions
before I had read them. My enthusiastic inaccuracies about
Burundi, Escoffier and the state fish of Alaska left me in
second place going into "Final Jeopardy]" The contestants
confronted this question: "At the time of this president's
inauguration, there were five former presidents still alive,
more than at any other time." I was the only one who knew
that the answer was Abraham Lincoln.
   My apparent brilliance and victory ironically were due to
Nancy Reagan and a review of her book, "My Turn." Both she
and her ghostwriter had contended that there now were four
living former presidents, more than in any other time in
history; the book reviewer commented that Mrs. Reagan
evidently did not consider Lincoln worth knowing. That
sarcasm proved to be a valuable recollection.
   The semifinal game started off as an exercise in
martyrdom. Despite my earnest ringing of the buzzer, in the
first third of the game I was consistently slower than my two
opponents. Fortunately, as the game progressed, I finally
acquired some coordination and made a fierce comeback. The
match's outcome largely was determined by luck.
   One of my rivals was an actor from New York, and he found
a "daily double" in the category of Broadway musicals. The
daily double allowed him to wager all he had on a single
question. He could not resist the temptation, and he was not
obliging enough to be wrong. That gave him a lead of 10,000
points, and even with my best effort, the most I could do was
to finish second.
   The finals will proceed without me, but my bruised vanity
has no restraint upon my enthusiasm for "Jeopardy]" I will be
an obsessive viewer of the "Super Jeopardy]" tournament,
which culminates, this Saturday, in that final game, for a
quarter million dollar prize. Of course, I will be
vicariously playing.
   At least I am the richer for the $10,000, the anecdotes,
and an hour more of videotape to add to my "Jeopardy]"
legacy. Someday, my grandchildren will look in amusement and
wonder at those tapes of gramps when he had hair, reflexes
and a memory. I hope that they realize the real lesson of
"Jeopardy]": Intelligence has glamour, too.
   ---
   Mr. Finerman is a free-lance writer in Chicago.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0116
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0116.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   MCA Completes Acquisition
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MCA CPX
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   UNIVERSAL CITY, Calif. -- MCA Inc. said it completed the
acquisition of Universal City Cinemas, an 18-screen movie
complex, from Cineplex Odeon Corp. of Canada for $45 million.
MCA, which is a major shareholder in Cineplex, said a unit of
the Toronto-based entertainment concern will continue to
manage the theater.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0115
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0115.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   OTC Focus:
   Market Increases on Higher Volume;
   Survival Technology Gains 1 1/4 to 10 3/4
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Over-the-counter stocks crept higher in quiet
trading as investors remained cautious about the economy and
the likelihood of peace in the Persian Gulf.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 0.77 to 382.44, a 0.2%
gain. Volume rose slightly to 89 million shares from 78.1
million Tuesday. Advancing stocks overtook decliners, 1,019
to 784. But stocks falling to new lows continued to swamp
those reaching new highs, 110 to 12.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At least one OTC stock got a boost from the Middle East
conflict. Survival Technology rebounded 1 1/4 to 10 3/4 after
the Bethesda, Md., maker of nerve gas antidote kits said it
received a contract worth about $4.8 million from the
Department of Defense. The shares last month rose to a
52-week high of 15 1/4 as the company began to see a pickup
in orders for the kits following the U.S. troop deployment in
the Persian Gulf.
   Overall, traders said much of the day's trading was
lackluster as investors continued to wait for news on the
economic front or from the Middle East. "I haven't been made
a believer in a rally," said E.E. "Buzz" Geduld, president of
Herzog, Heine &amp; Geduld in New York. Mr. Geduld said he isn't
seeing enough conviction among investors in OTC stocks to
convince him that the shares will rally.
   Technology issues ended the day mixed. Mr. Geduld said
interest in the issues wasn't very keen. Oracle Systems, the
day's most active stock, fell 1/2 to 10 5/8 as some analysts
reported expectations of slowing growth in the semiconductor
industry.
   Among other technology issues, Intel fell 1 to 32 1/2;
Conner Peripherals added 5/8 to 22 1/4; Sun Microsystems
gained 1/8 to 29 1/8; Adobe Systems advanced 3/8 to 28 1/2;
Seagate Technology fell 1 to 9 and Microsoft tumbled 3 1/4 to
59.
   Financial and insurance issues were among the day's
gainers. First Liberty Financial rose 3/4 to 6 1/4;
Cincinnati Financial jumped 1 3/4 to 85 1/2; insurer Old
Republican International added 1/8 to 25; and NAC Re, a
reinsurance holding company, advanced 1 3/4 to 30 3/4. The
Nasdaq Insurance Index gained 1.88 to 447.56. Two of Nasdaq's
three other financial indexes ended the day higher.
   Strong earnings fed gains in two restaurant stocks:
Cracker Barrel Old Country Store rose 1 1/2 to 23 1/2 and
Vicorp Restaurants climbed 1 7/8 to 24 1/2. Cracker Barrel,
of Lebanon, Tenn., reported that net income for the fourth
quarter ended Aug. 3 rose to 47 cents a share from 36 cents a
year earlier. Vicorp, headquartered in Denver, said net
income for the third quarter ended Aug. 5 jumped to 41 cents
a share from 25 cents a year earlier.
   Peerless Manufacturing gained 1 to 16 3/4 after the Dallas
maker of equipment for the natural gas industry posted
operating profit for fiscal 1990 ended in June of $1.52 a
share up sharply from five cents in 1989.
   Earnings growth also boosted Duty Free International 1 3/4
to 20 1/4. The Ridgefield, Conn., operator of duty-free
retail stores reported that net income for the second quarter
ended July 31 rose to 41 cents a share from 35 cents a year
earlier.
   G-III Apparel Group slid 1 1/4 to 6 3/4 after the New York
apparel maker said it expects to report that earnings for
fiscal 1990, ended July 31, ranged between $1.70 and $1.80 a
share, up from $1.28 in 1989 on a pro forma basis.
   That projection is well below the range indicated last
week by G-III chief financial officer Alan Feller. Mr. Feller
said last Monday the company expected year-end earnings in
the range of $1.95 a share, an estimate given by Oppenheimer
&amp; Co. analyst Dennis S. Rosenberg. Oppenheimer underwrote an
initial offering of G-III last December at $13 a share.
   Advanced Logic Research fell 1/2 to 9 after the Irvine,
Calif., maker of microcomputer systems announced a 14% price
cut in one of its computer products.
   FNB Rochester continued its slide after calling off merger
talks Tuesday with a Turkish investor group. Shares of the
Rochester, N.Y., bank holding company tumbled 1 1/4 to 6 3/4
after Tuesday's 3/4-point fall.
   Analysts comments sparked gains in Medical Care
International and Borland International and losses in K-Swiss
and Chips &amp; Technologies, according to Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report.
   Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette initiated analyst coverage of
Borland with a "buy" recommendation and put the Scotts
Valley, Calif., maker of computer software products on its
list of shares recommended for purchase. Analyst Scott Smith
told DJPIR he thinks the company's "broad product line and
new product momentum" will allow Borland not only to emerge
as a software leader but also weather a recession. Borland
rose 1/2 to 17 1/8.
   Medical Care International gained 1 1/4 to 38 after
Donaldson Lufkin &amp; Jenrette analyst John F. Hindelong
repeated a "buy" opinion on the Dallas operator of outpatient
surgical centers Tuesday after the market closed. Mr.
Hindelong told DJPIR he expects Medical Care to earn $1.45 a
share in 1990 compared with 96 cents a share in 1989. A group
including FMR Corp., a Boston holding company, has an 11.8%
stake in the company.
   Class A shares of K-Swiss tumbled 1 1/4 to 18 1/2 after
Merrill Lynch analyst Brenda Gall reduced her 1990 and 1991
earnings estimates for the newly public maker of athletic
footwear. DJPIR reported that Ms. Gall maintains her
near-term "attractive" and long-term "buy" opinions on the
stock.
   K-Swiss Chief Financial Officer George Powlick said that
Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. analyst Jay J. Meltzer also recently
lowered his earnings estimates. However, Mr. Powlick declined
comment on the analysts' actions and on specific estimates.
K-Swiss went public June 5 at $17.50 a share in an
underwriting led by Goldman Sachs.
   Chips &amp; Technologies fell 3/4 to 11 1/2 after Goldman
Sachs analyst Rajiv Chaudhri downgraded his investment rating
on the stock to "hold" from "attractive" and lowered his
earnings estimates for the San Jose, Calif., maker of
computer chips.
   Mr. Chaudhri said continued pressure on prices, erosion of
market share and increasing operating expenses are likely to
curtail the company's earnings for the next several quarters,
DJPIR reported. He cut his earnings estimate for the
company's fiscal first quarter ending Sept. 30 to 15 cents a
share from 35 cents, compared with the year-earlier earnings
of 58 cents a share.
   ---
   Craig S. Smith contributed to this column.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0114
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0114.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pinnacle West to Use
   PacifiCorp Proceeds
   To Reduce Its Debt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PPW PNW
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Pinnacle West Capital Corp., after agreeing to
a power-swapping deal that ended efforts by PacifiCorp to
acquire the company, said it would use proceeds from the deal
to reduce debt.
   At a meeting with securities analysts, Pinnacle West said
it would add the proceeds to its $750 million debt-reduction
plan, increasing the plan to $970 million by the end of 1993.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Analysts were surprised yesterday by the subdued reaction
of investors attending the meeting, many of whom saw Pinnacle
West stock plunge Tuesday to $12.375 a share from $16.125 as
arbitragers unloaded stock in large quantities. The stock
recovered, however, to $12.875 a share yesterday in another
day of heavy trading. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange
totaled 1.7 million shares yesterday and 2.2 million on
Tuesday compared with 130,000 on Friday before the
announcement of the pact.
   "People came out of the meeting with a feeling that while
there would be no instant gratification from a sale of
Pinnacle West, the company was doing the right things to
improve in the long run," said Barry Abramson, a utility
analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. Last Friday,
Pinnacle West announced an agreement to swap electric power
on a seasonal basis with PacifiCorp, effectively ending
efforts by PacifiCorp to acquire Pinnacle West for $21 a
share, or $1.82 billion. PacifiCorp agreed to pay $220
million in cash for exchange of power from Arizona Public
Service Co., a Pinnacle West utility subsidiary.
   Yesterday, Pinnacle West Chairman Richard Snell praised
the pact, saying he was "absolutely convinced" that it was a
"heck of a deal." Mr. Snell said that with the addition of
$220 million, Pinnacle would be able to retire $970 million
in debt by the end of 1993. As result, Pinnacle West hopes to
raise the book value of the company to $20 a share compared
to $16.31 in 1989 and restore its common-stock dividend by
the end of 1993. The company suspended its quarterly payout
of 40 cents a share last October.
   After the meeting, Mr. Snell said in an interview that
PacifiCorp's $21-a-share offer was "substantially" below the
company's own assessment of its value. He wouldn't elaborate,
but some analysts said the difference was about $3 a share.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0113
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0113.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology &amp; Health:
   Smoking Parents
   Risk Tots' Health,
   According to Study
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
</IN>
<LP>
   Children exposed to heavy amounts of tobacco smoke at home
are more than twice as likely to develop lung cancer later in
life than those who grow up in smoke-free households, a new
study says.
   The finding adds to the growing body of evidence that
nonsmokers' health may be damaged by other people's smoke. It
is one of the first studies to find that parents who smoke
present a potential cancer risk to their children.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "It may be particularly important to protect children and
adolescents from this environmental hazard," say the authors
of the report, published in today's edition of the New
England Journal of Medicine.
   But the report found no statistically significant link
between lung cancer among nonsmokers and spouses who smoke,
or environmental smoke from the workplace or social settings
such as restaurants -- a development a representative of the
tobacco industry considered encouraging.
   The report "is in agreement with what we've been saying
{about} environmental tobacco smoke in the workplace, the
home and social settings for adults," said Steve Parrish,
vice president, corporate scientific affairs, at Philip
Morris Cos., New York. He also played down the significance
of the conclusion about the impact on children, saying
several other studies didn't turn up any evidence of
increased cancer risk.
   Mr. Parrish said the report supports the industry's
position that there isn't any justification for banning use
of tobacco in the workplace.
   The study's findings were based on interviews with 191
nonsmokers recently diagnosed with lung cancer in 23 counties
in New York State as well as 191 nonsmoking control subjects,
matched by age, sex and county of residence.
   The researchers, led by Dwight T. Janerich, an
epidemiologist at the Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Conn., focused on exposure to tobacco smoke in the
household, although they also queried participants about
workplace and social setting exposures.
   Why children would be vulnerable to cancer is a question
for further study, Dr. Janerich said, but he speculated that
their lungs could be more suspectible to damage from smoke
than those of adults or that a long latency period is
required for the cancer to develop. The average age of cancer
patients in the study was about 67. Dr. Janerich disputed
that the report undermined previous research showing a 38%
increased risk of lung cancer for nonsmokers living with
smoking spouses. He also said non-household data wasn't
sufficiently firm to reach definitive conclusions.
   The study estimated that 17% of lung cancer among
nonsmokers "can be attributed to high levels of exposure to
cigarette smoke" at home when they were under 21 years old.
The scientists defined high levels as at least 25
"smoker-years" of exposure -- a calculation based on the
number of years a person lived in a residence multiplied by
the number of people in the household who smoked.
   The researchers acknowledged that the findings could have
been affected by the differences in the ability of
participants to recall details of lifetime tobacco exposure.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0112
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0112.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Help-Wanted Ads
   Stayed at Low Level
   In Survey for July
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
ECONOMIC AND MONETARY INDICATORS (EMI)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Help-wanted advertising continued its sluggish
pace in July, unchanged from June's five-year low.
   The Conference Board said its index of help-wanted
advertising remained at 132 in July, sharply down from a
year-earlier 147. June's figure was revised from 133. The
index, a seasonally adjusted indicator of hiring plans, uses
1967 as a base of 100.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Although July's lackluster results had been expected, the
Conference Board said a previously optimistic outlook for the
second half has been harmed by the risk of war in the Middle
East.
   "As of Aug. 1, the economy in general, and the labor
market in particular, was poised for a modest uptick in the
second half of this year," said Conference Board economist
Ken Goldstein. "However, events in the Middle East changed
all that." Iraq invaded Kuwait Aug. 2, leading to the current
armed standoff in the region between Iraq and U.S.-led forces
and a world-wide trade embargo against Iraq.
   Mr. Goldstein said exporters, business investors and
consumers are more likely to put some plans on hold because
of that crisis. As a result, no big staff expansions are
expected in the next few months, which could hurt chances of
quickly turning around help-wanted volume growth.
   Nevertheless, the independent business research group said
it doesn't expect the economy to head into a recession,
although growth will be sluggish.
   The worsening economic prospects could be harmful to the
New England and Middle Atlantic states, which seemed on the
verge of coming out of a steep decline. The New England
region posted a 2.5% increase in want-ad volume in July.
   Job advertising in the Mountain, East South Central and
Pacific regions started to decline at a faster pace in July,
the Conference Board said. The West South Central region
remained stable, however.
   The index is compiled from monthly surveys of advertising
volume in 51 major newspapers.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0111
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0111.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sooners, Better Late Than Never,
   Lift the Lid on Capitol Spending
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<LP>
   OKLAHOMA CITY -- They're raising the roof here, but
they're doing it by the book -- sort of.
   In a 1989 novel by Jim Lehrer, fictional Oklahoma Gov.
Buffalo Joe Haman -- Chip to his friends -- is tormented by
the sight of the statehouse's flat roof, a mocking reminder
that in 1916 his state ran out of money before it could build
a dome atop the capitol. He exhorts any crowd of two or more
citizens to "Crown Oklahoma," which happens to be the title
of the book by Mr. Lehrer, of public television's
McNeil/Lehrer News Hour.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Actually, Oklahomans did run out of money before finishing
the capitol building in 1916. After Oklahoma wildcatters
struck oil in the late 1920s, the state had the means to
complete the dome but lost interest. State residents were
content to boast of the only state capitol in the U.S. with
working oil wells on its grounds.
   Now, since the capitol wells and the state economy began
drying up in the mid-1980s, there is growing sentiment here
to raise the dome and, with it, state morale. So Gov. Henry
Bellmon and Capitol DOMERS Inc. (Dedicated Oklahomans
Marshaling Excellence and Rallying Spirits) have kicked off a
fund-raising campaign not only to crown the statehouse but
also to pave a piece of its lawn.
   The DOMERS group has its roots in the recession that has
gripped the state for much of the past decade. In 1987,
Oklahoma City activist Carol Gwin decided that finishing the
capitol building could lift the state's spirits. To get the
job done, she recruited other retirees, including Adm.
William J. Crowe, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and currently a professor at the University of
Oklahoma.
   The nonprofit group hopes to raise $14 million for the
dome and to build a plaza at the south entrance of the
capitol building. To help raise the money, the group is
offering citizens the right -- for $250 each -- to have
paving stones for the plaza engraved with names of their
choosing. "This is a symbol of our efforts to move forward,"
says architect Paul B. Meyer, a consultant to the Capitol
Preservation Commission.
   After Mr. Lehrer's book appeared, members fell into a long
debate. Should they lift its title for the name of their
campaign? "We would have had to make it `Crown Oklahoma,
Crown Oklahoma,'" cracks Mr. Meyer, "because Buffalo Joe had
a habit of saying everything twice." Instead the group
settled for "Raising Oklahoma."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0110
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0110.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Timken to Build Plant in Brazil
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TKR
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
</IN>
<LP>
   CANTON, Ohio -- Timken Co., which produces bearings and
specialty steel, said it will spend about $5 million to build
a machining facility in Santa Barbara d'Oeste, Brazil, about
95 miles north of Sao Paulo, as part of the company's
previously announced $1 billion capital investment program.
The plant will turn forgings into bearing cups and cones.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0109
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0109.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What We're Not Prepared for From Saddam's Arsenal
   ----
   By Frank J. Gaffney Jr.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   How would the U.S. government and the American people
react if the following nightmarish scenario materialized?
   The U.S. is at the brink of war with an adversary armed
with a terrifyingly lethal weapon -- one capable of
inflicting massive military and civilian casualties. So
frightening is this weapon that its possession has been
globally banned by international agreement. As a result, the
U.S. does not possess an in-kind deterrent to the use of such
a weapon against its forces or people; worse yet, it lacks
virtually any capability to minimize the devastation the
enemy might inflict by that use.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Does this sound too awful to be plausible? Unfortunately,
the U.S. faces just such a prospect today in the threat posed
by Iraq's potential for biological warfare and America's
vulnerability to such an attack. Amid the feverish
speculation about the risk of an Iraqi chemical attack, this
weapon in Saddam Hussein's deadly bag of tricks has received
altogether too little attention.
   In 1972, the U.S. and virtually every other civilized
nation signed the Biological Weapons Convention, which
prohibits the development, stockpiling and use of biological
arms. In accordance with the convention's terms, the U.S. has
none of these terrible weapons that kill through the use of
various strains or combinations of toxic viruses, some
capable of replicating and spreading extremely rapidly.
   This is so even though powerful evidence exists that
others around the world, notably the Soviet Union and Iraq,
have proceeded to acquire biological weapon capabilities,
notwithstanding the convention. In fact, within the past few
weeks, the Soviet newspaper Literaturnaya Gazeta disclosed
that a notorious accident in Sverdlovsk was -- as the Reagan
administration long maintained -- an "accident" in the Soviet
biological warfare program.
   In the face of such evidence, it is nothing less than
scandalous that the U.S. government has failed for more than
15 years to conduct meaningful research even into defensive
measures required to detect, type and neutralize the effects
of lethal biological warfare. As a result, there is now
little more than a vestigial -- indeed, pathetic -- program
in place for protecting Americans against biological weapon
attacks.
   Most terrifying of all, with the dawn of the era of
genetic engineering, even nations with relatively
unsophisticated technology bases can acquire toxic viruses
that defy ready classification, require complex antidotes --
if any exist -- and can penetrate the charcoal filtration
systems of the best protective equipment.
   For years, American policy makers have treated the growing
menace of noncompliance with the Biological Weapons
Convention with benign neglect. The crisis with Iraq makes
obvious what should have been understood all along: Such a
policy is irresponsible and potentially disastrous.
   If the U.S. chooses for moral or other reasons to remain
bound by the Biological Weapons Convention's prohibition on
possessing offensive biological weapons -- effectively
denying itself on a unilateral basis an in-kind deterrent --
it must at the very least now undertake a crash program of
research into technologies associated with detecting, typing
and defending against biological warfare.
   The U.S. must also avoid the present temptation to repeat
the mistakes inherent in the Biological Weapons Convention.
Completing a new and utterly unverifiable treaty banning
chemical weapons -- as the Bush administration is determined
to do -- will simply add yet another technology to the list
of biological and toxin weapons possessed by renegade
nations, but not by those that abide by international
agreements.
   What is more, the present danger that Saddam might employ
biological weapons (or, for that matter, any of the other
instruments of genocide at his disposal) against the forces
or people of the U.S. or those of friendly nations is just
one more argument for taking urgent steps to eliminate this
threat. Saddam in the past has shown no hesitation in using
genocidal weapons. Thousands of Kurds within Iraq, who were
the victims of his chemical warfare, can attest to that.
   As Sen. Richard Lugar (D., Ind.), a senior member of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee and respected authority on
international affairs, observed last week: "I think {if
Saddam Hussein merely takes his troops and leaves Kuwait, it
would} leave us in a very unsatisfactory situation. . . .
Saddam Hussein must either leave {office} or be removed.
Likewise, {his} nuclear facilities and . . . chemical
facilities should be destroyed."
   Iraq's unprovoked aggression has created a unique
opportunity and compelling justification for carrying out
Sen. Lugar's prescription. Accordingly, President Bush should
immediately issue an ultimatum to the government of Saddam
Hussein. It should require within 48 hours:
   -- The immediate withdrawal of all Iraqi forces from and
relinquishing of Baghdad's control over Kuwait.
   -- An agreement to destroy within 30 days and under
international supervision all biological, chemical and
nuclear weapons-related facilities and stockpiles and
ballistic missile sites.
   -- The immediate release of all Western nationals now
being held hostage.
   Such an ultimatum may encourage Iraqi opposition elements
to remove Saddam if he refuses to comply. Absent Iraqi
compliance, however, the U.S. (and such allied forces as are
willing to participate) should move swiftly and with deadly
effect against his regime, its power base and particularly
its lethal arsenal of weapons of mass destruction.
   ---
   Mr. Gaffney, formerly a senior Defense Department
official, is the director of the Center for Security Policy
in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0108
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0108.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Supplies of Oil
   Start to Shrink,
   Firming Prices
   ---
   Inventories Sufficient Now,
   But Consumer Shortages
   Seen by Mid-November
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
ENERGY DEPARTMENT (ERG)
</GV>
<LP>
   World oil inventories are beginning to shrink as a result
of the Middle East crisis, suggesting tight supplies may lie
ahead at the consumer level.
   While more than enough oil is available now, shortages
could develop by the last half of the fourth quarter, John
Easton Jr., an assistant energy secretary, told a House
committee yesterday.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Whether oil supplies become that tight or not, the mere
prospect of such a development is keeping prices firm.
Petroleum prices rose again yesterday, though traders
attributed the increases more to tough talk by President
George Bush and Iraq's Saddam Hussein than to fundamental
supply and demand factors.
   North Sea crudes increased between 65 and 95 cents a
barrel. U.S. refiners raised field postings for West Texas
Intermediate, the American benchmark crude, 75 cents to
$28.25 a barrel. In U.S. futures trading, the price of a
similar crude for October delivery was up 65 cents to settle
at $29.77 a barrel. Though the futures price of October
gasoline fell 2.25 cents a gallon to 92.27 cents, traders had
expected a correction in the wake of Tuesday's big run-up of
more than eight cents a gallon.
   Above-ground stores of crude oil and petroleum products --
enough to be considered a surplus before Iraq's Aug. 2
invasion of Kuwait -- still are relatively high. They have
provided a comfortable cushion for the world's fuel users,
despite the loss to oil markets of 4.3 million barrels a day
that Iraq and Kuwait had exported before the global embargo.
   But they aren't expected to remain at such levels much
longer. Inventories are coming down, oil analysts say,
because petroleum demand has risen beyond seasonal
expectations on war fears, and because of the time it is
taking for promised supply increases to reach the market.
Several producers with idle capacity, including leading
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
are increasing output sufficiently to replace the bulk of the
missing Iraqi oil. But production technicalities and shipping
delays will delay the effect on oil markets by several weeks.
   As a result, "We are beginning to see the initial evidence
of some drawdowns" in oil inventories, said John Redpath, an
analyst with Energy Security Analysis, which tracks world oil
supplies.
   Though petroleum products generally had been considered to
be in balance before the Iraqis occupied Kuwait, there was a
surplus of crude oil. The crude "overhang," as the glut was
known in the industry, was estimated to be 100 million to 300
million barrels.
   Washington-based Energy Security Analysis set the crude
surplus at the lower end of the range. In late July,
according to its estimates, crude oil accounted for 1.56
billion barrels of the total petroleum inventories of 2.8
billion barrels.
   "Since then, it's very conceivable we have used 60 million
barrels of the overhang" of 100 million barrels, Mr. Redpath,
the analyst, said.
   The International Energy Agency estimates that inventories
have been drawn down steadily since the Middle East crisis
developed but at rates averaging only about 300,000 barrels a
day. However, the Paris-based agency reported yesterday that
it expects a "large" drawdown in commercial inventories this
month, before the effect of the OPEC output increases becomes
significant. Some International Energy Agency officials have
estimated that this month's withdrawals could exceed one
million barrels a day.
   The U.S. had been expected to be relatively immune to the
inventory reductions for a while, because it had been
receiving only modest amounts of Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. But
yesterday, signs emerged that the U.S. already is affected.
According to the American Petroleum Institute's weekly
report, U.S. crude oil inventories dropped 4.4 million
barrels last week to 372.2 million.
   Because oil companies have the inventories from which they
can draw supplies as needed, the world oil market "is
generally well supplied," according to the International
Energy Agency's monthly oil report yesterday. But the
International Energy Agency forecasts that supplies will
become "increasingly tighter" during the peak-demand winter
months.
   In testimony before the House Government Operations
Committee yesterday, Mr. Easton, the Energy Department
official, agreed. He said that while the current oil supply
is more than adequate, shortages could develop before year
end. He said the Energy Department is "readying" the 590
million-barrel Strategic Petroleum Reserve for use "when the
conditions of the statute and public policy require it."
   So far, the Bush administration has refrained from drawing
on the reserve the government has built up to protect the
country from an oil emergency. But Mr. Easton insisted that
the government stands ready to tap into it. "We are prepared
to use it in concert with our allies at the time we see
significant supply interruption," he told the House
committee.
   Mr. Easton also predicted that by December, through
heightened U.S. production efforts, "We will have been able
to secure out of Alaska alone an additional 250,000 barrels
{of oil} a day."
   ---
   Hilary Stout contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0107
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0107.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Letters to the Editor:
   A Prayer
   For Three Souls
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<GV>
SUPREME COURT (SUP)
</GV>
<LP>
   After reading Jerry Della Femina's irrational and
emotional diatribe against Catholicism and Judge David Souter
("Souter Nomination Shows Pogo Was Right," editorial page,
Aug. 14), I added him and his children to the list of those
for whom I pray daily. I will pray for the re-conversion of
Mr. Della Femina to the Catholicism he left 40 years ago. I
will pray that his four-year-old daughter develops a deep
reverence for life so that she will never even consider
killing her unborn child. I will pray that his 15-month-old
son develops an abhorrence toward perversion so that he will
resist the temptations of homosexuality. Cognizant of the
rebelliousness of children against their parents' moral
values (or lack thereof), I am confident that at least two of
my prayers may be answered.
   Delores Dautremont
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Simi Valley, Calif.
   ---
   Having finished reading Mr. Della Femina's article, I
discovered my mistake; but halfway through it I had decided
he was pro-life.
   He wrote, "If the future freedom of our children is not a
litmus test of a Supreme Court Justice, what is?" Well, Mr.
Della Femina, what future is there for the baby who has been
aborted?
   Kevin W. Kaufman
   West Lafayette, Ind.
   ---
   I'm sorry I don't have an advertising budget to send Mr.
Della Femina's way, but I extend my thanks for enunciating
feelings I've had for a long time. Where did my familiar GOP
pick up this authoritarian streak? I've always felt the
least-intrusive government worked best, whether business
relationships, the courts or our private lives were involved.
To Messrs. Bush, Souter, et al., I say, "Get outta my face."
   Eric M. Davis
   Prior Lake, Minn.
   ---
   It's very apparent to me that Mr. Della Femina hasn't the
foggiest idea what the duty of a Supreme Court justice is. It
is to interpret law. Not to make it]
   It doesn't matter what he looks like, where he lives, his
marital status, or his opinion on abortion for that matter.
If he's a good judge he will put his personal opinions aside
and interpret law.
   Matthew Klipfel
   Lincoln, Neb.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0106
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0106.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Norcen Energy Resources Ltd.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   T.NCN NCN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NORCEN ENERGY RESOURCES Ltd. (Calgary, Alberta) -- Barry
D. Cochrane was appointed president and chief executive
officer of this oil and gas concern, effective Jan. 1,
succeeding Edward G. Battle, who will assume the post of
chairman. Mr. Cochrane, 55 years old, has served as Norcen's
executive vice president and chief operating officer since
last year. Mr. Battle, 59, will succeed Paul M. Marshall as
chairman; Mr. Marshall will become deputy chairman.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0105
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0105.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Barclays PLC:
   Pact Set to Acquire 60%
   Of Canadian Fund Manager
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C5
</SO>
<CO>
   BCS
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   Barclays Bank of Canada, Toronto, said its parent,
Barclays PLC of Britain, agreed in principle to buy 60% of
E.J. McConnell &amp; Associates Ltd., a Canadian independent fund
manager. Terms weren't disclosed.
   The purchase will be made through the BZW Investment
Management Ltd. unit of Barclays, one of Britain's leading
fund managers, with more than 38 billion Canadian dollars
(US$32.78 billion) in institutional investments under its
management world-wide. E.J. McConnell has more than C$3
billion under management, Barclays said, adding that Ted
McConnell, the founder of E.J. McConnell, will remain
president of the firm.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   BZW and E.J. McConnell have worked together since
launching a joint fund, Barclays McConnell International
Fund, in early 1989. The fund has attracted more than C$100
million, Barclays said.
   The transaction is subject to completion of a definitive
agreement and regulatory approvals, Barclays said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0104
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0104.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Phoenix Network Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PHXN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   PHOENIX NETWORK Inc. (Sausalito, Calif.) -- Marc L.
Goyette, 35 years old, chief operating officer and executive
vice president, was promoted to the post of president. He
will remain chief operating officer. Mr. Goyette succeeds
Thomas H. Bell, the company's founder, who will continue as
chief executive officer and chairman. Phoenix Network is a
long distance telecommunications network manager.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0103
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0103.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Security Pacific Corp.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SPC
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   SECURITY PACIFIC Corp. of Los Angeles said it plans to
sell $125 million of floating rate notes. Proceeds would be
used for general corporate purposes. The rate on the notes,
which will be priced at par, will be reset quarterly at 25
basis points above the three-month London interbank offered
rates. A basis point is 1/100th of a percentage point.
Interest will be paid quarterly. The notes mature Sept. 15,
1993, and are non-callable over the life of the issue.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0102
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0102.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   The Myth of Domestic Spending Cuts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   John Cogan, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution and
a former deputy director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Timothy J. Muris, a law professor at George Mason
University and a former executive associate director of OMB,
recently completed a study of domestic discretionary spending
in the 1980s. A summary follows:
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the current budget summit, not all spending cuts have
been created equal. Domestic discretionary programs -- these
for which Congress annually appropriates funds -- are widely
felt to be exempt from serious restraint.
   This view follows from the conviction that these programs
were deeply slashed during the Reagan years. As Rep. William
Gray (D., Penn.), former chairman of the House Budget
Committee declared: "We've squeezed the fat, the skin and
some of the muscle out of these domestic programs. Now we are
down to the marrow."
   But contrary to the prevailing view, budget data reveal
that domestic discretionary spending grew only slightly less
quickly than inflation during the years 1981-89. There was
one year of budget cutting, 1981, followed by seven years of
rapid growth, growth that has accelerated in the 1990s. By
1989, this growth had effectively restored the aggregate
level of non-entitlement domestic spending to its
inflation-adjusted 1981 level.
   How could the widely held view that the domestic budget
has been cut viciously be so utterly wrong? One problem is
that the most frequently used measures of government spending
are highly misleading. For example, it is often assumed that
the figures the government shows for "outlays" are the same
as total spending. This is not correct. Outlays are recorded
net of certain payments made to the government from the
public. Worse, outlays are recorded only when a check is
actually issued, not when the government takes on an
obligation. Outlays for many programs, therefore, often occur
years after the programs have been funded.
   Another commonly used but misleading indicator is
"appropriated budget authority." In theory, appropriated
budget authority is the amount of money an agency has to
spend on a program. In fact, though, appropriated budget
authority is only one method of financing a program. Other
methods have been used with increasing frequency during the
1980s, to enable Congress to produce the appearance of budget
cutting while the total amount available to spend has been
maintained or increased.
   One such method is to require the public to pay a user fee
for a particular government service and to allow the agency
providing the service to use the proceeds to cover a portion
of the agency's cost. By increasing the amount of the fee and
reducing the amount of appropriated budget authority,
Congress can increase the amount of money the agency has to
spend while reducing the agency's budget on the government's
books.
   This is what occurred in the Department of Commerce's
Patent and Trademark Office. Application fees were increased
in the early 1980s and the proceeds made available to the
agency to spend. Revenues from the fees rose from zero in
1981 to nearly $100 million in 1989. As a result, the actual
amount the agency had available to spend rose to $201 million
in 1989 from $116 million in 1981. The budget books,
meanwhile, claim a cut in the office's budget authority to
$109 million in 1989 from $116 million in 1981. The office's
outlays show a similar decline, to $108 million in 1989 from
$112 million in 1981.
   Another method Congress has found to finance discretionary
programs while concealing their cost is to transfer money
from entitlement programs to discretionary programs. For
example, funds appropriated for the Food Stamp program were
quietly transferred for several years during the 1980s to the
Agriculture Department's Extension Service to finance some of
its activities.
   None of the conventional measures of spending accurately
capture the monetary size of subsidized housing programs. In
the Department of Housing and Urban Development's subsidized
housing programs, the government enters into long-term
contracts with landlords to make housing units available for
low-income families at low rents. According to law, the
budget authority for these long-term contracts must be
appropriated on a "full funding" basis -- meaning that the
maximum expected costs of the contract are to be appropriated
before the contract is begun. If the government intends to
pay a $6,000 a year housing subsidy for 10 years, the "full
funding" rule requires the Appropriations Committee to
appropriate not $6,000 but $60,000. The rule is designed to
ensure that the government's full long-term liability is
accounted for when it decides to subsidize housing units.
   But the rule has an unfortunate side effect. By shortening
the length of the typical contract, the amount of
appropriated budget authority required to finance any
particular number of housing units can be reduced. The
housing budget can be "cut" while the number of subsidized
housing units is allowed to expand. This is precisely what
happened during the 1980s. Faced with pressures by the Reagan
administration to reduce appropriations, Congress cut the
average length of new contracts in half and continued to
finance additional housing units. Although budget authority
for subsidized housing programs declined by nearly 77% the
number of subsidized units and the number of families living
in these units increased by one-third.
   Once official budget data are adjusted to account for all
the various forms of spending, and the misleading impact of
housing programs is eliminated, the true extent of budget
growth is revealed. In the aggregate, spending grew slightly
less than inflation during the 1980s. Discretionary programs
were cut by 14% between 1981 and 1982, but over the next
seven years inflation-adjusted spending grew to eliminate the
impact of the cuts. Although the final results for fiscal
year 1990, which ends September 30, are not yet available,
budget authority alone for that year increased by an amount
about three times the inflation rate. Thus, if measured
through 1990, domestic discretionary spending growth in the
1980s exceeded the rate of inflation. And congressional
action to date would increase spending in 1991 by an even
greater amount than in 1990.
   We also collected data on bureau-level spending between
1981 and 1989. (Bureaus are typically administrative units
within agencies or departments, and they usually administer
more than one government program.) The data, presented in the
accompanying table, indicate that the increases in funding
levels in the 1980s were broadbased. Fifteen bureaus with
budgets of $1 billion or more registered inflation-adjusted
increases of at least 20%. These bureaus have responsibility
for a wide spectrum of government activities, ranging from
tax collection to environmental protection. Although much has
been made of the large growth in the defense budget during
the Reagan years, the budgets of the first 13 bureaus listed
in the table grew faster than the Department of Defense's
budget.
   Some bureaus did suffer major declines in budgetary
resources. Unlike the increases, the reductions were heavily
concentrated in a few large bureaus, particularly inner-city
job training, energy programs and programs to fund local
development projects for buildings, transit and dams. Just
eight bureaus accounted for 76% of all budget cuts. The
combined value of these cuts was, in today's dollars, some
$26 billion. The rest of the domestic discretionary budget
grew a total of 18%, after inflation, in the 1980s.
   Many advocates of increased spending for domestic programs
assert that because total non-entitlement domestic spending
was reduced during the 1980's, some restoration of resources
is in order. This view is wrong. There may be compelling
reasons for budget increases in certain domestic
discretionary programs, but the alleged austerity of the
Reagan years is not one of them.
   ---
                 Those Famous Reagan "Cuts"
                                                                                                       

                (In billions of 1989 dollars)
                                                                                                       

                                        BUDGETARY RESOURCES
                                                                                                       

                                                    PERCENT
 BUREAU                                  1981  1989  CHANGE
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Immigration and Naturalization Service   0.5   1.1   120
                                                                                                       

 Courts of Appeals                        0.6   1.1    83
                                                                                                       

 Internal Revenue Service                 3.3   5.2    58
                                                                                                       

 Handicapped Education                    1.4   2.1    50
                                                                                                       

 National Institutes of Health            4.9   7.2    47
                                                                                                       

 House and Senate
  Administrative Expenses                 0.7   1.0    43
                                                                                                       

 National Aeronautical and
  Space Administration                    7.8  10.9    40
                                                                                                       

 Alcohol, Drug Abuse &amp;
  Mental Health Administration            1.3   1.8    39
                                                                                                       

 National Park Service                    0.8   1.1    38
                                                                                                       

 National Science Foundation              1.4   1.9    36
                                                                                                       

 Federal Aviation Administration          4.8   6.5    35
                                                                                                       

 Federal Medicare/Medicaid
  Administration                          1.3   1.7    31
                                                                                                       

 Veterans Medical Care                    9.3  11.6    25
                                                                                                       

 Environmental Protection Agency          4.6   5.6    22
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0101
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0101.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   QSR Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   QSRI WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RESTAURANTS, FAST-FOOD, CATERING (RES)
</IN>
<LP>
   QSR Inc. (Fort Lauderdale, Fla.) -- C. Ronald Petty,
formerly president and chief operating officer of the Burger
King Corp. unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC, was named
president and chief executive officer of this restaurant
chain, succeeding Donald J. Ryan, who resigned in August.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0100
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0100.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corporate Focus:
   McDonnell Douglas Struggles to Revamp
   ---
   Firm's Woes Show Risks of
   Tackling Too Much at Once
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   MD LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
CORPORATE PROFILE (PRO)
</IN>
<LP>
   These would seem like heady days for McDonnell Douglas
Corp., what with the company's F-15 and F/A-18 jet fighters
and Apache attack helicopters soaring off to defend the
U.S.'s Middle East allies.
   Ever since Iraq swept into Kuwait, the talk of the
aerospace industry has been how the nation's top Pentagon
contractor is likely to benefit from the crisis, winning new
orders for its aircraft and finding additional support for
its new C-17 military cargo plane.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But the battle McDonnell Douglas remains most concerned
about is right in Long Beach, Calif., where it makes
commercial jetliners. There, the enemies are shop-floor
inefficiency and poor morale.
   Consider the plight of Tyee Aircraft Inc., which has tried
in vain to deliver thousands of metal tubes to McDonnell
Douglas's airliner factory for the past five months. Because
paperwork is being held up in the company's Byzantine
purchasing system, it won't accept the shipment.
   "My people are frustrated," says Tom Unger, Tyee
Aircraft's president. "McDonnell Douglas has stacks of paper,
and they don't know how to manage them. The normal turnaround
on this should be four to six weeks." Meanwhile, $60,000
worth of parts gather dust in Tyee's Everett, Wash.,
warehouse.
   So it goes more than 18 months into the "total quality"
revolution at McDonnell Douglas.
   Sparked by Chairman John McDonnell, the reorganization
aimed to produce aircraft at a reduced cost by getting the
rank and file more involved in decision-making and
eliminating snags on the assembly line. The streamlining also
was intended to improve communication between engineers and
assemblers, marketers and planners -- "to end the
finger-pointing and frustration caused by lack of authority
and accountability," in the words of one internal memo.
   Just the opposite has happened.
   Miscalculations about how long it would take to install
the new arrangement have left many workers discouraged and
confused. Misjudgments about how many new projects could be
taken on at once has led to overload. And a recent hiring
boom has created lots of overlapping functions.
   "Management is going to have to get the hourly workers
back on their side," says Richard Rios, president of the
United Auto Workers local that represents about 20,000
personnel in Long Beach. "They've lost their respect for the
company."
   Few are willing to write off McDonnell Douglas. "On a
scale of one to 10, they are not Chapter 11," asserts Cyrus
J. Lawrence Inc. analyst Howard Rubel.
   Indeed, management just asks for a little patience. Mr.
McDonnell, the son of the aerospace company's founder,
insists that McDonnell Douglas is now in a position to trim
$700 million annually from its cost structure, an amount
translating to a bottom-line gain of $12 a share. "We are in
the process of turning things around," he says in a rare
interview. The cost-saving plan, Mr. McDonnell says, will
"put this corporation on very solid footing."
   But many see a more treacherous path ahead. The company's
announcement in July that it will pare as many as 17,000 jobs
by year end -- 13% of its work force -- is strong evidence to
some that cracks have developed in the foundation of
McDonnell Douglas's rebuilding strategy. Should the fissure
widen, it could dash Mr. McDonnell's plans to have the strong
commercial airliner market cushion the downturn in defense
spending, which is still expected despite the rattling of
Saddam Hussein's saber.
   A senior executive at one big McDonnell Douglas customer
says airlines have begun seeking assurances that the Long
Beach plant will be able to turn out on time the aircraft
they have ordered. The acid test, he says, will come during
the next four months, when the new MD-11 jetliner is to be
certified by federal authorities, and the first deliveries
made. If McDonnell Douglas "can get their credibilty back
with the MD-11, the airlines will support the company," he
adds. "If not, it's a downward spiral." Just this week, at
the aerospace industry's big show in Farnborough, England,
the general manager of the MD-11 declared that the program is
on track and that "no show-stoppers" have been encountered
during extensive evaluations of the plane's performance.
   Michael Durham, chief financial officer for American
Airlines's parent, AMR Corp, says he is confident that, "in
the long run, McDonnell Douglas will emerge a healthy
corporation" because "every company that has tried to change
itself -- and that includes us -- has gone through some
wrenching times." Nonetheless, American officials are openly
upset that the three-engine MD-11 is burning more fuel than
expected during tests, saying it could cost the carrier $7.3
million a year in lost cargo capacity. McDonnell Douglas and
engine maker General Electric Co. say they're working on a
technical solution.
   Yet that sort of fix will be far easier to execute than
restoring McDonnell Douglas's esprit de corps.
   Sitting over drinks recently at Me 'N' Ed's Pizza Parlor,
a favorite worker hangout in Long Beach, a half-dozen union
members crab that antagonism between labor and management has
grown since the installation of Mr. McDonnell's so-called
Total Quality Management System. One recent directive, for
instance, requires hourly employees to obtain a pass when
leaving the plant other than for a shift change or lunch
break. "I guess we're not to be trusted as much as salaried
people," grumbles mechanic Ed Marshall, a 26-year company
veteran.
   "All I want to do is get a full day's work for a full
day's pay," explains John Capellupo, the hard-nosed deputy
president of the Long Beach unit.
   Last year, McDonnell Douglas had a $222 million operating
loss at the subsidiary, which other businesses could only
partly offset, creating an overall $37 million operating
loss. Net income, even after a large benefit from an
accounting change, fell 37% from the prior year, to $219
million. The company's return on sales was less than 1%, far
below Mr. McDonnell's goal of 5%.
   The MD-11 has caused much of the financial drain, and some
analysts believe debt could balloon to $4 billion next year.
Mr. McDonnell and other top executives have even taken pay
cuts to compensate. Once the company begins to get the $100
million, 350-seat jets to its customers, however, cash flow
will improve greatly.
   Earnings have brightened a bit recently, but the company
managed to turn a second-quarter profit of $57 million only
by challenging the government to pay for cost overruns on two
Navy projects, the A-12 attack plane and T-45 trainer. Some
analysts believe this move has only served to delay sizable
write-offs. "We'll prove them wrong," Mr. McDonnell
maintains.
   At least some union officials agree the company is on the
right track. Says Bruce Lee, regional UAW director: "There is
definitely some daylight at the end of the tunnel."
   But even Mr. Lee sees problems, and he blasts the company
for poor planning. Simply put, McDonnell Douglas tried to
bring too many new programs on line at once: the MD-11, the
MD-90 twin jet and C-17 military transport. As a result,
employment soared to roughly 50,000 this year from a low
point of 15,000 in 1983.
   Now come the corrections, which also are causing a furor.
So far, it's the little things that have peeved folks the
most: the snack truck that doesn't come around as often, a
20-minute walk from the parking lot resulting from
scaled-back shuttle-bus service. "It seems like every few
months they throw everybody up in the air and let them come
down again," says Mr. Unger of Tyee Aircraft. The recent,
largely unexplained departure from Long Beach of Joel Smith,
one of the drafters of the total-quality system, has made
observers more skeptical than ever that things will be
patched up quickly.
   Without doubt, the clock is ticking, and Mr. McDonnell
agrees that "there is a lot of uncertainty" lingering in Long
Beach. But once the financial picture brightens, he promises,
so will workers' attitudes.
   "I still have a strong vision of us becoming the
pre-eminent team of people creating the highest-quality
aerospace products and services," Mr. McDonnell wrote in
"Spirit," the corporate magazine. "To achieve that vision we
must each now be single-minded and performance-driven to
surmount our current challenges.
   "We do not have the luxury to take time to mourn our
losses."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0099
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0099.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Hubco Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   HCO WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
EASTERN U.S. BANKS (BAE)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   HUBCO Inc. (Union City, N.J.) -- The holding company for
Hudson United Bank named James E. Schierloh chairman,
succeeding James C. McClave, who retired at age 65. Mr.
Schierloh, 60, formerly was vice chairman. Mr. McClave, who
has served as chairman for 14 years, will remain a director.
The vice chairman's post will be vacant.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0098
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0098.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bicoastal Corp. Sells Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SIGPQ EUROP TCSFY
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS AND EQUIPMENT (ELQ)
BANKRUPTCIES (BCY)
</IN>
<LP>
   TAMPA, Fla. -- Bicoastal Corp., formerly Singer Co., said
it completed the sale of its Link-Miles Ltd. subsidiary to
Thomson (U.K.) Holding Ltd., a subsidiary of the French
state-controlled defense and electronics group Thomson-CSF
S.A.
   The transaction was announced in May.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Under terms, Thomson (U.K.) Holding paid some $70 million
of the $100 million purchase price at closing, with $20
million deposited in escrow and $10 million retained by
Thomson for contingencies.
   Based in Lancing, England, Link-Miles develops and
produces simulators for world-wide military and commercial
applications.
   Bicoastal is operating with protection against creditor
lawsuits under Chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy law.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0097
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0097.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   J.C. Penney Removes Line
   With Anti-Hunting Labels
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   JCP
</CO>
<IN>
BROADLINE RETAILERS, DEPARTMENT STORES (RTB)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- J.C. Penney Co., under pressure from sportsmen's
groups, pulled from its shelves a line of boys' clothing
carrying an anti-hunting message.
   Attached to the "Environmental Protection Department" line
of clothing are cards that say "Absolutely no hunting of wild
and free animals while wearing this garment," and "Wild life
protected by man surround the world with pure thoughts."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But both Penney and the maker of the clothing, H. Cotler
Co. of New York, insist they weren't trying to sell a
message. "We were just trying to sell the merchandise," said
Howard Cotler, head of Cotler Co. Added Duncan Muir, public
relations manager for Penney: "It is our policy not to take a
position one way or the other on these sorts of issues." In
this case, he said, after receiving numerous complaints
company officials decided that "frankly, we've made a
mistake."
   Muir said he didn't know how many pieces of clothing were
being pulled from shelves, and he wouldn't disclose Penney's
investment in the line.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0096
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0096.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Midway Air's Traffic Rises 30%
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDW
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Midway Airlines said its August traffic rose
30% to 471 million revenue passenger miles from 361.9 million
a year earlier.
   A revenue passenger mile is one paying passenger flown one
mile.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The carrier said its August load factor, or percentage of
seats filled, slipped to 63% from 66%.
   Year-to-date revenue passenger miles increased to about
3.4 billion from about 2.4 billion a year earlier. The load
factor increased to 60% from 58%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0095
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0095.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Viewpoint:
   West Vacationed While Saddam Burned
   ----
   By Alexander Cockburn
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   The $30 billion in human and technical intelligence bought
by the U.S. government each year proved worthless at the
start of August. Or so it now appears. The surge of Iraqi
troops and tanks into Kuwait early on Aug. 2 wrong-footed at
least three governments, if one goes by the behavior of their
employees. At least one very senior U.S. defense official was
calmly driving off for vacation. The British ambassador to
Iraq, Harold "Hooky" Walker, was on holiday in Woking. The
chief of Israeli military intelligence was enjoying his own
wedding party.
   This nonchalant posture becomes all the more incredible in
light of the menacing tempo of events in the preceding three
months. In May Saddam Hussein was announcing loudly that his
patience was almost exhausted. The war against Iran, financed
largely by the Gulf states to shield themselves from the
ayatollah, had bled Iraq dry. Kuwait's and Abu Dhabi's
flouting of OPEC production guidelines was keeping oil prices
at rock bottom and denying Iraq desperately needed revenues.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Even if the West didn't get the message, or chose not to
listen to it, Kuwait's ruling family certainly did. By May
brokers in the Asian markets were beginning to notice
substantial selling by the London-based Kuwait Investment
Office, which manages Kuwait's $100 billion portfolio. By
late July, as the Far Eastern Economic Review later described
it, Kuwait was getting out of its Asian stocks and into cash
with as much speed as prudence would permit, given that a
hasty fire sale could have brought several Asian markets
crashing down, so vast were KIO's holdings.
   Even if the U.S. did not care to notice the Asian markets,
it surely had contacts inside Kuwait's ruling family. On July
18 Kuwait's cabinet sat down to consider the mounting crisis.
London's Financial Times later acquired the minutes. Were
they unavailable to the U.S. ambassador?
   First to speak was Sheikh Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, Kuwait's
finance minister: "Iraq is going to continue escalating the
level of confrontation."
   Next spoke Kuwait's interior minister, Sheikh Salem
al-Sabah. He too was uneasy. Iraq, he advised, might well
have profited from the political turmoil in June, when
Kuwait's emir had refused to restore the Parliament he
suspended in 1986, permitting only an interim assembly.
   "There is a possibility of Iraqi aggression," said Sheikh
Sabah al Ahmad al-Sabah, the foreign minister. Dhari
al-Othman, the justice minister, concurred. "The Iraqi
memorandum {which demanded compensation for $2.4 billion in
oil `stolen' from the Rumaila field} is just the beginning.
God knows how far they will go."
   Sheikh Saad al-Abdullah al-Sabah, the crown prince and
prime minister, put it clearly: "The Iraqis could take
military measures." He urged Kuwait's military and security
forces to be on the alert.
   Kuwait's increasingly desperate maneuvers culminated at
the Jidda mediation talks on Aug. 1, the day before the
invasion. Sheikh Sabah, the foreign minister, later told
Egypt's al-Mussawar magazine that in Jidda Kuwait agreed to
write off Iraq's $15 billion war debt and to lease Warbah
island to Iraq as an oil outlet for the Rumaila field.
   These were major concessions, but only a few hours later
Saddam gave the order to march.
   What were Saddam's intelligence chief and ambassadors
telling him about the U.S. government, even as it headed for
the beaches of August? The question surely gnawed at the
Iraqi president as he paced his command bunker. It was the
billion-dollar question. All through the '80s the U.S. had
appeased him, armed him, given him the green light to invade
Iran. If he grabbed Kuwait, what would it do now?
   Two days earlier, on July 31, John Kelly, assistant
secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs,
walked into the Rayburn building to testify before the Middle
East subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
   After Mr. Kelly's formal statement, Chairman Lee Hamilton
(D., Ind.) began to press him. Mr. Hamilton had read "an
indirect quotation in the press that Secretary {of Defense
Richard} Cheney said that the United States' commitment was
to come to Kuwaiti -- to Kuwait's defense if it is attacked."
Was that statement accurate? Mr. Hamilton wondered. Could Mr.
Kelly please clarify?
   The following exchange may have launched a war and changed
the face of the Middle East forever:
   Mr. Kelly: "I'm happy to, Mr. Chairman. I'm not familiar
with the quotation that you just referred to, but I am
confident in the administration's position on the issue. We
have no defense treaty relationship with any Gulf country.
That is clear. We support the security and independence of
friendly states in the region. Ever since the Truman
administration we've maintained naval forces in the Gulf
because of our interest in stability in that region. We are
calling for a peaceful resolution of any differences in that
area and we hope, and trust, and believe that the sovereignty
of every state in the Gulf ought to be respected."
   Rep. Hamilton: "Now, do we have a commitment to our
friends in the Gulf, in the event that they are engaged in
oil or territorial disputes with their neighbors?"
   Mr. Kelly: "As I said, Mr. Chairman, we have no defense
treaty relationships with any of the countries. We have
historically avoided taking a position on border disputes or
on internal OPEC deliberations, but we have certainly, as
have all administrations, resoundingly called for the
peaceful settlement of disputes and differences in the area."
   Rep. Hamilton: "If there -- if Iraq, for example, charged
across the border into Kuwait and -- for whatever reason --
what would be our position with regard to the use of U.S.
forces?"
   Mr. Kelly: "That, Mr. Chairman, is a hypothetical or a
contingency question, the kind of which I can't get into.
Suffice it to say we would be extremely concerned, but I
cannot get into the realm of `what if' answers."
   Rep. Hamilton: "In that circumstance, it is correct to
say, however, that we do not have a treaty commitment which
would obligate us to engage U.S. forces there?"
   Mr. Kelly: "That is correct."
   This exchange did not go unnoticed. The next day, the
Financial Times's Washington correspondent was reporting to
his London office apropos the Gulf crisis "the one striking
public statement, that the U.S. has no defensive treaties
with Kuwait or any of its neighbors."
   More to the point, Mr. Kelly's testimony was reported on
the BBC's World Service. For Saddam, in those final fateful
hours, it was surely the decisive sign. The U.S. might fume
and fret after the event, but it would do nothing.
   In the wake of Pearl Harbor, Republicans charged President
Roosevelt with luring the Japanese to attack Pearl Harbor.
Today, in the wake of Iraq's attack, Democrats could as
soundly charge that Saddam had good reason to believe that
the U.S. government was waving him across the border of
Kuwait.
   ---
   Mr. Cockburn is a columnist for The Nation and the
Anderson Valley (Calif.) Advertiser.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0094
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0094.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Communications Transmission
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CTIA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY (CMT)
</IN>
<LP>
   AUSTIN, Texas -- Communications Transmission Inc. said it
received a $15.2 million payment from Metromedia/ITT, a unit
of Metromedia Co. of Secaucus, N.J., for early termination of
an analog lease agreement.
   CTI said it had been receiving monthly revenue from the
agreement of about $871,000. Under its original terms, the
agreement would have lasted as long as 1994.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The operator of microwave and fiberoptic communications
networks said this was its last analog contract. It remains a
provider of digital transmission services, including to
Metromedia.
   CTI said the payment will be used for working capital and
to repay long-term debt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0093
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0093.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   PARENTS PAY for some programs lost to state school budget
cuts.
   Last year, Worcester, Mass., groups raised thousands of
dollars through cake sales, car washes and outright
hat-passing to fund interscholastic sports as well as buy
books and audio-visual tools in that financially strapped
state. But this year the $100,000 "Sports Alive" program is
still up in the air. Maureen O'Sullivan, head of the
Worcester teachers' union, warns: "When you start funding
education through bake sales, you're in trouble." Affluent
moms and dads in Brookline, Mass., pay more this fall for a
private "extended day" service.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   At Hewlett-Woodmere schools, in Nassau County, N.Y.,
parents now foot travel costs for debate meets, science fairs
and the like. Bert Nelson, schools superintendent, says: "If
a child is successful at an activity, it can begin to get
expensive." California's controller approves a touchy
cost-of-living jump for schools. Some districts adjust to
shoestring budgets by chopping administrative costs: Shawnee
Mission Schools in Johnson County, Kan., cut $1 million in
expenses last year to compensate for a tiny budget. Next
year, it plans to add several language classes.
   Standard &amp; Poor's says 11 states offer "credit
enhancements," aiding bond ratings by assuring debt payments.
                                                                                                       

   UNMASKED: Army surplus stores unload skads of quite
dubious gas masks.
   Faddists buy some, but real fears of chemical warfare in
the Mideast spark sales of masks for shipment to relatives
overseas. The Jewish Defense Organization considered buying
surplus masks here for Israel but rejected the idea. JDO's
Mordechai Levy says the masks "wouldn't work in anything
other than a barnyard fire."
   In New York, Unique Clothing Warehouse sells 20 of its
$16.99 gas masks a day, compared to 20 a week before Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait. MASH Army and Navy sells about 50 masks a
week. Weiss &amp; Mahoney says it sold several hundred $14.95
masks and can't get more. Some buyers ignore warnings that
masks may guard only against low-grade fumes, not mustard and
nerve gas. Raphael Farber, Israeli tourism head in the U.S.,
says his country stockpiles millions of masks and calls the
buying "the result of panic by people who don't rely on
governments to deal with problems."
                                                                                                       

   BIG BIONIC BROTHER comes of age -- with high-tech,
high-cost security devices.
   Corporate spending on surveillance and services may top
$22 billion, up 13% from last year, says Leading Edge
Reports, Cleveland. Fastest-growing niche: biometric access.
A $5,000 gizmo from Eye-Dentify, Portland, Ore., scans
blood-vessel patterns of the retina (more distinct than
fingerprints) while International Electronics, Needham
Heights, Mass., offers an $1,800 system using vocal
passwords. Keys are stolen, cards lost, says John Waldstein.
"But you always have your voice with you."
   Plain old snooping gets a lift, too. Tiny cameras, now
with color and sound, shrink out of view to watch employees
as well as customers. Security Tag Systems, St. Petersburg,
Fla., electronically links cameras to cash registers at 100
convenience stores, logging a picture of each sale. Such
scrutiny makes "sweethearting" transactions difficult, says
Security Tag's Kenneth Mortenson. Some retailers "bug"
service counters with microphones to hear how sales clerks
deal with customers.
                                                                                                       

   Hallcrest Systems, McLean, Va., says financial crime costs
$114 billion a year, will reach $200 billion by 2000.
                                                                                                       

   WOMEN VENDORS call lack of capital a major obstacle, says
a study by the Center for Advanced Purchasing Studies, Tempe,
Ariz. Another pitfall to winning corporate contracts: buyers'
good old boy networks.
                                                                                                       

   `ENERGETIC' TEENS boost utility bills (no kidding),
consuming 54% more electricity and 13% more natural gas than
teen-less households, says a study by CMS Energy's Consumers
Power Co., Jackson, Mich.
                                                                                                       

   TAKE A SEAT, but ante up first. Directorship, a Westport,
Conn., consultant, compiles a database of possible corporate
board candidates. It costs $125 to be listed.
                                                                                                       

   SET IN STONE, catalog prices can torment business when
costs -- like oil -- jump.
   Sticking to published price is a badge of honor for Sears,
Roebuck &amp; Co., Spiegel Inc., Crate &amp; Barrel, Disney's
Childcraft and others. But some brace to bite the bullet as
world events upset some carefully hedged offerings. "If our
costs go up, our profits go down," says Gordon Segal, Crate &amp;
Barrel president. He fears factories may add oil surcharges
to freight bills as in the 1970s. Barry Marchessault,
Childcraft president, notes the industry's biggest cost
variables are postage, paper and printing -- two of which
could be hurt by oil prices.
   Rising polypropylene prices already add to the cost of
making the $797 Porta-Bote listed in a Sears catalog. But the
price is good through next March: Sears locks in supply price
early on with suppliers. "We're stuck with that," says Sandy
Kaye, president of Porta-Bote. But he adds the energy crisis
provides a silver lining: Sales of the light, foldable boat
soar. Crate &amp; Barrel says prices for handblown glass made in
Eastern Europe may jump 20% to 30% next year. Why? Furnaces
are oil-fired.
   Simmons Market Research Bureau says half of adult
Americans bought something by mail or phone last year.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: A Stamford, Conn., businesswoman launches Pen Pals
From the Past, a kids' reading and history service. . . .
Canetti Inc., N.Y., offers insomniacs the "Count Sheep
Series": A booklet depicts thousands of tiny woolies; an
audio tape counts them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0092
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0092.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Summer Movies
   Failed to Outdraw
   1989 Record Crop
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   PCI DIS MCA CRC SNE NWS TWX OPC
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Despite a raft of big-budget, high-profile movies,
Hollywood's studios sold between $1.85 billion and $1.9
billion of tickets this summer, falling short of last year's
record $2 billion-plus take for the Memorial to Labor Day
season, according to preliminary industry estimates.
   Although the second-highest grossing summer on record, it
was disappointing for some studios that pushed out expensive
movies hoping to match the success of last year's hits.
Warner Bros.' "Batman," for example, did about $230 million
in the summer months last year; the highest grossing film
this summer was Paramount Communications Inc.'s "Ghost,"
which sold about $125 million of tickets in 53 days of
release through Labor Day.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   According to preliminary estimates from Variety, Walt
Disney Co. was the summer's market share leader, with close
to 18% of the box office, followed by Paramount, with about
16.4%, and MCA Inc.'s Universal Studios, with about 14.7%.
   "This was a good summer, not a great summer, with a lot of
pictures doing great business but no out-and-out runaway
blockbuster," said Philip Garfinkle, executive vice president
of Entertainment Data Inc. in Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Only three movies other than "Ghost" took in more than
$100 million, and none appears likely to increase revenue
much before new fall movies push them out of theaters.
According to figures compiled by Entertainment Data and
Baseline Inc., "Total Recall," produced by Carolco Pictures
Inc. and distributed by Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star Pictures unit,
was No. 2 at the box office with $116.6 million; "Die Hard
II," produced by News Corp.'s 20th Century Fox Film Co., was
third with $109.7 million; and Disney's "Dick Tracy" sold
$103.7 million of tickets.
   Disney was able to take the box office lead thanks to
"Dick Tracy" and a number of other more modest films that
performed respectably, including "Arachnaphobia," the
re-release of the animated "The Jungle Book," "Ducktales: The
Movie," and even "Ernest Goes to Jail." But the studio also
got a big boost from a movie released in March that continued
to be a big hit over the summer: "Pretty Woman," which has
taken in close to $170 million at the box office so far and
is still doing business.
   As many industry executives and analysts feared at the
beginning of the season, there was a glut of big-budget,
action-oriented films; as each new film opened, it hurt
movies already in the market.
   Moreover, a number of the more expensive movies, which
cost between $50 million to $60 million to produce and $20
million or more each to market, performed well below
expectations. Paramount's "Days of Thunder," for example,
sold about $80.6 million of tickets. Another Paramount
release, "Another 48 Hours," also sold about $80 million of
tickets. Even the No. 2 hit of the summer, "Total Recall,"
was expected to sell far more tickets. The films could get a
big boost from foreign release, however, not to mention video
and television markets.
   Other disappointments included such sequels as Warner's
"Gremlins II" which sold only about $40.2 million of tickets
for the Time Warner Inc. unit; Orion Pictures Corp.'s
"Robocop II"; and Fox's "Exorcist III," which has sold only
about $20.8 million of tickets.
   Although a number of movies released late in the summer
are doing respectable business, they too, appear to be
affected by an overall glut, and threatened by new releases.
Warner's "Presumed Innocent" is by far the most successful of
the late entries, selling close to $68 million of tickets.
But the studio's comedy, "My Blue Heaven," starring Steve
Martin, is faring less well, selling only about $18 million
of tickets. Warner was disappointed by the results of another
comedy released earlier in the summer, "Quick Change," which
sold only about $14 million of tickets.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0091
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0091.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Financing Business:
   Royal Bank of Canada
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.RY
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   ROYAL BANK OF CANADA, Montreal, said it will issue 200
million Canadian dollars (US$172.5 million) of 11.75%
fixed-rate debentures, due Jan. 31, 2001. Proceeds of the
issue will be used for general banking purposes and will
enlarge the bank's capital base. RBC Dominion Securities
Inc., a subsidiary of the bank, is lead underwriter.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0090
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0090.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- National Bank of Canada:
   Holders of Record Sept. 17
   Will Receive Rights Issue
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   T.NA
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   National Bank of Canada said it will issue one right for
each share held to shareholders of record Sept. 17. Each 10
rights entitle the holder to purchase one common share for 8
Canadian dollars (US$6.90) until Oct. 9.
   National Bank, based in Montreal, said it has about 119.5
million shares outstanding. If all rights are exercised
proceeds will be about C$95.6 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In trading on the Montreal Exchange yesterday National
Bank closed at C$8.625, up 12.5 Canadian cents. National Bank
said Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc. and RBC Dominion
Securities Inc. will act as advisers for the rights issue.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0089
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0089.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Students Unite]
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<LP>
   Say this for the new thinking in the Soviet Union: They
are at least able to recognize what needs fixing. Their
schools, for instance. It now appears that the Soviets are
exploring the choice movement in education. Choice is among
the reforms being touted by Edward Dneprov, the new Soviet
minister of education. He told the London Times that he has
long wanted to dismantle the centralized and authoritarian
Soviet education system. He foresees instead a system of
independent public and free-market private schools that will
accept school vouchers equivalent to the cost of educating a
child for one year. Pilot programs are already in the works
in Moscow and Rostov. Given the vociferous opposition to
choice from the educational establishment in the U.S., Soviet
students may have the freedom to attend the school of their
choice before Americans do.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0088
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0088.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sanford Approves Buy-Back
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   SANF
</CO>
<IN>
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   BELLWOOD, Ill. -- Sanford Corp. said its board approved
the buy-back of as many as 1.5 million of its 14.8 million
common shares.
   The maker of pens and other office and school supplies
said the stock purchases would be made in the open market or
in privately negotiated transactions over the next 18 months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Henry Pearsall, chairman and chief executive officer, said
the decision was made because "it looks like the best place
to put our money." In national over-the-counter trading
yesterday, Sanford's stock rose 50 cents a share to $18.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0087
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0087.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Santa Fe Energy Resources
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A8
</SO>
<CO>
   SFR LATAM
</CO>
<IN>
PETROLEUM (PET)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
</IN>
<LP>
   HOUSTON -- Santa Fe Energy Resources Inc. said it entered
into crude oil and natural gas exploration and development
agreements with the governments of Argentina and Bolivia, for
an area totaling about 5.9 million acres.
   The independent exploration and production concern said
the agreements represent its first operations in Bolivia and
its fourth production sharing venture with the Argentine
government. Santa Fe Energy said it expects to begin seismic
activity on both projects in 1991.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0086
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0086.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   New Securities Issues
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP XRX J.FUJ J.BOT J.NCK BRG F.EDF IBM G.DBK
</CO>
<IN>
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<LP>
   The following were among yesterday's offerings and
pricings in U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets, with terms and
syndicate manager, as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Xerox Corp. -- $200 million of 9 5/8% notes due Sept. 1,
1997, priced at 99.50 to yield 9.724%. The notes were priced
at a spread of 96 basis points above the Treasury's
seven-year note. Rated single-A-2 by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and single-A by Standard &amp; Poor's Corp., the
issue will be sold through underwriters led by Salomon
Brothers Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

   Maine State Housing Authority -- $110 million of
single-family mortgage revenue bonds, Series A-1 and A-2, due
Nov. 15, 1992-2000, 2009, 2010, 2016, 2022 and 2032, priced
by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to
8.13% in 2032. Series A-1 consists of $27 million of bonds,
comprising $12.3 million of bonds due in 2010 that are not
formally reoffered and $14.7 million of 7.80% term bonds
priced at par due in 2016. Series A-2 consists of $83 million
of bonds. The current interest serial bonds are priced at par
to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 7.25% in 2000. There are $10.5
million of 8% term bonds priced at par due in 2010, $51.8
million of 8.10% term bonds priced at par due in 2022 and $10
million of 8.13% term bonds priced at par due in 2032.
Interest on the Series A-2 bonds will be treated as a
preference item in calculating the federal alternative
minimum tax that may be imposed on certain investors. The
Series A-1 bonds are not subject to the alternative minimum
tax. Ratings of single-A-1/double-A are expected.
   Southern California Housing Finance Authority -- $80.2
million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds, 1990 Issue
B, due March 1 and Sept. 1, 1994-2001, 2012 and 2024,
tentatively priced by a Bear Stearns &amp; Co. group to yield
from 6.50% in 1994 to 7.75% in 2024. Current interest serial
bonds are priced at par to yield from 6.50% in 1994 to 7.20%
in 2001. There are $20.7 million of 7% bonds priced at par
due Sept. 1, 2012, and $52.5 million of 7 3/4% bonds priced
at par due March 1, 2024. Interest on the bonds will be
treated as a preference item in calculating the federal
alternative minimum tax. The bonds are backed by the
Government National Mortgage Association and are rated
triple-A by S&amp;P.
   Nevada Housing Division -- $55 million of single-family
program senior revenue bonds, 1990 Issue C, Series C-1, due
April 1 and Oct. 1, 1997-2000, 2010 and 2015, and Series C-2,
due 1992-1997, 2021 and 2022, priced by a Goldman Sachs &amp; Co.
group to yield from 6.55% in 1992 to 7.85% in 2015. Series
C-1 current interest serial bonds are priced at par to yield
from 6.90% in 1997 to 7.20% in 2000. There is $5.4 million of
7.85% term bonds priced at par due Oct. 1, 2015. Series C-2
current interest serial bonds are priced to yield from 6.55%
in 1992 to 7.10% in 1997. There is $5 million of term bonds
due Oct. 1, 2022, that are not formally reoffered. Interest
on the Series C-2 bonds will be treated as a preference item
for federal alternative minimum tax purposes. The bonds are
rated double-A by S&amp;P.
   Hawaii Housing Finance and Development Corp. -- $50
million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds due July 1,
1995-2005, 2010, 2019 and 2023, tentatively priced by a Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc. group to yield from 6.60% in 1995 to
8.05% in 2023. Current interest serial bonds are priced at
par to yield from 6.60% in 1995 to 7.60% in 2005. There are
$6.6 million of 7.95% term bonds priced at par due in 2010,
$20 million of term bonds due in 2019 that are not formally
reoffered and $15.1 million of 8.05% term bonds priced at par
due in 2023. Interest on the bonds will be treated as a
preference item for federal alternative minimum tax purposes.
The bonds are rated single-A-1/single-A.
                                                                                                       

                       ASSET-BACKED
                                                                                                       

   Valley National Bank of Arizona -- $300 million of 8 7/8%
credit card participation certificates priced through
underwriters led by J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 99.83673
to yield 8.97%, or 77 basis points above the Treasury's
threeyear note. The issue, Valley National Credit Card Trust
1990A, is backed by Mastercard and Visa receivables and has
an average life of three years. It is rated triple-A by
Moody's and S&amp;P.
                                                                                                       

                         EUROBONDS
                                                                                                       

   Fuji Bank Ltd. London branch (Japanese parent) -- $700
million of subordinated loan participation certificates in
the name of Merrill Lynch AG, via Fuji International Ltd. as
underwriter. Proceeds used to fund a subordinated loan to
Fuji Bank London branch. Coupon at a margin of 0.25 point
above the three-month London interbank offered rate for the
first five years. Thereafter, margin of 0.35 point. Issue
price is par, maturity date September 2000. Callable after
fifth year. Fees 0.30.
   Bank of Tokyo, Curacao, (Japanese parent) -- $700 million
of subordinated floating-rate notes due September 2000,
priced at par, via Bank of Tokyo Capital Markets Ltd.
Subordinated guarantee by Bank of Tokyo. Coupon at margin of
0.25 point above three-month Libor for the first five years,
0.35 point afterward. Callable on every coupon date after
1995. Fees 0.25.
   Nippon Credit Bank Curacao Finance (Japanese parent) --
$400 million of subordinated floating-rate notes due Sept.
27, 2000, via Nippon Credit International. Coupon at margin
of 0.30 point above three-month Libor to year five, Libor
plus 0.40 point thereafter. Issue price 100.25. Call after
five years. Guarantor Nippon Credit Bank. Fees 0.30.
   Kansai International Airport (Japan) -- $170 million of 9
1/2% Eurobonds maturing Sept. 26, 1997, at 101.85 via lead
underwriter Bank of Tokyo Capital Markets. Government of
Japan guaranteed. Fees 1 7/8.
   British Gas PLC (U.K.) -- #175 million of 13% Eurobonds
due Sept. 27, 1993, at an issue price of 101.525 via Credit
Suisse First Boston Ltd. Reoffered at a fixed price of
100.275. Fees 1 3/8.
   Mortgage Securities No. 2 Ltd. (U.K.) -- #50 million of
floating-rate Eurobonds due September 2028 at par via J.P.
Morgan Securities Ltd. Interest three-month Libor plus 18
basis points to September 1999, Libor plus 50 basis points
thereafter, fixed reoffer price 99.5. Fungible with existing
#150 million issue, six years average life expected. Fees 60
points.
   Deutsche Bank Finance N.V. (West German parent) -- 50
million Australian dollars of 14% Eurobonds due Sept. 7,
1993, at 101.65 plus 31 days' accrued interest via Deutsche
Bank Capital Markets. The bonds will be fungible with with an
existing A$100 million issue from the primary settlement date
of Oct. 8, 1990. Fees 1 1/2.
   Electricite de France (France) -- 150 million Swiss francs
of 7 1/4% public bonds due Oct. 12, 2000, priced at 102 via
Swiss Bank Corp. Guarantee by the French republic. Call from
Oct. 12, 1998, at 101 3/4. Fees total 2.88.
   IBM International Finance N.V. (U.S. parent) -- 100
million Swiss francs of 8% loan participation certificates
(Schuldscheindarlehen) due Sept. 25, 1992, priced at 101 via
Credit Suisse. Certificates carry a support agreement from
IBM World Trade Center, U.S. Fees undisclosed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0085
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0085.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   A U.S. Platoon That `Lives for the Night'
   Dreams of Training, and Beer, by Day
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEAR BATTLE POSITION COORS, Saudi Arabia -- The action
here begins at 4 p.m. As soon as the torchlike sun begins to
wane, the men who have dozed through the searing heat in the
skimpy shade afforded by camouflage nets mount their armored
vehicles.
   "We live for the night," says Lt. William Owen, a balding
Nebraskan with the expression of someone who is perpetually
worried. He heads a platoon in the Army's 24th Infantry
Division (Mechanized) -- the first U.S.-based armored unit to
reach the field here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He has plenty to worry about. When it comes to fighting
armored battles in the desert, the platoon is the basic unit.
And Lt. Owen's platoon -- like many of those hastily
assembled at Fort Stewart, Ga., for the Persian Gulf crisis
-- is missing some pieces. One of his four Bradley Fighting
Vehicles has broken down and the sun has fried the radio in a
second one.
   Moreover, the unit arrived 10 men short of its authorized
32-man strength, and the spare parts Lt. Owen, 26 years old,
needs to fix things are still somewhere being unloaded from a
boat.
   This site, a gut-wrenching hour's drive over the scrubby
desert from the nearest paved road, is only a temporary
training area for the 24th. When dusk comes, Lt. Owen and his
men begin training for a move farther north in Saudi Arabia,
where they may have to face an armored attack from Iraq.
   This is a place where the men dream of cold beer. (Battle
Position Amstel and Battle Position Anheuser are not far
away.) And their officers dream of training. Until Aug. 7,
when the 24th was put on alert for duty in the Gulf, the
Army's budget crunch was so severe that much of the platoon's
$10.5 million of equipment couldn't be taken out for routine
operations.
   Sgt. Frank Rivers, 31, the platoon's second in command, is
still having trouble adjusting to the change since then. "Now
all of a sudden we're the No. 1 priority," he says. "We can
get all the supplies we want." He spends most of the evening
instructing troops how to load the Bradley's wire-guided TOW
anti-tank missiles.
   Since the North African campaign in World War II, the
desert has been considered tank country. While lightly armed
units can fight in the hills and forests of Central Europe,
there are few places here for soldiers to hide.
   Hence, the Bradley, a way to move infantry around the
desert under the protection of armor. The cannon and TOWs of
the Bradley, in turn, help protect the vehicle's companion --
the M-1 tank -- from enemy infantry.
   You also can sleep in and on a Bradley, which becomes
important after 11 p.m., when training stops. Lt. Owen
prefers the rear hatch cover, which he props up with an
ammunition case. His lanky driver, Ronald Parker, 28, somehow
manages to stretch out in the vehicle's cramped cockpit.
   The vehicle's gunner, Pvt. Roger Taylor, 23, sprawls
nearby on a poncho, ignoring the scorpions and the
thumb-sized dung beetles that patrol after midnight.
"Soldiers," says Sgt. Rivers, "can sleep anywhere."
   At 4:30 a.m., with the first hint of light, it's back into
the Bradleys again for maneuvers on the now-cooler sea of
sand. Lt. Owen's vehicle takes the lead and he uses flag
signals from the turret to guide the other two -- a way of
compensating for the broken radio.
   When morning training ends, sometimes there are dealings
with the neighbors. Several hundred camels graze nearby, and
Lt. Owen and his fellow officers have taken great pains to
stay away from them and to avoid churning up the roads used
by the Bedouins who herd the camels.
   There are signs their efforts will pay off. One Bedouin,
after carefully circling Lt. Owen's platoon in his pickup
truck, stopped for a chat. While Arabic is not one of the
things Lt. Owen and his men have been brushing up on, they
soon caught the gist.
   "He kept slamming his fist into his palm and saying
`Saddam . . . Saddam,'" explains Lt. Owen, referring to
Iraq's strongman, Saddam Hussein.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0084
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0084.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial) -- Asides:
   Saddam Noriega?
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<LP>
   Yesterday Iraqi President Saddam Hussein called for an
Islamic holy war against U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf,
proclaiming: "Victory is very near." It occurs to us that the
last person who decided to issue a declaration of war against
the United States -- holy or otherwise -- was General Manuel
Noriega. Shortly thereafter, U.S. troops were landing in
Panama and Noriega was on the run.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0083
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0083.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Heard on the Street:
   Bottoming Out? A Bearish Strategist
   Says It Isn't Happening Yet
   ----
   By Roger Lowenstein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
HEARD ON THE STREET (HRD)
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BANKS (BNK)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- With people back from summer recess, the
question on nearly every investor's mind is the one posed by
stock market strategist Abby Joseph Cohen: "How low can it
go?"
   Her answer is of more than passing interest. Ms. Cohen,
the strategist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd, was bearish well
before Saddam Hussein sent stocks into a tailspin.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   She was cold to the market while it rallied last year. She
was bearish after the Dow Jones Industrial Average soared
late this spring. And she is bearish now -- perhaps bearish
enough to make investors wish their vacations could last a
little longer.
   To quote from Ms. Cohen's most recent report: "The sharp
decline in equity prices has not significantly improved the
valuation of equities, since much of the decline has been
offset by the rise in interest rates."
   Moreover, she says, judging by the level of long-term
rates now and Wall Street's consensus projection for
corporate earnings, "U.S. equities are still some 15% above a
theoretical buy price."
   Ms. Cohen, herself just back from the New Hampshire
mountains, makes no pretense of calling the bottom. She says,
"The bottom for the market is a moving target."
   But it requires little insight to guess the direction in
which she believes things are headed. As interest rates since
Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait have risen, and as the
economy has seemed to falter, she has set her sights lower.
   "The bottom in equity prices cannot be gauged," she
writes, "until . . . economic fundamentals have shown some
sign of stabilization. We're not there yet."
   Ms. Cohen's opinion is noteworthy not only because she has
recently been right, but because of how she arrives at it.
Ms. Cohen, a refugee from the defunct Drexel Burnham Lambert,
pays attention to bread-and-butter fundamentals -- she
watches current and projected levels of corporate earnings
and long-term interest rates.
   She was unmoved by peace, perestroika, European unity and
other themes and supposed market panaceas. She is, on the
other hand, very much interested in projected corporate
profits.
   This year, she thinks that the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 will
post average earnings of $22 a share, almost even with 1989
-- and little changed from her own Jan. 1 projection of
$22.50 a share.
   Wall Street market strategists as a group began the year
on a far more bullish note, projecting $26 a share, according
to Institutional Brokers Estimate System, a service of Lynch,
Jones &amp; Ryan. But since then, the crowd's optimism has
steadily eroded. The latest consensus estimate for 1990 is
$23.99 a share.
   Although estimates have fallen, Ms. Cohen argues that they
are still too high. And most strategists continue to stick
with bullish earnings estimates for 1991 -- the Institutional
Brokers Estimate consensus for next year is $25.43 a share,
compared with Ms. Cohen's $21.
   Thus, she argues, one shoe has yet to drop. While
investors in recent weeks have become unwilling to pay high
multiples for earnings, they haven't sufficiently readjusted
earnings estimates.
   "The consensus economic forecast does not incorporate a
recession, nor a flattening (let alone a decline) in
corporate profits," Ms. Cohen says. "We think the downward
adjustment process will accelerate over the next several
weeks, especially for 1991 estimates."
   What, then, is a "fair" level for stocks? Ms. Cohen
doesn't know and doesn't much care. Brokers sell stocks when
their clients believe the stocks are cheap, not when the
price is "fair."
   Ms. Cohen defines stocks as being cheap -- or at her
"theoretical buy price" -- when they are low enough to
provide an expected annual return of four percentage points
above prevailing bond rates. In other words, investors should
seek a premium, or a margin of safety, in return for risking
money on stocks.
   Based on the current level of rates, and on Wall Street's
current earnings forecast, Ms. Cohen says the S&amp;P 500-stock
index won't be attractive until it reaches about 270 to 280,
considerably below its close yesterday of 324.39, up 1.30.
   Ms. Cohen's earnings forecast, she says, "is basically a
call on the economy," where, she says, "I think conditions
are deteriorating."
   Economic growth, she says, was tepid at best before the
Iraqi invasion, and stock prices -- based on consensus
earnings estimates -- had reached "substantially overvalued
levels."
   The invasion, she says, may boost profits of a few
companies -- notably those in the oil patch. But in general,
she says the invasion and the resultant oil-price rise are
likely to slow down an economy that was in no need of brakes.
Corporate profits in particular, she says, are likely to
weaken in cyclical industries such as manufacturing, in
retailing and in other areas.
   "The growth rate peaked in early 1988," Ms. Cohen says.
"Even without a recession, I don't see any reacceleration
soon. The confidence of consumers and of business
decision-makers has been shaken."
   One bullish factor: If the economy and corporate profits
do weaken, she says, interest rates could well drop back,
reflecting less demand from borrowers. And another bullish
note: She says the dollar's decline will boost the overseas
earnings of multinationals.
   But in general, Ms. Cohen says, "There is very little
stimulus out there." Though the Federal Reserve's monetary
policy could become stimulative, she says, it hasn't yet
become so, and the Fed can't do much to loosen credit while
foreign central banks are tightening.
   What's more, U.S. banks have become less willing -- or
less able -- to lend, and Japanese money supply growth is in
a bind. The Japanese central bank is tightening, and Japanese
banks -- their assets hurt by the plunge in Japanese stocks
-- are under increasing pressure to cut back lending, she
says.
   Ms. Cohen's conclusion: To believe that stock prices are
attractive, one has to believe that interest rates will fall
by at least one percentage point and that consensus earnings
estimates are correct. She says that's believing too much.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0082
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0082.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Logging on Protectionism
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<CO>
   JAPAN
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
ENVIRONMENT (ENV)
FOREST PRODUCTS, PRODUCERS OF WOOD AND LUMBER (FOR)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   While George Bush was assembling his world-wide offensive
against Saddam Hussein, he took a few moments to sign his
name to something that doesn't comport with the
administration's commitment these days to a new world order.
Not unless protectionism is the order of the day.
   Mr. Bush signed into law a virtual ban on exporting logs
from public lands in the Pacific Northwest. Senator Bob
Packwood and other Northwest Congressmen wanted to redirect
the wood going overseas into the dying sawmills of their
region. Japan, the big overseas customer, prefers to use its
own mills attuned to local preferences. Until recently the
administration had opposed the export restrictions. But this
was before the spotted owl was drafted from obscurity by the
environmental lobby to sell the preservation of the
old-growth forest ecosystem.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Recall that it was the Bush administration which this
summer designated the spotted owl as threatened. That ruling,
though expected, has juiced up the environmental
protectionists. "There can be no doubt," the President said
on signing the export ban, "that high levels of export of
unprocessed timber have contributed to the decline in habitat
that caused this species to be listed" as endangered.
   An irony of this "endangered species" gambit is that it
actually obscures how deeply felt the underlying economic
issues are in the Northwest. In fact, its effect extends into
Northern California (where the extremist environmental group
Earth First] is, among other acts, blocking logging trucks)
and even down as far as the mountains of Northern Arizona.
Estimates of job losses from logging cutbacks range as high
as 102,000 in the Northwest, so the timber-industry side is
as emotional about the matter as the greens.
   In Washington, proceeds from log sales support schools
throughout the state. Democratic Governor Booth Gardner, an
opponent of log exports, must tread gingerly under the
Packwood provision, which gave him special powers to curb the
shipments. Timber interests fear a heavy foot.
   But shutting off log exports from state lands (federal
lands have long been out of bounds) isn't going to be enough
for some. Rep. Peter DeFazio (D., Ore.) argues that private
lands should be treated no differently. Here, however, the
natural instincts of politicians really start transgressing
property rights. But Mr. DeFazio insists that mill workers
are going to be wiped out unless that next step is taken. As
always, protectionism expands inexorably.
   Job-loss claims are always suspect, whether they're about
loggers or millers or candlestick makers. For instance, it's
also been pointed out that "saving" these milling jobs will
come at the expense of blue-collar jobs lost on the docks
when the export ban takes hold. This game can also lead to
silliness: Mr. DeFazio got the Forest Service to draft a
scheme to minimize lost logger jobs with make-work such as
tearing up old logging roads.
   The truth is that jobs are lost all the time in a dynamic
economy, and while that can cause considerable immediate
grief for those caught unprepared, most industrious people
can get back on their feet soon if an economy is healthy and
creating new jobs. That's the critical element: fostering
economic growth. Protectionism impedes new economic growth.
   This is not to deny that the situation in the Northwest
poses difficult choices for policy makers. The better
solution, though, would be to use the market more creatively
to find answers, rather than thwart it as Mr. Bush has done
by signing the Packwood bill.
   What that ought to mean in the Northwest, and wherever
land use is in question, is (1) private property, the bedrock
of market-based prosperity, is respected; and (2) where
public property or resources are disputed, their proper
pricing should be the goal, along with the elimination of
subsidies. Translation: Privatize where possible, with
perhaps some land going to groups such as the Nature
Conservancy.
   If the body politic indeed concludes that an owl, or the
ecosystem, deserves special protection (often, it appears,
for merely psychic rewards) then buy off enough of the
logging operations to satisfy that goal. Increasingly
economists are exploring this type of environmental
perestroika as an alternative to arbitrary rule making.
   Better to develop this approach to resolving competing
resource interests than to encourage yet more clumsy
politicking. The log ban, in typical Rube Goldberg fashion,
contains an out whereby an adverse ruling under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade would void the export cutoff,
but its backers think they can skirt that because the measure
can be justified under GATT as conservation. This is the sort
of finagling that breeds public cynicism -- and more
finagling.
   The Japanese, not surprisingly, are fuming over the
President's decision to support the ban. Thus, recent gains
in the U.S.-Japanese trade relationship are now offset to
some degree by this latest action. Over the long run, this
sort of frustrating, zero-sum policy only provides long-term
work for the politicians.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0081
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0081.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Sweater Imports
   Become Subject
   To New Duties
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT (COM)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The International Trade Commission, ruling
that the U.S. knitwear industry is injured by imports,
authorized the imposition of anti-dumping duties on more than
$1 billion in annual shipments of synthetic-fiber sweaters
from Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea.
   The ITC's final ruling will hit the Taiwanese imports
hardest; it authorizes the U.S. Customs Service to collect
additional duties ranging from 21.38% to 24.02% on most of
those shipments. The ruling also will lead to duties of 5.86%
on sweaters from Hong Kong's leading suppliers and of 0.73%
to 3.17% on those from South Korea.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Dumping is defined as selling at prices below the cost of
production or at below the price in the home market. Dumping
duties are designed to offset the allegedly unfair price
advantage that imports have over U.S.-produced ones. The ITC
acted on a petition brought by the National Knitwear &amp;
Sportswear Association, a New York trade group representing
most of the affected U.S. producers.
   The ruling isn't expected to have an immediate impact on
department-store prices because most of the imported sweaters
to be sold this winter are already in U.S. warehouses. But
Seth Bodner, executive director of the knitwear association,
predicted that prices will rise beginning in the 1991-1992
season -- unless the Commerce Department finds that the
dumping has ceased. "Some of the Korean producers will have
to either raise their prices in the off-season or accept
higher dumping margins," he said.
   Mr. Bodner also predicted that the U.S. government will
compel U.S. importers to be more scrupulous about the origin
of the Asian sweaters they purchase. The Commerce Department
in the course of its investigation looked into charges that
some sweaters shipped as part of Hong Kong's quotas were made
in China.
   The ITC vote was 2-1, with Commissioners David Rohr and
Seeley Lodwick finding there was injury to the domestic
industry and Commissioner Don Newquist declaring the opposite
view. Acting ITC Chairman Anne Brunsdale recused herself from
voting on the case.
   U.S. apparel importers expressed disappointment with the
ruling. "Imports have filled a void for high-quality fashion
and novelty sweaters; they have not damaged a domestic
industry," said Gail Cumins, counsel to the American
Association of Exporters and Importers' Sweater Group. She
warned that consumers will be the ones hurt because "the
sweaters they want to buy just won't be available at prices
they can afford."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0080
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0080.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Chicago Merc Plan Seeks
   A Stronger Circuit Breaker
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- The Chicago Mercantile Exchange proposed
tightening a so-called circuit-breaker rule limiting the
one-day moves in its Standard &amp; Poor's 500-stock index
futures contract.
   Under the proposal, trading would be halted after the
contract moved up or down 20 points, instead of the current
30-point limit. The futures exchange said other
circuit-breaker rules for the contract would remain as they
are now. The rules are intended to reduce market volatility.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The proposal now goes to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0079
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0079.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Lukens Inc.:
   `Record Results' for 1990
   Expected, Chairman Says
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LUC LABOR
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   Lukens Inc. said it should have "record results" for
fiscal 1990, compared with last year's net income of $41.5
million, or $4.73 a share.
   Speaking to security analysts, W.R. Wilson, Lukens
chairman and chief executive officer, said the company
intends to find more export markets for its specialty plate
steels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Wilson suggested that acquisitions are part of the
growth plan. The "ideal candidate" for acquisition is a
company that would generate $225 million in sales and
operating margins of 11% or more, he said.
   Lukens officials said that representatives of the United
Steelworkers of America union have agreed to meet next week
to discuss a new contract. The union's contract doesn't
expire for another year, but the Coatesville, Pa.-based
company has asked the workers to open talks early.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0078
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0078.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   REVIEW &amp; OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Guilty Whatever Charged
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A14
</SO>
<IN>
OIL, INTEGRATED MAJORS (OIL)
OIL, SECONDARY (OIS)
PETROLEUM (PET)
</IN>
<LP>
   "You're gouging on your prices if
   You charge more than the rest.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But it's unfair competition if you
   think you can charge less.
   To help avoid confusion:
   Don't try to charge the same,
   That would be collusion]"
                                                                                                       

   Thus spake a fictional government antitrust lawyer in the
satirical free-market poem "The Incredible Bread Machine."
The folks who work for the major oil companies can be
forgiven if they think that they too will land in trouble no
matter what they do in the wake of the Persian Gulf crisis.
   Oil companies have been under pressure from the White
House on down to restrain price hikes. As it is now, most of
the price increases out there would still leave the companies
well below the replacement cost of the new oil they must buy.
Now, however, independent gasoline wholesalers are demanding
the government go after the majors for "predatory" pricing
and an alleged attempt to drive the independents out of
business.
   The independents charge that the retail price of gas
charged at some stations owned by the big oil companies is
less than the wholesale price independent stations are
charged. The oil companies say they can most effectively hold
down retail prices at stations they control directly, if
indeed "holding down" prices is what's expected of them.
Until recently, the Atlantic Richfield Co. was charging 10
cents a gallon less than other stations because most of the
oil it markets is its own. In any event, it finally had to
put its prices back up when its lower pump prices caused huge
lines and caused it to run out of supplies in some areas.
   But Missouri Attorney General William Webster scents a
conspiracy. He recently called for a probe into the "illegal,
predatory pricing practices" of some oil companies. In an
example of cognitive dissonance, Mr. Webster was at the same
time in Washington with 24 other AGs -- sometimes called the
Aspiring Governors -- to demand that President Bush punish
any oil companies that engage in "price gouging."
   The independent wholesalers and dealers want a federal law
to bar oil companies from owning gasoline stations. They
probably won't get it, but the fact that the issue has been
picked up at all is further proof that few subjects are more
susceptible to demagoguery than the workings of energy
markets. Thus, we now have the spectacle of several
"pro-consumer" Members of Congress defending those gasoline
stations that in fact have raised prices to consumers the
most.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0077
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0077.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Wednesday's Markets:
   Dollar Slides
   To '90 Low
   Against Yen
   ---
   Investors Expect Data
   On Jobs to Be Weak;
   Stocks, Bonds Gain
   ----
   By Christopher Winans
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors drove down the dollar, betting that
the employment report due tomorrow will be bleak enough to
convince the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates.
   The dollar tumbled to 1.5585 marks from 1.5815 Tuesday and
fell to 141.70 yen from 143.50, though trading was light.
Against the yen, the dollar sank to its lowest level since
late December.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Stock and bond prices ended higher after seesawing much of
the day, also in thin trading. Many investors were sitting on
their hands awaiting the jobs report or further developments
in the Mideast. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 14.85
points to 2628.22.
   Underlying the renewed bearishness about the dollar is the
growing belief that the U.S. economy is weakening and that
rising oil prices may tip it into recession. The October
futures contract for crude oil rose an additional 65 cents a
barrel to close at $29.77 yesterday, extending Tuesday's
$1.80-a-barrel surge.
   Yesterday, some currency and bond traders seized on a
rumor in the morning that the Fed had gotten an early look at
the August employment numbers and that the results were
extremely weak.
   In such a thinly traded market, that rumor, which
apparently was unfounded, was enough to help drive down the
dollar and boost bond prices. After a brief lull last week,
the speculation about a Fed easing "hit fever-high peaks
again," said Roberta D. Olson, fixed-income portfolio manager
at Banc One Asset Management, Columbus, Ohio. "It's the only
thing to look at this week."
   A Fed move to reduce U.S. interest rates would make the
dollar and dollar-denominated investments less attractive
compared with those in other countriesespecially in Germany
and Japan, where interest rates have been rising.
   Graham Spiers, head of currency trading at Travelers
Investment Management, Hartford, Conn., said that the
dollar's drop yesterday began in Japan, with the yen's
firming against several European currencies as well as the
dollar.
   Part of what sparked the sell-off there was the failure of
one Japanese firm's large dollar purchase to add much
strength to the dollar, said David Gilmore, senior
foreign-exchange analyst at McCarthy, Crisanti &amp; Maffei.
   Mr. Gilmore said the dollar is coming under pressure in
Japan as big institutions there take profits in overseas
markets and convert them into yen to dress up their books for
the first half ending Sept. 30.
   Long-term U.S. Treasury bond prices rose a half point, or
$5 for each $1,000 face amount, and "bonds being so strong
had a lot to do with the strength in equities," said Paul
Hennessey, head of equities trading at Boston Co.
   Much of the boost in the stock market came from oil
stocks, which headed higher on the continued rise in oil
prices. Chevron, Texaco and Exxon -- all parts of the Dow
Jones Industrial Average -- posted strong gains for the day.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rose in light trading. Volume was 120.6
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
advancers outnumbered decliners, 953 to 571.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond eased to 8.96%.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0076
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0076.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   First National Bank of Cameron
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   MTNR
</CO>
<IN>
SOUTHERN U.S. BANKS (BAS)
BANKS (BNK)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MARTINSBURG, W.Va. -- Mountaineer Bankshares of W.Va. Inc.
said it will acquire First National Bank of Cameron. The
agreement is subject to regulatory approval. The parties plan
to complete the transaction during the first quarter of 1991.
   First National Bank of Cameron has total assets of $17
million, and the bank holding company has total assets of
$528 million.
</LP>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0075
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0075.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Money Rates
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP CANDA JAPAN FNM FRE MER GM
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
BANKS (BNK)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   Wednesday, September 5, 1990
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a
guide to general levels but don't always represent actual
transactions.
                                                                                                       

   PRIME RATE: 10%. The base rate on corporate loans at large
U.S. money center commercial banks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL FUNDS: 13% high, 8 1/4% low, 10% near closing bid,
11% offered. Reserves traded among commercial banks for
overnight use in amounts of $1 million or more. Source:
Babcock Fulton Prebon (U.S.A.) Inc.
                                                                                                       

   DISCOUNT RATE: 7%. The charge on loans to depository
institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank.
                                                                                                       

   CALL MONEY: 9 1/4%. The charge on loans to brokers on
stock exchange collateral.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER placed directly by General Motors
Acceptance Corp.: 7.85% 27 to 44 days; 7.80% 45 to 59 days;
7.70% 60 to 89 days; 7.65% 90 to 119 days; 7.60% 120 to 149
days; 7.55% 150 to 179 days; 7.45% 180 to 270 days.
                                                                                                       

   COMMERCIAL PAPER: High-grade unsecured notes sold through
dealers by major corporations in multiples of $1,000: 7.95%
30 days; 7.90% 60 days; 7.85% 90 days.
                                                                                                       

   CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT: 7.65% one month; 7.67% two
months; 7.69% three months; 7.78% six months; 7.92% one year.
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary
new issues of negotiable C.D.s, usually on amounts of $1
million and more. The minimum unit is $100,000. Typical rates
in the secondary market: 7.90% one month; 7.90% three months;
7.93% six months.
                                                                                                       

   BANKERS ACCEPTANCES: 7.80% 30 days; 7.73% 60 days; 7.64%
90 days; 7.64% 120 days; 7.58% 150 days; 7.53% 180 days.
Negotiable, bank-backed business credit instruments typically
financing an import order.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS: 8% - 7 7/8% one month; 8% - 7
7/8% two months; 8% - 7 7/8% three months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16%
four months; 8 1/16% - 7 15/16% five months; 8 1/16% - 7
15/16% six months.
                                                                                                       

   LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (LIBOR): 8% one month; 8%
three months; 8 1/16% six months; 8 3/16% one year. The
average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the
London market based on quotations at five major banks.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN PRIME RATES: Canada 14%-14.25%; Germany 10.50%;
Japan 7.38%; Switzerland 9.38%; Britain 15%. These rate
indications aren't directly comparable; lending practices
vary widely by location.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS: Results of the Tuesday, September 4, 1990,
auction of short-term U.S. government bills, sold at a
discount from face value in units of $10,000 to $1 million:
7.39% 13 weeks; 7.36% 26 weeks.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP. (Freddie Mac): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days. 10.18%, standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages;
8.25%, 2% rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages.
Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (Fannie Mae): Posted
yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30
days (priced at par). 10.08%, standard conventional
fixed-rate mortgages; 8.45%, 6/2 rate capped one-year
adjustable rate mortgages. Source: Telerate Systems Inc.
                                                                                                       

   MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST: 7.58%. Annualized
average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days;
not a forecast of future returns.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0074
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0074.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Receives Report of Citizen Shot
   In Kuwait While Fleeing Iraqi Soldiers
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   The State Department received a report yesterday that a
male U.S. citizen had been shot and wounded in Kuwait City by
Iraqi soldiers while he was trying to avoid being captured.
   A department spokesman said the U.S. didn't have any
information about the severity of the injuries. He said the
U.S. Embassy in Kuwait City had contacted the hospital where
it believed the wounded American had been taken, but
"hospital officials said they had no knowledge of the
incident," according to a statement released last night.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The State Department said efforts to obtain more
information from Iraqi authorities in Kuwait "have been in
vain." The official added that the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad
had been told to contact Iraq's Foreign Ministry "to demand
consular access to the citizen."
   Meanwhile, in Baghdad, Saddam Hussein again called for a
holy war against American forces in the Persian Gulf and
their Arab allies, as President Bush, who will address a
joint session of Congress next week, warned that sanctions
against Iraq must succeed or "we will review our options."
   The tough language from Baghdad contrasted sharply with
efforts by Saddam Hussein to appear conciliatory by releasing
foreign women and children being held hostage. Yesterday,
some 175 more foreigners, including 24 Americans, were
permitted to leave, and the State Department said nine more
Americans may be released today.
   Even as the hostages were departing, Saddam Hussein said
Iraqi children could starve as a result of the U.S.-led
embargo. He also called for the overthrow of the governments
of Egypt and Saudi Arabia, and vowed in a television and
radio message that the West would be "disastrously defeated."
   Meanwhile, Secretary of State James Baker told the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee that the U.S. might tighten the
embargo further by seeking United Nations authority to
intercept aircraft carrying supplies to Iraq. Mr. Baker said
the U.S. so far hasn't sought such authority because it
doesn't believe Baghdad "can supply itself solely from the
air." There have been reports that aircraft from some
nations, including Libya, may have delivered supplies to
Iraq. "So far, we don't think the leakage by air has been all
that significant," Mr. Baker said. "But it is something we
are watching."
   The Bush administration is continuing its efforts to shore
up domestic and international support for the Gulf effort,
which increasingly appears could become a lengthy standoff.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, Deputy Secretary of
State Lawrence Eagleburger and Pentagon Undersecretary Paul
Wolfowitz headed for South Korea and Japan to solicit cash
and other contributions to help the Gulf effort. The American
delegation had traveled earlier to France and Britain.
   The U.S. has avoided setting a specific goal for foreign
contributions, but a senior official in the Brady delegation
suggested other countries should meet the added costs above
the Pentagon's normal operating budget -- about $1 billion a
month.
   "I think it's not unreasonable to ask the allies to pick
up all of it," the official said. "After all, they couldn't
buy this kind of capability anywhere else in the world."
   In addition, the group hopes to raise an estimated $3.5
billion to help Egypt, Jordan and Turkey through the rest of
this year. Those countries have been hit particularly hard by
the Iraqi invasion and the U.S.-led embargo. "It's absolutely
critical we get the money for the front-line states," Mr.
Brady told reporters at a briefing in London.
   Mr. Baker is set to lead a parallel support-raising
mission to Europe and the Middle East. Washington is
particularly interested in "in-kind" payments, such as oil,
transportation services and medical supplies, because they
keep the U.S. military commitment from appearing to be a
mercenary operation.
   President Bush is scheduled to meet on Sunday with Soviet
President Mikhail Gorbachev in Helsinki, Finland, to discuss
the crisis. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said
yesterday that Soviet cooperation in the Gulf had led the
U.S. to look more favorably on the idea of providing economic
aid to the Soviets. "I think it's fair to say that the Soviet
cooperation in the Gulf has impressed us to the point that we
are even more interested in being supportive economically if
we can be," Mr. Fitzwater said.
   In his appearance next Tuesday on Capitol Hill, Mr. Bush
is expected to articulate America's long-term goals in the
Gulf. Mr. Baker, in congressional testimony twice this week,
argued that it is important for the U.S. to stay the course.
Yesterday, he said, "It's important that the American people
understand that a degree of patience will be required here."
   President Bush met yesterday morning with most members of
the bipartisan congressional delegation that recently visited
U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia. Mr. Bush told the lawmakers he
was "most gratified by the repeated statements of support for
U.S. determination to see this mission through and to
maintain U.S. forces until our goals are achieved," according
to Mr. Fitzwater.
   Mr. Fitzwater also said the president called U.S.
Ambassador W. Nathanial Howell in the U.S. embassy in Kuwait
yesterday to thank him and the staff for holding out against
Iraqi demands that the embassy be closed. The embassy is
surrounded by Iraqi soldiers and water and power have been
shut off.
   For several weeks, the Iraqis have been rounding up
Americans in Kuwait to use them as "shields" to deter a U.S.
attack on its military facilities. A State Department
official said yesterday's shooting incident took place last
evening Kuwait time. Last month, one of the Americans being
used as a "shield" died of a heart attack.
   Mr. Fitzwater also called Saddam Hussein's latest speech
"another rhetorical diatribe designed to split Arab unity."
He added: "We see it as a sign of desperation that Iraq is
lashing out with hypocrisy and irrelevant statements."
   ---
   Michel McQueen in Washington contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0073
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0073.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pepper...and Salt
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A15
</SO>
<LP>
   Nodding Doing
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   About one-thirty, maybe two,
   A nap is what I wish to do;
   I feel like I've been hit, post-luncheon,
   By someone with an ax or truncheon.
   The world can go downhill on skids
   As long as I can close my lids.
   Revile me as a lout and loafa --
   But go away. I want my sofa]
   -- Dick Emmons.
   ---
   Double Dippers?
                                                                                                       

   Bankers in highly leveraged deals
   Have an enviable position of power,
   In getting big fees when they're put together,
   And again when they start going sour.
   -- Edward F. Dempsey.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0072
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0072.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls to 1990 Low Against Yen
   Amid Talk That Fed Will Ease Credit
   ----
   By Randolph Walerius
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA JAPAN EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- The dollar slid to a 1990 low against the yen
late yesterday, after Japanese investors set the tone by
selling off the greenback at the start of the global trading
day. The U.S. currency declined sharply against other major
currencies as well.
   U.S. traders cited a widespread expectation that the
Federal Reserve will act as soon as tomorrow to signal an
easing in monetary policy by lowering the target for its
benchmark federal funds rate to 7 3/4% from what is now
thought to be a target of 8%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The release of U.S. employment data tomorrow is expected
to provide the confirmation of economic weakness that the Fed
needs to ease credit, observers said.
   Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was changing
hands at 141.70 yen, below 143.50 yen in New York late
Tuesday. The dollar hasn't closed below 142 yen in New York
since Dec. 26, 1989, when it was at 141.85 yen.
   Against the mark, the dollar was quoted at 1.5585 marks,
down from 1.5815 marks late Tuesday in New York. Sterling was
trading at $1.9043, up from $1.8790.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was quoted
at 141.85 yen, down from 142.30 yen at the close there
Wednesday. Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at about
1.5612 marks, down from Wednesday's Tokyo close of 1.5688
marks.
   The fed funds rate is the rate banks charge one another on
overnight loans and is the most sensitive indicator of the
direction of U.S. interest rates.
   Several analysts and traders said the expectation of the
Fed's easing was only one of the factors behind the dollar's
slide.
   David Gilmore, foreign-exchange analyst at McCarthy,
Crisanti &amp; Maffei in New York, said the dollar's slide began
shortly after a big Japanese investor tried to force the
dollar higher with a huge buy order at 143.00 yen early in
the global day. When the market saw what Mr. Gilmore said was
a billion-dollar order go through with little benefit to the
dollar, it decided to sell the greenback, he said.
   After the decline set in, traders looked around and found
the likelihood of the Fed's easing as a plausible explanation
for the day's mood, Mr. Gilmore said.
   There are many reasons to sell the dollar, said Kevin
Weir, vice president at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
New York. In addition to the expectation of lower interest
rates, there is the U.S. budget deficit, which is making its
way back into the news after being displaced by the Persian
Gulf crisis, he said.
   And the Gulf standoff itself, as it drags on, only
increases the pressure on the federal budget, Mr. Weir said.
   "You can't balance the budget at the same time as trying
to fight a war," said Christa Bleyleben, vice president at
Bank of Boston.
   The yen strengthened despite another sharp drop in the
Tokyo stock market Wednesday.
   U.S. traders said Japanese corporate investors were
repatriating their money in part to improve their earnings
picture at the midway point in their fiscal year.
   The consensus among U.S. traders and analysts was that the
Fed would lower the fed funds target rate by 25 basis points
and some speculated that the Fed may even move to lower the
discount rate from its current 7%. The discount rate is the
price the Fed charges on loans to banks.
   Mr. Gilmore, at McCarthy-Crisanti, said he expects the Fed
to ease in two stages: first lowering the fed funds target to
7 3/4 by early next week and then by another 25 basis points
after inflation reports are released later this month.
   While interest rates in the U.S. are expected to head
lower, those in West Germany and Japan will remain unchanged
or rise, observers said.
   In Europe, the dollar fell against major currencies.
Sterling was supported by renewed speculation over its entry
into the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary
System.
   In Tokyo, traders said increasing bearishness toward the
U.S. currency helped push the dollar below the expected
support level of 142.50 yen. The dollar finished Wednesday at
142.30 yen, well below 144.05 yen late Tuesday in Tokyo.
   But traders predicted the dollar is approaching its
near-term lows. They said buying interest below 142 yen
should prove strong.
   Meanwhile, on the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for
current delivery settled at $386.10 an ounce, up $2.40.
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.6 million ounces.
   In Hong Kong Thursday, gold was quoted at $389.25 an
ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0071
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0071.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Liberals, New Democrats
   Shown Leading in Ontario
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Ontario, Canada's largest province, is to hold
its legislative elections today, and opinion polls indicate a
tight race between the governing Liberal Party and the
socialist New Democratic Party.
   Support for the Liberals, led by Premier David Peterson,
has declined partly because of alleged irregularities in
party fund-raising.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The New Democrats, led by lawyer Bob Rae, have never
formed a government in Ontario, the headquarters of Canada's
major financial institutions and much of the country's
industry. The province has more than a third of the country's
population of 26.5 million.
   The New Democrats have proposed a substantial increase in
spending to be financed partly by a minimum corporate tax of
about 8%, a property speculation tax and death duties on
estates of at least one million Canadian dollars
(US$862,000). The party's spending proposals include
low-interest loans for farmers, home buyers and small
businesses.
   The Liberals have proposed cutting the provincial sales
tax to 7% from 8%, increasing in spending on mass transit and
improving social programs such as school breakfasts for needy
children.
   The Progressive Conservative Party, which governed Ontario
from 1943 to 1985 and currently controls the national
government in Ottawa, has trailed the Liberals and New
Democrats in recent opinion polls. In the last Ontario
election in 1987, the Liberals won 95 seats in the 130-seat
provincial legislature. The New Democrats won 19 and the
Conservatives 16.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0070
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0070.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- United Telecommunications Inc.:
   US Sprint Subsidiary Gets
   $127 Million in Contracts
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   UT ITT X.FRE
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   US Sprint Communications Co., a unit of United
Telecommunications Inc., said it reached contracts with
several companies for telecommunications services with a
total value of $127 million.
   National Carriers' Buyers Network, a San Jose,
Calif.-based group of small-to-medium size regional carriers,
agreed to a two-year, $78 million contract for a package of
telecommunications services that supplement its personal
networks and provide expanded service to its customers. The
regional carriers buy telecommunications services and then
repackage them for smaller customers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Diego-based American Healthcare Systems signed an
agreement with Sprint estimated at more than $36 million over
three years. Sprint said it will design and implement a
communications network that links American Healthcare's 1,100
facilities. Sprint will also provide public pay telephone,
patient calling and employee benefit-related services for the
health-care alliance.
   ITT Corp. signed a three-year agreement with Sprint valued
at $10.8 million to provide a variety of telecommunications
services. Based in New York, ITT is a diversified
multinational corporation.
   Fireman's Fund Mortgage Corp. awarded U.S. Sprint a
two-year, $2.2 million contract for a multiple-location WATS
system on a national basis. Based in Farmington Hills, Mich.,
Fireman's Fund Mortgage is a subsidiary of Fireman's Fund
Insurance Co. of Novato, Calif.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0069
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0069.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Technology:
   ImmunoGen Seeks to Begin
   Testing of Cancer Drug
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   IMGN
</CO>
<IN>
MEDICAL AND BIOTECHNOLOGY (MTC)
</IN>
<LP>
   CAMBRIDGE, Mass. -- ImmunoGen Inc. said it filed an
application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to
begin clinical trials with an experimental drug for
small-cell lung tumors.
   The drug combines a highly toxic chemical called ricin
with a monoclonal antibody, the company said. The antibody,
an immune system protein, selectively sticks to lung tumor
cells. Thus, it carries the toxic ricin to such cells,
enabling it to kill the cells while minimizing the damage it
causes to normal cells. In addition, ImmunoGen employs a
chemically altered version of ricin that enhances the drug's
selective action against tumor cells.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ImmunoGen said it expects to begin clinical trials of the
drug this fall.
   Small-cell lung cancer is one of the deadliest cancers --
the five-year survival rate with conventional therapy is less
than 10%, the company said. An estimated 40,000 to 50,000 new
cases of the disease are diagnosed annually in the U.S.,
ImmunoGen said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0068
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0068.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Autos:
   Gas Savings
   Vs. Safety
   Stirs Debate
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
INSURANCE (INS)
</IN>
<GV>
CONGRESS (CNG)
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The drive for better car gasoline-mileage is
about to collide with auto safety.
   That is the conclusion of the Insurance Institute for
Highway Safety and some government auto-safety officials, who
warn that tougher fuel-economy rules -- an increasingly
popular idea because of the Mideast turmoil -- will
inevitably result in smaller vehicles and higher death rates.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   But environmental groups and some highway safety advocates
vociferously disagree. Saying that stricter mileage rules
would hurt safety is "totally untrue and bogus," asserts
consumer advocate Ralph Nader.
   The increasingly nasty battle over fuel-economy standards
could determine what kind of cars consumers will be driving
in coming years. It promises to come to a head this fall,
when Congress takes up legislation sponsored by Democratic
Sen. Richard Bryan of Nevada that would require auto makers
to increase the fuel efficiency of their fleets by 20% in
model year 1995 and 40% by 2001.
   Contending that the legislation could hurt safety, the
Insurance Institute, which is funded by the insurance
industry, points to a number of studies to back up its
argument. One, just completed by the institute, found that 11
types of General Motors Corp. cars downsized since 1977 had
significantly higher death rates than than their earlier,
larger counterparts. It also found that while death rates for
Toyotas and Nissans in 1979 were 56% higher than for domestic
Ford and GM cars, the rates have gotten much closer as the
Japanese cars have gotten bigger and the American cars
smaller.
   A little-noticed 1989 study by the Transportation
Department's National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
showed similar results. Noting that "narrower, lighter,
shorter cars have higher rollover rates than wide, heavy,
long ones," the agency found that the reduction in car sizes
since 1970 has resulted in approximately 1,340 additional
deaths in single-vehicle rollover crashes each year. And a
study last year by a Brookings Institution researcher and a
Harvard University professor predicted that over the next 10
years, the fuel-economy rules would be responsible for up to
3,900 additional fatalities involving smaller 1989 models
alone.
   On the other side of the debate are some safety and energy
analysts, who deny that tougher fuel-mileage rules would
inevitably lead to another round of vehicle downsizing. They
say available technology could provide major mileage gains --
if only car companies were compelled to use it to make cars
more fuel-efficient rather than faster and more powerful.
   "At 45 miles per gallon, we aren't talking about
downsizing the vehicle, and therefore, safety doesn't enter
into it at all," says William MacGavern, staff attorney for
the U.S. Public Interest Research Group, a lobbying group. He
says front-wheel drive, the use of four, rather than two,
valves per cylinder, improved aerodynamic styling, extra
intake and exhaust valves, and continuously variable
transmissions can turn gas-gulpers into gas-sippers without a
major slimming down.
   Nevertheless, if downsizing does occur, these analysts
say, smaller cars can be made safer by installing air bags
and other safety equipment. "You can build safety into small
cars if you want to do it," says Clarence Ditlow, executive
director of the Center for Auto Safety, a consumer group
often critical of car manufacturers.
   Similarly, Joan Claybrook, president of Public Citizen, an
advocacy group, and a former NHTSA administrator, pointed out
that under her tenure, the traffic-safety agency built
experimental vehicles that got from 32 to 50 miles per
gallon, yet protected occupants in 50 mile-per-hour frontal
crashes. The vehicles were made of lightweight, high-strength
steel filled with foam.
   Sen. Bryan's bill would be the most sweeping change in the
fuel-economy law since the original standards were
established in 1975 in response to the first oil shock. Fuel
economy is much improved from 15 years ago but in recent
years has begun to lag; it slipped 4% from 1988 to 1990,
according to the Insurance Institute. Car makers currently
must meet a fleetwide average of 27.5 miles per gallon.
   The auto industry, which is adamantly opposed to tighter
fuel-economy rules, denies that technology alone -- without
downsizing -- would allow it to comply with the gas-mileage
requirements now pending in Congress. But industry officials
won't publicly discuss the safety implications of
fuel-economy rules, saying they could be sued if they admit
that their small cars aren't as safe as their big ones.
   Nevertheless, most people on both sides of the
fuel-economy debate acknowledge that, everything else being
equal, small cars aren't as safe as large ones. "You can't
repeal the laws of physics," says Brian O'Neill, president of
the Insurance Institute.
   The institute found that the 1989 fatality rate for the
smallest cars on the road was three deaths per 10,000
registered vehicles, compared with 1.3 deaths for the largest
cars. While a modest tightening of the fuel-economy standards
might not have a big impact on safety, much tougher rules
could lead to a "substantial increase" in the fatality rate
from what it would otherwise be, he contends.
   In the institute's study of the GM cars, researchers
concluded that, after downsizing, occupant death rates during
1985-1989 increased for 10 of the 11 types of cars examined,
and stayed the same for the 11th. For example, the rate for
the 1980-81 model F-cars (Chevrolet Camaros and Pontiac
Firebirds) was 2.3 deaths per 10,000 registered cars. After
downsizing in 1982, the rate for 1982-1983 Camaros and
Firebirds increased to 3.3. A GM spokesman said the car maker
hadn't examined the report in detail, but that large cars
offer an "extra measure of protection."
   Mr. Nader doesn't dispute that but says the "great
leveler" is air bags, and he notes that the Bryan bill
includes a provision encouraging manufacturers to equip small
cars with air bags. Mr. O'Neill counters that air bags, while
beneficial, don't work in every accident: They don't protect
occupants involved in side crashes, for example, or in
frontal crashes so severe that the passenger compartment is
crushed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0067
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0067.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Ogden Corp.:
   Allied Division to Acquire
   ARA's Ground Services Inc.
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   OG X.ARA
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
INDUSTRIAL &amp; COMMERCIAL SERVICES, LEASING, CLEANING (ICS)
</IN>
<LP>
   An Ogden Corp. unit agreed to acquire the Ground Services
Inc. subsidiary of ARA Group Inc.
   Terms weren't disclosed.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Ogden's Allied Aviation Services division, which has been
expanding, provides more than $400 million annually of
services -- baggage, ticketing, food service, fueling and
others -- to a number of airports and airlines. Ground
Services, with annual revenue of $35 million, cleans
aircraft, warehouses cargo and handles baggage.
   Closely held ARA, based in Philadelphia, has businesses in
food service, uniform rental, magazine and book distribution,
child care and nursing homes. The company also manages
hospital emergency rooms.
   New York-based Ogden provides services to entertainment,
aviation, government and building markets. Ogden also
provides hazardous-waste and municipal solid-waste
incineration services.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0066
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0066.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Pier 1 Imports Says
   Net Fell at Least 60%
   In Fiscal 2nd Quarter
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PIR
</CO>
<IN>
SPECIALTY RETAILERS (OTS)
DOW JONES INTERVIEW (CEO)
BUYBACKS, REDEMPTIONS, SWAP OFFERS (BBK)
</IN>
<LP>
   FORT WORTH, Texas -- Pier 1 Imports Inc. said it expects
to report net for the second-quarter ended Sept. 1, fell at
least 60% to seven cents or eight cents a share, from 20
cents in the year-earlier period.
   Moreover, Pier 1 expects earnings for the fiscal second
half ending March 2, 1991, to drop to between 25 cents and 30
cents a share, from 32 cents in the year-earlier period,
Clark A. Johnson, chairman and chief executive officer, said
in an interview. That would result in year-end earnings of
between 54 cents and 60 cents a share, down from 71 cents the
year earlier.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company also announced an expansion of its stock
buy-back program, to four million shares from two million.
   For the first quarter ended June 2, Pier 1 reported record
earnings of $7.7 million, or 22 cents a share, on record
sales of $138 million. But since then, Mr. Johnson said, the
national economy has slowed, and buyers have become cautious,
especially in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. In
August, sales at Pier 1 stores open more than a year fell 7%
or 8%, Mr. Johnson said. In July, sales at stores open more
than a year were about flat, and in June they fell 2.6%.
   The specialty home-furnishings retailer has been hurt in
particular by sluggish sales of new and existing homes, said
Mr. Johnson. Most affected of the 535 Pier 1 stores in the
U.S. have been those in California and the Northeast, he
said.
   Dennis Telzrow, a retail analyst with Eppler Guerin &amp;
Turner, said "I originally forecast 78 cents a share" for
Pier 1 this fiscal year. As it has turned out, however, "the
furniture industry as a whole has been poor, and some Pier 1
merchandise is higher priced" than mass-merchandise
furniture, making it all the more vulnerable to the downturn,
he said.
   Concerning the buy-back program, Mr. Johnson noted that
since last December, when the board approved the purchase of
two million shares, Pier 1 common has fallen from about $12 a
share to below $8 a share. "Down at this level, we think it's
even a better investment, so we expanded it to four million,"
said Mr. Johnson. Four million shares represent more than 10%
of Pier 1's approximate 36 million shares outstanding. Of the
four million shares authorized for buy-back, the company has
bought about 700,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0065
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0065.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Group Says China to Abide
   By Ban on Trading in Ivory
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST AFRIC
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   LAUSANNE, Switzerland -- China will abide by an
international ban on trade in ivory, according to an
organization that monitors trade in endangered wildlife
species.
   Beijing's decision was prompted by the closure of
traditional export markets in Japan, the U.S. and Western
Europe where governments have outlawed all ivory trade,
according to Jacques Bernez of the Convention on
International Trade in Endangered Species.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Beijing told the group it will become party to the ban
next January, Mr. Bernez said.
   The 103-nation group agreed on the ivory trade ban in an
attempt to protect dwindling herds of African elephants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0064
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0064.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Pretoria's Harshest Critics Are Becoming Fans
   As East Europeans, Africans Pursue Trade Ties
   ----
   By Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   AFRIC EUROP FREST
</CO>
<IN>
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
</IN>
<LP>
   JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -- Red carpets are being rolled
out for the South African government in some very unlikely
places these days.
   Kent Durr, the minister of trade, industry and tourism,
had just arrived in Moscow last month when he heard a radio
station dedicate a song to his delegation. The disk jockey
said the tall and tanned Mr. Durr, the first South African
cabinet minister ever to visit the Soviet Union, looked like
a "movie star." Until then, the Soviets had viewed the
Pretoria government as a cabal of ugly racists.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   A few days later, President F.W. de Klerk stepped off a
plane in the African country of Madagascar and was greeted
with a banner newspaper headline screaming "Welcome to You."
His smiling face beamed from the front page. This was from a
country that routinely labeled South Africa the "racist
republic."
   What's going on here? As the caption on Mr. de Klerk's
picture said, "A whistlestop visit under the sign of
realpolitik."
   The realpolitik of desperately poor Africa is that if the
continent is to have a chance at recovery it needs open
economic ties with South Africa, the only high-tech, First
World economy south of the Sahara. In Eastern Europe,
realpolitik dictates that nations retooling their communist
economies take help wherever they can get it.
   For South Africa, long shunned by the world for its
race-segregation policies, realpolitik means rejoining the
international community through any door that opens, even if
it is via the two regions of the world, Africa and Eastern
Europe, that have been its fiercest critics. Pretoria began
shedding its pariah status earlier this year by embarking on
a series of political reforms aimed at ending apartheid and
white minority rule.
   "We may not smell of roses yet," says a South African
cabinet minister, "but we are no longer the polecat of the
world."
   In spite of trade and financial sanctions, commerce has
always existed between South Africa and both Eastern Europe
and black Africa. For instance, Polish vodka has always found
its way to South Africa, and South African wine has been
available in Poland, albeit under a disguised label. The
goods either moved under the table or through a third party,
which raised the costs to both sides. Now, this trade is
coming out of the closet.
   "For the first time in my life I'm not penalized for being
a white South African," says Frans Roelofse, a director of
Headquarters Ltd., which earlier this year opened South
Africa's first export-import joint venture in Hungary. A few
months later it set up shop in Mozambique and will soon be
doing business in the Ivory Coast. "In the past it's been so
frustrating," says Mr. Roelofse. "We simply couldn't go here
or there."
   East European traders feel the same sense of freedom.
"Communism is gone," says Stefan Mathews, the Polish-born
director-general of the Polish-South African Chamber of
Commerce in Johannesburg. "No more communists, so now you can
trade with whom you like."
   As a result, South Africans are showing up in the most
unexpected places these days, and the most unexpected people
are showing up here. In the past few months, Pretoria has
opened up official trade offices in Zaire and Hungary, and an
unofficial one in Warsaw. While South African businessmen
juggle invitations from Mozambique and Gabon, trade
delegations from Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary and
Czechoslovakia bump into one another in South Africa. Even
Miss Hungary came for a look.
   Mr. Roelofse says South Africans and East Europeans, in
particular, make ideal, albeit strange, bedfellows. "Both of
our peoples are tired of living in make-believe systems,
where you're told to believe B when the reality is A," he
says. "Now we just talk reality to each other. When we're
doing business, they don't say to me, `OK, first renounce
apartheid and apologize for the past 40 years.' Likewise, I'm
not going to say to them, `You apologize for 40 years of
communism.'"
   Ironies abound. The Soviet Union, for instance, welcomed
Mr. Durr before receiving Nelson Mandela. The Soviets have
been the biggest backer, both in money and weapons, of Mr.
Mandela's African National Congress in its long fight to
topple Pretoria's white minority government. Yet it was Mr.
Durr, representing one of the world's most rabidly
anti-communist governments, who planted a fir tree near the
site of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster on behalf of the
people of South Africa. Mr. Mandela, who has been circling
the globe since being released in February from 27 years in
prison, still hasn't stopped by Moscow.
   "We have been the poorer for not knowing each other," said
Mr. Durr after his Soviet travels. "We will both benefit and
be the richer by sharing our experience, culture and economic
potential."
   Mr. de Klerk's Madasgascar trip was also laden with irony.
Madagascar never missed a beat at Organization of African
Unity meetings when it came to denouncing Pretoria. But with
his economy deteriorating, and with political intrigue as
thick as the island's tropical air, Madagascar President
Didier Ratsiraka made a nighttime phone call to Mr. de Klerk
-- following the release of Mr. Mandela -- to talk about
establishing trade links.
   "When one is in politics you have to face reality," Mr.
Ratsiraka said after entertaining his visitors from Pretoria.
"At one stage it was in the best interests of my country to
break relations with South Africa. We now have commercial,
economic and cultural relations with the new South Africa
because it is in the best interests of Madagascar."
   Neither visit produced much in the way of immediate trade
or diplomatic ties. But for the South Africans, just getting
a foot in the door after all these years of being locked out
is most important.
   "Our economic future lies in industry, and it must be
export-led," says Stefanus Naude, director-general of
Pretoria's department of trade and industry.
   The Polish-South African Chamber of Commerce is ready to
show the way. "We just want to get on with business," says
Mr. Mathews. On the wall behind his desk is a Polish flag,
with a gold crown on the eagle's head, just as it was before
the communists took over. The walls are decorated with
pictures of Polish kings and princes.
   Mr. Mathews produces a catalog of a Polish bicycle-maker.
"They're looking for agents here," he says. He rifles through
a stack of business cards, Polish and South African, and says
there is a potential deal attached to each one. He talks
about engineering more than $100 million in two-way trade
this year. Someone in Poland wants dried flowers, someone
here wants fishing nets. Warsaw wants fruit juice,
Johannesburg wants shoes.
   "We want to give people what they want, not what they have
been told to want," says Mr. Mathews. "Simple things, for
everyday survival. Poles don't want guns or ammunition. They
want fertilizer. South Africa has fertilizer. Perfect."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0063
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0063.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Italy to Sell Enimont Stake
   If Its Joint Venture Fails
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP I.EMT MNT I.ENI
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MILAN -- The Italian government gave the green light to
sell its interest in the Enimont S.p.A. chemical venture to
Montedison S.p.A. if their difficult partnership fails to
survive.
   Minister of State Industry Franco Piga first urged state
energy agency Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi, which owns 40% of
Enimont, to reaffirm with Montedison its willingness to
pursue the joint venture under their original agreement. He
also suggested a management structure distributing
responsibility between the private and public partner.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   However, Mr. Piga said, "If this hypothesis isn't
feasible, ENI could propose to sell its entire stake to
Montedison" at a predetermined price.
   It was the first time the government had indicated its
willingness to divest itself of the chemical venture before
the time period stipulated in the founding pact.
   Mr. Piga added that if Montedison didn't agree to buy out
ENI at the predetermined price, ENI would buy out
Montedison's stake at that same price.
   Montedison has repeatedly stated its desire to buy ENI's
stake; it has also refused to sell its own shareholding in
the joint venture.
   Despite the government's acknowledgement that Enimont
should revert to single ownership if the current relationship
can't be sustained, Mr. Piga didn't specify when or how the
failure of the partnership would be determined.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0062
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0062.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Ex-Inquirer Editor Roberts
   Accepts University Tenure
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS KRI
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   COLLEGE PARK, Md. -- Eugene L. Roberts Jr., who retired
recently as executive editor of the Philadelphia Inquirer,
accepted an appointment as a tenured professor in the
University of Maryland's College of Journalism.
   Mr. Roberts, 58 years old, headed the Inquirer's news
operations for 18 years, a period during which the paper won
17 Pulitzer Prizes and achieved dominance in its market.
Before joining the Inquirer, he had been a Vietnam war
correspondent and national news editor for the New York
Times.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   He will join the journalism faculty at College Park in
September 1991, teaching courses in such subjects as newsroom
management, reporting, editing and journalism ethics. While
at the university, he is expected to remain a consultant to
Miami-based Knight-Ridder Inc., which owns the Inquirer.
   Reese Cleghorn, dean of the college, said Mr. Roberts also
will become a senior editor of Washington Journalism Review,
a national monthly with a circulation of 30,000 that is owned
by the college, and he will be involved in developing various
"international initiatives" for the school.
   Journalism and communications schools at other
universities, including Stanford, Columbia and North
Carolina, also tried to recruit Mr. Roberts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0061
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0061.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Soybean-Futures Broker
   Pleads Guilty to Fraud
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   CHICAGO -- Bruce W. Mittelstadt, a 50-year-old
soybean-futures broker, pleaded guilty to one count of mail
fraud and one of commodity fraud, and agreed to testify
against other indicted traders, in return for the government
asking that he receive a lenient sentence.
   Mr. Mittelstadt was charged more than a year ago with
racketeering conspiracy and more than 50 counts of wire fraud
and violating the Commodity Exchange Act. Neither he nor his
attorney, James Montana, could be reached for comment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   So far, eight of the 19 soybean-futures traders indicted
last year for fraud have pleaded guilty, as have six of the
21 indicted yen-futures traders.
   In addition, Martin J. Riley, a yen-futures trader,
pleaded no contest to charges of mail and wire fraud and
violating the Commodity Exchange Act. The plea has the effect
of a guilty plea, except that it can't be used against him as
an admission of guilt in a civil proceeding.
   Over the past 10 days, two other traders, one from the
yen-futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and one
soybean-futures trader from the Chicago Board of Trade, also
pleaded guilty to reduced charges.
   Opening arguments in the trials of the remaining 11
soybean-futures traders and 14 yen-futures traders are
scheduled to begin next week; the trials could last more than
four months.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0060
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0060.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<LP>
   HEALTHCO INTERNATIONAL Inc., a dental equipment company,
had net income of $5.5 million, or 70 cents a share, on
revenue of $223.1 million, for the six months ended June 30.
For the year-earlier first half, the company had net income
of $5.3 million, or 66 cents a share, on revenue of $211.7
million. The figures were reported incorrectly in yesterday's
edition.
   (See: "Healthco Agrees to Be Acquired By Hicks Muse" --
WSJ Sept. 5, 1990)
</LP>
<TEXT>
   ---
   PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS expects to receive $150 million
from Lufthansa German Airlines for certain services and
facilities, including the transfer of gate space. Tuesday's
edition incorrectly described what Pan American was selling.
   (See: "Business Brief -- Pan Am Corp.: Carrier Will Cut
Flights, Lease Planes to Lufthansa" -- WSJ Sept. 4, 1990)
   ---
   CENTRAL MAINE POWER Co. filed a shelf offering with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to issue as many as 2.5
million common shares. Yesterday's edition incorrectly
described the offering.
   (See: "Recent SEC Filings" -- WSJ Sept. 5, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0059
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0059.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Magna International Inc.:
   Plan to Reduce, Restructure
   Debt Is Given to Lenders
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TMG.A MAGAF
</CO>
<IN>
AUTO PARTS AND EQUIPMENT INCLUDING TIRES (AUP)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Magna International Inc. said it presented lenders with a
plan to reduce and restructure its debt.
   The Markham, Ontario, auto parts maker said its long-term
and short-term debt totaled 1.1 billion Canadian dollars
(US$949 million) March 31.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   It didn't elaborate on other elements of the plan, but
said it included debt reduction of about C$400 million
through July 1991, mostly through asset sales and turning
some operations into joint ventures.
   Magna said sales and joint ventures already arranged will
generate C$184 million. It said other divestitures are
expected to generate about C$150 million more.
   Magna said in March it was in technical default on some
loans. It had a C$203 million net loss on $1.41 billion of
revenue in the nine months ended April 30 after taking a
second-quarter charge of C$153 million to write down
unprofitable operations.
   The company said its asset sales would leave it with about
100 factories and "capacity" for more than C$2.5 billion in
annual sales. Magna said results have improved recently,
leading to a "small" operating profit in May and June.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0058
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0058.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Car, Truck Sales
   Posted Decline
   In Late August
   ---
   Concern About Economy
   And Middle East Crisis
   Hurt Consumer Demand
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   GM F C TOYOY HMC NSANY J.MZD C.HYU J.MOT J.IZM G.VOW VOLVY
G.BMW J.SUZ S.SAA J.DHM G.POR F.PEU I.ALR G.AUD G.MAH G.DAI
J.FJH
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
</IN>
<LP>
   DETROIT -- Sales of North American-made cars and trucks
dropped 21% in late August, reflecting consumers' uncertainty
about the softening U.S. economy as the Mideast crisis moves
into its sixth week.
   The seasonally adjusted annual sales pace of 7.1 million
cars would normally be considered reasonable, and suffered
largely by comparison with the unusually strong rate of 8.2
million cars in the same period a year earlier. But only
strong gains in U.S. production by a handful of Japanese auto
makers breathed some life into the late-August sales figures.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Overall sales of domestic and imported cars and trucks for
all of August -- a far better economic indicator than the
late-August domestic totals -- dropped 17% from a year
earlier.
   In total, the Japanese got a record 34% of U.S. car sales
for the month, up from 29% a year earlier. The U.S. Big Three
auto makers took just 60% of the market, down from 65% in
August of 1989.
   The surge in Japanese market share may reflect budding
concern about fuel prices, and also the Japanese success in
attracting younger, more affluent buyers who are less
affected by economic uncertainty. Economic concerns, however,
are being highlighted by the Mideast crisis, and making many
Americans wary of buying new vehicles.
   The 10 major makers of domestic vehicles sold a total of
389,427 cars and trucks in the Aug. 21-31 period, compared
with 492,763 vehicles in late August 1989. Last year's
late-August rate was the strongest 10-day period of 1989,
because consumers rushed to buy before new-model price hikes
took effect. Also, some rebates had already begun spreading
to the new 1990 models.
   General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp.
are trying the same tactic this year -- putting rebates on
most new 1991 models even before they appear in showrooms.
But so far, sales haven't responded.
   "People are only buying cars when they really need them,"
said auto analyst Charles J. Brady of Oppenheimer &amp; Co. in
New York. Buying for less-urgent purposes is drying up, he
added.
   A recent survey of consumer confidence seems to support
that contention. The University of Michigan's Consumer
Confidence Index fell to 83.8 in August from 101.7 in July.
That's a bigger drop than occurred after the 1987 stock
market crash.
   John Grettenberger, general manager of GM's Cadillac
division, said uncertainty over the economy's health and
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait is clouding the division's outlook
for the fall.
   "We need good stable Wall Street performance and more good
news from the Middle East to see demand restored," he said at
a news conference to unveil Cadillac's 1991 model lineup. Mr.
Grettenberger said the division has hastily redone a series
of television commercials for those new models to include a
reference to the new models' improved fuel economy on the
highway. One line from the new ads: "It's as responsible to
own as it is responsive to drive."
   The August news was dim for GM, Chrysler and Ford. GM,
which has been posting slight monthly gains in car-market
share in 1990 after years of decline, saw its August share
drop to below 32% from an already-low 32.4% last year.
   Ford's car-market share dropped to 20% in August from 22%
a year earlier, continuing a year-long trend of lower share
for the No. 2 producer. Chrysler also dropped significantly,
garnering 8.3% of the U.S. car market, down from 10% a year
earlier.
   In contrast, Toyota Motor Corp.'s share surged to 12% of
U.S. car sales in August, up from only 9% a year earlier.
Toyota was helped by big factory-to-dealer rebates, including
amounts of up to $1,200 on Camrys and up to $1,000 on
Corollas and Tercels.
   Toyota sold nearly 97,000 cars in August, far more than
Chrysler, which sold just over 66,000. And while Chrysler's
strength is in trucks, especially Jeeps and minivans,
Toyota's total sales of 119,000 cars and trucks combined
nearly equaled Chrysler's total sales of 124,500 vehicles.
   Another Japanese winner was Honda Motor Co., which grabbed
10% of the car market in August, up from 8% a year earlier.
Nissan Motor Co.'s share declined slightly to 5%, following a
year-long pattern, but Mazda Motor Co. posted a slight gain.
   Truck sales by the Big Three held up better, in general,
than did the vehicle market as a whole. Ford's truck sales
fell 7.1% in August, a modest decline. Ford's new Jeep-like
vehicle, the Explorer, has been a big success with consumers.
GM's truck sales declined 16% in August. Chrysler's truck
sales dropped almost 23% in the month, more than the market
as a whole. Sales of the company's Jeep Cherokee have been
hurt by Ford's Explorer.
   ---
                                                                                                       

            Percentage of Total U.S. Car Market
                                                                                                       

                                 Aug    Aug   8 mos   8 mos
   Make                         1990   1989    1990    1989
                                                                                                       

   General Motors-a ........... 31.8   32.4    35.3    35.2
   Ford-a ..................... 19.9   22.3    20.7    22.6
   Chrysler-a .................  8.3   10.1     8.7    10.4
   Toyota-a ................... 12.1    9.0     9.2     6.8
   Honda-a ....................  9.7    8.0     9.1     7.6
   Nissan-a ...................  5.2    5.5     4.8     5.2
   Mazda-a ....................  3.5    2.8     2.9     2.6
   Hyundai ....................  1.6    2.1     1.4     1.9
   Mitsubishi-a ...............  1.2    1.3     1.8     1.1
   Subaru-a ...................  1.5    1.4     1.1     1.5
   Other Imports ..............  5.1    4.7     4.9     5.0
   Total Domestic ............. 71.0   70.4    72.6    72.1
   Total Imported ............. 29.0   29.6    27.4    27.9
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes imported and domestically made models.
   ---
          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                               1990        1989       x-%
                            Aug 21-31   Aug 21-31     Chg.
                                                                                                       

 GM total vehicles .........  165,945     213,695   - 22.3
  Domestic car .............  105,306     134,159   - 21.5
  Imported car .............    5,599       6,585   - 15.0
   Total car ...............  110,905     140,744   - 21.2
  Domestic truck ...........   55,030      72,697   - 24.3
  Imported truck ...........       10         254   - 96.1
   Total truck .............   55,040      72,951   - 24.6
                                                                                                       

 FORD total vehicles .......  111,831     156,937   - 28.7
  Domestic car .............   62,829      93,501   - 32.8
  Imported car .............    2,324       3,282   - 29.2
   Total car ...............   65,153      96,783   - 32.7
  Domestic truck ...........   46,678      60,154   - 22.4
                                                                                                       

 CHRYSLER total veh ........   53,095      78,616   - 32.5
  Domestic car .............   27,549      40,340   - 31.7
  Imported car .............    2,171       3,726   - 41.7
   Total car ...............   29,720      44,066   - 32.6
  Domestic truck ...........   23,072      33,052   - 30.2
  Imported truck ...........      303       1,498   - 79.8
  Total truck ..............   23,375      34,550   - 32.3
                                                                                                       

 HONDA domestic car ........   25,224      18,245   + 38.3
                                                                                                       

 TOYOTA domestic car .......   22,781      18,418   + 23.7
                                                                                                       

 NISSAN total vehicles .....   12,124      18,477   - 34.4
  Domestic car .............    5,484       8,267   - 33.7

                                                                                                       

 MAZDA domestic car ........    5,057       2,064   +145.0
                                                                                                       

 MITSUBISHI-c ..............    1,896       1,656   + 14.5
                                                                                                       

 SUBARU domestic car .......    1,115           0      ...
                                                                                                       

 ISUZU domestic truck ......      766           0      ...
                                                                                                       

 Total cars ................  267,335     330,243   - 19.0
  Domestic .................  257,241     316,650   - 18.8
  Imported .................   10,094      13,593   - 25.7
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks ..............  132,499     177,865   - 25.5
  Domestic .................  132,186     176,113   - 24.9
  Imported .................      313       1,752   - 82.1
                                                                                                       

 Total domestic veh ........  389,427     492,763   - 21.0
 Total vehicles ............  399,834     508,108   - 21.3
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include only vehicle sales reported in the
period.
   c-Domestic car
   x-There were 10 selling days in the most recent period and
10 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
   ---
             TOTAL MONTH AUTO SALES FOR AUGUST
                                                                                                       

          RETAIL U.S. CAR AND LIGHT TRUCK SALES-a
                                                                                                       

                1990      1989   %Chg.    1990      1989
                Aug.      Aug.   Month  To Date   To Date
                                                                                                       

 General
   Motors     395,185   482,186 - 18.0 3,455,371  3,594,930
  Domestc car 241,014   296,482 - 18.7 2,174,679  2,326,975
  Import car   14,114    18,624 - 24.2   130,453    119,103
   Total car  255,128   315,106 - 19.0 2,305,132  2,446,078
  Domestc trk 140,025   166,394 - 15.8 1,149,503  1,142,916
  Import trk       32       686 - 95.3       736      5,936
   Total trk  140,057   167,080 - 16.2 1,150,239  1,148,852
                                                                                                       

 Ford         276,909   343,150 - 19.3 2,318,973  2,551,848
  Domestc car 153,604   209,951 - 26.8 1,303,076  1,513,391
  Import car    5,865     6,766 - 13.3    44,987     55,763
   Total car  159,469   216,717 - 26.4 1,348,063  1,569,154
  Domestc trk 117,440   126,433 -  7.1   970,910    982,694
                                                                                                       

 Chrysler     124,504   176,184 - 29.3 1,166,339  1,401,831
  Domestc car  61,207    90,345 - 32.3   525,053    648,397
  Import car    5,069     8,156 - 37.8    43,004     72,370
   Total car   66,276    98,501 - 32.7   568,057    720,767
  Domestc trk  57,480    74,286 - 22.6   588,894    654,969
  Import trk      748     3,397 - 78.0     9,388     26,095
   Total trk   58,228    77,683 - 25.0   598,282    681,064

 Toyota       119,117   114,978 +  3.6   729,272    626,995
  Domestc car  41,798    29,936 + 39.6   245,083    134,594
  Import car   55,052    58,090 -  5.2   357,479    336,645
   Total car   96,850    88,026 + 10.0   602,562    471,239
  Import trk   22,267    26,952 - 17.4   126,710    155,756
                                                                                                       

 Honda         78,069    78,212 -  0.2   593,508    531,167
  Domestc car  45,164    36,979 + 22.1   327,535    263,887
  Import car   32,905    41,233 - 20.2   265,973    267,280
                                                                                                       

 Nissan        57,774    73,564 - 21.5   424,261    471,834
  Domestc car  10,581    14,221 - 25.6    68,490     74,844
  Import car   31,256    39,526 - 20.9   241,681    285,381
   Total car   41,837    53,747 - 22.2   310,171    360,225
  Domestc trk  12,632    17,545 - 28.0    91,722     94,661
  Import trk    3,305     2,272 + 45.5    22,368     16,948
   Total trk   15,937    19,817 - 19.6   114,090    111,609
                                                                                                       

 Mazda         34,772    35,131 -  1.0   248,851    239,232
  Domestc car   9,341     3,795 +146.1    52,481     29,752
  Import car   18,568    23,809 - 22.0   138,598    153,358
   Total car   27,909    27,604 +  1.1   191,079    183,110
  Import trk    6,863     7,527 -  8.8    57,772     56,122
                                                                                                       

 Hyundai-b     12,879    20,552 - 37.3    93,421    132,440
                                                                                                       

 Mitsubishi    12,472    16,114 - 22.6   139,390     94,505
  Domestc car   3,907     3,656 +  6.9    34,699     17,769
  Import car    6,055     9,301 - 34.9    82,818     55,477
   Total car    9,962    12,957 - 23.1   117,517     73,246
  Import trk    2,510     3,157 - 20.5    21,873     21,259
                                                                                                       

 Subaru        11,757    14,023 - 16.2    73,176    101,111
  Domestc car   2,315         0    ...     7,226          0
  Import car    9,442    14,023 - 32.7    65,950    101,111
                                                                                                       

 Volkswagen    12,206    11,053 + 10.4    95,823     94,151
  Import car   11,563    10,572 +  9.4    90,813     90,360
  Import trk      643       481 + 33.7     5,010      3,791
                                                                                                       

 Isuzu          8,003    13,318 - 39.9    72,218     77,987
  Import car      437     2,264 - 80.7     2,633     13,718
  Domestic trk  1,996         0    ...    10,003          0
  Import trk    5,570    11,054 - 49.6    59,582     64,269
   Total trk    7,566    11,054 - 31.6    69,585     64,269
                                                                                                       

 Volvo-b        8,469    10,435 - 18.8    64,646     72,275
                                                                                                       

 Mercedes-b     6,203     6,716 -  7.6    48,029     48,908
                                                                                                       

 BMW-b          5,152     5,580 -  7.7    40,896     45,067
                                                                                                       

 Suzuki         1,530     3,330 - 54.1    14,482     21,419
  Import car      668       761 - 12.2     4,358      4,000
  Import trk      862     2,569 - 66.4    10,124     17,419
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

 Audi-b         1,848     1,713 +  7.9    14,456     13,652
                                                                                                       

 Jaguar-b       1,509     1,563 -  3.5    12,369     12,400
                                                                                                       

 Daihatsu-b     1,615     1,326 + 21.8    11,166      9,368
  Import car    1,106     1,326 - 16.6     7,807      9,368
  Import trk      509         0    ...     3,359          0
                                                                                                       

 Yugo-b           452       937 - 51.8     4,736      7,348
                                                                                                       

 Porsche-b        660       955 - 30.9     6,541      6,676
                                                                                                       

 Sterling-b       247       305 - 19.0     2,856      4,126
                                                                                                       

 Peugeot-b      e-353       652 - 45.9   e-3,054      4,171
                                                                                                       

 Range Rover-c    426       398 +  7.0     2,952      3,148
                                                                                                       

 Alfa Romeo-b     404       260 + 55.4     2,232      2,121
                                                                                                       

 Total cars   801,457   973,252 - 17.7 6,527,136  6,946,150
  Domestic    568,931   685,365 - 17.0 4,738,322  5,009,609
  Import      232,526   287,887 - 19.2 1,788,814  1,936,541
                                                                                                       

 Total trucks 373,308   443,151 - 15.8 3,130,906  3,245,983
  Domestic    329,573   384,658 - 14.3 2,811,032  2,875,240
  Import       43,735    58,493 - 25.2   319,874    370,743
                                                                                                       

 Total
   vehicles 1,174,765 1,416,403 - 17.1 9,658,042 10,192,133
                                                                                                       

   a-Totals include all vehicle sales reported in the period
except tourist-delivery sales of imported models.
   b-Imported cars only. c-Imported trucks only.
   e-Estimated.
   Note: There were 27 selling days in the most recent month
and 27 a year earlier. Percentage differences based on daily
sales rate rather than sales volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0057
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0057.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Giving a Hand:
   Thomas Karaban Trades Fast Track
   For New Life Aiding Children
   ----
   By John A. Conway
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<LP>
   {From time to time in this column, The Wall Street Journal
will report on efforts by people in business to help others
in need.}
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   A case of burnout on Wall Street has sparked a bright new
day for hundreds of terminally ill children. Brooklyn-born
Thomas V. Karaban, 46 years old, had fought his way from
back-office clerk to high-powered securities dealer. After 10
years of running a bond trading department, he was living "in
suburban heaven" in Middletown, N.J. He was also living on
coffee and cigarettes -- "a 16-cup and a five-pack man," as
he describes himself at that time. In 1983, on the edge of
collapse, he decided there had to be a better way and quit
the Street.
   This enforced departure, which brought a year "flat on my
back," helped Mr. Karaban find his better way and a whole new
perspective. While coaching a local junior hockey team during
his new-found leisure, he was told about a baby who needed a
liver transplant. He staged a hockey tournament and raised
$7,000 for the child. At the urging of the child's parents,
he went on to raise an additional $50,000.
   Helping children stricken with terminal or catastrophic
illness would be his new purpose in life, Mr. Karaban
decided. With $200,000 of his own savings, he set up the
Rainbow Foundation in 1984. Since that time the foundation
has helped more than 2,000 children with cash, medical
equipment, airline tickets to special hospitals, even a
funeral for a child whose parents couldn't afford one.
   Mr. Karaban found the new work more than compensated for
the limousines and luxury lunches that had gone with his Wall
Street job. His philosophy is "kindness first and foremost."
Too many social welfare agencies, he says, have a clinical
approach. "They're almost too professional and they have
somewhat of a tendency to dehumanize the medical situation."
   The Rainbow Foundation emphasizes the human touch. When
Mr. Karaban learned that a three-year-old cancer sufferer in
Hackensack, N.J., was especially depressed at being in the
hospital over Christmas, the foundation sent him a tree and
presents. For Easter, they brought him a live rabbit and a
magician. When the boy died that June, Mr. Karaban says, "it
hit us like a ton of bricks."
   For a six-year-old girl who became a paraplegic after an
automobile accident, Mr. Karaban arranged flights to Miami,
which has a special center to treat such patients. But he
also included a special three-day detour to Disney World.
   The children are the foundation's prime concern, but
families get help too. A New Jersey truck driver's
eight-year-old boy, for instance, was suffering from cancer
and the family was dipping into their mortgage money to meet
the medical bills. The week the boy died, the bank was
threatening foreclosure. The Rainbow Foundation stepped in to
help meet the mortgage payments.
   Staffed entirely by volunteers, Mr. Karaban's foundation
gets more than 95% of its funds from individual and corporate
donations. Revenue last year was close to $160,000, with more
than 90% going directly to sick children or their families.
   After six years as a full-time philanthropist, however,
Mr. Karaban found he could no longer carry the burden alone.
"I have one child in college and another ready to go," he
says. He went back to a Wall Street house this spring to head
up trading in federal agency bonds, but running the Rainbow
Foundation still takes up a major part of his time, and he
has added a new goal.
   A member of a New Jersey state committee on child-abuse
prevention, Mr. Karaban is appalled that the state has no
permanent facility to treat abused children. The present
system -- putting children in foster homes or institutions --
is no real refuge for an abused child, Mr. Karaban argues. He
wants a state facility that will be "not an institution but a
place like a home." The governor's committee on which he sits
has just submitted a report to Gov. James Florio calling for
such a service. If Mr. Karaban's record of the past few years
is any clue, New Jersey will get one before too long.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0056
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0056.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Alex. Brown Hungers for the Big Apple
   ---
   Firm to Increase
   New York Presence
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C1
</SO>
<CO>
   ABSB AXP
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Judging by the financial woes of many Wall
Street brokerage firms, it would seem that the last thing
this town needs is more stockbrokers.
   Which is why the Street is starting to wonder: Just what
does Alex. Brown &amp; Sons Inc. think it's up to?
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The relatively small, Baltimore securities firm says it
plans to nearly double its New York City presence, partly by
picking off high-profile producers from Wall Street's
stumbling giants. And Alex. Brown has shown it meant business
recently by luring two of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.'s top
revenue-producing brokers -- including one of the top 10 from
Shearson's nationwide army of 9,500 -- to its Big Apple
branch.
   The Alex. Brown push is another sign of how the generally
smaller, "regional" brokerage firms based outside New York
are profiting from the woes of big Wall Street firms as the
industry retrenches from its expansion of the 1980s. In this
case, the out-of-towners are setting up shop right in the
front yard of Shearson, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. and the other behemoths.
   "It's not something brand new. But we have a new {branch}
manager and we're getting more aggressive about it," says
A.B. "Buzzy" Krongard, Alex. Brown chief operating officer.
   Mr. Krongard adds: "It has nothing to do with the `cachet'
of being in New York. We don't feel deprived that we're not
{based} in New York and instead in Baltimore."
   The actual number of brokers involved in the Alex. Brown
push isn't large -- the firm plans to increase its New York
City sales force over the next few years to about 50 from 30
currently. But the commission revenues involved could be
significant because Alex. Brown brokers focus on the
wealthiest investors.
   Not every regional firm agrees that the "I Love New York"
strategy is worth it. Traditionally, the regionals have stuck
to their home ports and a select number of neighboring
states, shunning New York City and its high rents. Some think
that's still the best way.
   "It's not our style," says Benjamin Edwards III, chairman
of A.G. Edwards Inc. in St. Louis, the largest U.S. brokerage
firm based outside New York, which used to have five A.G.
Edward &amp; Sons branches in the Big Apple but has none now. "We
like more-humble costs."
   Consider this: Mr. Edwards's fast-growing firm has added
28 new branches from Florida to California since March 1. But
that includes only four in New York state and none in the
city, with the rest in such locales as Lake Mary, Fla.;
Hilton Head Island in South Carolina; and Nacogdoches, Texas.
(A.G. Edwards does have a small New York City trading
operation.)
   Even some regionals who have New York City brokers aren't
interested in stepping up their activity here.
   James Brinkley, president of Legg Mason Inc.'s Legg Mason
Wood Walker Inc. in Baltimore, says his firm is content
having its one New York City office. As for expansion, Legg
Mason would rather concentrate on other cities, for example
by opening its fifth Philadelphia branch.
   "We can just make a greater impact in a market like
Philadelphia. It would take an incredible amount of brokers
and money to make a greater impact in New York," says Mr.
Brinkley. "There are so many major firms with their home
office there."
   The Alex. Brown brokerage push comes at a time when its
reputation as a high-quality underwriter of stock offerings
has been tarnished. This summer two clients -- In-Store
Advertising Inc. and Bizmart Inc. -- stunned investors with
poor earnings outlooks, and both companies' newly issued
shares plummeted. "It may just be the law of averages gone
awry," Alex. Brown's Mr. Krongard says.
   As Alex. Brown sees it, there's no need to hire hundreds
of brokers in New York City to have an impact on the
brokerage side. Instead, Alex. Brown thinks it can profit by
snatching up enough high-producing brokers who are
disenchanted with their big firms. (Last year, Alex. Brown
says, it hired 55 "experienced" brokers, adding to 18 of its
20 branches.)
   The defections of the two top Shearson brokers -- Mark
Fisher, 31 years old, and Mark Branigan, 38 -- mean that
millions of dollars of trading commissions from their
multimillionaire clients could leave Shearson and resurface
at Alex. Brown. In interviews, the two brokers say that most
of their clients have already transferred, despite what their
boss described as "rather zealous" efforts by Shearson to
keep the accounts.
   Shearson, an American Express Co. unit that like Merrill
has been retrenching and laying off thousands, says it leads
the major nationwide brokerage firms in broker productivity,
with $235,000 in revenues per broker last year. But Messrs.
Fisher and Branigan aren't average brokers; they produced
more than $2 million apiece in commissions at Shearson last
year, they say.
   A Shearson spokesman confirmed the two brokers had
resigned but declined to comment further on their move.
   The man who wooed Messrs. Fisher and Branigan to Alex.
Brown was Robert Oram, 41-year-old manager of the New York
branch who himself just joined the firm from New York-based
Oppenheimer &amp; Co.
   Mr. Oram said no recruiting bonuses were paid to the two
brokers. But they apparently were treated like kings; among
other things, he says Alex. Brown's president and other top
officers hosted them at the home office in Baltimore. "At the
moment we have no plans for raiding Shearson, so to speak,"
he says. "But we're actively recruiting those brokers who'll
really fit into Alex. Brown."
   Messrs. Fisher and Branigan suggested that Alex. Brown was
more focused than their former employer. Mr. Branigan says
Shearson is "a big firm," in contrast to Alex. Brown, which
is more like the tight-knit Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.
securities firm where he once worked. (Lehman was acquired by
Shearson in 1984.)
   "We just felt that to take our careers to the next step,
this is the right place to do it," says Mr. Fisher.
   Meanwhile, Alex. Brown's stock rose 87.5 cents to $10
yesterday on the national over-the-counter market. Volume was
344,800 shares, more than three times the recent daily
average. Alex. Brown says it knows of no reason for the
stock's spurt. "The stock was probably oversold versus the
industry group," says Beverly Wright, chief financial
officer.
   ---
   Anne Newman contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0055
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0055.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Bush Names Fund-Raiser
   To U.S. Post at Seville Fair
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Frederick Bush, who was President Bush's
chief fund-raiser in the 1988 election, was appointed
commissioner general of the U.S. pavilion at the 1992
Universal World's Fair in Seville, Spain.
   The appointment, announced by the United States
Information Agency, doesn't require Senate confirmation.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bush, who isn't related to the president, was involved
in the influence-peddling scandal that unfolded last year at
the Department of Housing and Urban Development. His company
received a $268,000 technical-assistance grant over the
objections of reviewing officials at HUD. Apparently because
of that incident, which didn't result in any criminal
charges, the Senate returned to the president Frederick
Bush's nomination to be ambassador to Luxembourg.
   In his new post, Mr. Bush will attempt to raise about $21
million for the pavilion from U.S. corporations, states and
municipalities, according to a USIA official. The U.S.
government will put up an additional $14 million. The USIA
official said that Mr. Bush won't be paid by the government;
his salary will come from nonprofit entities such as
foundations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0054
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0054.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Salomon Is Planning
   To Almost Dismantle
   Philipp Brothers Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C15
</SO>
<CO>
   SB
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Salomon Inc. outlined plans that virtually
would dismantle its struggling Philipp Brothers unit.
   Salomon said it will fold parts of Philipp Brothers into
other subsidiaries as part of a "major downsizing and
repositioning" of the commodity unit, which has been
unprofitable for six consecutive quarters. Other Philipp
departments will be sold.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The announcement marks a full circle for Philipp Brothers:
Initially, it was part of Phibro Corp., which acquired
Salomon Brothers in 1981. Philipp Brothers has had a pretax
loss of $83 million so far this year, tarnishing what
otherwise have been impressive earnings at Salomon's
securities and energy segments.
   In a news release, Salomon said Philipp's precious-metal
trading group will be absorbed by its Salomon Brothers Inc.
securities unit. Fertilizers and countertrade departments
will be folded into Phibro Energy, Salomon's big oil trading
and refining subsidiary.
   Meantime, Salomon is negotiating to sell Philipp's
nonferrous-metal department, a group that includes trading in
copper, aluminum, nickel, tin and zinc. Salomon blamed this
year's first-quarter pretax loss of $62 million for Philipp
on unspecified trades in nonferrous metals.
   Cocoa trading will continue to be conducted within Philipp
Brothers, Salomon said, although cocoa operations will be at
Phibro Energy. Phillip Brothers has cut back sharply from the
approximately 150 commodities it traded at the time of the
Phibro-Salomon merger to a handful.
   Salomon has said it will take a pretax charge of as much
as $200 million, expected in this quarter, to shrink the
ailing unit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0053
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0053.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Rash of FAA Retirements
   Spurs Concern by Airlines
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON (AP) -- The airline industry said that it is
concerned about a rash of retirements among key Federal
Aviation Administration personnel, including air traffic
controllers.
   The Air Transport Association, which represents major
carriers, said the agency's loss of 341 people last month
jeopardizes the FAA's critical air traffic control and
airways operations.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There are approximately 50,000 FAA employees.
   FAA spokesman Fred Farrar confirmed the figure and said it
was twice the normal number of retirees for a month. The
increase, he said, was primarily because of concern over
possible changes in federal retirement rules.
   Aviation Daily, which reports on the airline industry,
stated on Tuesday that the retirees included 117 controllers,
84 electronic technicians, 17 engineers, 11 safety
inspectors, two FAA pilots and 110 in other categories.
   The Bush administration, in congressional budget
negotiations, has proposed eliminating a provision that
allows employees to get back their individual retirement
contributions in two annual lump sums.
   If the rules change, only those who retired 30 days before
the program expires Sept. 30 would be eligible to get the
lump-sum payments.
   Mr. Farrar said controllers are eligible to retire at age
50 if they have worked for 20 years and at any age after 25
years of active air traffic control work.
   FAA employees contribute 7% of their pay to the retirement
program and can receive it all back in two payments at the
end of service, while continuing to receive a reduced monthly
payment based on government contributions to the program.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0052
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0052.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- G-III Apparel Group Ltd.:
   Per-Share Profit Estimate
   Is Below Previous Forecast
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   GIII
</CO>
<IN>
TEXTILES AND APPAREL (TEX)
</IN>
<LP>
   G-III Apparel Group Ltd., New York, said it expects to
post per-share earnings of $1.70 to $1.80 for the fiscal year
ended July 31.
   Although the maker of leather apparel said the estimate
would represent an increase of 30% to 40% from the
year-earlier's $1.28 a share, it would be below the range of
$1.85 to $1.95 it estimated last week. Average weighted
shares outstanding rose about 20% in fiscal 1990.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, G-III
Apparel's shares closed at $6.75, down 16%, or $1.25.
   Morris Goldfarb, president and chief executive officer,
said profitability was lower than expected because of
"pressures in the retailing environment" that affected the
company's profit margins. Officials added that the earlier
estimate was given before the company had all the figures.
   Mr. Goldfarb said the company was "encouraged" by sales so
far in the fiscal 1991 first quarter.
   The company also estimated sales for the year rose 64% to
about $162 million from $99 million a year earlier.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0051
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0051.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Judge Says Thrift Agency Erred,
   Voids Its Takeover of Franklin Savings
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A2
</SO>
<CO>
   FSAK
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   TOPEKA, Kan. -- In a rebuke of thrift regulators, a
federal judge here ruled that the Office of Thrift
Supervision didn't have grounds to take control of Franklin
Savings Association last February.
   Federal Judge Dale E. Saffels directed the OTS to return
control of Franklin Savings to its previous management,
headed by chairman Ernest M. Fleischer, at 10 a.m. today.
Late yesterday, the OTS said it intends to appeal and would
immediately seek a stay of the order to return control of the
thrift.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ruling raises questions about how rigidly regulators
can interpret accounting standards, whether they can seize
control of an institution before it is technically insolvent
and how far they can go in ordering institutions to write off
their bad loans.
   But because of Franklin Savings' structure, it wasn't
immediately clear how far-reaching the decision would be, if
it stands. Mr. Fleischer invested more than 90% of the
Ottawa, Kan., institution's $11.4 billion in assets in
mortgage-backed securities -- a risky strategy, according to
regulators. But he contended that the risks were minimized by
his purchase of substantial financial futures contracts,
which he used to hedge against possible losses on his
portfolio of mortgage-backed securities.
   When the OTS took control, the agency forced the thrift to
recognize immediately about $119 million in losses on its
futures positions. That loss placed Franklin in violation of
federal capital standards, clearing the way for the
conservatorship.
   According to a recent filing with the OTS, Franklin had a
net loss of $176.2 million in the first quarter, reducing its
remaining tangible capital to 0.6% of assets. Thrifts are
required to have tangible capital equal to 1.5% of assets.
   In his decision, Judge Saffels said that the OTS was
"arbitrary and capricious" in its decision to force Franklin
to recognize the losses.
   "The facts of this case clearly show that the regulator
acted wrongly in imposing the conservatorship," Judge Saffels
wrote in his 93-page opinion. "This court must correct that
wrongful action."
   Lawyers specializing in thrift law said they couldn't
assess the impact of Judge Saffels' decision until they had
read the opinion, but they agreed that his remedy, returning
the thrift to previous management, was extraordinary. "Any
decision that says you have to give the institution back the
next morning is pretty tough," said attorney Bill Sweet of
Washington, D.C.
   "It is a legal and operational nightmare to untangle an
institution and give it back," said Thomas P. Vartanian, a
former thrift regulator. Mr. Vartanian said he recalled only
one instance in which a judge ordered a thrift returned to
previous management. That order, involving a Florida thrift,
was overturned by a federal appeals court in 1983, he said.
   Judge Saffels said he will retain jurisdiction for 90
days, during which the OTS will have to obtain his permission
to reimpose a conservator or to place Franklin in
receivership.
   In an unusual meeting with reporters after the order was
released, Judge Saffels said: "We want to at least give
Franklin {and its former managers} a chance to see if they
can run this institution again." The judge declined to
predict what an appeals court might do about his order,
saying: "We never like to predict them. They make too many
mistakes."
   In a statement yesterday, OTS chief counsel Harris
Weinstein said the agency continues to believe "that the
government acted in a timely and proper manner in taking over
Franklin.
   "The OTS continues to believe that prior to the
conservatorship order, Franklin was placing excessive
reliance on high-risk assets financed by high-cost and mobile
brokered deposits and that, at the same time, Franklin used
improper accounting methods under which it recognized gains
and deferred losses while distributing more than $45 million
of the institution's funds in dividends to the shareholders,"
Mr. Weinstein added in a statement.
   Mr. Fleischer, Franklin's chairman, said he wouldn't
change the thrift's operations if allowed to take control
again. But he indicated that one of his first acts would be
to assess any losses Franklin may have suffered during the
almost seven months it was under regulators' control.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0050
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0050.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Newsprint Producer's
   Unionized Workers
   Set Strike Deadline
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR ABY T.A
</CO>
<IN>
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   TORONTO -- Abitibi-Price Inc. said its unionized workers
in Eastern Canada set a strike deadline of 8 a.m., Sept. 10.
   Abitibi, the second-largest newsprint producer in the
world, said members of the Canadian Paperworkers Union voted
77% in favor of a strike if agreement isn't reached before
the deadline.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The company said negotiations with the union will resume
here Sept. 7. Talks were suspended Aug. 20 so that the union
could take a strike vote.
   A strike would close most of Abitibi's newsprint mills,
which are concentrated in Eastern Canada. Abitibi has total
annual newsprint capacity of about 1.95 million metric tons,
or about 8% of North American capacity. A metric ton equals
about 2,204.62 pounds.
   A strike wouldn't have an immediate impact on newspaper
publishers and other newsprint users. Publishers of U.S.
daily newspapers had an average 41-day supply of newsprint on
hand at the end of July. As well, other newsprint makers can
boost their output in the event of a strike. But supplies are
already fairly tight and a strike at Abitibi would put upward
pressure on prices, newsprint buyers said.
   An Abitibi spokeswoman said that when talks were suspended
only minor issues had been settled. "We're very early in the
negotiations process," the official said.
   The union declined to comment until it notifies its
members, but a union official confirmed the vote results and
strike deadline.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0049
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0049.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S. Picks Two Carriers
   For Routes to Soviet Union
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C6
</SO>
<CO>
   ALK FDX
</CO>
<IN>
AIRLINES (AIR)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
</IN>
<GV>
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (TRN)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Transportation Department tentatively
granted authority to Alaska Airlines and Federal Express
Corp. to begin air service to the Soviet Union.
   Alaska Airlines, a unit of Seattle-based Alaska Air Group
Inc., would be permitted to carry passengers and cargo
between Anchorage, Alaska, and Magadan and Khabarovsk in the
Soviet Union. Federal Express, based in Memphis, Tenn., will
provide all-cargo service on a North Atlantic route between
New York and Moscow and Leningrad.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The actions stem from an aviation agreement in June by the
U.S. and the Soviet Union to expand air service between the
two nations. Pan American World Airways, a unit of New
York-based Pan Am Corp., now is the only U.S. carrier that
provides service.
   If the department makes the authority final, which is
expected, the routes will take effect April 1 and remain in
effect for two years.
   Alaska Airlines said: "We have been working toward this
for a couple of years. We hope to begin service in mid-June."
   A spokesman for Federal Express said the express delivery
concern didn't have any immediate comment on the
Transportation Department's action.
   The department will designate three more airlines to carry
passengers and cargo to the Soviet Union and an additional
carrier for all-cargo service.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0048
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0048.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Parent of Emery
   Selects Arthur Bass
   To Head the Unit
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   CNF WNEWS COO
</CO>
<IN>
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
MEDICAL SUPPLIES (MDS)
</IN>
<LP>
   MENLO PARK, Calif. -- Consolidated Freightways Inc. said
it is bringing in a co-founder of Federal Express Inc. to
help rescue Consolidated's money-losing Emery Worldwide
acquisition.
   Named by Consolidated as chairman and chief executive
officer of Emery was Arthur C. Bass, 58 years old, a veteran
top executive in both the airline and air freight industries
who helped start Federal Express and is credited with turning
around a number of troubled companies. Emery is a direct
competitor of Federal Express in the air freight and express
delivery market.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bass's challenge now is to turn around Emery, which
has had losses of $145 million since being acquired by
Consolidated in April 1989 for $470 million in debt
assumption and cash. Emery at that time was known as Emery
Air Freight Corp.
   Though Emery's losses narrowed to $36.6 million in the
second quarter from $70 million in the first period, analysts
say its future remains highly uncertain.
   "The air freight market is treacherous and competition is
fierce," analyst G.A. Lidgerwood of First Boston Corp.
observed in a recent investment report. "Therein lies the
investment dilemma."
   James R. Allen, vice president of Consolidated, attributed
Emery's losses to increased competition, a slowdown in the
international market and a softening of the domestic air
freight business. Mr. Allen said Emery also alienated some
customers by imposing a 7% fuel surcharge in June 1989.
   But this year, Mr. Allen said, Emery has been able to cut
losses significantly by trimming the number of terminal
facilities, revamping flight schedules and making other
adjustments to increase operating efficiency. Mr. Allen added
that Consolidated is leaving it up to Mr. Bass to determine
other ways to increase revenue.
   Reached by telephone yesterday, Mr. Bass said that he
hadn't yet had time to devise any specific money-making
strategies, pending a further look at the company he will be
heading. Mr. Bass most recently was president and chief
executive officer of Cooper Cos., New York.
   Cooper said it named Richard W. Turner, president of
CooperVision, its optometric and ophthalmic business, as its
interim president and chief operating officer.
   Analyst George V. Robertson of Alex. Brown in Baltimore
said that Mr. Bass probably will concentrate on increasing
Emery's business volume and revenue rather than on imposing
any more cutbacks.
   Mr. Bass's position at Emery is a newly created one.
Donald G. Berger, who had headed the subsidiary as Emery
president, will continue in that title but will report to Mr.
Bass, according to Mr. Allen.
   Consolidated's stock closed at $12.375, up 25 cents,
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0047
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0047.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Canada Expecting
   Bumper Grain Crop
   In Year's Harvest
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   CANDA
</CO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<LP>
   OTTAWA -- Canada is expected to harvest a bumper grain
crop this year, threatening tough competition on the
international grain market.
   Statistics Canada, a federal agency, estimated yesterday
that the Canadian wheat crop, which is being harvested now,
will total 28.58 million metric tons, a 17% increase from
24.33 million tons last year. This would be the
second-largest Canadian wheat crop after the 1986 record crop
of 31.38 million tons. A metric ton of wheat is equal to
36.74 bushels.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Canada is the second-largest wheat exporter after the
U.S., and the two countries compete aggressively in many of
the same wheat markets. "The Canadian Wheat Board will price
its grain at whatever level is needed to move it," said Shawn
McComb, international grain analyst at the WEFA Group, a
research organization. The board, a government agency,
handles exports of western Canadian wheat and barley.
   Brian Stacey, the board's spokesman, said grain market
conditions are "very tough" because of big crops in many
countries. But he said the board doesn't dump grain below
market prices.
   Mr. McComb estimated that Canada's wheat exports will rise
to 19.3 million metric tons in the year ending next July 31
from 17.16 million tons in the previous year, despite tough
competition from other wheat exporters.
   Statistics Canada estimated that Canadian spring wheat
production this year will rise 21% to 22.97 million metric
tons. Spring wheat, which is seeded in the spring and
harvested in the fall, is Canada's main wheat crop. Durum
wheat production is expected to decline 4% this year to 3.93
million tons. Durum is used to make pasta products.
   Patricia Mohr, Bank of Nova Scotia economist, said the
wheat board's asking export price for wheat has dropped to
US$137 a metric ton from US$206 a year ago. She said export
prices aren't covering the cost of the board's initial
payments to farmers and transportation to port. The board
makes initial payments to farmers based on its assessment of
market prospects early in the year.
   Statistics Canada estimated Canada's barley crop will
increase 11% this year to 12.9 million metric tons. Canada's
exports of barley will be hurt by the blockade of Iraq, which
was Canada's largest barley purchaser. A metric ton of barley
is equal to 45.93 bushels.
   Production of canola, or rapeseed, is expected to rise
6.1% to 3.3 million metric tons this year, despite a 9%
decline in canola acreage. Canola is Canada's major oilseed
crop. A metric ton of canola equals 44.09 bushels.
   Statistics Canada said a cool, wet spring slowed crop
development this year. But it said that "expectations are for
good yields in most regions."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0046
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0046.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   U.S. Appears Near Accord
   On Giving Arms to Israel
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
</IN>
<GV>
STATE DEPARTMENT (STD)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Bush administration appears close to
agreeing to provide Israel with a sophisticated air-defense
system and $400 million in loan guarantees to build housing
for Soviet Jewish emigres.
   Following a meeting at the State Department between
Secretary of State James Baker and Israeli Foreign Minister
David Levy, an Israeli source said that the U.S. promised to
supply Israel with Patriot air-defense missiles from Defense
Department inventories. Israel has asked for the equipment
because of threats by Iraq and because the U.S. recently
agreed to supply Saudi Arabia with over $2 billion in
military equipment.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In addition, Mr. Baker said "we made good progress" on
working out details for providing the loan guarantees. The
Israeli source said that an agreement in principle was
reached and that details will be worked out in the next few
days.
   Earlier this year, the administration held up Israel's
request for the loan guarantees, insisting that Jerusalem
give assurances that they wouldn't be used to build houses in
the occupied territories.
   While seeking the support of Arab governments for its
actions against Iraq, the U.S. has asked Israel to maintain a
low profile in the Persian Gulf crisis. Mr. Levy is expected
to meet with President Bush today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0045
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0045.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Xerox Corp.:
   Small Copiers Introduced;
   Guarantee Program Begun
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   XRX
</CO>
<IN>
OFFICE EQUIPMENT (OFF)
</IN>
<LP>
   Xerox Corp. said it introduced two small convenience
copiers, increasing to nine the number of small copiers it
sells.
   The Stamford, Conn., company said the 5034 model is the
first 50 Series small copier equipped with an automatic
document handler that can invert originals to make copies on
both sides of a piece of paper. The copier, with a list price
of $9,100, will be sold through Xerox's own sales force.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The other new copier, the 5011 R/E, can process 12 copies
a minute, accept originals as big as 11 inches by 17 inches,
and reduce or enlarge in ratios of 65%, 75% and 130% of the
original, Xerox said. It will retail for $2,895.
   Xerox also said it is initiating a "total satisfaction
guarantee" program for its products. Under the program,
customers who maintain their Xerox equipment under Xerox
authorized service or warranty can get a replacement if they
are dissatisfied with the equipment. The program covers all
Xerox products for three years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0044
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0044.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Metropolitan Life,
   First Boston Form
   London-Based Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   LABOR Z.CSU
</CO>
<IN>
DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL SERVICES, FANNIE MAE, FREDDIE MAC (FIS)
MUTUAL AND MONEY-MARKET FUNDS (FND)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. and CS First
Boston Inc. said they have formed a London-based
money-management unit that will begin offering international
investment services to U.S. pension funds.
   The joint venture, called CS First Boston Global Fund
Managers Ltd., is the latest example of how U.S. money
managers are catering to a surge in international investments
by U.S. pension funds.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "We have wanted to have an international investment
product capability for the institutional marketplace for some
time," said Kevin Putt, a Metropolitan Life vice president.
"The question was whether to affiliate or to purchase" an
international investment operation, he said.
   The big insurer began its money-management venture with CS
First Boston this year by contributing assets and money from
Metropolitan Life's own pension fund. The venture currently
oversees about $150 million in Metropolitan Life money, with
that total expected to rise to $215 million by year end, Mr.
Putt said.
   The first two products offered to U.S. pension funds will
be pooled funds for international stocks and bonds. MetLife
owns 45% of the joint venture. CS First Boston, in which
MetLife holds about a 10% stake, and CS First Boston's parent
company own the rest of the venture. CS First Boston is the
parent of the U.S. brokerage firm First Boston Corp.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0043
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0043.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Unit of United
   Technologies Wins
   Korean Contract
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A6
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST UTX TXT C.KAL
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<LP>
   Sikorsky Aircraft, which has been trying to pick up more
business overseas, said the South Korean government selected
it to co-produce Black Hawk helicopters with Korean Air.
   Terms weren't disclosed, but industry sources close to the
deal put its value at "in excess of $500 million" to the
United Technologies Corp. unit over about five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Between 80 and 100 choppers are expected to be produced,
with the Koreans taking an increasingly larger role in the
manufacture of the aircraft as the project goes on. Black
Hawks, the U.S. Army's front-line, medium-lift
troop-transport helicopters, typically sell for about $7
million to $8 million each domestically.
   A Sikorsky spokesman declined to provide any specifics of
the pact, and a spokesman for Korean Air in Los Angeles said
details weren't immediately available. Military attache
officials at the Korean Embassy in Washington couldn't be
reached.
   Paul Nisbet, aerospace analyst with Prudential-Bache
Securities, said the Korean government had negotiated the
contract first with the manufacturer, rather than putting it
out to bid, which is the usual process. At one point, though,
the Koreans gave at least informal consideration to a model
of the Huey-Cobra, made by Textron Inc.'s Bell Helicopter
division, according to industry sources.
   Eugene Buckley, president of Sikorsky, said the approval
marked another "major milestone" in the company's efforts to
increase its international market share. It was announced in
conjunction with the aerospace industry's big annual air
show, which is being held this week in Farnborough, England.
   The negotiations on the helicopter agreement apparently
took a number of months to settle. Korean Air, parent of the
nation's flag-carrier airline, was recently designated by the
Korean government as one of the three companies that will
build aircraft as part of a consolidation of that nation's
aerospace industry.
   Korean Air, itself a unit of the conglomerate Hanjin
Group, has assembled several hundred light helicopters and is
involved in the manufacture of jet fighters. It also makes
parts for Boeing Co.'s 747-400 passenger jet, as well as
McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s MD-80 and MD-11 airliners.
   Late last year, Seoul said it would buy or co-produce 120
McDonnell Douglas F/A18 strike fighters in an arrangement
valued at $3 billion. The Black Hawk program is part of
Korea's force improvement effort. The baseline aircraft will
be the standard U.S. Army UH-60L helicopter with
T700-GE-701-C engines; the avionics will be tailored to
Korean specifications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0042
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0042.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by William Mathewson
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   LATAM FREST EUROP JAPAN MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC NEWS AND STATISTICS (IEN)
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
NUCLEAR POWER, FUEL (NUK)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   A SOUTH AMERICAN FORTUNE
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Fifteen years after the death of her Argentine husband in
Venezuela, a 51-year-old Uruguayan widow learned he had left
her a $100 million estate.
   "God has given me everything," Teresita Semperena told
Uruguayan television from her modest house in the rural town
of Minas. In Montevideo, the Venezuelan Embassy said the
widow would soon travel to Caracas to take charge of the
estate of her deceased husband, Juan de Anchorena.
   Ms. Semperena said she married Mr. Anchorena, a member of
a prominent Argentine family, in 1963 after they met in
Montevideo. They moved to Venezuela where they led a lavish
life for 12 years until Mr. Anchorena died. Ms. Semperena
said she then returned to Uruguay and never had enough money
to return to Venezuela to find out about her husband's
estate.
   Ms. Semperena said she would distribute most of her
inheritance among relatives and charities, keeping just
enough "for a nice house and a motor car."
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA'S `ECONOMIC VANDALISM'
                                                                                                       

   An Australian government minister said the nation's
investment managers were "underscrutinized" and were
"accessories" to "economic vandalism" in the 1980s. Industry
Minister John Button, addressing a business conference, said
the nation's capital markets still are performing poorly and
this is an obstacle to economic progress. "In the 1980s, many
of those who decided where our scarce capital was invested
were dazzled by our entrepreneurs who preferred debt-driven
corporate strategies to equity in real activity," he said.

   HELMUT KOHL'S PLANS
                                                                                                       

   West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl plans to add four East
German officials to his cabinet to help him govern what is
now East Germany between the Oct. 3 unity date and all-German
elections scheduled for Dec 2. Government sources said the
four East Germans would be ministers without portfolio. They
said the top candidates are East German Prime Minister Lothar
de Maiziere; Guenther Krause, Mr. de Maiziere's leading unity
negotiator; Sabine Bergmann-Pohl, president of the East
German parliament; and Rainer Ortleb, head of the East German
Free Democrats.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE TV PROGRAM
                                                                                                       

   Japan Broadcasting Corp. reportedly will begin
broadcasting an English-language television economic-news
program in the U.S. and Europe on Oct. 8. A Japanese news
agency said "Japan Business Today" would be shown in the U.S.
on FNN from 5:30 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. EST, Monday through
Friday. The program will air in Europe on Super Channel, a
London-based cable-TV channel.
                                                                                                       

   IRISH EMIGRATION DECLINES
                                                                                                       

   Emigration from Ireland has dropped after a decade in
which 6% of the population left in search of work. Official
statistics show emigration down to 31,000 people in the year
ended in mid-April from a peak of 46,000 the year before.
Total net emigration in the 1980s was 216,000. Analysts
attribute the decline to dimmer job prospects in Britain and
predictions that Ireland's unemployment rate soon will fall
from its current 17.5% level.
                                                                                                       

   ROBUST YEAR FOR FRENCH TOURISM
                                                                                                       

   France's Tourism Minister Jean-Michel Baylet, using early
figures, predicted more than 44 million visitors this year, a
jump of more than one million from 1989, when the
Revolutionary Bicentennial celebrations drew record crowds.
Despite the falling dollar, the number of U.S. tourists is
expected to rise 10% to 2.75 million in 1990. The increase is
also fueled by an expected 5% jump in West German visitors to
9.6 million and an 8% rise in English tourists to 8.4
million.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND'S NUCLEAR-ENERGY PLANS
                                                                                                       

   Poland postponed plans for a switch to nuclear energy
until the end of the century and halted work on its first
nuclear-power plant.
   The government voted heavily to scrap the nuclear-power
station at Zarnowiec, near the Baltic port of Gdansk, which
has been under construction since 1982. The official news
agency PAP said ministers agreed it would cost more to finish
Zarnowiec, originally scheduled to start up this year, than
to build an equivalent conventional plant.
   The decision to shelve plans for a nuclear-energy program
until the year 2000 followed years of intense debate. Poland
faces a mounting energy shortage and has suffered enormous
ecological damage from its coal-burning power stations.
   Plans drawn up under the former communist government
provided for construction of nuclear plants supplying 7,860
megawatts by the year 2000 and 28,000 megawatts by the year
2020.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   In Abu Dhabi, the wife of the ruler of the United Arab
Emirates paid $2.7 million for a plate of Kuwaiti dumplings.
Shaika Fatima, wife of President Sheik Zaid bin Sultan
al-Nahayan, bought the food at a charity event to raise money
for Kuwaiti families displaced by Iraq's invasion. . . . An
Australian sailor who failed to return to his ship when it
sailed last month from Perth for the Persian Gulf said he
decided to stay ashore after viewing television scenes of
President Bush playing golf. The seaman, 23-year-old Terry
Jones, was charged in Sydney yesterday with being absent
without leave.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0041
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0041.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ponce Federal Names
   San Juan Attorney
   New Bank Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   PFBS WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SAVINGS AND LOANS, THRIFTS, CREDIT UNIONS (SAL)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
</GV>
<LP>
   PONCE, Puerto Rico -- Ponce Federal Bank, under fire from
federal regulators, named Miguel D. Lausell chairman.
   Mr. Lausell, 46 years old, an attorney in San Juan, has
been vice chairman since May 1989. He succeeds Ramiro L.
Colon Jr., who stepped down as president and chief executive
officer in mid-August. Mr. Colon was continuing to serve as
chairman while the thrift made several changes in management.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Last week, Ponce Federal, one of the largest thrifts in
Puerto Rico, was hit with strong enforcement measures by the
Office of Thrift Supervision. The measures, designed to
"increase the bank's safety and soundness," according to the
OTS, included a temporary cease-and-desist order issued
against Mr. Colon, who is still a stockholder, and his
brother, Wendell W. Colon, former counsel at the thrift and
also a stockholder.
   According to the OTS, the Colons have been ordered to stop
causing Ponce Federal to violate federal regulations against
loans to affiliated parties and insider transactions, and to
post a $50,000 bond to make funds available for restitution
to the thrift.
   The Colons weren't available for comment yesterday.
   Mr. Lausell, in a prepared statement, said: "This
realignment of the board of directors should result in
improved oversight of the bank."
   Ponce Federal also said that Federico Montilla, an
architect in San Juan, was named vice chairman.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0040
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0040.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Seagram Co.:
   Company Says Net Rose 3%
   On Strong Spirits Business
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   VO T.VO
</CO>
<IN>
DISTILLERS AND BREWERS, MAKERS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (DST)
EARNINGS (ERN)
</IN>
<LP>
   Seagram Co. reported that net income for the second
quarter ended July 31 rose 3% on a strong performance in the
Montreal distiller's international wines and spirits
business.
   Net was $205 million, or $2.18 a share, compared with $199
million, or $2.07 a share, in the year-earlier period.
Revenue rose 8.7% to $1.42 billion from $1.30 billion.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The earnings reflect a charge, which Seagram declined to
disclose, for 177 job cuts announced in July in the marketing
and sales force of the U.S. distilled-spirits business.
   Seagram's Brazilian operations outperformed its
expectations for the period. However, a spokesman said the
company remains "cautious" about the affiliate's operations
for the full year, citing Brazil's volatile economy and the
stringent economic controls the government put in place a few
months ago.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Seagram shares fell 37.5 cents to $75.375.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0039
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0039.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Splits Over Cut
   In Deficit Seem
   As Wide as Ever
   ---
   Talks Resume Tomorrow
   As Projections of Gap
   Are Steadily Increasing
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<CO>
   TAXES
</CO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
</IN>
<GV>
EXECUTIVE (EXE)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- As the bipartisan budget talks reconvene
after a monthlong hiatus, differences within and between the
parties appear as great as ever, while projections of the
fiscal 1991 deficit continue to grow.
   President Bush will preside when the talks resume tomorrow
at Andrews Air Force Base in the first of what is scheduled
to be three or four days of negotiations aimed at
accomplishing what the first 12 weeks of talks didn't: a
package of spending cuts and tax increases that both parties
endorse as a way to shrink the federal deficit $50 billion
next year and $500 billion over five years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Democratic budget negotiators caucused yesterday for the
first time in more than a month, but differences between the
House and Senate persist. Staffers say Democrats are talking
not about a firm deficit-reduction proposal but about
presenting a menu of deficit-reduction options to
Republicans.
   White House Chief of Staff John Sununu and Budget Director
Richard Darman, meanwhile, met separately with negotiators
for House Republicans, some of whom have begun calling for a
tax cut to revive the economy even though the administration
is expected to offer its tax-increase plan when the
negotiations resume.
   Mr. Darman told Republicans he is projecting the fiscal
1991 deficit will reach a record $250 billion without some
action, up from his estimate of $232 billion two and a half
weeks ago.
   Some negotiators predict Congress will have to return
after the election for a lame-duck session. "No doubt about
it," said Sen. Wyche Fowler (D., Ga.), who is Senate Majority
Leader George Mitchell's delegate at the negotiations. But
others, notably House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.),
dismiss that notion. House Budget Committee Chairman Leon
Panetta (D., Calif.) insists, "We know we can't walk out of
the room without agreement."
   Negotiators face intensifying pressure to reach some sort
of agreement this month -- either a substantial
deficit-reduction package or a face-saving accord that delays
any politically painful decisions until after the election or
even until next year.
   The weakness in the economy, exacerbated by the spurt in
oil prices, has created a near-crisis atmosphere.
   Although several self-imposed deadlines for a resolution
of the budget talks have come and gone, negotiators now
confront some real deadlines. Without a change in the
Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law, $85 billion in
across-the-board spending cuts will take effect Oct. 1,
crippling the federal government. At about the same time,
Congress must pass legislation authorizing the Treasury to
borrow money and authorizing the government to spend money in
fiscal 1991. Those bills could serve as a vehicle for either
a deficit-reduction package or a slide-by package to defer
tax rises and spending cuts.
   Negotiators from both political parties publicly say they
remain committed to cutting the deficit $50 billion in fiscal
1991 and $500 billion over five years. "We've always been at
50-500 and that's where we'll stay," House Majority Leader
Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) said after the Democrats' caucus.
And Mr. Darman, arriving for the his session with House
Republicans, said, "We don't see any change in that."
   But privately, lawmakers and their aides suggest that the
first-year figure, at least, will erode as much as $25
billion as negotiators respond to the changed military and
economic situation. Central to the deliberations is defense
spending. The Bush administration would shave about $6
billion from projected defense spending while some Democrats
want to cut more than twice that sum. The Iraqi standoff has
undercut support for such deep defense cuts, however. And if
savings from defense shrink, Democrats will demand lower
domestic cuts in turn. Then proposed tax revenues, which
would probably make up half of any package, would also be
lowered. The result is a package adding up to substantially
less than $50 billion.
   A faction led by negotiator Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the
House Republican whip, now is arguing that a budget-cutting
package with tax increases could tip the economy into
recession and that tax cuts are needed instead. But others,
such as Rep. Panetta, say that a substantial
deficit-reduction pact is more necessary than ever to send
financial markets a positive signal and encourage the Federal
Reserve to lower interest rates.
   The Democrats' menu of options is likely to include an
increase in the top personal income tax rate to at least 33%
from the current 28%, an increase in taxes on alcoholic
beverages and tobacco and perhaps an energy tax of some sort.
   The administration, which has criticized Democrats for
failing to offer a deficit-reduction plan before the
congressional recess, is expected to put on the table a
controversial plan of its own that was leaked in July. It
calls for, among other things, an increase in taxes on beer,
wine and liquor as well as a $10,000 ceiling on federal
income-tax deductions for state and local taxes.
   ---
   Greg Hitt contributed to this article.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0038
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0038.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- CalMat Co.:
   Onoda Cement to Acquire
   California Portland Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C13
</SO>
<CO>
   CZM J.ONC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
BUILDING MATERIALS (BLD)
</IN>
<LP>
   CalMat Co. said a unit of Onoda Cement Co. of Japan is
exercising its right to acquire a CalMat unit, California
Portland Cement Co., in exchange for its 19% stake in CalMat.
   Under a 1988 agreement, CalMat, based in Los Angeles, has
the option of swapping the stock of its wholly owned
California Portland Cement subsidiary for Onoda's 5,834,070
CalMat shares. The stock-for-asset swap stems from CalMat's
restructuring that thwarted a potential takeover by New
Zealand investor Sir Ronald Brierley two years ago.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The stock of California Portland Cement was initially
valued at $310 million. Under the agreement, Onoda's CalMat
shares are to be valued at the higher of $39.31 a share or
current market value. CalMat's stock closed at $31.875, up 25
cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   The acquisition value will be adjusted to give CalMat the
benefit of California Portland Cement's earnings from the
date of the agreement and reflect changes in California
Portland Cement's capitalization. CalMat said it expects to
receive a payment, in the form of a dividend from California
Portland Cement and assumption of debt by Onoda. The
transaction is expected to close during the fourth quarter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0037
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0037.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Battle Plans:
   If War Comes, the U.S.
   Hopes to Make It Brief
   With High-Tech Blitz
   ---
   But the Desert Could Force
   American Troops to Fight
   Iraq's Kind of Land Battle
   ---
   Untested Arms and Soldiers
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and Bob Davis
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<CO>
   MDEST
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   RIYADH, Saudi Arabia -- If war breaks out in the Persian
Gulf, the U.S. hopes the fighting goes something like this:
   In the air, U.S. pilots use electronic deception to
confuse distant Iraqi warplanes and then blast them with
infrared missiles. At sea, the battleship Wisconsin launches
cruise missiles that devastate distant Iraqi command centers.
Close to the ground, Apache helicopters fire laser-guided
Hellfire missiles that cripple Iraqi tank columns still miles
away.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Within days, Iraq's air force is destroyed, its army is
ragged and Saddam Hussein is in full retreat. American
casualties number in the hundreds, rather than the thousands
some feared.
   So goes the Pentagon's optimistic vision of an offensive
against Iraq and its troops in Kuwait: Fighting from afar and
exploiting high-tech weaponry, the U.S. wins against an enemy
that can't see its attackers. But this scenario of lots of
glory and little gore may prove more fantasy than reality in
a modern war in the exposed desert. The U.S. may have
superior air power and electronic weaponry, but Iraq, with
its huge army and larger number of tanks and artillery, is
still powerful on land. A war could -- contrary to Pentagon
thinking -- suck thousands of American troops into a killing
field.
   The Arab-Israeli conflict in 1973 showed what can happen
when large forces of planes and ground troops fight in the
open desert. In just two weeks of battle, 20,000 soldiers
were killed or wounded and 1,500 tanks and 550 aircraft were
destroyed.
   Can the U.S.'s technology advantage make a marked
difference? Clearly, it gives American troops an edge, but
how much of one no one really knows. Many of the weapons the
U.S. is deploying, including the Hellfire missile, designed
to destroy tanks, and the Patriot missile, designed to shoot
down missiles and aircraft, have never been tested in battle.
Neither have the vast majority of U.S. troops, whose training
consists of war games in the California and Egyptian deserts.
   The U.S. will do all it can to avoid slugging it out in
prolonged ground warfare, of course. The model for the way it
hopes to fight is Israel's stunning 1982 victory over Syria's
air force in Lebanon. The Israelis used technology with keen
effectiveness. They first sent a series of unmanned aircraft
outfitted with sophisticated electronics over Syrian
anti-aircraft sites in the Bekaa Valley. The drones fooled
the Syrians into launching most of their missiles before
Israeli jets even arrived, and also detected the radar
frequencies the Syrians were using. Israeli F-4s then fired
radar-guided missiles to destroy the Syrian radar antennae
while F-16s and A-4s dropped cluster bombs that smashed the
rest of the sites. When the battle was over, the Israelis had
destroyed 17 Syrian missile sites and 85 Syrian jets. Israel
didn't lose a single aircraft.
   "This is what we'd like to do in principle," says retired
Maj. Gen. Gerald Carey, former commander of the Air Force's
Tactical Air Warfare Center.
   American planners believe the U.S. is deploying an
overwhelming arsenal on the Arabian peninsula but say that,
if the U.S. ultimately does launch an offensive, it wouldn't
do so for at least several weeks. In any engagement, says
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, commander of American forces in
the Middle East, "we would be using capabilities that are far
more lethal, far more accurate and far more effective than
anything we have ever used."
   The centerpiece of the U.S. arsenal is its capability to
wage the most sophisticated electronic warfare ever seen. A
U.S. attack on Iraqi forces would begin with a wave of air
strikes against anti-aircraft missile installations. The
success of the U.S. missions would turn largely on systems
aboard U.S. planes that jam enemy communications, warn of
enemy radar tracking U.S. planes and point U.S. missiles and
bombs to enemy targets. In many cases, these advanced systems
would make many of the judgments about who the enemy is and
when to fire at him.
   The U.S. strike would also begin far from the target
itself. Outside the range of Iraqi anti-aircraft missiles,
two U.S. EF-111 and EC-130 jamming aircraft would circle. The
EF-111 jet would direct waves of electronic signals at Iraqi
radarscopes, which control the Iraqi surface-to-air missiles,
burying the radar operators under a blizzard of electronic
noise that masks the advance of U.S. warplanes. At the same
time, the lumbering EC-130 turboprop would jam the
communications links within the missile site and between the
site and command centers around Iraq. The Iraqi missile base
would then be blind, deaf and isolated.
   Four U.S. warplanes -- one stubby F-4G "Wild Weasel" and
three sleek F-16 attack jets -- would then swoop into action.
The F4G would launch HARM air-to-ground missiles, which home
in on the Iraqi tracking beam from the missile site, and
follow it to the ground, destroying the radar antenna and
rendering the missiles useless. The HARM missiles are
especially potent, says Gen. Carey: "Either he {the Iraqi}
shuts down his radar and his missiles are no good or he stays
on and gets destroyed."
   The F-4G also would relay targeting information to the
F-16s, which then would drop a load of cluster bombs packed
with shrapnel. If all went according to plan, the missile
sites would be destroyed in just 10 minutes.
   That's what happens if the Iraqis don't have any
electronics tricks of their own. HARMs can be fooled by
missile sites equipped with radar that can jump frequencies
-- making it hard for the HARM to lock onto the telltale
signal -- or by sites that can launch decoys to distract the
U.S. missiles. Gen. Carey doubts the Iraqis have such
sophisticated defenses, but it's impossible to know for sure.
   Meanwhile, America's F-117 Stealth fighter, the newest
aircraft to be deployed in the Gulf, would be used to attack
command centers and other heavily defended sites where
surprise and accuracy are key. The Stealth, which would
likely be used only at night, is notable for its ability to
elude detection by radar.
   The plane made its debut in Panama, where two dropped
2,000-pound bombs. Although Defense Secretary Cheney boasted
of the aircraft's "pinpoint accuracy," it later became clear
that one of the jets missed its target by 160 yards.
   Assuming at this point that Iraqi air defenses and command
centers have been knocked out, the U.S. could begin its
offensive against Iraq's forward ground forces. The first
move would probably be a helicopter attack on Iraq's tanks at
night. In the past helicopters generally weren't used for
that type of engagement. They couldn't carry enough firepower
and had to get dangerously close to their targets and be
pointed directly at them to score a hit.
   The Army expects the twin-rotor, bulbous-nosed Apache,
with its armor-piercing rockets and clusters of Hellfire
missiles, to revolutionize anti-tank warfare. Barreling
toward its target at nearly 150 miles an hour -- fast for a
helicopter -- the Apache is designed to fly just 30 or 40
feet off the ground for hours at a time. If its nose isn't in
line with its enemy, the two-man crew can rely on advanced
laser-guided homing systems to guide its 16 Hellfire missiles
to the tanks. Similarly, the Apache can hide behind, say, a
sand dune, and use the Hellfire's on-board computers to help
the missiles jig over obstacles, identify a target that isn't
visible to the pilots, and then lock on and destroy it.
   Each missile costs about $30,000, so even veteran Apache
pilots have fired relatively few of them in training. But the
crews say the desert's flat terrain and long distances are
ideal for the Apache's tank-killing capabilities.
   "We can take out 200 tanks easy in about two hours," Army
Lt. Col. Dick Cody, commander of an Apache batallion, told
reporters last month. "It's a pilot's dream out here."
   But it's a potential nightmare too.
   To begin with, dodging dense Iraqi ground fire may be
riskier than Saudi and American pilots expect. Israel used
high-tech weaponry in its Lebanon victory but also relied
heavily on intimate knowledge of Syrian capabilities and
exhaustive practice of the raid. "That's a lot different from
the U.S. suddenly finding itself in Arabia," observes one
Marine general. "We're still asking, `Now, what do we know
about the Iraqis?'"
   What's more, the recent record of U.S. air efforts in the
region isn't reassuring. The 1980 attempt to rescue the U.S.
hostages in Iran ended in humiliation when aircraft failed
and crashed into each other deep in the Iranian desert,
killing eight servicemen. In 1983, the U.S. bungled an attack
on Syrian anti-aircraft guns and missile batteries in
Lebanon. It has had better luck shooting down Libyan jets in
two altercations in the 1980s, but in 1986, when the U.S.
launched an air raid against Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's
headquarters, only two of the nine F-111 bombers involved
even dropped their bombs; neither hit the targets precisely.
One plane was shot down or crashed, and another mistakenly
attacked a civilian neighborhood.
   American air crews face far tougher obstacles in the Gulf
than in Lebanon or Libya. Many U.S. pilots in Saudi Arabia
are still trying to learn the terrain, become familiar with
complicated air-traffic control procedures and fly routine
patrols with Saudi aircraft. "I haven't flown yet with the
Saudis at all," Air Force Lt. Alan Kollien, a pilot with the
1st Tactical Fighter Wing from Langley, Va., recently told
reporters.
   The Iraqis are trying their utmost, too, to confuse
American pilots. U.S. officers say that in the past few weeks
Iraq has moved or changed the operation of some of the 300
missile batteries the country is believed to have. Without
up-to-date information about the batteries, American flyers
hurtling over an unfamiliar border could turn into vulnerable
targets.
   Even commanders in the field acknowledge that aircraft and
their sophisticated weapons can't do the job by themselves.
Air power alone "didn't work on the Ho Chi Minh trail, and it
won't work on the battlefield of the future," says Gen. Ed
Scholes, chief of staff for most of the Army troops in Saudi
Arabia.
   But ground forces, too, face huge obstacles, and even the
best technology probably wouldn't save them from heavy
losses. Partly because many of its heavy tanks haven't yet
arrived, and partly because it needs distance to take full
advantage of its stand-off weaponry, the U.S. would fall back
into the Saudi desert if Iraq attacked, say military
planners. The Americans would then disrupt Iraq's
communications and supply lines.
   But this shoot-and-run maneuver counts on some of the
long-range weapons -- both on the ground and in the air -- to
operate exceptionally well despite their record of performing
badly in tough conditions. Panama's hothouse humidity, for
instance, created major difficulties for the Apache's
targeting electronics. In the Persian Gulf, helicopters built
to sit on airport concrete would have trouble operating from
the rough desert floor for more than a few weeks, U.S.
officers predict. Moreover, in many cases their engines have
to be flushed daily to prevent sand damage.
   The desert's fine dust can jam machine guns, damage jet
turbines and even wear down tank treads. Dust storms, whether
caused by nature or by the movement of tanks, would obscure
enemy targets and could force U.S. troops to hold off firing
their vaunted anti-tank TOW missiles, exposing the Americans
to Iraqi tank fire.
   Coordinating a broad ground and air offensive poses
another problem: communication between U.S. and allied Arab
troops and between different branches of the U.S. armed
services. That's a longstanding American weakness. In
Grenada, some U.S. troops could see Navy ships offshore, but
weren't able to communicate with them.
   What's more, formal coordination arrangements still
haven't been worked out between U.S. and Saudi commanders.
Indeed, says one military electronics expert, the U.S. can't
use its top-of-the-line radios, which hop frequencies to
protect against eavesdropping, because the Saudi government
fears the equipment will interfere with Saudi television
broadcasts.
   In the end, simple provisions such as food and water could
prove more significant in the Gulf crisis than an array of
sophisticated weaponry. In a lengthy standoff, soldiers would
have to be kept fit for action. U.S. intelligence officials
say that Iraqi soldiers already are stealing food, water and
gasoline at gunpoint from fleeing Kuwaiti refugees,
indicating shortages of essentials are occurring at the
front.
   But retired Army general Elmer Pendleton, once the
Pentagon's top officer in Turkey, is quick to add an
additional word of caution. Even if Iraqi troops prove
ill-equipped and ill-trained, he argues, they amount to "a
hell of a lot of people, and they can do a lot of damage."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0036
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0036.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Boise Cascade Corp.:
   Company to Sell Paper Mill
   To Unit of Wiggins Teape
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C9
</SO>
<CO>
   BCC
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RAW AND FINISHED PAPER PRODUCTS (PAP)
</IN>
<LP>
   Boise Cascade Corp. agreed to sell its paper mill in
Vancouver, Wash., and certain inventories for $72 million to
Appleton Papers Inc., a unit of the Wiggins Teape Group Ltd.
in London.
   Under terms of the sale, Appleton will pay $60 million for
the mill and $12 million to purchase finished goods
inventories.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The transaction, expected to be completed by the end of
the year, comes as part of the Boise, Idaho, company's plan
to boost profits by reducing its pulp and paper presence in
the Northwest.
   Weak paper prices and unanticipated complications with
maintenance and repair at several of Boise Cascade's pulp and
paper mills contributed to a shortfall in earnings for both
the first and second quarters.
   With the purchase of the Vancouver facility, Appleton,
based in Appleton, Wis., will add approximately 100,000 tons
of paper-making capacity. The 450 people currently working at
the mill are to be retained under the Appleton ownership.
   Boise Cascade stock closed at $30.125, up $1, in trading
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0035
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0035.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   USX Hails Project
   In Dying Steel Town
   As a Return to Roots
   ---
   But the People of Braddock,
   Carnegie's First Mill Site,
   Do Not Expect a Rebirth
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   X
</CO>
<IN>
STEEL MANUFACTURERS (STL)
</IN>
<LP>
   BRADDOCK, Pa. -- USX Corp. will bring in bagpipers
tomorrow for the launch of a $250 million investment at its
historic steel mill here. But not everyone in this boarded-up
town is joining in the parade.
   The company says the investment -- in a continuous slab
caster by its USS steelmaking division -- ensures the
survival of steel in the industry's cradle, the depressed Mon
Valley region near Pittsburgh. The steel giant had considered
abandoning the region entirely during steel's skid in the
1980s.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   There aren't many steelworkers left in Braddock to
celebrate, though. In the past decade, USX reduced employees
in the area to 4,000 in three plants from 30,000 in five
plants as the company focused its activities more on
flat-rolled sheet steels for such customers as auto and
appliance makers. The union says the new caster will actually
cut employment by as much as 400, but the alternative --
shutting down -- was worse.
   For USX, the project is a nostalgic return to its roots:
The caster will be part of the Edgar Thomson plant, Andrew
Carnegie's first steel mill, and the bagpipers will recall
the steel mogul's Scottish heritage. The equipment the caster
will replace, vintage 1938, would have been more appropriate
to Mr. Carnegie's time.
   The dual-strand caster, which will be completed in
mid-1992, will have an annual capacity of 2.6 million tons.
Continuous casting eliminates several laborious and
energy-intensive steps in making flat-rolled steel,
significantly reducing processing time and lowering costs.
The state-of-the-art caster will also improve quality.
   Pittsburgh-based USX agreed to build the caster in a labor
agreement reached in 1987. It also plans a similar-size
investment to rebuild a nearby strip mill, which will use the
steel made in Braddock.
   "It's a recommitment to the Mon Valley," USS President
Thomas C. Graham says of the caster. But, he adds, "it
couldn't transform (the valley) back on the scale that it
once was."
   Braddock Mayor Thomas Napolitano isn't expecting any
miracles, either, though he says Braddock will take what it
can get. "When they put that kind of money in a town like
this, you know they're going to stay for a few years.
Hopefully, we'll get something back in this town."
   Braddock's population, which 25 years ago was about
20,000, is down to 4,600. When steel left town, so did the
movies, jewelry stores, even the grocery store. For a while,
the only work to be found was in boarding up or knocking down
buildings. Locals describe it as a giant parking lot with no
cars.
   Braddock folks "don't know what (the caster) is, but they
figure something new is coming in," said Paul Tkach, a
retired steelworker in Braddock.
   But nobody expects a return to prosperity for the Mon
Valley. "No way," said Mr. Tkach. "It'll never be that way
again."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0034
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0034.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   U.S., Arco Chemical
   Settle Dispute on Deal
   With Union Carbide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   ARC UK RCM TX
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEWTOWN SQUARE, Pa. -- The Federal Trade Commission and
Arco Chemical Co. agreed to settle antitrust litigation over
the company's proposed $220 million acquisition of certain
assets of Union Carbide Corp.
   Under a provisional consent agreement, Arco Chemical,
which is 83%-owned by Atlantic Richfield Co., Los Angeles,
will divest itself of the propylene glycols business it
agreed to buy from Carbide, based in Danbury, Conn. Propylene
glycol is used in products including fiberglass, paints and
cosmetics.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Arco Chemical will retain a urethane polyols business to
be acquired from Carbide. But it will divest itself of a
so-called tolling arrangement whereby Texaco Chemical Co., a
unit of Texaco Inc., produces polyols that Arco Chemical then
sells. Urethane polyols are used in making polyurethane
cushions, among other things.
   Arco Chemical will waive provisions in previous agreements
under which Carbide and Texaco agreed not to compete in the
polyol and propylene glycol business. Arco Chemical also will
drop certain objections it had raised to a technology that
Texaco Chemical Co. has been developing to make propylene
oxide. Arco Chemical had questioned whether some of its own
technology was being used by Texaco Chemical, but a patent
infringement suit hadn't been filed. Texaco Chemical doesn't
yet make commercial quantities of propylene oxide.
   The propylene oxide market, whose derivatives end up in
many consumer products, wasn't directly involved in Arco
Chemical's agreement with Carbide. But the Carbide lines to
be acquired by Arco Chemical are big buyers of propylene
oxide, and Arco Chemical is a big producer. The Arco
Chemical-Carbide transaction would thus remove a buyer from
the market and, the FTC argued, act as a deterrent to new
sellers who would have competed for that business.
   Carbide will keep the full $220 million payment made by
Arco Chemical under terms of its original agreement with Arco
Chemical.
   Carbide and Arco Chemical each will pay $1 million to the
federal government as settlement of certain issues related to
the timeliness with which the companies filed information
about their transaction. The payment doesn't represent
admission of wrongdoing by either company.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Arco
Chemical rose 25 cents to $34, while Carbide fell 25 cents to
$16.125.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0033
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0033.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   No Benefit Seen in Gulf Crisis; Marketing Plan for SBICs
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B2
</SO>
<IN>
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
CONGRESS (CNG)
</GV>
<LP>
   GULF CRISIS shows few signs of boosting small firms' slice
of defense sales.
   Some small businesses have received "letter contracts," or
quick orders, for extra supplies of such items as desert
camouflage nets, Pentagon officials say. But, overall, small
and medium-sized Defense Department contractors are getting
few new orders as the result of Iraqi President Saddam
Hussein's threat to world oil supplies, says Donald Grigg,
president of the Association of Small Research, Engineering
and Technical Services Companies. "There may be an initial
uptick for some of the larger companies, but we also might
see a reduction in programs sooner because so much was spent
on {opposing} Iraq," he says.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   During the first three quarters of fiscal 1990, the
Defense Department met its goals for small-business
contracting by spending $14 billion on prime contracts and
another $14 billion in subcontracts with smaller companies.
But critics contend that defense officials set contracting
goals they can comfortably meet, making it difficult to
evaluate the department's effort. The Pentagon continues to
fall far short of congressionally mandated goals of spending
5% of its prime-contract dollars and 5% of subcontracing
money with minority-owned and other small, disadvantaged
concerns. At the end of the third quarter, the agency had
spent $2.3 billion, or 3% of the total, for such prime
contracts, and $1 billion, or 2.7% of the total, for such
subcontracts.
   A word to the wise for small technical businesses: Go
East, as in Eastern Europe, says Mr. Grigg. "Almost
everything we do is needed there."
   ---
   SON OF S&amp;L SELLOFF: SBA seeks marketing plan for assets of
failed SBICs.
   With about 170 failed Small Business Investment Companies
in liquidation proceedings, the Small Business Administration
has become the not-so-proud owner of such assets as common
stock in closely held concerns, preferred stock and loans to
companies. But instead of establishing its own version of the
Resolution Trust Corp., the federal agency in charge of
assets from bankrupt savings and loan institutions, SBA
officials plan to hire a private contractor to help place a
dollar value on the assets and market them.
   The initial sales effort will probably include something
under $100 million in equity and assets, says Ron Cibolski,
chief of the SBA investment division's liquidations branch.
Given the magnitude of the SBIC problem, he says, "It could
be much more at some point." The SBA wants to have its plan
in operation within the next few months. But it is moving
cautiously because it wants to ensure the government gets a
fair price and because valuing assets and equity in closely
held corporations is very difficult, Mr. Cibolski says.
   The marketing plan could range from an auction sale to
sending mailers to likely purchasers, he says.
   ---
   SBIC FALLOUT? Pressures from investigations into SBIC
failures may have influenced Charles Gillum's recent
departure as SBA inspector general to become the Agriculture
Department's deputy inspector general, some SBA officials
suggest. They say Mr. Gillum was caught between demands of
the Senate Small Business Committee for very detailed
information on the problems and his own icy relations with
the SBA's investment division and administration. His office
turned up much of the bad news about the floundering program,
but some of its own decisions were questioned in the process.
Mr. Gillum couldn't be reached for comment. The Agriculture
Department's inspector general office that he will head is
several times the size of the SBA operation.
   ---
   ECONOMIC GLOOM is growing among small businesses.
According to the National Federation of Independent
Business's latest quarterly survey, only 17% of 2,100
business owners queried expect the economy to improve,
compared with 22% in the second quarter. More than one fifth
-- 22% -- see worse times ahead, up eight percentage points.
   The overall small-business optimism index, which includes
expected business conditions, fell to a seasonally adjusted
98.2 for the third quarter from 100.8 for the second and was
the lowest since 1982.
   "Small-business owners don't like what they see on the
horizon," NFIB President John Sloan said. "And now with the
Iraqi invasion, there will be even less hope for an upturn
this fall."
   The National Association of Wholesaler Distributors, which
represents small and large concerns, also said its confidence
index, based on a survey of 219 firms, recently showed a
decline.
   ---
   FRANCHISING FRACAS: A congressional report urges more
safeguards.
   A House Small Business Committee report calls for federal
legislation setting minimum standards of protection for the
legal rights and financial interests of franchisees. The
report's biggest bombshell: that some franchisees should be
entitled to payment for part of the value of a business when
the franchise is terminated. The issue of the day, says the
report, isn't whether franchisers fairly disclose contractual
terms to potential franchise holders, but the abuses of
continuing franchise relationships. Some 17 states have
enacted laws to prevent abuses such as requiring equipment
purchases from the franchiser at above market prices and
ending the franchisee's contract with little notice.
   New York franchising attorney David Kaufmann says the idea
that some compensation is due a franchisee when his contract
expires "strikes at the heart" of the franchise relationship.
In an article submitted to the New York Law Journal, he
argues that franchisees essentially buy a business on an
installment plan, with nothing owed them when the contract
expires. But the committee staff maintains that Congress
recognized the legal and financial rights of franchisees in
earlier statutes protecting auto dealers and gasoline
franchisees. The committee will hold hearings on the issue
later this month.
   When a franchise contract is terminated in California,
state law requires franchisers to offer to repurchase all of
the inventory that a franchisee was required to buy.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: Technological treasure? House Small Business
Committee Chairman John LaFalce (D., N.Y.), and Sen. Rudy
Boschwitz (R., Minn.), introduce bills to create a computer
data base with information about federally sponsored research
under way in federal labs and in universities. . . . Silver
lining: Small-business lobbyists figure that with Iraq and
the budget deficit to occupy lawmakers, "Congress," as one
lobbyist puts it, "won't have time to come up with anything
ridiculous for small business."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0032
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0032.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Politics &amp; Policy:
   Capital Vote Promises Realignment
   To Fill Vacuum Left by Barry Trial
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A16
</SO>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Affable, mild-mannered, middle-class John
Ray has just been endorsed for mayor of the nation's capital
by a public-housing tenants' group long identified with
support for flamboyant, rough-hewn incumbent Marion Barry,
whose arrest on drug charges led him to drop his re-election
bid. How could the group now choose someone so different?
   "Oh, we still support Marion Barry," says white-haired
Lucille Savage, as a knot of women nearby nod vigorously.
"It's just that he's not running."
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The District of Columbia is electing a mayor this year, a
fact nearly lost amid the sound and fury surrounding Mr.
Barry's arrest and trial. The campaign had begun to attract
an unusually large and diverse field even before Mr. Barry's
legal troubles took hold, and the task for whoever wins is
immense: nothing less than a new beginning for a traumatized
city. Yet with the primary less than a week away, the talk
here remains less about who is in the race than who isn't.
   "Barry so dominated the scene here, it doesn't take a
rocket scientist to say there's a vacuum," says Mark Plotkin,
a one-time local Democratic activist who is now the political
editor of a radio station. Adds Ron Lester, a pollster whose
firm has worked for Mr. Barry in the past: "The public's
attention has basically been frozen on the trial."
   Behind that wall of seeming indifference brews the first
major realignment in the city's political leadership since
Mr. Barry's election a dozen years ago. The two most
important citywide officials after the mayor -- the city
council chairman and the district's nonvoting delegate to
Congress -- both abandoned their posts to enter the
Democratic mayoral primary.
   The winner's first task may be to heal the divisions of
race, gender and even class stirred by Mr. Barry's arrest and
trial. In a city that is nearly three-quarters black, Mr.
Barry's charges that he was set up as part of a federal
campaign of harassment of black elected officials resonate
with many voters. If anything, his conviction on a single
misdemeanor cocaine-possession charge -- after the government
expended vast resources in a fruitless effort to nail him on
felony charges -- may have buttressed his arguments; the
mayor is now running for a seat on the city council.
   The Barry trial also brought to the fore residents'
long-simmering resentment over the city's "last colony"
status, symbolized most recently by Congress's refusal to let
it use its own local tax money to pay for abortions for poor
women. And it has even stirred a debate in some quarters here
over the appropriate role of black women in the community;
the former girlfriend who cooperated with authorities in the
mayor's trial has become a target of abuse, unlike the two
other former girlfriends who went to jail rather than testify
against him.
   Stepping into this potentially volatile mix are the five
Democrats competing to replace Mr. Barry, four of them black
and two of them women. In addition, there is an unaccustomed
challenge from the district's tiny Republican Party, which
this year has a potentially strong candidate in former Police
Chief Maurice Turner.
   Currently leading, according to local polls, is Councilman
John Ray, a 47-year-old lawyer whose stolid, uncharismatic
personal style masks a poignant personal history. Born and
raised in a turpentine camp in rural Georgia, Mr. Ray never
knew his father and was reared by grandparents who couldn't
read. He was able to obtain a higher education after serving
in the Air Force, and he clerked for the late Supreme Court
Justice Abe Fortas. An 11-year city council veteran, he has
portrayed himself as the city's "best hope," and his
literature touts him as "a role model for our youth."
   Political analysts say Mr. Ray's lead -- polls indicate he
has the support of about a third of the voters as well as
leading in endorsements and fund-raising -- has occurred so
far mainly because he has alienated the fewest voters. "His
support is not strong, but it's broad," says Mr. Lester, the
pollster. Mr. Ray's opponents have sought to damage him by
hammering at his numerous contributions from developers and
real-estate interests, which account for about a third of his
$900,000 war chest.
   Closest to Mr. Ray in the polls has been Charlene Drew
Jarvis, who, like the other woman candidate, Sharon Pratt
Dixon, comes from a distinguished Washington family. Ms.
Jarvis is the daughter of the late Charles Drew, who invented
a method for developing blood plasma. Holder of a doctorate
in neuropsychology, the 49-year-old Ms. Jarvis abandoned a
promising career in science to enter politics and now has a
reputation as a tough infighter whose skills rival those of
Mr. Barry.
   But like Mr. Barry, she has suffered from unsavory
connections: A one-time social companion and campaign manager
received thousands of dollars in consulting fees from a
national bank seeking a foothold here at a time when Ms.
Jarvis had significant influence over the banking community.
She now calls the association a mistake.
   The remaining three candidates are closely grouped,
trailing Mr. Ray and Ms. Jarvis in polls but still within
striking distance. Of them, the most puzzling is Walter
Fauntroy, at 57 the oldest candidate and the early favorite
in the race because of his 19 years as the district's
nonvoting representative to Congress.
   Mr. Fauntroy says he entered the race out of disgust at
the ineptitude of local officials. In a recent televised
debate, he compared himself to a star football player,
saying, "Here I am clearing holes in the line on Capitol
Hill, making it possible for them to get millions of dollars,
and they are fumbling the ball in the background. . . . What
I'm saying is, give me the ball now."
   But his candidacy has faltered on charges of
ineffectiveness in Congress and on a backlash against his
sharp attacks on Mr. Ray, including his suggestion that local
real-estate interests -- which are white-dominated -- "own"
Mr. Ray.
   If Mr. Fauntroy's star has dimmed, the hot candidate of
the moment may be Ms. Dixon. Daughter of a judge and former
wife of a council chairman, she has never held elective
office. But the 46-year-old lawyer, former Democratic
National Committee official and utility-company executive has
become the rising star in the race, having won the surprise
endorsement of the powerful Washington Post.
   The Post applauded her stance as the first and only
candidate to call for Mr. Barry's resignation; the paper also
lauded her detailed plans to stabilize the city's
deteriorating financial condition. But her very willingness
to tackle tough fiscal issues may work against her. One of
her plans, for instance, is to trim the city's payroll by
laying off at least 2,000 workers. But that is just the sort
of thing that sends chills down the spine of the city's
48,000 employees -- an extraordinary number in a city of only
about 600,000 residents.
   Ms. Dixon, like Ms. Jarvis, may also suffer because of her
gender. She says she has been surprised by the number of
voters who have told her the city needs "a black male role
model" after the trauma of Mr. Barry's trial; a Washington
Post poll indicated that more than 20% of voters feel that
the mayor should be a man.
   But the person facing the most resistance in the race is
probably the lone white candidate, City Council Chairman
David Clarke. The 46-year-old lawyer is often criticized for
a volcanic temper, but more damaging are poll findings that
nearly half of the city's voters, black and white alike,
believe the next mayor should be black.
   Mr. Clarke has been closely identified with black issues
and concerns -- he briefly attended the same seminary as
Martin Luther King Jr. and received his law degree from
predominately black Howard University. But few observers give
him much of a chance in the current charged atmosphere. Mr.
Clarke himself, asked about the racial issue at a recent
candidates' forum, responded: "God made me white. There's
nothing I can do about that."
   ---
   `How important is it that the next District mayor be a
black person?'
                                                                                                       

                                OVERALL   BLACKS   WHITES
                                                                                                       

 Very important or                48%      49%      48%
  fairly important

 Not too important                50       49       49
  or not important at all
                                                                                                       

 Don't know/no answer              2        2        3
                                                                                                       

   `How important is it that the next District mayor be a
man?'
                                                                                                       

                                OVERALL    MALES  FEMALES
                                                                                                       

 Very important or                21%      22%      20%
  fairly important
                                                                                                       

 Not too important                77       77       78
  or not important at all
                                                                                                       

 Don't know/no answer              2        1        2
                                                                                                       

   Based on a survey of 895 self-described voters in the
District of Columbia, Aug. 21 to 27.
   Source: The Washington Post
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0031
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0031.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   LEISURE &amp; ARTS:
   Best Sellers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A12
</SO>
<LP>
   FICTION
                                                                                                       

                                          LAST        WEEKS
                                          WEEK       ON LIST
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>

      by Sidney Sheldon
      (Morrow, $21.95)
                                                                                                       

    2 The Burden of Proof                  1           13
      by Scott Turow
      (Farrar, Straus &amp; Giroux, $22.95)
                                                                                                       

    3 The Women in His Life                3            4
      by Barbara Taylor Bradford
      (Random House, $21.95)
                                                                                                       

    4 Message From Nam                     4           12
      by Danielle Steel
      (Delacorte, $21.95)
                                                                                                       

    5 The Stand: The Complete and          6           18
      Uncut Edition
      by Stephen King
      (Doubleday, $24.95)
                                                                                                       

    6 Coyote Waits                         7           10
      by Tony Hillerman
      (HarperCollins, $19.95)
                                                                                                       

    7 Oh, the Places You'll Go]            9           29
      by Dr. Seuss
      (Random House, $12.95)
                                                                                                       

    8 Get Shorty                           5            6
      by Elmore Leonard
      (Delacorte, $18.95)
                                                                                                       

    9 A Bed by the Window                  --           1
      by M. Scott Peck
      (Bantam, $18.95)
                                                                                                       

   10 Hammerheads                          8            6

      (Donald I. Fine, $19.95)
                                                                                                       

   NONFICTION
                                                                                                       

                                          LAST        WEEKS
                                          WEEK       ON LIST
                                                                                                       

    1 Homecoming                           4            7
      by John Bradshaw
      (Bantam, $18.95)
                                                                                                       

    2 Trump: Surviving at the Top         11            2
      by Donald Trump
      with Charles Leerhsen
      (Random House, $21.95)
                                                                                                       

    3 Men at Work                          1           23
      by George Will
      (Macmillan, $19.95)
                                                                                                       

    4 Wealth Without Risk                  2           83
      by Charles Givens
      (Simon &amp; Schuster, $19.95)
                                                                                                       

    5 Tom Landry                          10            4
      by Tom Landry and Greg Lewis
      (HarperCollins/Zondervan, $18.95)
                                                                                                       

    6 Politics of Rich and Poor            3            7
      by Kevin Phillips
      (Random House, $19.95)
                                                                                                       

    7 You Just Don't Understand: Women     5            7
      and Men in Conversation
      by Deborah Tannen
      (Morrow, $18.95)
                                                                                                       

    8 Dave Barry Turns 40                  8           16
      by Dave Barry
      (Crown, $16.95)
                                                                                                       

    9 Barbarians at the Gate               7           33
      by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar
      (HarperCollins, $22.95)
                                                                                                       

   10 Every Spy a Prince                   6            6
      by Dan Raviv and Yossi Melman
      (Houghton Mifflin, $22.95)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0030
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0030.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Pathe Communications Co.:
   MGM/UA Discussions Focus
   On Using Assets of Studio
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   PCC MGM
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Pathe Communications Co. could decide to partially finance
its $1.3 billion acquisition of MGM/UA Communications Co. by
leveraging the movie studio's assets, according to proxy
materials mailed to shareholders by MGM/UA.
   Pathe, based in Beverly Hills, and MGM/UA, of Culver City,
Calif., are in discussions about agreements in which MGM/UA
would "purchase" Pathe assets such as films and theaters, and
Pathe would use this cash to buy MGM/UA. In this way, by
pre-selling rights to MGM/UA's film libraries and borrowing
against various MGM/UA assets and receivables, Pathe could
conceivably have access to all the cash MGM/UA would be
capable of raising, up to the value of Pathe's assets. This
could be from $500 million to $700 million, say individuals
close to the negotiations. The transactions would occur
simultaneously with closing the merger.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Pathe's bid was revised and extended after a potential
$650 million loan from Time Warner Inc. was withdrawn,
leaving a trail of litigation and more skepticism about the
ability of Pathe and its principal, Italian financier
Giancarlo Parretti, to finance the deal.
   Shareholders will attend a special meeting Oct. 2 to vote
on the tender offer, which is to be completed by Oct. 23.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0029
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0029.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Commodities:
   Copper Drops Despite Production Snags in Chile,
   Peru; December Contract Falls 1.55 Cents a Pound
   ----
   By John Valentine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C12
</SO>
<IN>
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
COMMODITY MARKETS FOR METALS (MIN)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Copper futures prices declined despite
production problems in Chile and Peru.
   The most actively traded December contract ended with a
loss of 1.55 cents a pound at $1.2220.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The market declined despite developments that would
normally strengthen prices. In Chile, Codelco, the
state-owned mining company, said that an explosion occurred
in El Teniente, its second-largest mine.
   The accident killed one employee and injured two others,
but it isn't expected to curtail its production, according to
a company announcement. One analyst said the explosion was in
a part of the mine that had been closed off.
   However, another analyst noted that the mine has had at
least three explosions this year, following two last year,
and that there had been concern recently in Chile about
recurring blasts. Chile is the world's largest copper
producer.
   In Peru, Southern Peru Copper Corp. yesterday declared
force majeure on September shipments of refined copper,
effective immediately. The action was in response to a force
majeure on cathode shipments to Southern Peru from Mineroperu
Inc., which has been on strike since Aug. 17, a company
spokesman said. Force majeure is a condition that permits a
company to depart from the strict terms of a contract because
of events beyond its control. An estimated 10,000 tons of
copper production has been lost during the 20 days of the
Mineroperu strike, an analyst said.
   Fred Demler, metals economist for PaineWebber, observed
that the copper industry is in a divergent trend. "In the
U.S., buying of copper has softened, inventories have
increased, and the stock market is reflecting a weakening
economy," he said.
   "Outside the U.S., production problems continue to prevail
and demand in Japan and West Germany has remained steady,
despite a recent slowing in demand from Japan and some
selling of copper by West German merchants on the London
Metal Exchange," he added.
   World-wide, Mr. Demler said, copper inventories have
increased by 85,000 tons to 640,000 tons since the end of the
first quarter, mostly in the U.S. and in warehouses of the
London Metal Exchange.
   Fred D'Agostino, president of Metals Resources Inc., a
metals trading company in Riverside, Conn., said that trading
interest has slowed in futures and demand for physical copper
has dropped significantly -- including "domestically and for
export, for refined and scrap copper."
   But even with this slowdown, Mr. D'Agostino also noted,
there is a wide disparity between the small amount of copper
in Commodity Exchange warehouses for delivery against futures
and the open interest in the September contract. Open
interest is the number of outstanding contracts that remain
to be nullified by an opposite trade or satisfied by delivery
of the commodity.
   At the moment, he noted, there is a total of 8,900 tons of
copper in Comex warehouses, compared with a September open
interest that is equal to 107,500 tons. Notices to deliver
copper against the September contract began to be issued
Friday.
   "This is a type of situation that has repeatedly taken
place over the past three years, and while it has eventually
worked itself out most of the time, it still has the
potential to cause concern," Mr. D'Agostino said.
   Ron Shorr, analyst for Bear Stearns, said that despite the
force majeure called in Peru, the Mineroperu situation is
reported to be near a settlement, which would be a negative
for prices.
   Also, he noted, the Escondida mine is expected to come
onstream later this year in Chile, with a capacity of about
320,000 tons, which would significantly add to the world
copper supply.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold and silver futures prices rose, but
platinum futures fell. December delivery gold was up $2.50 an
ounce to $393.00. December silver advanced 1.2 cents an ounce
to $4.8370. October platinum declined $2.20 an ounce to
$484.20. Gold prices rallied on a new round of belligerent
statements by Iraq's president Saddam Hussein, but then fell
back, analysts said. The Iraqi president didn't say anything
new, one analyst said, but the comments tended to dispel the
hopeful aura of a possible political settlement of the
Persian Gulf crisis and renewed belief in a potential
military confrontation. Another analyst commented that gold
hasn't been behaving too well in the face of a sharp rally in
oil, a drop in the dollar and the possibility of lower
interest rates, all of which are usually favorable for gold.
A lack of demand for bullion from Switzerland and West
Germany has been a factor restricting a rise in the gold
price, he said. "At the moment December gold is in a trading
range of between $386 and $399, and if there is a breakout on
either side of that range, prices could show a significant
rise or fall," he said.

   COFFEE: Futures prices rose. The December contract, after
declining and testing the $1-a-pound level, recovered to end
with a gain of 2.50 cents at $1.0370 a pound. Sandra Kaul,
analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers, attributed the firmness
to concern over availability of finer types of coffee, such
as those from Colombia and Central America and higher quality
Brazilian beans. Colombia and Central America won't begin
harvesting their crops for another month to six weeks, Ms.
Kaul noted, and the Brazilian harvest, which is about
three-quarters complete, is yielding far less than expected.
At the same time, U.S. roasters have begun to process coffee
for the peak winter consumption period and have sharply
stepped up their operations, she said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS and SOYBEANS: Futures prices showed modest gains.
Wheat futures rebounded on a "technical rally" after
Tuesday's sharp sell-off, traders and analysts said. Wheat
futures prices plunged Tuesday on news that U.S. exporters
were losing business to Canada and European Community
countries. Yesterday wheat futures for September delivery on
the Chicago Board of Trade gained 6.75 cents a bushel to
close at $2.63 a bushel. Wheat prices also gained support
from rumors that the bread shortage in the Soviet Union,
combined with the prospect of a significant portion of that
country's harvest rotting in the fields, could lead to
emergency approval for wheat exports to the Soviets. Soybean
futures prices advanced on continued concerns about dry
conditions in the Mississippi River delta region and the
Southeastern U.S. Concerns about an early frost in extreme
northern sections of the Midwest next week that could reduce
crop yields also supported futures prices. November soybeans
gained 2.25 cents a bushel to close at $6.2650 a bushel. Corn
futures prices also advanced, with the December contract
gaining 1.75 cents a bushel to close at $2.36 a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0028
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0028.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Rhone-Poulenc S.A.:
   Net Income for First Half
   Fell 13% to $410.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   RPR RP.C
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
DRUG MANUFACTURERS (DRG)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   Rhone-Poulenc S.A. of France, a pharmaceutical and
chemical concern, said first-half net income fell 13% to 2.18
billion francs ($410.9 million) from 2.49 billion francs a
year earlier. The results are after payments to minority
interests but before priority dividends.
   Operating profit declined 20% to 3.75 billion francs from
4.69 billion francs. Finance charges rose to 1.66 billion
francs from 1.02 billion francs.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Consolidated revenue increased 7.8% to 39.99 billion
francs, but decreased 5.6% on a comparable structural basis.
   As in the first quarter, Rhone-Poulenc blamed Brazil's
economic stabilization program and the franc's recent
strength for the company's poor showing. Brazil, which has
imposed austerity measures, represents 7% to 8% of group
revenue.
   The company gave no indication that conditions would
improve during the second half, citing "a worsening economic
situation" owing to "the dollar's slide, higher oil prices
and slowing growth."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0027
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0027.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Business Brief -- Valhi Inc.:
   Chemical Concerns to Merge
   In $411 Million Transaction
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B8
</SO>
<CO>
   VHI NL
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
CHEMICALS, PLASTICS (CHM)
</IN>
<LP>
   DALLAS -- Valhi Inc. and NL Industries, Inc., two
companies controlled by Dallas financier Harold Simmons, said
they agreed in principle to merge in a transaction valued at
$411 million.
   Under terms of the agreement, Valhi, a chemical and
industrial concern, would issue 1.6 shares of its common
stock for each of the 22.6 million shares of NL common shares
it doesn't already own. Valhi currently holds about 66% of
NL, a petroleum services concern. The companies said the
agreement won't be completed if the average price of Valhi
common shares stays below $9.50 a share for the 20 trading
days ending two trading days before a shareholder vote on the
merger. Also, Valhi can terminate the merger if its average
price for the same period is above $13 a share. In composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Valhi closed
yesterday at $11.375, up 25 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The companies said the merger was subject to, among other
things, approval of Valhi's board and shareholders and
approval by a majority of NL shares present and voting, other
than those held by Valhi. The companies said that NL's board,
including its outside directors, approved the merger and
received an opinion from Salomon Brothers that the proposed
terms were fair to its shareholders, other than Valhi.
   Steven L. Watson, vice president and secretary of Valhi,
said that both managements think the merger will be
beneficial to the separate shareholder groups. He wouldn't
comment further.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0026
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0026.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   Bertelsmann Picks
   Neuthaler to Head
   Bantam Doubleday
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   G.BRT WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- After months of searching, Bertelsmann AG
appointed Paul D. Neuthaler chairman and chief executive
officer of its Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group unit.
   Mr. Neuthaler, who will assume his post Monday, fills a
void left by Alberto Vitale, who quit last November to run
rival publisher Random House Inc. The 47-year-old Mr.
Neuthaler, with a 25-year career in publishing, has been
immersed for the last decade in scientific and professional
publishing, as opposed to the general-interest or trade
publishing for which Bantam Doubleday is known.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The choice surprised many in the publishing industry
because Mr. Neuthaler hadn't been among the rumored
candidates for the job and hasn't much experience as a
manager in trade publishing. While Bantam Doubleday Dell on
the whole is profitable, losses continue at Doubleday, where
the publisher was replaced in January. A spokesman said
losses have been narrowed considerably at Doubleday, helped
partly by the success of the reissued, expanded Stephen King
novel "The Stand."
   However, Bertelsmann executives have made clear that
financial acumen was at least as important as publishing
experience in a chief executive. Also, Bertelsmann has said
in the past that it was interested in acquiring some
professional and scientific publishing properties, which is
Mr. Neuthaler's area of expertise. For the past four years,
Mr. Neuthaler has been a partner in closely held JPT
Publishing Group Inc., the owner of scientific and
professional publishing properties with annual revenue of
about $100 million.
   Such publishing fields tend to be more stable and steady
in their earnings, and Bertelsmann has prosperous interests
overseas in technical and professional publishing.
Bertelsmann hired Mr. Nuethaler in the mid-80s to search for
such properties for the company to buy in the U.S. However,
having spent about $800 million for Doubleday and RCA Records
in 1986, Bertelsmann wasn't inclined to make additional
purchases and Mr. Neuthaler left the company.
   Mr. Neuthaler, who has a doctoral degree in literature and
wrote his dissertation on an obscure 17th-century Welsh poet,
said that while his career has lately focused on technical
publishing, he got his start editing general-interest books
at such publishing houses as Simon &amp; Schuster.
   "I'm a publishing executive and formats and subjects not
withstanding, I think there are a lot of transferable
skills," he said. "I also have a lot to learn."
   Bernhard von Minckwitz, who has been interim chief
executive officer, was given the new title of executive
chairman of Bantam Doubleday. He won't oversee the day-to-day
operations. He continues to be president of Bertelsmann
Publishing Group International.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0025
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0025.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   General Electric Gets
   Air Force Contract
   Totaling $31.8 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A4
</SO>
<CO>
   GE GD TRW FNL LOR
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- General Electric Co. was given a $31.8
million Air Force contract for F-16 fighter engines.
                                                                                                       

</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sparta Inc. received a $14.8 million Air Force contract
for software systems.
                                                                                                       

   General Dynamics Corp. got a $12.6 million contract for
Air Force training and Army tanks.
                                                                                                       

   TRW Inc. was given a $12.8 million Navy contract for laser
operations.
                                                                                                       

   Johns Hopkins University was awarded an $11.4 million Navy
contract for research and development.
                                                                                                       

   Fansteel Inc. won an $11.1 million Air Force pact for
jet-fighter engine components.
                                                                                                       

   Loral Defense Systems, a unit of Loral Corp., received a
$10 million Navy contract for development of an advanced
anti-submarine target.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0024
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0024.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Tucson Electric Sues
   SCEcorp Over Merger
   With San Diego Gas
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   SCE SDO TEP
</CO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
ELECTRIC UTILITIES (ELC)
</IN>
<LP>
   Tucson Electric Power Co. filed suit against SCEcorp and
its Southern California Edison Co. unit for alleged wrongful
and negligent interference with the Arizona utility's 1988
merger agreement with San Diego Gas &amp; Electric Co.
   In a suit filed yesterday in state court in San Diego,
Tucson Electric charged SCEcorp with "willful, wanton,
reckless and conscious disregard of the rights and interests
of Tucson Electric" when, among other things, SCEcorp
successfully proposed that it acquire San Diego Gas &amp;
Electric.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   San Diego Gas and SCEcorp hope to complete their $2.56
billion merger in the first half of next year, subject to
approvals by state and federal agencies. Shareholders of both
companies approved the merger in April 1989.
   Tucson Electric said in its suit that it has suffered a
loss of "substantial economic benefits" because of its failed
merger agreement. In particular, Tucson Electric has surplus
electricity that it had hoped would be sold by San Diego Gas.
The suit seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.
   "The suit is totally groundless and without merit," said a
spokesman for SCEcorp and Southern California Edison in
Rosemead, Calif. He said the Tucson Electric-San Diego Gas
merger agreement allowed both companies to receive and act
upon competing merger offers. San Diego Gas and SCEcorp acted
in full compliance with the terms of the agreement, he said.
   A spokesman for San Diego Gas &amp; Electric, which isn't
named as a defendant, declined to comment on the suit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0023
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0023.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Ex-President of Unit
   Of Teledyne Pleads
   Guilty in Fraud Case
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   TDY
</CO>
<IN>
AEROSPACE (ARO)
</IN>
<GV>
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (DEF)
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -- The former president of a Teledyne
Inc. division pleaded guilty to one count of making false
statements to the Defense Department in connection with an
alleged scheme to defraud the Navy on a helicopter contract.
   The ex-president of Teledyne Hydra-Power, 69-year-old
Cirino Giampapa of Massapequa, N.Y., entered the plea in U.S.
District Court here. Also, Morton Baine, 54, of New Rochelle,
N.Y., a former Teledyne Hydra-Power controller, pleaded
guilty to conspiring with others at the division to defraud
the U.S. and to submit false claims to the Defense
Department.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan said the alleged
scheme involved the submission of fraudulent labor-hour
figures to inflate the prices Teledyne Hydra-Power charged
for parts. The government said the false claims totaled more
than $4.5 million.
   Teledyne Hydra-Power is a division of Los Angeles-based
Teledyne Inc., which has diverse manufacturing interests. In
November, Teledyne Inc. agreed to pay the U.S. $11.9 million
to cover the overcharges and penalties.
   Mr. Giampapa, who will be sentenced Nov. 14, faces a
possible fine of as much as $10,000 and a maximum prison
sentence of five years. Mr. Baine, whose sentencing is
scheduled for Nov. 8, faces a fine of as much as $250,000 and
five years in prison.
   Carl Bernstein, attorney for Mr. Baine, declined comment.
Walter Bonner, Mr. Giampapa's attorney, couldn't be reached.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0022
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0022.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   Business and Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   VEHICLE SALES PLUMMETED in the U.S. last month. North
American-made car and truck sales fell 21% in late August.
Overall sales of domestic and imported vehicles for the month
fell 17% from the 1989 period. The drop reflects consumers'
uncertainty about the softening U.S. economy amid the Mideast
crisis.
   ---
</LP>
<TEXT>
   World oil supplies are shrinking due to the Mideast
crisis. A U.S. official said shortages could appear by the
middle of the fourth quarter.
   ---
   Franklin Savings' takeover by the government was rejected
by a federal judge, who ordered that control of the
institution be returned today to its previous management.
                                                                                                       

   The House banking chief proposed drastic cuts in deposit
insurance.
   ---
   Prosecutors in the Milken case will attempt to present to
a U.S. judge their full case against the former Drexel
executive, even though the government accepted a plea bargain
to six charges tied to unlawful trading. Ivan Boesky and
others may be called to testify to buttress the government's
bid for a stiff sentence.
   ---
   Both parties are divided internally over deficit-reduction
plans, and the gulf between the Republicans and Democrats
appears as great as ever.
   ---
   The dollar fell sharply as investors bet that tomorrow's
jobs data will push the Fed to cut interest rates. Stocks and
bonds closed higher.
   ---
   Tokyo stock prices fell again on fears that futures
settlements next week could spark a massive sell-off. The
Nikkei Index plunged 829.30 points, or 3.3%, to 24078.34.
   ---
   Alex. Brown &amp; Sons plans to nearly double its New York
City presence. The Baltimore-based brokerage firm has been
recruiting brokers from Wall Street rivals.
   ---
   The Kuwaiti asset-management agency in London opened a
multibillion-dollar lending facility to ease Kuwaiti banks'
liquidity problems.
   ---
   College football and ABC Sports are the targets of a
complaint the FTC plans to file today, alleging antitrust
violations in a TV contract.
   ---
   The FDA demanded that Ralston-Purina and five other firms
justify their health claims about oat bran.
   ---
   The Fed effectively crippled a Delaware law that was
expected to allow big banks to sell insurance nationwide. The
move was aimed at a Citicorp unit's business, but banking
officials say it will also bar other banks from taking
advantage of the law.
   ---
   IBM unveiled its long-awaited next generation of
mainframes, which will face competition from new models from
Hitachi and Fujitsu.
   ---
   Markets --
   Stocks: Volume 120,610,000 shares. Dow Jones industrials
2628.22, up 14.85; transportation 897.74, up 1.66; utilities
198.44, up 2.39.
   Bonds: Shearson Lehman Brothers Treasury index 3344.97, up
16.21.
   Commodities: Dow Jones futures index 133.18, up 0.66; spot
index 129.97, up 0.43.
   Dollar: 141.70 yen, off 1.80; 1.5585 marks, off 0.023.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0021
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0021.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   New Line Appoints
   Shaye as Chairman
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   NLN WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- New Line Cinema Corp. named Robert K. Shaye to
the newly created position of chairman.
   The 51-year-old Mr. Shaye remains chief executive officer.
Yesterday, Mr. Shaye was succeeded as president by Michael
Lynne, 49, who also took the new post of chief operating
officer.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   New Line's film releases include "Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles" and the "Nightmare on Elm Street" series. Its most
recent release, "Pump Up the Volume," cost $4.5 million to
produce, and in its first two weeks in 800 theaters, the film
grossed about $5.7 million.
   Mr. Lynne, who joined New Line in 1984 as general partner,
was involved in New Line's purchase of a significant equity
interest in RHI Entertainment Inc., and in securing North
American distribution rights to the sequel of "Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0020
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0020.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- TNT Ltd.:
   Operating Profit for Year
   Fell 37% to $114.9 Million
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   A.TNT
</CO>
<IN>
EARNINGS (ERN)
AIR FREIGHT (AIF)
AIRLINES (AIR)
</IN>
<LP>
   TNT Ltd. of Australia, a transportation company, reported
that operating profit after taxes for the year ended June 30
fell 37% to 140.7 million Australian dollars (US$114.9
million) from A$222.6 million a year earlier.
   Extraordinary losses narrowed to A$864,000 from A$45.3
million. After accounting for extraordinary losses related to
the closure of certain businesses, overall profit fell 27% to
A$127.4 million from A$173.8 million. Per-share earnings fell
19% to 24.9 Australian cents from 30.6 cents, but the
dividend was maintained at 15 cents a share.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Revenue rose 15% to A$4.48 billion from A$3.91 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0019
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0019.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Texas Judge Awards
   Plaintiffs $115 Million
   In `Communion' Case
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B12
</SO>
<CO>
   MCEGE GE
</CO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<LP>
   LOS ANGELES -- A state court judge in San Antonio, Texas,
awarded the producers of the movie "Communion" $115 million
in a default judgment against units of beleaguered Management
Co. Entertainment Group and Virgin Holdings Ltd., a closely
held British company controlled by Richard Branson.
   Pheasantry Films Inc. and Bancannia Film Distribution, an
Australian company, had alleged that the defendants failed to
pay them $5 million owed for the production of the movie. The
suit also charged that the defendants misappropriated the
revenue from the distribution of the movie and failed to
promote the movie properly. The award includes $100 million
in punitive damages.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Management Co. Entertainment has struggled under a large
debt load following its $83 million acquisition in July 1989
of Virgin Vision Ltd., a U.K. distribution company, from
Virgin Group Ltd., another company controlled by Mr. Branson.
Director Nicolas Roeg and two other creditors have filed a
petition in federal bankruptcy court here seeking to force
the company's movie unit into involuntary liquidation.
   Yesterday, Stephen Chrystie, a lawyer for Mr. Roeg and the
other creditors, said his clients had granted a one week
extention after receiving a letter from bankruptcy counsel
for Management Co. Entertainment. Mr. Chrystie said the
letter said that if Management Co. Entertainment can't pay
its creditors by Sept. 13, it plans to file for protection
from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy
Code. Management Co. Entertainment officials, now in London,
didn't return repeated telephone calls.
   Management Co. Entertainment, a movie production, talent
management and distribution company, is currently in default
on more than $100 million in debt. Its major creditors
include G.E. Capital, a unit of General Electric Co.
   ---
   Corrections &amp; Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MANAGEMENT CO. ENTERTAINMENT GROUP Inc. said that if its
M.C.E.G. Productions Inc. unit can't pay its creditors by
Sept. 13, the unit plans to file for protection under Chapter
11 of federal bankruptcy laws. An earlier story misstated the
entity that may file for protection.
   (WSJ Sept. 7, 1990)
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0018
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0018.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Media:
   FTC to Charge ABC Sports, College Group in TV Pact
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett and Dennis Kneale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B1
</SO>
<CO>
   CCB CBS
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (FTC)
</GV>
<LP>
   The Federal Trade Commission, cracking down on the cozy
relationship between big-time college sports and television,
plans to charge the College Football Association and Capital
Cities/ABC Inc. with violating federal antitrust laws in a
five-year broadcast contract.
   In a five-page administrative complaint to be formally
filed today with an administrative law judge, the commission
said the contract restricts competition in the marketing of
college football telecasts, reducing the selection of games
for consumers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The FTC action threatens the ABC network's lock on nearly
all nationally televised college football games. Earlier this
year, the CFA and ABC signed a $215 million contract that
committed 63 of the association's 66 members to broadcast
their football games on the network from 1991 to 1995. The
FTC could seek to have the contract voided and could prohibit
any other agreements that restrict competition.
   A lawyer familiar with the case said the FTC filing will
result in private negotiations between the agency and the
defendants. If no compromise is reached, the administrative
law judge would rule on the complaint after a hearing in
Washington Nov. 13. The defendants can appeal a ruling to the
full commission.
   Lewis Engman, the Washington lawyer for CFA, said his
client's broadcast arrangement doesn't restrain competition,
noting that "there are hundreds of football games available
now" on television. He said the CFA is "confident the
commission ultimately will see that the contracts are good
for viewers and competiton." Capital Cities/ABC officials
couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
   The FTC, in bringing charges against ABC Sports and the
Denver-based College Football Association, essentially is
pursuing an arrangement that has been in force since 1984,
first between the CFA and CBS Inc., and now involving ABC.
The FTC complaint isn't expected to affect CBS's broadcasts
of CFA games this year.
   In 1984, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the National
Collegiate Athletic Association had violated antitrust laws
by acting as the sole, mandatory negotiating agent for all
college teams in the bargaining for television rights.
   A spate of smaller contracts with various college
conferences followed, with teams able to decide whether to
take part in the television contracts. ABC made the most of
the new pacts. ABC already has an exclusive arrangement with
all teams in the Big Ten and Pacific 10 conferences and ABC
added the CFA contract in February, which gave the network a
monopoly on nearly all nationally televised college games.
The CFA consists of about 20 major independent universities
and most of the major athletic conferences.
   That monopoly was broken only by the surprise withdrawal
of the University of Notre Dame, which signed its own, more
lucrative television deal with General Electric Co.'s NBC
network.
   The FTC refused to confirm or deny the plans for a
complaint, but said it will hold a news conference this
morning "to announce a major antitrust action concerning
college athletics."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0017
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0017.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- B.A.T Industries PLC:
   First-Half Pretax Profit Fell
   11% on Big Insurance Losses
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   BTI
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
EARNINGS (ERN)
INSURANCE (INS)
FULL LINE INSURANCE (INF)
</IN>
<LP>
   B.A.T Industries PLC said first-half pretax profit sank
11% to #592 million ($1.1 billion) from #668 million a year
earlier.
   Per-share earnings dropped 20% to 20.5 pence from 25.5
pence.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Sales for the British tobacco and financial services
conglomerate rose 13% to #9.38 billion from #8.27 billion a
year earlier. The results reflect damage arising from a
protracted battle B.A.T mounted to deflect a takeover bid by
Sir James Goldsmith. The company wrote off #26 million in
costs for regulatory hearings and defense costs in the fight.
   The battle hastened a restructuring at B.A.T that included
the disposal of the company's U.S. retailing operations.
These sales created #414 million in profits, which translated
into a further 10.7 pence-a-share interim dividend, upping
the total paid so far this year to 20.7 pence from 19.6 pence
a year earlier.
   The biggest setback occurred in the Eagle Star insurance
business, which was hit by heavy payments from storms. Eagle,
which also extends property loan guarantees, had to raise its
reserves #40 million.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0016
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0016.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Merrill Lynch's Hess
   Resigns From Position
   In Consumer Finance
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<CO>
   MER WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
SECURITIES (SCR)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Merrill Lynch said Dennis J. Hess, one of the
architects of its successful cash management account program
for individual investors, has resigned after 20 years with
the company.
   Mr. Hess, 50 years old, was senior vice president of
diversified financial services in the consumer-markets
sector. A spokesman for Merrill Lynch said Mr. Hess, who will
serve as a consultant to the company, resigned voluntarily. A
successor wasn't immediately named.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Hess helped devise Merrill's pioneering Cash
Management Account, which acts similarly to a bank and
brokerage account. It combines a securities account with
check-writing and credit-card privileges. Some Merrill
investors put the proceeds of securities sales into the
moneyfund part of the account.
   Mr. Hess also had been responsible for management of the
company's insurance, mortgage, lending, credit, domestic
banking, trust service and real estate syndication business.
   Mr. Hess was traveling yesterday and couldn't be reached
for comment. In a statement, he called his more than 20 years
at Merrill Lynch "highly rewarding," but said he considered
now "the appropriate time in my career to seek new
challenges."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0015
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0015.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Who's News:
   Dallas Fed Appoints
   McTeer as President
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- Robert D. McTeer Jr., a 22-year veteran of
the Federal Reserve System, was named president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
   Mr. McTeer, 47 years old, is currently senior vice
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, in charge
of its Baltimore branch. He will succeed Robert H. Boykin,
who retires Feb. 1 after 37 years at the Dallas Fed, the last
10 as president.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Bush administration officials said that Mr. McTeer's chief
rival for the Dallas post was Michael Darby, currently
undersecretary of commerce for economic affairs and formerly
assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy in the
Reagan administration.
   Mr. McTeer, who earned a doctorate in international and
monetary economics at the University of Georgia, declined to
describe his economic philosophy. For the past decade, his
responsibilities at the Fed have been primarily "managerial"
rather than policy-oriented, he said.
   Presidents of the 12 regional Fed banks oversee banks in
their jurisdictions and join the seven Fed governors in
Washington in making monetary policy. Five of the Fed
presidents sit as voting members of the policy-making Open
Market Committee at any one time; Mr. McTeer won't have a
vote until 1993.
   A president of a regional Fed bank is chosen by the
directors of that bank, subject to approval by the Fed's
board of governors in Washington.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0014
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0014.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Rise 14.85 on Strength
   Of Energy Issues; Volume Is Light
   ----
   By David Wilson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C2
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
STOCK INDEXES (NDX)
</IN>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Stock prices moved higher in another slow
session, as the market managed to shrug off more tough talk
from Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.
   Energy stocks were at the forefront of the advance as
crude-oil prices edged toward $30 a barrel in New York
trading. Some favorable analyst comments provided a boost to
the gas pipeline sector.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which skidded to a loss
of nearly 19 points in late morning trading as statements
from the Middle East sparked a brief wave of selling, closed
with a gain of 14.85 at 2628.22.
   Among broader indexes, Standard &amp; Poor's 500-Stock Index
gained 1.30 to 324.39, the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Index gained 0.80 to 177.93 and the Dow Jones Equity Market
Index rose 1.10 to 300.35.
   New York Stock Exchange volume, which had fallen short of
100 million shares in the two previous sessions and set
successive lows for the year, remained relatively light with
120,610,000 shares changing hands. There were 953 advancing
issues on the Big Board against 571 decliners.
   "People are still on tenterhooks with respect to the
Mideast crisis, and there's a large body of people who fear a
long stalemate and don't want to make any {market} moves,"
said Stefan D. Abrams, chief investment strategist at Kidder,
Peabody &amp; Co.
   But analysts said the market's ability to recover from its
late-morning sell-off -- which took place as Saddam Hussein
reiterated his call for a "jihad," or holy war, in the
Mideast -- encouraged investors to do some buying.
   "The market appears very much sold out," said Jack
Solomon, a technical analyst at Bear, Stearns &amp; Co., noting
that the industrial average has stabilized around the 2600
level over the past week and a half and the "urgent selling"
of recent weeks "seems to be completed."
   Meanwhile, only 29.1% of the investment advisers surveyed
last week by the Investors Intelligence service were bullish
on stocks. That percentage was the lowest since December
1988, said Michael Burke, the survey's editor.
   By contrast, Investors Intelligence found that 52% of the
market newsletter writers had a bearish opinion of the
market, while 18.9% anticipated a correction in share prices
over the next few weeks.
   "People are scared," Mr. Burke said, because of the
potential economic damage from the recent jump in the price
of oil and the potential for even higher oil prices.
   Oil stocks rallied as October crude-oil futures closed at
$29.77 a barrel, up 65 cents, in New York trading. Exxon
gained 3/4 to 50 7/8 in composite trading of 1.3 million
shares, while Chevron rose 1 3/4 to 77 5/8, Texaco rose 1 3/4
to 63 3/4, Mobil climbed 1 3/8 to 65 3/4, Amoco advanced 1
1/2 to 57 3/4 and Atlantic Richfield added 3 1/8 to 138 3/4.
Within the oil-services sector, Halliburton gained 1 3/8 to
54 1/2 and Schlumberger rose 1 1/8 to 65 1/8.
   Coastal climbed 1 1/4 to 36 3/8 and Enron gained 1/2 to
52, boosted by Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette's positive
comments on the two gas pipeline stocks. Analyst Curt Launer
told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report he expects
Coastal to benefit from a seasonal rise in natural-gas prices
this winter and a new refinery it will open in Aruba later
this year, while Enron is "well positioned" to benefit from
growth in gas demand from California. Enron Oil &amp; Gas,
84%-owned by Enron, jumped 1 3/4 to 25 3/8.
   Columbia Gas System, which Mr. Launer singled out along
with Coastal as the best-positioned pipeline companies in the
current environment, added 3/4 to 47. Among other pipeline
stocks, Panhandle Eastern rose 3/4 to 15 1/2, Transco Energy
rose 1 to 44 and Enserch gained 5/8 to 25 5/8.
   International Business Machines, which unveiled a new
generation of mainframe computers as expected, eased 1/8 to
102 3/8 on 1.5 million shares. The line, called System 390,
represents IBM's first new mainframe series in five years.
   Other key technology issues were widely mixed. Digital
Equipment climbed 1 to 66 1/2 and Cray Research rose 1/2 to
35, while Compaq Computer fell 2 1/2 to 45 3/8,
Hewlett-Packard lost 1 1/8 to 34 3/8 and Motorola slipped 2
to 69 1/8.
   United Technologies, whose Otis Elevator unit agreed to
acquire a majority stake in an East German elevator company,
gained 1 5/8 to 50. Terms weren't disclosed. Separately, the
company's Sikorsky Aircraft unit and Korean Air agreed to
work together to produce helicopters for South Korea.
   Pinnacle West Capital rebounded 1/2 to 12 7/8 on 1.7
million shares after tumbling 3 3/4 Tuesday in response to an
agreement that ended PacifiCorp's fight to acquire the
company. At a meeting with analysts, Pinnacle West said it
expects to reduce its consolidated debt by $1 billion by the
end of 1993 and restore its common-stock dividend.
   Castle &amp; Cooke rose 2 5/8 to 35 5/8. The company scheduled
a news conference to discuss "employee-related matters" amid
speculation that it will phase out pineapple operations on
the Hawaiian island of Lanai and rumors about plans for its
two major businesses, food and real estate.
   Mylan Laboratories added 1 1/2 to 18 3/8. Sandoz
Pharmaceutical agreed to promote Eldepryl, a treatment for
Parkinson's disease which is marketed by a joint venture of
Mylan and Bolar Pharmaceutical. Bolar gained 1/2 to 4 3/4 in
American Stock Exchange trading.
   U.S. Surgical rallied 3 7/8 to 51 3/4 and traded as high
as 52 1/4, a 52-week high, after favorable comments from
analysts at Dean Witter Reynolds and PaineWebber. Both
analysts cited the company's prospects in laparoscopic
surgery, a new technique that reduces the amount of time
required for doctors to perform operations and for patients
to recover.
   Pier 1 Imports, which estimated that it would post net
income of seven or eight cents a share for the second quarter
ended Sept. 1, fell 1/8 to 7 5/8. In the year-earlier period,
its net equaled 20 cents a share. Separately, the company
doubled the size of a stock-repurchase program to four
million shares.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index rose 2.67
to 325.41. Volume totaled 10,590,000 shares.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0013
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0013.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media:
   FDA Demands
   Firms Prove Claims
   About Oat Bran
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RAL
</CO>
<IN>
FOOD PRODUCTS (FOD)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
</IN>
<GV>
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION (FDA)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- The Food and Drug Administration began its
crackdown on misleading health claims on food labels by
challenging Ralston Purina Co. and five other companies on
their assertions regarding the health benefits of oat bran.
   Ralston Purina and its Continental Baking Co. unit were
the largest food processors to be targeted yesterday with
so-called regulatory letters from the FDA, according to
agency officials. The food industry has been anxiously
awaiting the first batch of letters as an indication of how
the FDA plans to curb the proliferation of dubious health
claims in recent years.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   One FDA official said that the six companies were singled
out because the agency believed it could, if necessary,
develop strong enforcement cases against them under the Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act. In its letters, the agency demanded
that the companies justify their oat bran claims or stop
making them altogether. Typically, companies are given 10
days to respond to regulatory letters.
   "We are, in effect, trying to establish the boundaries of
what we think is appropriate in the way of health claims and
what we think is inappropriate," an FDA official said.
   Last night, a Ralston Purina spokesman in St. Louis
confirmed that the FDA had challenged claims being made for
two products containing oat bran -- Ralston Purina's Oat Chex
cereal and Continental Baking's Oatmeal Goodness bread.
   "We're just beginning to review the matter," said the
spokesman, Pat Farrell. "We believe that we are in compliance
with all labeling requirements regarding all our products."
   Oat Chex went on the market in September 1989 with
expectations that it would "benefit from continuing consumer
interest in oat bran," according to Ralston Purina's latest
annual report. Oatmeal Goodness bread, another new entry, has
been "a highly successful product" for Continental Baking,
the nation's largest producer of bakery goods, the annual
report said.
   It couldn't be determined last night exactly what the FDA
found objectionable about the claims for these two products.
Moreover, officials wouldn't identify the other companies
that received letters from the agency's Center for Food
Safety and Applied Nutrition.
   In this instance, the agency is intent on curbing claims
about how fiber helps lower cholesterol levels and reduce the
risk of a heart attack. Oat bran is a source of soluble
fiber. The thrust of the regulatory letters sent by facsimile
machine yesterday was that the products don't contain enough
oat bran to make any difference from a health standpoint.
   In most cases, the product has less than one gram of oat
bran in each serving, according to an FDA official. Clinical
studies show that it takes 50 grams a day to have beneficial
effects, he added. What's more, the agency still hasn't
decided whether oat bran does reduce the risk of heart
attack.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0012
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0012.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Montreal Expos Board
   Extends Sale Deadline
   To Lure Local Buyers
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   MONTREAL -- Charles Bronfman, majority owner of the
Montreal Expos, said directors extended the deadline for the
sale of the baseball team, giving a group of potential local
buyers more time to put together a formal offer.
   After a meeting of the team's board Tuesday evening Mr.
Bronfman wouldn't specify the new deadline but told reporters
"we're pretty darned encouraged" the Expos will be sold to
Quebec buyers.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Mr. Bronfman, co-chairman of Seagram Co., and his two
minority partners originally set a deadline of Sept. 1 for a
local bid. They set a price of 100 million Canadian dollars
(US$86.2 million).
   Expos president Claude Brochu and a local investment
dealer have been scrambling to put together a group of local
buyers. "The pressure isn't off, believe me," Mr. Brochu said
after Mr. Bronfman's announcement.
   So far only one potential investor has stepped forward. A
unit of Desjardins Group, a financial services concern, said
it is ready to put up C$5 million as part of a buying group.
Desjardins also said the Quebec and Montreal governments will
have to help the local group acquire the Expos.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0011
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0011.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Fed Ruling Stifles
   Big Banks' Entry
   Into Insurance
   ----
   By Paul Duke Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B5
</SO>
<CO>
   CCI CMB
</CO>
<IN>
LAW AND LEGAL AFFAIRS (LAW)
BANKS (BNK)
INSURANCE (INS)
MAJOR MONEY CENTER BANKS (BAN)
</IN>
<GV>
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (FED)
</GV>
<LP>
   WASHINGTON -- A Delaware law that was expected to permit
big banks to underwrite and sell insurance nationwide was
effectively crippled by the Federal Reserve Board.
   The Fed decision, in response to a challenge to the law by
a coalition of insurance trade groups, specifically curtails
insurance activities by a Citicorp unit, Family Guardian Life
Insurance Co. But the decision also will make it impossible
for other banks to take advantage of the law, banking trade
group officials said.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   "This essentially ends the effectiveness of the Delaware
law," said Edward Yingling, a top official of the American
Bankers Association.
   Big banks have been hungering in recent years to get into
the insurance underwriting and sales business but have been
unsuccessful in their attempts to win that power from
Congress, though a few states allow a small number of banks
to underwrite insurance.
   The Delaware law, passed in May, appeared to open the door
for big New York and regional banks to underwrite insurance
nationwide through state-chartered subsidiary banks in
Delaware. Citicorp had already moved to underwrite insurance
through Family Guardian, and Chase Manhattan Corp. had
indicated it intended to take advantage of the new law.
   The law brought a worried response from some members of
Congress concerned about states moving to expand bank powers
in the wake of the $150 billion savings-and-loan crisis,
which some have attributed partly to the expanded powers of
state-chartered thrifts. And the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., which insures the banking industry, indicated several
weeks ago that it would likely move to curtail some of the
activities allowed by the Delaware statute.
   The Fed regulates bank holding companies, and the framers
of the Delaware law believed they had gotten around the Fed's
restrictions on insurance underwriting by allowing insurance
operations within the state-chartered bank subsidiary of the
holding company.
   But in its decision, the Fed said it ordered Family
Guardian to stop the underwriting activities because the
Delaware law created so many so-called firewalls -- such as a
rule that the insurance activities be kept separate from the
banking operations -- that "the practical effect" was to
"treat the insurance division as a separate corporate
entity." Under federal banking laws, the Fed allows
subsidiaries to undertake the insurance activities only if
the state law allows the banks to run the insurance business
legally as part of the bank.
   "It's ironic that the basis for the decision is that the
Delaware law had too many firewalls to protect the bank,"
said Mr. Yingling, adding that he expected the Fed decision
would be challenged in court, by individual banks or by the
ABA.
   Citicorp officials couldn't be reached to comment after
the Fed released its decision late yesterday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0010
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0010.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   World Markets:
   Japan's Nikkei Index Plummets 829.30 Points
   As Market's Decline Is Picking Up Speed Again
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST JAPAN CANDA EUROP
</CO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
PRECIOUS METALS, STONES, GOLD, SILVER (PCS)
COMMODITY NEWS, FARM PRODUCTS (CMD)
</IN>
<LP>
   TOKYO -- The Japanese stock market plunge is picking up
speed again.
   Spooked by fears that the settlement of some futures
contracts next week could trigger another massive sell-off on
the stock market, investors dumped stocks. Stock-index
futures -- contracts that obligate holders to buy or sell a
basket of stocks at a set price on a specific date -- fell so
sharply they were suspended from trading.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In London, shares closed up, but were unable to match the
day's high in a cautious market still crippled by low volume.
   Tokyo's Nikkei Index of 225 issues plunged 829.30 points,
or 3.3%, to 24078.34. So far this week, the index has fallen
1900 points, or 7.3%.
   In Tokyo Thursday, the Nikkei index shed another 244.89
points to close the morning session at 23833.45.
   At one point Wednesday, the indicator fell below the
24000-point level, before recovering on heavy buying by
brokerage firms. Turnover was light at about 380 million
shares, up slightly from Tuesday's 331 million shares.
   Alarmed by the market's continuing nose dive, regulators
late Wednesday eased margin requirements to the
lowest-possible legal level. Investors now can buy stock by
putting up collateral equivalent to 30% of the value of the
stock they buy.
   Japan's stock market has been battered for more than a
month by worries that Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2
could drive up energy prices in this oil-dependent country,
spurring inflation and forcing authorities to bolster
interest rates. The Bank of Japan raised its benchmark rate
just this past week. "Investors are terrified by the shadow
of creeping interest rates and oil prices," an analyst at
Yamaichi Securities Co. noted.
   Wednesday, though, the market was rife with fresh rumors
of trouble. Many suggested that the futures settlement a week
from today could bankrupt some securities firms. The rumors
centered on one firm, Sanyo Securities Co., which is thought
to have a substantial number of unprofitable futures
contracts outstanding. A spokesman for Sanyo confirmed that
it holds some futures positions for its own account, but he
denied that the firm is in financial danger.
   Still, traders said they fear that next week could bring
bigger troubles for Tokyo's faltering market.
   "There is a big, big danger," said Philippe Baudin,
assistant general manager of options at Societe Generale
Securities Ltd., a French-owned firm. "There is dynamite in
the market."
   Kazuto Aizawa, an analyst at Kangyo Kakumaru Securities
Co., said the market is fraught with "investor concern over
the future price outlook, so share prices declined sharply on
small-lot selling."
   Individuals who bought shares on credit also contributed
to Wednesday's decline, analysts said. While the amount of
so-called margin borrowing -- loans made to finance stock
purchases -- has declined to 829.55 billion yen ($5.78
billion) as of Aug. 31 from a peak of about 1 trillion yen in
the middle of March, the borrowing remains high in view of
the steep share price decline in the past six months.
   Benedicte Ivey, a saleswoman at Credit Lyonnais Securities
Ltd., said stock bought with borrowed money accounts for
2.15% of the Tokyo market's total capitalization -- above the
2% level that "is considered by most as the danger level."
   Some experts expect a considerable rise in selling next
week, when the loans backing a large amount of that stock
will come due for payment.
   Another factor hurting the market Wednesday was the
approaching end of the fiscal half-year for many
institutional investors. Life insurance companies and trust
banks usually close their books in the days leading up to
Sept. 30. Kimitoshi Hasegawa, a senior fund manger of
Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Co., attributed the stock
market's decline to "internal factors."
   In London, Wednesday's disclosure of several company
interim results caused a nervous start to the session as
market expectations for the earnings had been poor. All seven
of the company results were "disappointing" said one trader,
but were still generating trade in the U.K. market.
   Thin volume remained a dominant feature, as share prices
ticked better in tandem with the futures market, said one
trader. He added that arbitrage situations were "dragging the
main market up."
   The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index gained
4.2 points to 2152.2. The Financial Times 30 Share Index
closed up 1.3 points at 1672.2. Volume was a scant 344.9
million shares, above Tuesday's level of 286.2 million
shares.
   Among the many company results disclosed, composite
insurer Sun Alliance reported a 38% drop in pretax profit on
the back of increasing storm damage claims. The stock slipped
10 pence to 279 pence (19 cents to $5.25).
   B.A.T Industries posted an 11% drop in pretax profit on
losses in its insurance business. Nevertheless, the stock
managed to add 2 pence to 526 pence.
   Williams Holdings shed 13 pence to 217 pence. The
construction concern reported a pretax loss of 15% as high
U.K. interest rates dented the consumer and building products
market. Another building products company Wimpey saw pretax
profit fall 72% following a prolonged weakness in the U.K.
housing market. Wimpey closed down 27 pence at 175 pence.
   Blue Circle also suffered from depressed housing markets
in the U.K. as well as in the U.S. Pretax profit fell 7.8%
but the stock gained 5 pence to 205 pence.
   Also, shares closed slightly higher in Paris, Brussels,
lower in Frankfurt, Madrid and Stockholm, flat in Zurich and
mixed in Amsterdam and Milan. South African gold stocks
closed marginally lower.
   And stocks closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Seoul,
Manila, Taipei and Wellington, and were mixed in Singapore.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                                                                       

                                                   % This
                                 Sep 4    Sep 3     Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................     298.9    298.4    - 8.0
   Britain ..................     636.1    642.3    -11.8
   Canada ...................     371.0    372.4    -14.2
   Japan ....................    1060.1   1080.2    -36.0
   France ...................     455.2    461.2    -19.7
   Germany ..................     258.1    260.7    - 9.5
   Hong Kong ................    2226.6   2233.1    + 6.2
   Switzerland ..............     185.7    188.4    -15.9
   Australia ................     307.0    306.5    - 7.3
   World index ..............     466.2    469.9    -17.8
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0009
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0009.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Judge Denies Request
   To Bar Certain Shows
   Of Time Warner Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B10
</SO>
<CO>
   TWX
</CO>
<IN>
MEDIA, PUBLISHING, BROADCASTING, ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (MED)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- A federal judge denied a request for an
injunction prohibiting Home Box Office Inc. from using any
programs containing music by composers represented by
Broadcast Music Inc.
   The injunction request is the latest episode in an
entrenched and growing legal battle between the cable
industry and societies such as BMI that monitor musical
performances and collect fees for composers and publishers.
As previously reported, HBO, a unit of Time Warner Inc., had
a license with BMI that expired at the end of 1989; HBO
hasn't paid performance fees to BMI for several months.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Judge John Sprizzo said, in denying the injunction, that
BMI hadn't proved "irreparable damage," and added that it is
clear that HBO is willing to take a new license. The judge
hasn't yet ruled on the underlying issue of the case --
whether BMI can legally charge local cable operators as well
as cable programmers such as HBO.
   Judge Sprizzo directed HBO and BMI to try to negotiate
interim fees for HBO to pay until the matter is settled. If
the two parties are unable to agree on interim fees, the
judge said he would set them following a hearing Oct. 5.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0008
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0008.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International Brief -- Instituto Nacional de Industria:
   Spain Aggressively Seeking
   Buyer for Enasa Truck Unit
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   EUROP E.ENA G.DAI FIA G.MAN
</CO>
<IN>
AUTOMOBILES (AUT)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   The Spanish government is pulling out all the stops in its
efforts to find a partner for the troubled truck maker
Empresa Nacional de Autocamiones S.A., or Enasa, owned by the
Spanish state holding company, Instituto Nacional de
Industria.
   Spain has asked the West German government to overrule its
cartel office and approve a takeover bid for Enasa by MAN AG
and Daimler-Benz AG, and has reopened contacts with Fiat
S.P.A. of Italy, officials said. Enasa has chalked up losses
of about seven billion pesetas ($70.8 million) so far this
year, owing to a sales slump caused by uncertainty about the
company's future.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Earlier this year, Bonn's cartel office challenged on
anti-competition grounds plans for MAN to acquire 60% and
Daimler 20% of Enasa. Attempts to find other buyers,
including Fiat, met with failure. If a German solution fails,
Spanish officials said, Enasa's parent will turn again to
Fiat in hopes of negotiating an alternative solution. A Fiat
spokesman said he couldn't comment on such a prospect.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0007
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0007.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   What's News --
   World-Wide
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A1
</SO>
<LP>
   THE U.S. RECEIVED a report that Iraqi soldiers shot an
American in Kuwait.
   The State Department said it didn't have details about the
severity of the man's injuries, and that it had been unable
to obtain more information from Iraqi authorities in Kuwait.
Earlier, Iraq's Saddam Hussein again called for a holy war
against American forces in the Persian Gulf and their Arab
allies, as Bush warned that sanctions against Iraq must
succeed or "we will review our options." Although Iraq
released more foreign women and children, Saddam Hussein said
Iraqi children could starve as a result of the embargo, and
he called for the overthrow of the governments of both Egypt
and Saudi Arabia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Baker said that the U.S. might tighten the embargo by
seeking authority from the U.N. to intercept planes carrying
supplies into Iraq.
   ---
   NASA delayed indefinitely the launch of the space shuttle
Columbia hours before it was scheduled to take off, after a
leak was discovered when the craft was being loaded with
liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen. The launch of the Columbia
mission already had been postponed twice. The shuttle has
been grounded since May 29.
                                                                                                       

   Engineers will order Magellan to start mapping the surface
of Venus later this month even if they don't understand why
the spacecraft twice lost contact with Earth in August, a
NASA official said. Magellan's $744 million mission to make
radar pictures and maps of the planet originally was supposed
to begin last week.
   ---
   North Korea demanded that South Korea release jailed
dissidents and stop joint military exercises with the U.S. as
a step toward easing tensions. In the first meeting between
the prime ministers of the two nations, the North also
demanded that Seoul halt its efforts to enter the U.N.,
saying to do so would perpetuate national division.
   ---
   The FDA anticipates damage claims from Chilean fruit
growers and exporters who argue that the agency erred last
year in finding cyanide in two grapes and then embargoing all
fruit shipments from Chile. A report, commissioned by Chilean
exporters, concludes that the grapes were contaminated in an
FDA lab.
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk invited groups of all races to
join negotiations on a new constitution, and the president
called Pretoria's anti-apartheid course "irreversible." The
government and the African National Congress were to meet
today, despite tension over the army's involvement in a
township shooting that killed 11 people Tuesday.
   ---
   A study concluded that children exposed to heavy amounts
of tobacco smoke at home are more than twice as likely to
develop lung cancer later in life than those who grow up in
smoke-free homes. The finding adds to a growing body of
evidence that nonsmokers may suffer adverse health effects
from other people's smoke.
   ---
   The U.S. is expanding talks with Vietnam, seeking an
accord to end nearly 20 years of civil war in Cambodia,
Secretary of State Baker said. He said a five-nation peace
plan unveiled last week "offers the greatest prospect for a
stable outcome to the conflict," and added that the new
meetings with Hanoi would be held in Laos.
   ---
   Bush and drug czar Bennett said the government is making
progress in its war on drugs, although victory isn't in
sight. They cited a decline in hard-core addiction and
dwindling supplies of cocaine. But Rep. John Conyers, a
Michigan Democrat, charged that the year-old program isn't
doing enough to help poor addicts living in urban areas.
   ---
   Angola's parliament approved austerity measures to help an
economy battered by a 15-year civil war as rebel guerrillas
said they welcomed a proposal for superpower participation in
peace talks. The government's belt-tightening measures
include major cuts in spending on embassies abroad.
   ---
   East Berlin protesters occupied the headquarters of the
former secret police agency, or Stasi, to demand tightened
restrictions on files that were kept on six million people.
The demonstrators want the new safeguards to be incorporated
into a treaty merging East and West German laws.
   ---
   London magistrates ordered a trial for two men and a woman
accused of trying to illegally export nuclear detonating
triggers to Iraq. The accusations relate to an attempt to
export 40 electrical capacitors through Heathrow airport as
well as other locations in Britain.
   ---
   Died: Irene Dunne, 88, actress who starred in more than 50
films in the 1930s and 1940s, Tuesday, in Los Angeles.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0006
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0006.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Japanese Developer
   Buys Pebble Beach Co.
   From a Partnership
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), NO PAGE CITATION
</SO>
<IN>
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
LODGING, HOTELS, MOTELS, LODGES, CAMPGROUNDS (LOD)
REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS (REA)
</IN>
<LP>
   Minoru Isutani, a Japanese investor and golf-course
developer, has acquired Pebble Beach Co. of Pebble Beach,
Calif., from Miller-Klutznick-Davis-Gray Co., a Denver real
estate partnership anchored by investor Marvin Davis of
Beverly Hills, Calif.
   Terms of the transaction weren't disclosed, but people
familiar with the deal put the price tag in excess of $800
million and possibly as high as $1 billion. The sale includes
the famous Pebble Beach Golf Links; the Lodge at Pebble
Beach; the Inn and Links at Spanish Bay; Spyglass Hill and
Del Monte golf courses; the 17-mile Drive, a well-known
coastal stretch of road in California; and undeveloped real
estate on the Monterey Peninsula.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Thomas A. Oliver, president of Pebble Beach Co., said
several bidders had been interested in the property, and
negotiations with an affiliate of Mr. Isutani's U.S.-based
company, Cosmo World Inc., had gone on for several months.
Mr. Oliver declined to discuss financial details of the
transaction. Calls to Cosmo World's office in Los Angeles
weren't returned, but officials said in a statement that no
changes in management at the property were expected.
   Mr. Isutani, who owns several golf courses in Japan, is
developing golf courses and resorts in Los Angeles, Las Vegas
and Hawaii. Cosmo World also owns the Ben Hogan Co. golf
equipment company in Texas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0005
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0005.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Rise as Auto Makers' Sales Tumble;
   Junk Bonds Posted Sharpest Drop Ever in August
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C21
</SO>
<CO>
   J.MUB J.SWB J.BOT J.NCK MBK STO FNM FRE EUROP J.FUJ
</CO>
<IN>
CDS, INTEREST RATES, COMMERCIAL PAPER (FIN)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
ECONOMIC NEWS (ECO)
MORTGAGES, MORTGAGE BANKERS, MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MOR)
</IN>
<GV>
TREASURY DEPARTMENT (TRE)
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (FDL)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Investors ignored the Mideast crisis and drove
bond prices higher after car makers reported a sharp decline
in sales of new cars and trucks made in North America.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond rose 1/2 point, a
gain of $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face value, while the
issue's yield eased to 8.96%.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Junk bonds, which posted the worst performance on record
in August, ended unchanged to slightly higher.
   In early trading, the Treasury bond market was essentially
unchanged to modestly higher. But prices rose on news that
sales of North American-made cars and trucks were running at
a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 7.1 million units in
late August, down 21% from the same period a year ago.
   The weak report revived concerns that the economy is
nearing a recession and that the Federal Reserve may be
forced soon to reduce interest rates in an effort to
stimulate economic activity.
   "After sales figures for General Motors and Chrysler came
out, it became clear that domestic auto sales are not
robust," said Steve Ricchuito, chief economist at Barclays de
Zoete Wedd Securities Inc.
   Although Honda Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. posted
strong sales, the market gave more weight to statistics
reported by the Big Three, which were interpreted as a
further sign that U.S. manufacturers are in poor shape.
   Market participants paid little attention to Mideast
turmoil or the price of oil yesterday, an abrupt departure
from previous trading sessions. Since Iraq's Aug. 2 invasion
of Kuwait put world-wide oil supplies in jeopardy,
fluctuations in the price of oil and tough talk from Iraqi
leader Saddam Hussein have been the primary focus of the
fixed-income market.
   But yesterday, "Saddam was very bellicose again, but the
market tended to look through it," said James Fralick, senior
economist at Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. "People are looking away
from Saddam and the Middle East and back to the real
economy."
   The market was also helped as Wall Street traders began
buying long-term bonds in an effort to balance their
portfolios ahead of tomorrow's potentially market-moving
employment report. Many dealers were holding a higher
proportion of shorter-term securities.
   Meanwhile, Salomon Brothers Inc. reported yesterday that
its junk bond index posted a negative total return of 3.87%
last month, its largest monthly drop on record. Salomon's
high-yield market index tracks 476 issues representing about
$87 billion of securities.
   Merrill Lynch &amp; Co., which tracks more than 700 issues
that have a combined face value of more than $104 billion,
said its high-yield index posted a negative total return of
3.83% in August. An analyst at Merrill Lynch said that was
the worst ever and the poorest showing since October 1987,
after the stock market crash, when the index declined 2.6%.
   By comparison, the Treasury market posted a negative total
return of about 1%, although long-term Treasury bonds
declined about 5%.
   Analysts said the junk market's weak performance reflected
the bond market's losses and a sharp decline in stock prices.
The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index was down 9% in August, its
worst showing since October 1987.
   "The stars have never really been aligned like this in the
high-yield market," said Joseph Bencivenga, director of
high-yield research at Salomon. He said the burgeoning number
of defaults, the conflict in the Middle East and the looming
recession "conspired to make for a very bad August."
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended at 97 22/32,
up from 97 6/32 on Tuesday. Two-year note ended at 100 5/32
to yield 8.02%, compared with 100 3/32 to yield 8.05% on
Tuesday.
   Short-term rates fell. The discount rate on three-month
Treasury bills ended at 7.38% for a bond-equivalent yield of
7.60%. The rate on six-month bills ended at 7.31% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 7.67%.
                                                                                                       

   Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   News that underwriters at Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. will delay a
$200 million junk-bond offering by Stone Container Corp. was
a mild disappointment for the supply-sparse junk bond market.
   The issue would have been one of just handful of such
offering this year. So far in 1990, only five junk bond
issues have come to market, representing $397 million in
high-yield financing, according to Securities Data Co. That
compares with $21.8 billion in new junk bond financing in the
same period last year.
   The lack of supply has been a source of concern for buyers
as well as underwriters, whose business has dried up.
   Arnold Brookstone, chief financial officer at Stone
Container, said the Chicago-based paper and packaging
products company has postponed its plans for a "road show"
presentation of its senior note issue until market conditions
improve.
   In a road show, the company travels around the country
seeking potential investors. Typically, offerings are priced
shortly after the road show circuit ends.
   Mr. Brookstone said the recent deterioration in the
high-yield market would have forced the company to offer
investors "significantly" higher rates than it originally
planned.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Issues
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bonds were unchanged to as much as 1/2 higher in
thin dealings.
   More than $295 million in new debt was priced, with the
majority of the deals well received by investors, traders
said.
   A Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. group priced $110 million Maine
State Housing Authority single-family mortgage revenue bonds
to yield from 6.40% in 1992 to 8.13% in 2032.
   Among active bonds, New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20%
issue due in 2018 was unchanged at 98 1/2 to yield 7.31%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage, Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities trended higher in dull
trading.
   In the secondary market, 9 1/2% securities for September
delivery issued by Government National Mortgage Association,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and Federal National
Mortgage Association all rose 6/32 to 98 5/8, 98 5/32 and 98
22/32, respectively.
   One trader said activity in conventional mortgages
indicated that a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or
Remic, deal backed by either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac
securities may be in the offing.
   In the asset-backed sector, Valley National Bank of
Arizona offered $300 million of credit-card notes via J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. The notes, which are collateralized by
Visa and MasterCard receivables, were priced with an 8 7/8%
coupon to yield 8.97%. The notes have an average life of
three years and are rated triple-A by Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and Standard &amp; Poor's Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Three Japanese banks tapped the eurobond market in what
some analysts believe could be the beginning of a flood of
new Japanese subordinated debt issues.
   Fuji Bank Ltd., Bank of Tokyo Ltd. and Nippon Credit Bank
Ltd. issued a total of $1.8 billion of subordinated debt,
bringing the total since late June to $3 billion.
   Some analysts estimate that half a dozen other Japanese
banks could bring an additional $3 billion to market in the
next three weeks. Among the names rumored are Sanwa Bank
Ltd., Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd. and Mitsubishi Bank Ltd.
   In July, Sumitomo Bank Ltd. issued $1 billion of
subordinated debt in the U.S. credit markets and in Europe.
The offering represented the first time that a Japanese bank
issued subordinated debt.
   Japanese banks are being forced to raise subordinated debt
to boost their capital, which has been depleted along with
the steep plunge in Japanese share prices. New international
guidelines require banks doing international business to have
capital equal to 8% of their assets, as of March 1993.
   Under the guidelines, some of which come into effect as
early as 1991, Japanese banks are allowed to count 45% of the
unrealized gains on their huge holdings in Japanese companies
as capital. Thus, Japanese bank capital has sunk along with
the 38% drop in the Japanese stock prices.
   In trading, most eurodollar bonds ended unchanged to 1/8
point higher.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0004
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0004.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Prosecutors Plan
   Further Move
   Against Milken
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A3
</SO>
<IN>
STOCK MARKET, OFFERINGS (STK)
SECURITIES (SCR)
BOND MARKET NEWS (BON)
</IN>
<GV>
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (JUS)
</GV>
<LP>
   NEW YORK -- Prosecutors will attempt to bring their full
case against Michael Milken before a federal judge next
month, even though the government agreed to accept a plea
bargain in April.
   Prosecutors say they plan to urge U.S. District Judge
Kimba Wood to consider additional allegations against Mr.
Milken when she sentences him. These alleged crimes will be
detailed in a sentencing memo that Judge Wood is scheduled to
receive on Monday in federal court here.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   In the April agreement, Mr. Milken, the former head of
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s junk-bond department, pleaded
guilty to six felony counts related to unlawful trading. The
government didn't agree to recommend any specific sentence,
as Mr. Milken's lawyers had hoped.
   The government hopes that evidence of additional crimes --
presented in the memo and in live testimony by Ivan Boesky
and others -- will induce Judge Wood to dole out a stiff
sentence for the crimes to which Mr. Milken pleaded guilty.
The maximum prison sentence for these counts is 28 years.
Sentencing is scheduled for Oct. 1.
   The U.S. Supreme Court and lower federal courts have ruled
in a series of cases that the government may ask a sentencing
court to consider alleged conduct for which the defendant
wasn't convicted and didn't plead guilty. The rulings are
controversial because they appear to penalize defendants for
crimes the government never proved beyond a reasonable doubt
that they had committed.
   The sentencing memo is expected to include charges that
Mr. Milken helped prominent savings and loan executives,
among others, to defraud the public and violate tax laws, and
that Mr. Milken engaged in commercial bribery with certain
money managers.
   Prosecutors may be particularly eager to air their full
case because they were recently stung by a pre-sentence
report written by the federal probation agency. That report
is understood to have favored Mr. Milken's position that his
contributions to society outweighed his crimes. While
probation agency recommendations can be very influential in
the sentencing of violent criminals, the recommendation could
be less significant in this case because there will be so
much additional information presented by both sides.
Probation reports are almost never made public.
   Prosecutors have held lengthy discussions with attorneys
for Mr. Milken in recent months detailing what they plan to
say in their memo. Mr. Milken's lawyers are expected to
submit their own memo next week disputing those claims.
   A judge isn't obligated to take the government's
additional allegations into consideration when deciding on an
appropriate sentence. But if Judge Wood decides she wishes to
consider the additional evidence in meting out a sentence,
Mr. Milken is entitled to defend himself at a hearing.
   Lawyers for witnesses who aided the government in its case
against Mr. Milken have confirmed that they were told by
prosecutors that the government will seek to present the full
force of its case against Mr. Milken at any such hearing.
Prosecutors have told these attorneys that such a hearing
could last for more than three months.
   Assistant U.S. Attorney John Carroll, the lead prosecutor
in the Milken case, declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr.
Milken also declined to comment.
   A similar battle over sentencing erupted earlier this year
in the case against Robert M. Freeman, the former head of
arbitrage at Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. who pleaded guilty to a
single charge of insider trading. In that case, the judge
said that in issuing a sentence, he wouldn't consider any
crimes other than that to which Mr. Freeman pleaded guilty.
The government alleged that Mr. Freeman committed some 20
other crimes.
   Robert McCaw, a lawyer for Mr. Boesky, the convicted
former stock trader, said he is watching the situation "with
great interest, and we'll see what happens." The government
has asked a federal court in Los Angeles to prevent
plaintiffs' lawyers in a civil suit from taking testimony
from Mr. Boesky until after Mr. Milken's sentencing, in order
to "protect" the government's interest in the case against
Mr. Milken.
   Steve Andrews, the lawyer for James Dahl, a former Drexel
bond salesman, said, "We've spoken to the government about
potentially testifying" against Mr. Milken. Reid Weingarten,
a lawyer for Cary Maultasch, another former Drexel bond
salesman, said, "We have caught wind of the possibility of a
hearing. From our vantage point, this is an unfortunate
development that is likely to help neither the government nor
Mr. Milken."
   If these and other witnesses were called, lawyers for Mr.
Milken would be allowed to cross-examine them as if they were
trying the case before the jury. But in such hearings, which
are rare, the government's burden of proof is lower than in a
criminal trial. It must prove its case simply by a
preponderance of evidence, rather than beyond a reasonable
doubt.
   Legal experts said the argument for having such a hearing
is stronger in the Milken case than in the Freeman case
because the charges to which Mr. Milken has pleaded guilty
are broad based, and public attention in his case is
formidable.
   A hearing has drawbacks for both sides. It could expose
Mr. Milken to significant public embarassment and further
civil liability if those he once hired at Drexel are now
forced to testify against him. For the government, a hearing
could further delay Mr. Milken's cooperation with the
government's continuing investigation, and would postpone
additional cases prosecutors intend to bring against Mr.
Milken's associates. Mr. Milken's lawyers would also likely
attempt to discredit many of the government's witnesses.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0003
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0003.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   International:
   Losses, Firings
   At a Major Bank
   Shake Indonesia
   ----
   By Richard Borsuk
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE A10
</SO>
<CO>
   FREST WNEWS
</CO>
<IN>
FOREIGN-EXCHANGE MARKETS (FRX)
MONETARY NEWS, FOREIGN EXCHANGE, TRADE (MON)
BANKS (BNK)
</IN>
<LP>
   JAKARTA, Indonesia -- Foreign-exchange losses at a major
private bank have led to an unprecedented shake-up in
Indonesian banking that could test the country's financial
system.
   In a move that stunned bankers, Indonesia's central bank
fired the entire board and top management of P.T. Bank Duta,
an institution with links to President Suharto. The
dismissals badly tarnish one of the president's closest
associates and could have broad implications for other banks
in Indonesia.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   Local and foreign bankers generally welcomed firm steps by
Bank Indonesia, the central bank, to support Bank Duta,
saying such action is necessary to ensure the credibility of
the banking system. But at the same time, the
foreign-exchange problem -- not yet explained -- increases
anxieties about Indonesia's rapidly expanding financial
system. It also reinforces concerns about shortcomings in the
management and supervision of banks.
   "There could be many banking problems we haven't heard
about yet," one foreign banker said. If there are more
"shocks" like Bank Duta, he added, "we're in for a real tough
time."
   Financial problems at Bank Duta, disclosed in a central
bank statement Tuesday night, haven't caused any panic. Bank
Indonesia moved to ensure that Bank Duta stays in business.
The bank remained open normally Wednesday and no runs on
funds were reported. Central bank Gov. Adrianus Mooy appealed
to the public to "stay calm since Bank Duta can carry out its
activities."
   Bustanil Arifin, the dismissed bank chairman and longtime
friend of Mr. Suharto, declined to answer reporters'
questions yesterday about the size of the foreign-exchange
loss, and deferred inquiries to the central bank. But Bank
Indonesia also wouldn't give any details about the
foreign-exchange trades, saying only that there were
"operational mistakes" that resulted in financial problems at
Bank Duta. The central bank appointed trustees to temporarily
manage the bank and said in its statement that it would
"carry out tighter supervision and more intensive guidance"
for Bank Duta.
   Bank Duta is considered politically important because 72%
of its shares are controlled by three charity foundations
chaired by Mr. Suharto. It also is viewed as being
well-connected because Mr. Bustanil is related to Mr.
Suharto's wife.
   According to the prospectus for a public share offering by
Bank Duta last April, three retired military men own 24%
shares each in the bank. The three in turn represent Dharmais
Foundation, Supersemar Foundation and Dakab Foundation, all
headed by Mr. Suharto. A cooperative of Bank Duta employees
holds 8%, and the remaining 20% is owned by the public.
   Bank Duta's share offering, which raised the equivalent of
$119 million, was well-received "in good part because people
thought they were buying the safest bank politically, and it
had to perform well," one Jakarta stock analyst said.
   The most prominent person to lose his job was Mr.
Bustanil, who long served as president of the bank's board of
commissioners, a supervisory team that Indonesian companies
have above a board of directors. Mr. Bustanil, a 64-year-old
retired major general, also is minister of cooperatives and
chairman of the State Logistics Agency, which runs the
government's important operations to buy and stock rice and
other commodities.
   Mr. Bustanil still retains those two positions, but
political analysts predicted his high standing with Mr.
Suharto will be hurt badly by Bank Duta's losses.
   "For Bustanil to lose his bank position, those forex
losses must be real big," said one foreign banker. "It's a
tremendous loss of face for a man whom Suharto has counted
on."
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0002
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0002.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Nynex Documents
   Released by Officials
   In New York State
   ---
   Company Labeled Papers
   `Trade Secret' Material
   To Keep From Public
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE C8
</SO>
<CO>
   NYN
</CO>
<IN>
TELEPHONE SYSTEMS (TLS)
</IN>
<LP>
   New York state regulators released documents that a Nynex
Corp. unit had labeled "trade secret information" and fought
to keep out of public view.
   The documents, which came to light as part of a $1.4
billion rate case in New York state, also include a list of
nine Nynex employees who attended the bawdy gatherings in
Florida, nicknamed "pervert conventions" by participants.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The gatherings began before the Bell System breakup as
private parties, but they evolved into organized gatherings
of 40 or 50 attendees -- complete with guest lists and
rooming assignments. All but a few attendees were either
employees of Nynex -- mostly managers in its Materiel
Enterprises unit -- or employees of suppliers, a combination
that raised serious conflict-of-interest concerns.
   Here are samples of what the Nynex unit had deemed "trade
secrets":
   -- A Feb. 9, 1987, letter from Larry "Shark" Friedman,
organizer of the conventions, to fellow "pervert club"
members, in which he sings the praises of the gatherings. The
letter notes that he has collected 100 slides and a one-hour
videotape of activities at the 1987 convention.
   -- A March 23, 1988, letter from Mr. Friedman announcing
the winner of the "Most Valuable Pervert" award at that
year's convention.
   -- A transcript of a New York Telephone security interview
with a person with information on the "pervert club." The
security official acknowledges that people involved in a
1985-1986 company investigation of Mr. Friedman and the
Florida activities were "given a clean bill of health, so to
speak, even though we know what was going on and is going
on." At one point, the informant tells about a "pervert club"
member having sex in public with a prostitute.
   "It is clear now that the assertion we have made all along
-- that New York Telephone abused the trade secret
designation -- is absolutely correct," said New York Attorney
General Robert Abrams. He pointed out that a number of
documents are still under the gag order, and said the public
should have access to these as well. The company, he said,
has used the trade secret designation to keep from disclosing
information that is merely embarrassing.
   "We have no desire to personally embarrass any
individuals," Mr. Abrams said. "But we are concerned about
misuse of the trade secret designation." The attorney
general's office is a party in the rate case, and has
contended that the conventions led to cozy deals between
Materiel Enterprises and suppliers who attended.
   A spokesman for Nynex said the information that was
released came to light as part of the company's own
investigation. It supports the company's swift decision to
dismiss and discipline employees who were involved in the
Florida gatherings. After receiving information from
anonymous callers, Nynex launched an investigation in the
summer of 1988. That investigation led to the dismissals of
Mr. Friedman, who had been vice president for purchasing at
the Materiel Enterprises unit, and John Marino, a unit
purchasing manager who helped organize the conventions.
   Mr. Friedman wasn't available for comment.
   New York regulators also released a list of 33 companies
that were represented at the conventions. The list includes a
number of large companies such as Ericsson, Hewlett-Packard,
Rockwell International, Minnesota Mining &amp; Manufacturing
Corp., and Southern Bell, a unit of BellSouth Corp. It also
includes Anixter, General Cable, Raychem Corp., Seiscor
Corp., and temporary-help agencies such as Olsten Corp. and
Butler Telecommunications.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO>
WSJ900906-0001
</DOCNO>
<DOCID>
900906-0001.
</DOCID>
<HL>
   Marketing &amp; Media -- Advertising:
   RJR's Ads for Discount Smokes
   To Target Rival Full-Cost Brands
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
</HL>
<DATE>
09/06/90
</DATE>
<SO>
WALL STREET JOURNAL (J), PAGE B4
</SO>
<CO>
   RJR MAT WPPGY OMC RLM WNEWS U.SDK
</CO>
<IN>
TOBACCO PRODUCTS (TOB)
ADVERTISING, MARKETING, PUBLIC RELATIONS (ADV)
RECREATION, ENTERTAINMENT, TOYS, MOVIES, PHOTOGRAPHY, SPORTS (REC)
COSMETICS, PERSONAL CARE, OVER-THE-COUNTER REMEDIES (COS)
ALUMINUM (ALU)
TENDER OFFERS, MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS (TNM)
</IN>
<LP>
   In an unorthodox move, RJR Nabisco plans to introduce its
new Sterling budget cigarettes with ads that compare
Sterling's low price with the cost of rivals' full-priced
smokes.
   The catch is that RJR runs the risk of having smokers
trade down from its full-priced brands. Marketing experts
warn that with this campaign, RJR effectively concedes to
consumers that full-cost smokes are overpriced.
</LP>
<TEXT>
   The ads, scheduled to begin appearing in magazines and on
billboards early next month, compare Sterling to Benson &amp;
Hedges and Virginia Slims, both Philip Morris brands, and to
Kent, which is made by Lorillard. One billboard ad shows a
pack of Benson &amp; Hedges on the left with the word "Dollars."
A pack of Sterling appears on the right, next to the word
"Sense." The ads were created by Long, Haymes &amp; Carr.
   The ads don't, of course, compare Sterling to RJR
Nabisco's own regular smokes, like Winston or Camel, but
marketing experts say the Sterling ads will have a negative
rub-off on them, too. "This sounds like one more in a long
series of brand introductions where RJR's shooting itself in
the foot," says Edward Popper, professor of marketing at
Bryant College in Smithfield, R.I.
   Sterling will be priced $3 a carton less than regular
cigarettes, which sell for $17 a carton in states like
California and Texas; in other states like New York, the
price is somewhat higher.
   Originally, when tobacco makers concocted discount smokes,
the idea was that they would be barely advertised. Instead,
they would be simply thrown out to retailers to satisfy a
small niche of consumers so price-sensitive that they would
rather quit than pay for brand imagery. Recent ads have
celebrated the value of discount smokes, but mostly haven't
mentioned full-priced rivals.
   But with the big success of discount brands like Liggett's
Pyramid, which entered the market in early 1989, other
cigarette makers have scrambled to get a piece of the action.
Suddenly, the market is glutted with cheap brands, and ad
spending has grown apace.
   If Sterling is the latest good news for consumers, it
poses risks for RJR. Industry insiders privately express
shock that RJR is almost going out of its way to imperil the
future of its core brands, which are far more profitable than
the cheapie smokes, for the sake of a short-term sales hit.
Once consumers are taught to buy on price, not image, there's
no going back, these sources say.
   "RJR is telling consumers not to buy on the basis of
image, but to buy on the basis of dollars," Mr. Popper says.
   RJR says it knows the risks of the campaign. But the
Winston-Salem, N.C., tobacco maker says it has taken great
pains to make Sterling a quality smoke that will create
brand-loyal consumers. And the company plays down the hazards
of cannibalizing its own full-price brands.
   "Anytime you bring a new product into a static market, you
have to draw the business from somebody else," an RJR Nabisco
spokeswoman says. "Granted, part of that is probably going to
come from your existing stable of brands." But she stresses
that RJR research shows that 70% of Sterling's smokers will
come from people who are now smoking a non-RJR brand.
   With Sterling, RJR seemingly has borrowed a page from
Liggett's marketing plan for Pyramid, which also uses
comparative advertising. "They're even more impressive when
you discover they cost 40% less than Winston," one Pyramid ad
says. (Since Liggett commands only a tiny share of the
full-price cigarette market, its decision to use the
high-risk comparison strategy makes good sense.)
   Another potential problem facing Sterling is that, despite
its boastful advertising, it simply isn't the best deal
going. Although it's about $3 a carton cheaper than regular
cigarettes, the "sub-generics" like Pyramid and American
Brands' Montclair brand are some $5 dollars cheaper.
   Larry Turner, a stockbroker in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, says it
doesn't appear to him that RJR is offering much of an
incentive for smokers to switch to Sterling. Just last month,
after 22 years of smoking Winston, he and his wife both
switched to Montclair. "I'm not too excited about trying
Sterling if it's $2 {a carton} higher than Montclair," he
says. "There's no reason to."
   ---
   Mattel Reviews Europe
                                                                                                       

   Mattel has put its European advertising account up for
review. Currently, J. Walter Thompson and Ogilvy &amp; Mather,
both units of WPP Group, are the giant toy maker's major
agencies in Europe. Billings on the account couldn't be
learned.
   A Mattel spokesman confirmed the review and said it plans
a decision this fall. The spokesman declined to say what
prompted the review, but industry aides cited the arrival of
a new top international executive as one reason.
   It isn't clear what agencies will be involved in the
review.
   Mattel's U.S. account, which is split between Ogilvy and
Foote, Cone &amp; Belding, isn't affected by the review.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   MAYBELLINE: Maybelline Co., Memphis, Tenn., awarded its $3
million-to-$4 million Shine Free cosmetics account to DDB
Needham's Chicago office. DDB is a unit of Omnicom Group.
                                                                                                       

   ASSIGNMENT: Reynolds Metals Co., Richmond, Va., named the
J. Walter Thompson unit of WPP to handle the advertising for
its new Reynolds Microwave Wrap. Billings weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   JOINT VENTURE: WPP Group said it entered into a joint
venture with David Paradine Ltd., a TV and film production
concern, to acquire the assets of Results Training Ltd., a
company that makes sales training videos, among other things.
Terms weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Charles S. Jones, president and chief
executive officer of Shandwick PLC's North America operation,
was named group managing director at Shandwick Worldwide.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
